---
---

# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED--
## `250fe1fb879c7c2efcfe1f4e8850b20f`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, here is the situation we find ourselves 
in with respect to oil. Global supplies are tight, global demand keeps 
rising, and our country has a dangerous dependence we haven't yet begun 
to break. Meanwhile, the Bush administration has run up massive budget 
deficits, instigated by war in Iraq that is costing us $5,000 per 
second, tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that could cost more than 
$4 trillion before the next decade is out, and that has caused the 
value of the dollar to drop and investors to buy more commodities, such 
as oil.

The oil futures market used to be primarily a place for companies to 
pay in advance for oil supplies they knew they would need. But now the 
futures market is overcome with runaway speculation, with people buying 
futures because they are betting the price will go up. Some experts say 
speculation is adding as much as 50 percent to the cost of every 
barrel. With oil prices this high, oil companies are raking in record 
profits--sums of money that are bigger than the GDP of some countries.

But instead of reinvesting that money in their business and in 
renewable energy possibilities, and expanding production to meet our 
country's growing needs, oil companies are investing in their own share 
price by buying back their own stock. That may be good news for Wall 
Street, but it is bad news for anyone struggling to pay to fill up 
their gas tanks.

That is how we have gotten to $140 a barrel oil--tight supply, high 
dependency and demand, a Bush budget deficit that is weakening the 
dollar--oil is traded in dollars--speculation in the market, and the 
oil companies' greater concern for boosting their share price than for 
boosting production.

Some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have suggested 
all it would take to bring down oil prices would be to allow oil 
companies to drill off the east and west coasts of the United States. 
Here is the problem with that: The companies already have, as we have 
said before on the floor, 68 million acres of Federal land under lease 
that they are largely not exploiting. The Federal Government will be 
opening 2.3 million additional acres to them in October, and they have 
over 200 million more acres they don't lease, but they could if they 
wanted to. The oil companies clearly think there is oil on all those 
millions of acres or else they would not be leasing the land. But they 
are not using it.

To get an idea of the scale that is involved, here is a map showing 
how much territory the oil companies control in the Gulf of Mexico. The 
red area represents all of those unused acres. It is a huge portion of 
the gulf region that is going completely undeveloped, and that has been 
available to them already. Yet all of those red areas go undeveloped.

Here is an even more impressive map--the map of how much of the 
western United States oil companies control. The black portions show 
where oil companies are exploring and, again, the red section shows 
where they are not exploring. As you can see, it is overwhelmingly 
staggering, all of those red sections of places where they already have 
the ability to pursue, which they are simply not pursuing.

The oil companies control an enormous amount of land. When you add it 
all up, it is an area more than 12 times the size of my home State of 
New Jersey. So why would signing over yet more land to them have any 
effect at all?

It is not that companies don't have enough land to drill on. That is 
not the bottleneck. The bottleneck is that, for 20 years, oil companies 
have been underinvesting in oil exploration and in the infrastructure, 
the equipment, and even the engineers needed to do additional drilling.

Here is what the CEO of the American Petroleum Institute--the trade 
organization representing all of these companies--said last month:




 Every single available drilling rig, drill ship is in use--


 being used right now. You can't go and drill when you don't 


 have equipment. We are not magicians as an industry.


So all of this clamor for more land doesn't do anything about that 
reality. For all of this land, this water, the rights, all of these 
land rights--all of that doesn't even deal with that. If we give them 
even 1 more acre, what would it mean?

That is part of why it would take so long--as long as a decade--to 
get to the first drop of oil from the Outer Continental Shelf. Even if 
we wanted to, if we thought it were good policy--which I do not--the 
capacity isn't there.

There is a reason they don't have the equipment to drill more: They 
are not reinvesting in their own businesses. They are only investing in 
their own stock. Last year, ExxonMobil spent about $21 billion in 
capital expenditures, such as buying new equipment, compared to more 
than $35 billion it gave to its stockholders.

What we see here in this chart is, in fact, billions of dollars of 
big oil stock buybacks. You can see that from 2002 to 2007, it has 
increased over five times what it was 6 years ago. So the reality is we 
have a lot of money from big oil going back into big oil stocks, 
raising the value of these stocks, but doing nothing about what the CEO 
of the American Petroleum Institute talked about.

In the first quarter of this year, with oil prices sky high, 
ExxonMobil decided to spend almost $9 billion on stock buybacks alone--
$9 billion in the first quarter. They spent almost a full 40-percent 
less on actually exploring for oil. The situation is more extreme at 
ConocoPhillips, which told its investors that its stock buybacks this 
quarter will come to about $2.5 billion or nine times its budget for 
exploration.

On the whole, the five biggest international oil companies used more 
than half of the cash they made from their businesses in stock buybacks 
and dividends last year, up from only 1 percent in the early 1990s.

An expert at Rice University who studies how oil companies spend 
their money summed it up very well. She said:




 If you're not spending your money finding and developing 


 new oil, then there's no new oil.





There is a very simple economic reality here: While families are 
struggling to make ends meet, the oil companies are flush with cash. We 
have seen big oil profits steadily increasing under this 
administration, from approximately $22 billion or so in 2002 to nearly 
$120 billion in 2007. That is about $100 billion more.

There is a simple economic reality here. Families are struggling to 
make ends meet, but the oil companies are flush with cash. Instead of 
investing in the new equipment they say they need to pursue the lands 
they want, they are giving themselves a big payback and plowing their 
cash back into their own stocks.


At some point, oil companies need to recognize they have been trusted 
to manage natural resources from public lands, and there are times when 
they have a responsibility greater than boosting their bottom line. 
With gas and food prices through the roof, and the economy sputtering, 
we arrived at that point long ago. So when people say, ''We need to 
drill more,'' I say, tell it to the oil companies. Tell them to use 
their profits to invest in more equipment and drill in the 68 million 
acres they already have leased.

Basically, when oil companies say that giving them more acreage would 
increase the amount of oil they produce, it is like saying, if your car 
is about to run out of gas, you need to pull over and install a bigger 
tank. The problem in that situation isn't the size of the tank, and the 
problem we face right now isn't that oil companies don't have enough 
land to drill on. The problem is they are not drilling on what they 
have. Not to mention, even if offshore drilling produced every drop 
optimists are talking about, it would not even be close enough to 
affect gas prices one way or another. Even President Bush's own Energy 
Information Administration admits that all we are talking about is a 
drop in the bucket that will have no effect whatsoever on the price at 
the pump.

Let me put offshore production into perspective. What our colleagues 
say is the panacea, the solution to everything, is misleading. The way 
they say this, you would think if we drill tomorrow, open up new land 
around our Outer Continental Shelf, guess what spurts right up? Let 
this happen tomorrow and you will get gasoline in your tank for a lot 
less.

I think the American public understands this much better than that. 
It understands it takes a decade before we see the first drop, and it 
understands it takes until 2030. Let's talk about needing relief now, 
not in 2030. Even then, what do we get?

Since April, Americans have responded to record high gas prices by 
using over 800,000 barrels a day less--800,000 barrels a day less than 
we did 1 year ago. This is the most significant and sudden drop in oil 
demand since the 1970s.

What has happened--notwithstanding the fact that we have reduced 
demand by 800,000 barrels a day--is that since April we have continued 
to see record gas prices--prices going up. In recent weeks, Saudi 
Arabia has increased their production by 500,000 barrels every 
day. What happened? Gas prices continued to go up.


So how is it that if we had 800,000 barrels a day in reduced demand--
gas prices went up--and 500,000 barrels a day in new production by 
Saudi Arabia--a combination of 1.3 million barrels a day--how does the 
Bush-McCain drilling plan compare to these recent events wherein prices 
have gone up, notwithstanding that shift of 1.3 million barrels a day?

If we open all our shores and risk all our tourism, fishing 
industries, and all the economies of all the coastal States to oil 
production, the first drop of oil wouldn't be seen until the year 2017, 
and oil production would peak in the year 2030. What could we get in 
the year 2030? We would get 200,000 barrels a day. Well, my God, if a 
reduction of 800,000 barrels a day has done nothing and gas prices went 
up, if the Saudis are pumping out 500,000 new barrels a day and prices 
go up, how is it that getting 200,000 barrels a day in the year 2030 is 
going to reduce gas prices tomorrow? It is a sham being created by 
those who want another grab for their oil company friends, as we have 
seen over the last 7 years by the two oilmen in the White House.

To put that number another way, the amount of gas we could get from 
offshore drilling is equivalent to a few tablespoons per car per day. 
Together, an 800,000 barrels-per-day reduction in demand, an increase 
of 500,000 barrels per day of Saudi production equals that 1.3 million 
barrels-per-day shift in the market. Yet we still have record gas 
prices. So if this massive shift has no impact, it is clear the 
production of 200,000 barrels a day in the year 2030 will do absolutely 
nothing at all about gas prices today. It is simply wrong to think that 
opening offshore drilling will lower gas prices.

So one might ask: Why are oil companies asking us to hand over more 
land when they already have so much that is unused? It seems to me 
there is only one explanation. Oil companies aren't actually in a rush 
to drill in those areas, but they are in a rush to control as much 
Federal land as possible before their friends in the Bush 
administration leave office. The oil companies' strategy right now is 
to grab control of as much Federal land and water as possible before 
January 20 of 2009, the date the next President of the United States 
takes office. They are trying to take advantage of the current energy 
crisis to take control of more public property and boost their profits. 
The GOP plan to open our shores to drilling isn't only about oil 
prices, believe me; it is about share prices. That plan comes with a 
serious pricetag: a vast increase in the risk to the health of our 
coasts and the economies they support.

Sometimes, if you go to the Archives building here in Washington, on 
its portal it says, ''What's past is prologue,'' and I would remind 
Americans of some of these facts. We were all told we had the most 
advanced tankers in the world and that they would prevent any spills 
from happening, but we all also, I hope, remember the devastation off 
the coast of Alaska after the crash of the Exxon Valdez. We all 
remember that after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita there was, yes, a human 
tragedy and there was also an economic tragedy. There was an 
environmental tragedy off the gulf coast. I have read comments by some 
who say: Oh, nothing happened. Look at that. The infrastructure and the 
technology is so advanced, we didn't get one drop of spillage after 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Wrong. False. Seven hundred thousand 
gallons of oil spilled into the Gulf of Mexico, and over 7 million 
gallons of oil leaked offshore from the infrastructure that supports 
offshore drilling.

Now, here is a picture. This is not my picture; this is a picture 
from the U.S. Coast Guard. What did they do to try to deal with the oil 
that leaked? They burned it to try to dissipate it. If I saw this off 
the New Jersey shore or in North Carolina or Florida or California or 
Oregon or Washington, I would say that is a major disaster. Yet we have 
colleagues who say not a drop--not a drop--spilled. False. Wrong. Not 
true.

Between commercial fishing, sport fishing, forestry, and tourism, 
drilling would pose a threat to coastal economies that are over $200 
billion a year. That is how much our coastal economies generate along 
the east and west coasts--over $200 billion a year. That is part of 
what led President Bush's father to declare, when he was President, 
when he put in place the moratorium on offshore drilling, that:




 Certain areas of our coast represent unique natural 


 resources. In those areas, even the small risks posed by oil 


 and gas development may be too great.


I don't consider this type of contamination a small risk, but even 
the first President Bush said: ''Even those risks posed by oil and gas 
development may be too great.''

Even what he considered small risks were too great. This is far 
beyond small risks. It is what led President Bush's brother, Jeb, the 
former Governor of Florida, to say: ''Protection of those resources is 
of paramount importance to the State of Florida.''

Now, those Bushes got it straight. They understood.

In my home State of New Jersey, we cannot escape those risks, when 
drilling would happen less than 100 miles off our shores. The New 
Jersey shore generates tens of billions of dollars in revenues each 
year, and it supports about a half a million jobs. We have already seen 
in the past the devastating economic effects of medical waste washing 
up on our beaches. New Jersey families and businesses cannot afford the 
risk of an oil slick on the scale of


the Exxon Valdez crash or the spills after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, 
with sticky crude forcing beaches to close, killing wildlife, 
collapsing property values, and destroying our economy in the process.

We need real barrels coming out of the ground, not paper barrels 
filling nothing but big oils' balance sheets. It is time to take action 
to shore up our energy security and drive down the price of gasoline.

First, we need to take action to lower gas prices now. The Federal 
Government should release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 
provide immediate relief. We can have a swap where we can take the 
light crude--we can actually, in fact, make money on this--and get the 
type of crude we need and, at the same time, help try to affect the 
price by having that immediate surge of oil into the marketplace.

In addition, I have joined with Senators Feingold and Dodd to 
introduce the Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act, which requires 
oil companies to show they are either producing oil or gas on public 
lands or making progress exploring or developing them on current leases 
before they get their hands on more land, when they are not even 
producing on that which they have.

We have also introduced the Responsible Ownership of Public Land Act, 
along with Senator Durbin. The bill would charge oil companies a fee 
for every acre of land they lease but fail to use for production. The 
combination of these measures could give the oil companies the 
incentives they need to get barrels of oil off their balance sheets and 
into the marketplace.

In addition, I will be offering an amendment to make sure oil that is 
produced on land owned by the people of the United States gets used by 
the people of the United States. Right now, oil companies shift 1.5 
million barrels per day of domestically produced oil overseas. So 1.5 
million barrels a day produced in the lands and waters of the United 
States shift overseas. Last year, that meant over half a billion 
barrels of oil per year was taken from U.S. public lands and sent 
abroad. Now, we are talking about using the Outer Continental Shelf and 
getting 200,000 barrels in the year 2030, while we have been sending 
over 1.5 million barrels a day to other places in the world--oil that 
comes from public lands.

If we are going to endanger our own environment and deplete our own 
resources, certainly we should be the ones who benefit from it. Not 
that I believe that should be the case, but in terms of taking a risk 
for our own lands and public resources--certainly not to drill off the 
coast, but to the extent that we have drilling going on now and we have 
land they are not drilling on, that ultimate production should be used 
here in the United States. Over half a billion barrels are sent abroad. 
We need to bring medium- and long-term relief so an energy crisis such 
as this does not happen again.

That moves us to the ultimate goal. This country should be far more 
aspirational in its view of this issue. We should approve the renewable 
energy tax extensions bill, which our colleagues on the Republican side 
have opposed, that would help continue the rapid growth of wind and 
solar and provide an incentive for the purchase of plug-in hybrid 
vehicles. This will help us begin the transition to new energy sources 
so we are not so vulnerable to the rising costs of fossil fuels, not to 
mention what it does to our environment and global warming.


We should clamp down on rampant oil speculation and burst the 
speculative bubble that has caused oil prices to skyrocket.

We should be acting now on global climate change legislation that 
lays out the framework to completely change our economy from one that 
is based on oil and other fossil fuels to an economy based on renewable 
energy.

That is a real plan, not just a plan to go out in search of our next 
oil fix.

Increasing the share of oil we produce here at home is important, and 
we should make sure there are incentives for oil companies to produce, 
but authorizing drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf would just be a 
distraction and would do nothing to bring down gas prices, now or ever.

Drivers are calling out for us to bring down gas prices, not to prop 
up oil companies' stock prices. Our Government needs to stop holding 
the oil companies' hand and start holding them accountable. American 
families and businesses deserve a government that works for them, not 
just for the people who sell us our oil.

A mother can't fill the family car with the predictions in oil 
companies' annual reports. A business can't ship its products with so-
called likely reserves. What makes the engine of our economy run today 
is what comes out of the ground, not what is written on paper. What 
will make our economy run tomorrow is our ability to transition beyond 
this addiction.

Making a major commitment to create the economy of the future, free 
from the liquid shackles of oil, would send a clear message to the 
world that America is ready to lead again. That is the message we 
should be sending.

We have to ask ourselves: Since when have we been a country that is 
afraid of a challenge? Since when have we waited for others to 
innovate, waited for others to rescue us from the dangers we face, 
waited for other nations to take the lead?

When we entered the Second World War, our allies knew we were in it 
with our hearts and souls. When President Kennedy announced we would go 
to the Moon, friend and foe alike knew we would not rest until we had 
allowed mankind to take that giant step.

I refuse to believe a country responsible for the light bulb, the 
telephone, and the computer can't decide to become a country powered by 
wind turbines, solar cells, and geothermal plants. There is no reason 
we can't decide to move toward powering our Nation with innovative, 
clean energy, especially since we have the technology to get started.

Two Americans were the first to fly. As one engineer said at the 
time: ''The Wright brothers flew right through the smokescreen of 
impossibility.''

It is time we showed we believe that ending this energy crisis is 
incredibly possible.

If we want to bring down the sky-high price of oil, stop shipping our 
money overseas in exchange for foreign oil and make our economy soar 
again. It is time we did everything we can to get a real program for 
energy independence off the ground. That is our real challenge. That is 
our real opportunity. That should be our real mission.

I close once again by saying that this comment about offshore 
drilling, that it is the way we are going to solve all our problems--
800,000-barrel reduction in demand, prices went up; 500,000 barrels 
more production by the Saudis, gas prices went up; 1.3 million barrels 
and change, prices went up; 68 million acres of land the oil companies 
have they don't use, that is another reason prices go up--restrict the 
demand.

The bottom line is, let's move forward in a way that meets our 
challenge not only today but tomorrow. We are a country that can do. We 
are a country of infinite possibilities. It is time to go beyond the 
shortsighted, narrow view that, in fact, we must risk all of our 
coastal economies, $200 billion a year, for something that won't 
produce one drop of oil for a decade, won't receive full production 
until 2030, and won't do anything now or in the future about reducing 
gas prices but will ultimately say to future generations of Americans 
that we, in the expediency of the moment, were willing to risk not only 
those economies but the natural resources of this country for something 
that would do absolutely nothing about gas prices.

We can do better than that. That is what this debate is all about, 
and that is the opportunity we have.

I yield the floor.