---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `251ff549fafd92b6271756552afa2abf`
`Mr. DODD — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I commend Senator Chambliss for his eloquent 
and persuasive argument about why this amendment is a dangerous one, 
and I say that respectfully. I have great admiration for Carl Levin and 
John McCain, but there are serious problems with this approach, from a 
national security standpoint as well as a manufacturing and industrial 
base standpoint.

To put this into context for our colleagues, we are being asked to 
authorize $1.75 billion, or two-tenths of 1 percent of the budget 
before us of $680 billion. We are told there are at least 25,000 direct 
jobs and 95,000 direct and indirect jobs at stake for that $1.75 
billion--again, two-tenths of 1 percent of the budget--which Senator 
Chambliss has offset, by the way. It is not an expenditure that is not 
going to be accounted for.

We are going to put those jobs at risk--not because this industry is 
in trouble, unlike the automobile industry, which we bailed out to the 
tune of $63 billion, by the way--understanding the reason many of us 
supported that was to maintain an industrial manufacturing base.

In this case, we lead the world in aerospace. Nobody comes even close 
to the ability of the United States to produce the most sophisticated 
aircraft in the world. Yet with an industry doing relatively well--
although commercial orders are way down, which is causing serious 
problems but that is as a result of the economic conditions. We are 
unwilling to come up with $1.75 billion or two-tenths of 1 percent to 
put those many jobs at risk, not to mention retreating on our air 
superiority.

One of the critical components of national security is maintaining 
superiority both at sea and in the air. The F-22, by any estimation, is 
the most superior aircraft in the world. It is not even close in terms 
of competitors. Yet with the numbers we have and that we are relying 
on, we leave ourselves way short of the earlier projected numbers.

As Senator Chambliss pointed out, the testimony over the years of 
those who advocated this program has been significant. In fact, in the 
letter most recently received from General Corley, head of the Air 
Combat Command Office, headquartered at Langley, VA, June 9, it points 
out how serious this would be in terms of exposing our Nation to 
national security risks. The head of the Air National Guard Bureau, 
Lieutenant General Wyatt, makes the same claim. Chief of Staff 
Schwartz, before he changed his mind a week earlier, advocated the F-22 
as well, and its importance.

From both a manufacturing perspective and job loss, at a time when 
unemployment rates are skyrocketing, this body is about to lay off 
anywhere from 25,000 to 90,000 people--at a time when unemployment 
rates are going up, because we decided that $1.75 billion is too 
expensive at this juncture, even though we have offset it, and we have 
put that many jobs at risk, not because the industry is failing or 
because it is a bad aircraft but because the Secretary of Defense and 
the administration have decided this program isn't worthy of our 
support.

So explain to those 90,000 people--somewhere in that range--once they 
lose their jobs and get laid off, and they will--why it was we decided 
today, because of two-tenths of 1 percent of the budget, to move in a 
different direction. Put aside, if you will, the $63 billion we spent 
to develop this aircraft.



I raised these concerns expressed by our military commanders--again, 
most notably, GEN John Corley of the Air Combat Command, LTG Harry 
Wyatt of the Air National Guard--I have mentioned them. In my State, 
there are 2,000 to 3,000 jobs at risk, and 1,000 of the jobs are down 
because commercial orders are down. So it is really 2,000 to 4,000 
people in my State who will lose their jobs.

No matter how much I care about the people in my State, I could not 
oppose this exclusively on that basis. You ought to look nationwide. It 
is not just my State; it is all across the country.

I raised concerns about what this amendment would do to our global 
competitiveness and discussed the potential harm to our economy posed 
by terminating the world's most advanced fighter jet.

I raised concerns over the industry's ability to build the less 
sophisticated F-35--which has only one engine not two, and the word 
''stealthy'' applied to the F-35 is a myth; it is not as stealthy, even 
remotely, as the F-22--that the United States and its allies are 
counting on buying over the next decade.

Mr. President, before I revisit these critically important arguments, 
let's be clear on the context in which we are having this debate. The 
proponents of this amendment suggest they are saving taxpayers valuable 
resources in terminating the F-22. They claim such cost savings are 
well worth the risk Generals Corley and Wyatt have warned us about.

But out of a total of $680 billion in the Defense authorization bill, 
this amendment is valued at $1.75 billion. That is two-tenths of 1 
percent of the total authorization. Since the planes are fully offset, 
there are no real savings in this amendment.

Instead, this amendment will come at enormous cost to our security 
and our economy. We are in the midst of a national manufacturing 
crisis. Everybody has talked about it. It is why we voted for so much 
support for the automobile industry only a few weeks ago right here in 
this body.

According to the Federal Reserve's July 15, 2009, Industrial 
Production and Capacity Utilization Report, manufacturing production 
has declined 15.5 percent nationwide, between June 2008 and June 2009. 
I will repeat that: There has been an over 15 percent decline in our 
manufacturing sector. This quarter's manufacturing production is the 
lowest in 27 years, which was the previous low point in production 
since 1967, when the Fed started to keep track of the data.

We in Congress tried to respond to this crisis. We passed the 
Emergency Economy Stabilization Act, designed to relieve credit markets 
and get banks lending again.

We passed the $787 billion American Reinvestment and Recovery Act to 
stimulate the economy and boost demand in various sectors and put 
people back to work.

We have provided $63 billion to Chrysler and General Motors to keep 
their production lines running--companies that were brought to their 
knees, in part, due to dismal business planning and severe 
mismanagement of their companies over the years.


Additionally, the government has acquired unprecedented equity stakes 
in these companies--8 percent in Chrysler and a whopping 60 percent in 
General Motors.

I have not opposed these efforts. As chairman of the Banking 
Committee, I worked with my colleagues who represent those States to 
provide Federal assistance through the legislative process. But we took 
this step because we were responding to a national manufacturing 
crisis. We did it because we are responding to the dire and credible 
warnings about the potential impact of the auto industry's collapse--
particularly in Midwestern States, which greatly depend on the auto 
business.

I will discuss briefly another critically important manufacturing 
base and its economic impact: the aerospace industry.

While my home State of Connecticut ranks 29th in total population, 
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, it ranks sixth in total 
aerospace employment.

In 2008, according to the Connecticut Department of Labor, aerospace 
employed over 36,000 residents of my State. So any discussion of 
terminating the fighter jet production has an outsize effect on the 
people I represent.

I would not be arguing this case for the F-22 if it were strictly a 
parochial matter. We don't have a right to ask 99 other people 
exclusively because of something happening in our own States. The truth 
is, halting this production will have consequences for our industry's 
ability to continue to build aircraft for our military. I will lay out 
the argument for you.

The expertise of these people cannot be duplicated overnight. These 
trained engineers, scientists, manufacturers, and machinists are highly 
skilled and trained. I am concerned their skill sets and experience are 
being taken for granted, without consideration for the peculiarities of 
jet engine construction. That doesn't just hurt the workers and their 
families; it hurts all of us. Let me explain how.

According to the Defense Contract Management Agency, there is a 20- 
to 24-month lag between payment for and production of jet engines. So 
the number of planes ordered in any 1 given year doesn't correspond 
with the delivery time of those engines.

Under Secretary of Defense Gates's plan in calendar year 2010, Pratt 
& Whitney is expected to make 48 F-22 engines and 19 F-35 engines, for 
a total of 67 fighter jet engines. The following year, the number will 
drop precipitously to a total of 43 engines, since the F-35 is not 
scheduled to begin what is called ''full-rate production'' until 2014.

Thus, in calendar year 2011, Pratt & Whitney will be producing 11 F-
22 engines and 32 F-35 engines, for a total of 43 fighter engines. In 
2012, since there will be no F-22 production, there will only be 41 F-
35 engines built.

The problem is even more acute when you compare overall military 
engines being built in 2010 versus 2011 and 2012. Under current plans, 
Pratt & Whitney is expected to go from building 194 military engines to 
130 in 2011. That is an average drop of 33 percent in work volume.

What will happen? It is the same thing occurring in manufacturing 
States all across the country: layoffs. Thousands and thousands of 
people--not just in my State but across the country.

In the absence of military aircraft work orders for 3 years, 
companies will be forced to tell the legions of highly skilled 
engineers, technicians, and machinists--workers such as the Pratt & 
Whitney mechanics I introduced and mentioned last week--that they are 
not needed now. They need to retrain. They need to find another 
vocation.

Then, 3 years later, after these workers have settled in a new job, 
or have retired, the Department of Defense and our allies will try to 
ramp up production of the F-35. But they will not be able to. They will 
be left scratching their heads, wondering: Why can't industry meet our 
production needs right now? No doubt, we will ask the same question on 
the Senate floor.

To assume that the thousands of workers across the Nation who work on 
the F-22 will stand idly by until 2014 when we begin to build the F-35 
Joint Strike Fighter is naive at best. This argument I make is not new 
at all. The Defense Department recognized this point in the 2006 
Quadrennial Defense Review, published by the military to identify the 
needs and strategy of our Armed Forces.

The report stated that F-22 production should be extended ''through 
fiscal year 2010 with a multiyear acquisition contract to ensure the 
Department does not have a gap in fifth generation stealth 
capabilities.''

At the same time, the F-35 was scheduled to begin construction in 
2010. Since then, of course, it has been pushed back 4 years to 2014. 
There are some rumors that this date may be pushed back even further.

This means the military identified only 3 years ago--36 months ago--
the most recent published report of this type, that our Nation would 
suffer a loss in aerospace manufacturing capability if fighter 
production doesn't have a seamless transition.

Their response was to ensure that we keep building F-22s until the F-
35 reached full-rate production. Yet when the F-35 production schedule 
was pushed back 4 years, we did not extend the F-22 production to 
stabilize our industrial base. That is why you have the job losses I 
have mentioned.

Now we find ourselves in the very situation the Department of Defense 
was


trying to avoid 36 months ago, as we face looming job losses across our 
Nation, commercial orders down--losing these people on that basis and 
now because of the vote we may take on this issue--and thus a 
degradation of our ability to meet the aerospace production capability 
our national security requires. So I believe it is our duty and 
responsibility to protect these workers from losing their employment 
and make sure our country retains a viable and competitive capacity in 
the years ahead.

Let me also point out--and I did the other day on a national security 
basis--that, again, superiority is critical. Right now, there are some 
40 nations that have the SU-27, which is a sophisticated aircraft, and 
the MiG-29, which competes with the F-15 and the F-16. Forty nations 
have that capability. I had a larger chart earlier--I don't have it 
with me today--but there are little red and yellow dots all over this 
map that indicate advanced surface-to-air missile capability where 
there have been orders made or they have already been acquired. Our F-
15s and F-16s are vulnerable to those surface-to-air missiles. All over 
the globe they exist.

The F-22 literally could avoid the kind of detection these surface-
to-air missiles provide. So we now have a capacity to be able to 
respond. Now we may not--and as long as we are dealing with Afghanistan 
and Iraq, that is one issue. But, frankly, we have to prepare for 
situations that could get a lot more dangerous for our Nation. The 
Chinese and the Russians are aggressively pursuing a fifth generation 
aircraft to compete with the F-22. And to say that the F-22 and the F-
35 are virtually alike I think is a mistake. That is not the case at 
all. There is a difference.

From a national security standpoint as well, there was a reason why 
General Corley and General Wyatt and others have made a case on these 
aircraft. There is a reason why we invested some $65 billion to develop 
this aircraft. There is a reason why the quadrennial report 36 months 
ago warned about these gaps and what it would do to our industrial base 
and manufacturing.

I hope our colleagues, in the midst of all of this, would understand 
what is at stake. Again, here we are, on an economic basis, where many 
jobs could be lost in our country with critical technology that hangs 
in the balance. It would be one thing if we were arguing here this 
plane was no longer needed, it was not going to do the job we thought 
it would do, it wasn't as sophisticated as we hoped it would be. Then 
you might decide dropping this, giving up some jobs, may make some 
sense. But to give up an aircraft of this sophistication and this 
capability, and simultaneously, in an economic situation such as we are 
in, to lose as we are predicting somewhere between 25,000 and 90,000 
jobs with this decision, for $1.75 billion in this budget--two-tenths 
of 1 percent out of a $680 billion authorization bill, I think is 
terribly shortsighted.

I hope my colleagues would listen to these arguments, would debate 
and understand there is an ability, to reach a compromise where we can 
go forward with production, reduce some of the cost that the proponents 
argue for in this amendment, and then move toward together. But to make 
the decision that we may make in the next hour and a half or so would 
be a great danger for our Nation.

I appreciate my colleague Senator Chambliss giving me the opportunity 
to respond on this issue, and I thank him for his work as well in 
making the case to our colleagues, Democrats and Republicans. This 
ought not to be an issue that divides along those lines at all. We need 
to understand what is at stake for our Nation, both in terms of our 
manufacturing base as well as the national security needs that have 
been identified.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the two letters, one from General Corley and one from General Wyatt.