---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `252444b369742bf1eb13dc94e6c033a9`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Speaker, this debate is about whether or not 
America is a great Nation that will lead in the face of difficulty. We 
have come up short. This resolution falls short. It is small and not 
worthy of this House. Why small? Let me begin with a threat that some 
either don't understand or refuse to acknowledge.

This resolution does not address the fact that the current threat is 
not just the single front in Iraq, but rather the larger threat of 
militant Islamic jihadists who hate us enough to want to kill. These 
militant Islamic jihadists are a fringe element of Islam who have very 
specific ideas and goals about how to revive Islam, return Muslims to 
world power, and how to deal with their enemies.

They are committed to a violent overthrow of existing international 
systems and to their replacement by an all-encompassing Islamic state 
called the caliphate. In explaining his approach to creating the 
caliphate, centered in Iraq, al-Qaeda's number two leader, Zawahari, 
outlined a four-stage plan:

Stage 1, expel the Americans from Iraq in defeat.

Stage 2, create an Islamic religious government in Iraq, developing 
and supporting it until it achieves a level of a caliphate.

Stage 3, extend the jihad wave to secular countries neighboring Iraq.

Stage 4, clash with Israel, because Israel was established only to 
challenge any new Islamic entity.

I think you get the picture.

Let me also be clear. This jihad is about them, their God, and their 
religion, it is not about us. These militant jihadists believe that the 
modern world has forsaken the pure religious life and that only with a 
caliphate can they return to ''pure life.''

It is this narrow ideology that poses the direct and real threat to 
us. It is this ideology that threatens not only us, but also includes 
the belief that killing other Muslims is justified to achieve their 
radical goals. Here is the true threat to America and the world, this 
militant Islamic jihad, a jihad that attacks around the globe, 
including the United States and Iraq. The resolution we debate today 
does not address this global problem, this threat to peace and 
stability. Iraq is not the problem, it is only one front in this larger 
war.

The second point. This resolution omits specifically all of the men 
and women of the Armed forces who are defending our freedoms in other 
theaters


such as Kuwait, Afghanistan and Bosnia. It says, by not saying, that 
this Congress may not support troops who will be sent to Iraq.

Is this intentional? Is this part of the plan to choke off funding 
for our troops? I also take great umbrage that this resolution omits 
and completely slights the incredible contributions to this Nation's 
security of our dedicated men and women in the Intelligence Community, 
many serving in Iraq, who provide our combat troops with the 
information vital to their security.

Is this the first step in cutting off their funding, too, returning 
to the Clinton administration's policies of the 1990s that decimated 
our intelligence capabilities?

Finally, Madam Speaker, I need to address the issue of the 
consequences of failure. What happens if Iraq collapses due to a sudden 
withdrawal of U.S. troops? Our enemies have made it clear that they 
will fill the void. Surely America is wary of the conflict in Iraq, but 
the difficulty of this conflict does not justify giving into their 
strategy; yes, their strategy. They believe that they are winning by 
wearing America down. Will we quit? Do we understand the consequences?

Make no mistake, this resolution is a dangerous and naive first step 
to cutting funding to our troops in an unwise withdrawal from the 
region. Iraq is not a faraway place where the United States has no 
interest and where we can pull our troops out of without paying a price 
in the global war against militant Islam.

This debate is not about Iraq, it is about us, us as a Nation of 
people who will do the right thing. The fundamental question is, Do we 
have the resolve that will be necessary to defeat radical militant 
Islamic jihadists that contain bad actors such as Iran, and will we 
stand and fight for the future of our kids and their kids?

We have faced similar threats before. In 1945 my parents were 
liberated by Canadians and American troops in the Netherlands. They 
never forgot the sacrifices that were made by brave soldiers and by a 
great Nation, a Nation on a great mission.

America did it for them, but it also did it for itself. America 
recognized that the threat was a direct threat to America and the 
world. We then led a global effort to victory. Today we face a very 
different but, again, a very real threat: radical militant Islam. The 
challenge to this Congress is to rise to the occasion, to help lead 
America and to help lead the world to victory.

This petty resolution falls far short of that noble and worthy 
calling. Vote ''no.'' We can and we must do better.