# STAFF SERGEANT OMER ``O.T.'' HAWKINS POST OFFICE
## `25275ef16e986c14c2fa2ee28e87d950`
`Ms. FOXX — 21 May 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise this afternoon to pay tribute to a remarkable 
soldier and another true American hero. On October 14, 2004, SSGT Omer 
''O.T.'' Hawkins from Cherry Fork, Ohio, gave his life in service to 
our Nation. He was killed when his convoy hit a roadside bomb outside 
Ar Ramadi, Iraq. O.T. was only 31 years old.

Born on November 29, 1972, O.T. always knew that he wanted to join 
the Army. When he was only 10 years old, O.T. wrote a letter to the 
Army asking if he could sign up despite his being so young. At North 
Adams High School, O.T. showed his leadership while participating in 
many school activities. He was a member of the Academic Team, played 
baseball and was voted ''Most Likely to Succeed'' by his senior class.

After high school he could have pursued just about any career, yet 
the military remained his number one love and lifelong goal. Only 2 
days after his high school graduation, and 8 years after he wrote that 
priceless letter to the Army expressing his desire to join, he reported 
to basic training.

O.T. was not only following his personal dream, he was following in 
the footsteps of his father who served proudly as an engineer in the 
Marine Corps.

Once in the Army, O.T. quickly developed a leadership style armed 
with an arsenal of wit and knowledge, a perfect combination that was 
recognized by his comrades and superiors. Having served on tours of 
duty in Afghanistan, Bosnia, Egypt, Kosovo and Somalia, O.T. was a 
deeply respected and beloved leader. His colleagues have described him, 
as ''a stunning leader and a great man,'' and said that ''his aura 
always gave great hope to his soldiers.''

O.T. loved this country more than anything else and was proud to 
serve in the protection of its citizens. Friends and family will 
forever remember O.T.'s dedication to the cause of freedom and his 
commitment to bringing that cherished freedom to people around the 
world where he served.

It is with gratitude for his bravery and sacrifice and for the 
sacrifice of those who loved him that I ask all Members to join me in 
naming the Cherry Fork, Ohio, postal facility in his honor.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.