---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `253d04e8a96432fba7523bc49ac2b10c`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 13 July 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I am proud to cosponsor the Dignity for 
our Wounded Warriors Act, which has just been approved as an amendment 
to the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense authorization bill. Under 
the leadership of Senators Carl Levin, Patty Murray, and Daniel Akaka, 
we have drafted this comprehensive response to the failures of the Bush 
administration to properly care for our wounded servicemembers and 
veterans.

We were all shocked and awed by the sorry state of outpatient care at 
Walter Reed. More than 22,000 Purple Hearts have been awarded in Iraq. 
We know now that our troops have been twice wounded--once on the 
battlefield and again battling a bureaucracy at home.

We know that acute care for our injured troops has been astounding. 
Our military medical doctors and nurses are performing heroically, 
giving our troops historic rates of survival against devastating new 
weapons of war. We owe a debt of gratitude to these military medical 
professionals and to the medics on the battlefield. But while we have 
saved their lives, we are failing to give them their life back. 
Outpatient care, facilities, social work, case workers, disability 
benefits--the whole system seems dysfunctional.

In March, I visited Walter Reed and met with outpatients at Mologne 
House. I am so proud of their service and sacrifice for our Nation and 
so embarrassed by the treatment they have received. We know this 
problem isn't limited to Walter Reed. It is part of the reckless 
incompetence of this administration. They took us into this war without 
a plan for winning it or caring for those we ask to fight it. That is 
why the Senate has today taken this important step to provide the care 
our troops, veterans, and their families have earned.

This is a comprehensive bill to address the treatment and care of 
injured veterans and servicemembers. To ensure that what happened in 
Building 18 at Walter Reed never happens again, the bill establishes 
minimum standards of repair and maintenance for military treatment 
facilities and outpatient housing. It authorizes at least $73 million 
in additional funding to enhance care for traumatic brain injury, TBI, 
and post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, including $3 million for 
pilot projects to monitor TBI; $10 million for Centers of Excellence 
for TBI; and $50 million for additional TBI and PTSD research. This is 
in addition to the $900 million in funding for TBI and PTSD programs 
added by Congress to the fiscal year 2007 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act.

To support a smooth transition for injured troops from military 
medical care to the Veterans' Administration, this bill also authorizes 
$10 million for a joint DOD/VA office for electronic health records and 
establishes comprehensive readjustment studies for Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans by the Defense Department, the Veterans' Administration, and 
the National Academy of Sciences.

To develop a better understanding of the signature wounds of the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, the amendment directs DOD to establish Centers 
of Excellence for TBI and PTSD and to report to Congress on their 
progress. It requires comprehensive plans for prevention, diagnosis, 
and treatment of TBI and PTSD as well as long-term studies, clinical 
trials, and research about mental health, TBI, and PTSD.

Our amendment also addresses the unique needs of female 
servicemembers by requiring DOD and the VA to take into account the 
needs of women servicemembers and women veterans in every aspect of 
patient and veterans care. Every report required by the amendment must 
include a description of how it specifically addresses the needs of our 
women warriors. It requires DOD and the VA to review the need for 
mental health treatment tailored to meet the needs of female 
servicemembers and veterans and requires the two agencies to develop a 
joint policy for the treatment and care of mental health, TBI, and PTSD 
for female servicemembers and veterans.

To cut through the health care bureaucracy, our bill entitles any 
servicemember or former servicemember with ''severe injury or illness'' 
to treatment in any DOD or VA approved medical facility, whatever is 
closest or most convenient for the patient. It also authorizes military 
and VA facilities to provide counseling and medical care for families 
and caregivers who are supporting servicemembers--this is important 
support for those who have to travel to a treatment facility in order 
to support their injured loved one.

To help injured servicemembers transition from DOD health care to the 
VA system, the amendment requires improved information sharing between 
agencies and establishes common processes, procedures, and standards 
between the two agencies. It also institutes a 3-year overlap of 
healthcare service between DOD and VA for severely injured 
servicemembers, so no injured servicemember is allowed to fall between 
the cracks.

This amendment also takes several important steps to improve the 
quality of care in the VA health care system. It requires the VA to 
create rehabilitation and reintegration plans for veterans suffering 
from TBI and to provide nursing home care to veterans with severe cases 
of TBI. The amendment also extends the window of time during which 
veterans can seek combat-related medical care, from 2 years to 5 years. 
This will especially help veterans suffering from PTSD, which can take 
several years to develop and diagnose.

Mr. President, our Nation has a sacred commitment to honor the 
promises we make to troops and their families when they answer the 
Nation's call to duty. I am proud to fight each year to make sure these 
promises made are promises kept. This amendment honors our Nation's 
service men and women.
