---
---

# None
## `253d13949dfe6c6b327cac6638bbd448`
`Mr. KELLER of Florida — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. KELLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 400, the War Profiteering 
Prevention Act of 2007. If a contractor in Iraq decides to engage in 
the corrupt business practice of overbilling the U.S. military to 
maximize his profits, he will now face 20 years in a Federal prison 
cell and a fine of $1 million.

Those bad apples who defraud the American taxpayer must be held 
accountable, regardless of whether the sleazy, fraudulent practice 
occurred in the United States, Afghanistan, or Iraq. This is especially 
true when the


fraud relates to our military and reconstruction activities in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, because such schemes could directly harm our country's 
global war against terrorism.

Moreover, corruption by a handful of individuals who are ostensibly 
engaged in supporting our military and reconstruction efforts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan unfairly tarnishes the reputation of the many honorable 
military and civilian contractors, the overwhelming majority of whom 
risk their lives daily and professionally perform their duties.

Fortunately, according to the testimony of Stuart Bowen, Jr., the 
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, most contractors are 
good apples, and the incidence of corruption within the U.S. 
reconstruction program constitutes a small component of the overall 
American financial contribution to Iraq's reconstruction.

These cases often require extensive investigative resources and 
documentation. Having to gather such evidence in a dangerous setting 
like Iraq or Afghanistan makes it difficult to build a successful 
criminal case.

Nevertheless, the U.S. Government has brought many successful 
prosecutions, and it will likely bring more. For example, Philip Bloom 
was sentenced earlier this year to 46 months in prison as a result of 
his scheme to defraud the Coalition Provisional Authority by rigging 
contract bids in excess of $8.6 million.

In addition, Robert Stein, the former Coalition Provisional Authority 
comptroller and funding officer, was sentenced to 9 years in prison 
earlier this year. He was prosecuted and convicted of funneling 
numerous contracts to Bloom in exchange for kickbacks and bribes. 
Overall, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction has 
opened over 300 criminal and civil investigations, leading to 10 
arrests, five persons indicted, five convicted, and two imprisoned. The 
Inspector General continues to work on 79 live investigations, and 
these investigations may involve one or more targets. Twenty-eight of 
these investigations are currently being prosecuted by the Department 
of Justice, 23 of these are criminal cases, and five are civil.

In short, this legislation creates a new crime with a maximum term of 
imprisonment of 20 years, which is double the existing crime of fraud 
against the government, and deservedly so.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on H.R. 400.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.