# None
## `253d34ff09e68e96c065cdb7a627a09c`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3087, 
which requires the President, in coordination with the Departments of 
State and Defense, to transmit to the Congress a strategy for the 
redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. The bill also requires the 
Secretary of Defense, not later than 60 days after the enactment of 
this act, and every 90 days thereafter, to submit to congressional 
defense committees a report on the status of this planning. In 
addition, the bill requires the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to brief these same congressional 
committees on the matters contained in the report. Furthermore, the 
legislation contains ''sense of Congress'' language that the 
contingency planning should: address the protection of Iraqi forces, 
Iraqi nationals, third party nationals and U.S. civilians who have 
assisted the U.S. mission, enhance the ability of the United States to 
fight AI-Qaeda and affiliated terrorist organizations, and preserve 
military equipment necessary to defend the national security interests 
of the United States. Additional provisions in the bill include 
supporting and equipping Iraqi armed forces to take full responsibility 
for their own security.

This resolution is an important component of Congress's oversight of 
the Iraq war, and compels the administration to engage with Congress on 
the planning for responsible redeployment of our combat troops. The 
President's Iraq policy of putting our brave men and women in the Armed 
Forces in the position of policing the streets of Baghdad and other 
Iraqi cities in the midst of a sectarian war is the wrong strategy and 
one that continually puts them in harms way. I will continue to 
advocate for an immediate start to the responsible redeployment of our 
combat troops from Iraq, but in the meantime, it is important to garner 
as many votes as possible within the Congress to send a strong message 
to the administration that it must begin to plan for a comprehensive 
redeployment of our forces to provide for the best possible protection 
of our brave men and women in uniform.