# DARFUR ACCOUNTABILITY AND DIVESTMENT ACT
## `253e9b11cd28d5f479c19cc53212a4d3`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. I thank the gentleman very much and appreciate his work.

Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come here today. It's amazing, this 
suspension calendar has so many big bills. The chairman of the 
Financial Services Committee points out this is important legislation 
that we are discussing. It may be on the suspension calendar, but 
that's only because there is unanimity. There is a feeling on both 
sides of the aisle, Republican and Democrat, House and Senate, 
supporting these bills, as well as the White House.

We will be dealing with the Darfur Accountability Divestment Act of 
2007, the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2007. We are going to be 
expressing a sense of the House of Representatives that the Government 
of Japan should formally acknowledge, apologize and accept historical 
responsibility in a clear and unequivocal manner for its Imperial Armed 
Force's coercion of young women into the sex trade. We are going to be 
urging the Government of Canada to end the outrageous commercial sea 
hunts. We will be amending the Iran Sanctions Act, and we will have a 
Belated Thank You to the Merchant Mariners of World War II Act, these 
brave men, in particular, and women, who basically risked their lives 
going back and forth to Europe and haven't gotten the recognition they 
deserve.

But let me speak specifically to Darfur. I rise in support of H.R. 
180, which supports State, city and university efforts to divest funds 
or restrict investment in companies that conduct business operations in 
Sudan.

First, let me say I have tremendous respect for all those who have 
worked to raise awareness of this important issue, student groups and 
faith-based organizations, especially from the African-American, Jewish 
and Armenian communities have done a wonderful job, a really 
outstanding job of educating their fellow citizens and lawmakers about 
the crisis and the need to respond.

In addition, this body owes a debt of gratitude to Representative 
Barbara Lee, Representative Frank Wolf, Chairman Tom Lantos and 
Chairman Barney Frank, Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and Ranking 
Member Mr. Bachus and others who have kept the genocide of Darfur in 
our forefront and consciousness.

The world collectively agreed to never again allow genocide after the 
Holocaust and again after the mass murders of Rwanda in 1994. 
Tragically, genocide is taking place, and the United States must take 
all reasonable steps to end the killing.

The United States has made a tremendous commitment to the people of 
Darfur in the form of humanitarian aid and diplomatic efforts to end 
the genocide, but more must be done. Divestment is a very serious step 
for our government to take against a nation that does not threaten our 
security or the security of our allies.

It is a tool that must be used sparingly, but given the abhorrent 
crimes that continue to be committed against the Darfuri people, I 
believe it is a most appropriate act.

The bottom line, as this legislation states, is that no American 
should have to worry that his or her investment or pension money was 
earned in support of genocide.

I urge all Members to vote for H.R. 180 and continue our efforts and 
commitment to end violence in the Sudan.

I want to say, in closing, that we are going to have to consider even 
more significant acts. One is sanctions, but we may need to consider a 
no-fly zone, and, frankly, working with others, military force. 
Obviously we have to use our military sparingly, given their overuse in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, but can we expect that the African Union can do 
more than send 7,000 troops? We should be willing to pay for that, and 
we are.

Can we expect that Europe should be willing to step up and take 
action? They are rarely willing to, but in this case, I think we should 
expect they should, especially given their minimal role in Iraq and 
even their less than full participation in Afghanistan.

Can we expect NATO to step up? That involves the United States. Why 
not? And that at the very end, if nothing else happens, the U.S.

I was in Darfur in August of 2006, meeting with the governor of 
Northern Darfur. He was somewhat disturbed by the killings going on in 
his own country. But when I suggested that we might need to take other 
action like a no-fly zone, he was indignant. He was outraged. He 
couldn't accept it. That got his attention. He wasn't particularly 
concerned that his own people were killing each other with, frankly, 
the consent of its own government, but he was outraged to think that 
outside governments might come in and stop it.

We will have to deal with that outrage. We have to stop the killing