---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `254768f8ed35a1fa0d7109130d60f00a`
`Mr. McCAIN — 25 July 2007`

---

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate adopted, by 
unanimous consent, legislation that will make a significant difference 
in the lives of America's wounded warriors and veterans. I


applaud the passage of the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act 
and the 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for the men and women of 
the U.S. military.

This legislation bridges the gap in health care coverage for the 
severely wounded, and ensures their access to the broadest possible 
range of health care services. It authorizes additional care and 
support for families who are caring for the wounded. The bill increases 
traumatic brain injury care for veterans, and access to mental health 
evaluations. It requires the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans 
Affairs to develop and implement new policy to better manage the care 
and transition of our wounded soldiers. It also empowers a special 
board to review disability ratings of 20 percent or less, and to 
restore to wounded soldiers, if appropriate, a higher disability rating 
or retired status. And, it authorizes additional funding for traumatic 
brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder.

The disability evaluation systems of the Departments of Defense and 
Veterans Affairs are out of date and in need of reform. This 
legislation advances that reform by requiring the immediate initiation 
of pilot projects to fundamentally change and streamline those 
antiquated systems. The bill also improves benefits related to 
administrative separation from the military due to injury, increasing 
severance pay and eliminating the requirement that severance pay be 
deducted from VA disability compensation for injuries incurred in a 
combat zone.

The legislation requires the Secretary of Defense to inspect and 
improve medical treatment and residential facilities, and to study the 
accelerated construction of new facilities at the National Military 
Medical Center at Bethesda, MD.

This legislation is an important step toward restoring trust for 
America's wounded soldiers and veterans. The Senate can be proud that 
it has put the needs of wounded warriors and our selfless service men 
and women ahead of partisanship, jurisdictional boundaries and 
disagreements over policy. We are now ready to move foward to 
conference with the House of Representatives and make overdue 
improvements for our soldiers, their families, and our veterans.

While I am pleased we have been able to take this action today, very 
critical improvements to defense policy and programs remain in the 
unfinished work on the National Defense Authorization Act for 2008, 
which the Democratic Senate leadership pulled from the Senate floor 
last week because of policy disagreements on Iraq.

Failure to pass the Defense authorization bill will curtail many 
needed initiatives to support our military personnel and their families 
and to continue the fight on the global war on terror. Our military 
forces deployed throughout the world, including Iraq and Afghanistan, 
need the resources, training, and equipment that this bill would 
provide. Examples of the important authorities that are being held 
hostage to the contentious debate on policy in Iraq include: increasing 
in end-strength for the Army and Marine Corps; providing combat-related 
special compensation to serve members who are; medically retired 
because of a combat-related disability; paying over 25 special pays and 
bonuses designed to improve military recruiting and retention; 
improving military equipment needed to protect deploying forces, 
including $4.0 billion for mine-resistant vehicles known as MRAPs; 
updating Army combat systems and additional funding for armor and 
aviation survivability equipment; building five warships and funding 
for Virginia class submarines; increasing the number of Department of 
Defense and Department of Energy programs to help reduce the threat of 
nuclear materials from the former Soviet Union falling into the hands 
of terrorists; encouraging more focused competition for the billions of 
dollars that the Department of Defense spends on contract services; and 
providing critical authorities to combatant commanders to address 
security priorities and support allies, coalition partners, and others 
in the war on terror.

I call on the Senate leadership to resume consideration of the 
Defense authorization bill at the earliest possible time, so that these 
and many other critical pieces of the legislation will become law for 
the benefit of our troops. Swift passage of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for 2008, coupled with support for our wounded 
warriors and hard-working troops together represent the full measure of 
support for our military forces that they need, and that they 
unquestionably deserve.