---
---

# COMMENDING THE 1ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM/34TH INFANTRY DIVISION OF THE  MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
## `254a7a16a152a1657a6f2acb149188e1`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House Concurrent 
Resolution 185, which commends the men and women of the 1st Brigade 
Combat Team/34th Infantry Division, Minnesota National Guard, for 
completing the longest continuous deployment of any United States 
combat team in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Mr. Speaker, these men and women did not want to set this record. 
They didn't seek this record. In fact, when they left these shores, 
they had no idea this record was going to be theirs: 16 months in a 
combat zone, 22 months of mobilization. But when the word came, they 
didn't flinch. They set forward, they did their duty and they set a 
record, one which I certainly hope no other unit will ever be asked to 
surpass.

The men and women of the 1st Brigade Combat Team are some of this 
Nation's finest soldiers. Their first-rate service in Iraq carries on 
the tradition of excellence established by previous generations of the 
1st Brigade, through service in the Civil War, the Spanish-American 
War, and both world wars.

The more than 2,200 Minnesotans and 1,300 more Midwestern soldiers 
who served in the 1st Brigade in Iraq performed remarkably during their 
unrivaled tour of duty. These soldiers completed more than 5,200 combat 
logistics patrols, secured 2.4 million convoy miles, captured over 400 
suspected insurgents, and discovered 462 improvised explosive devices 
prior to detonation. They also helped to start two Iraqi newspapers and 
completed 137 reconstruction projects.

As a mark of their commitment to the unit and to this Nation, more 
than 1,400 members of the brigade reenlisted, reenlisted, while in 
Iraq, and 21 members became United States citizens.

Throughout their long tour of duty, their historic tour of duty, the 
soldiers of the 1st Brigade Combat Team had the steady support of 
families and employers. The soldiers are now home and beginning the 
process of reintegration through the Minnesota National Guard's 
extensive Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program.

Mr. Speaker, given their admirable and courageous service over so 
long a period of time, and in recognition of their willingness to put 
service to country over personal interest, it is only fitting that we 
take this opportunity to commend the men and women of the 1st Brigade 
Combat Team.

I want to thank my friend and colleague, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. Walz) for bringing this measure forward and for his service with 
the National Guard.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in strong support of this 
concurrent resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.