---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `254d98f13c7ec32b3aacd020b02e91e7`
`Mr. SKELTON — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, today the House begins consideration of H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. This bill is a 
collective effort in the bipartisan tradition of the House Armed 
Services Committee, which approved the bill in markup last week by a 
vote of 58-0.

I want to thank our committee members, particularly our subcommittee 
chairmen and ranking members, for their outstanding work. And special 
thanks go to the ranking member, Duncan Hunter, and I appreciate his 
working so hard in a very bipartisan manner to make this bill come to 
the floor. He's been a partner in this, and I appreciate it. I am proud 
that we're always able to work together in our efforts to enhance our 
Nation's defense.

Mr. Chairman, the polestar of this year's Defense authorization is 
readiness. Continued reports on the state of readiness for our ground 
forces, particularly our nondeployed and next-to-deploy forces, are of 
deep concern. To restore readiness and ensure our forces will be ready 
if they are called upon for the next fight, this bill fully funds the 
budget request for the Army and Marine Corps reset of equipment at 
$13.6 billion and $8.4 billion respectively.

They add some $1 billion in a strategic readiness fund to meet 
critical readiness requirements identified by a new Defense Readiness 
Production Board.

It increases training by $250 million so that our units may get more 
training time.

It requires a plan and a timeline for replenishing prepositioned 
stocks.

And it strengthens the National Guard by adding $1 billion for 
National Guard and Reserve equipment from their unfunded requirements 
list, ensuring that the National Guard is able to meet its homeland and 
civil support missions, and also adding a range of authorities through 
the National Guard Empowerment Act.

This bill looks out for our troops in harm's way by dedicating 
substantial resources to improve protection, including $4.6 billion for 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, known as MRAPs, and providing 
funds for personal body armor and up-armored Humvees.

To reduce the strain on our force and in keeping with the House Armed 
Services Committee's long advocacy of the need to boost end strength, 
that is, the number of troops, the bill has authorized an increase in 
the size of the Army by 36,000 Army troops and Marines by 9,000.

Our servicemembers and their families make countless sacrifices and 
our pride in them knows no bounds. We express our thanks to them 
through a 3.5 percent pay raise, by blocking TRICARE and pharmacy 
program fee increases, by expanding special compensation for combat-
related disabled retirees, and establishing a special survivor 
indemnity allowance to begin to address the offset to the survivor 
benefit plan and the dependents indemnity plan.

Provisions also include the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, which 
addresses many of the problems identified at Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center; and, Mr. Chairman, you will recall we passed that as a stand-
alone bill just a few weeks ago.

Accountability with respect to our own ongoing operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan is also an important component of the measure. The bill 
requires General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker to report on the 
implementation of the Joint Campaign Plan for Iraq, as well as on 
efforts made by the Iraqi Government to achieve political 
reconciliation.

Secretary Gates is also required to report on the proposed force 
levels for the 6 months following September, to discuss the missions of 
our forces, and to inform Congress about contingency planning. The 
information from this report will help us ask the right questions, the 
tough questions, and make frank judgments about how we are going to 
pass the baton on to the Iraqis. I am convinced that the sectarian 
violence will only be overcome by Iraqi political progress, and thus 
far, I haven't seen much of that since then.

September's report will be an opportunity for General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker to lay out the straight facts. Time is short with 
the American people, and the Iraqis must act soon. This report will 
provide real and substantial information.

Calling attention to the forgotten war in Afghanistan, the bill 
provides funds for the Afghanistan security forces and requires a long-
term sustainment plan so that the Afghans can build the logistics and 
other capabilities they need for long-term security.

The bill establishes a new Special Inspector General for Afghan 
Reconstruction to ensure accountability in contracting there and 
extends the authority of the Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction.

The bill also brings more contracting accountability to both 
Afghanistan and Iraq by forcing the Departments of Defense and State to 
work together in assigning responsibility for overseeing the thousands 
of contractors in these places, particularly those who do carry 
weapons.

And finally, Mr. Chairman, the bill requires that the Secretary of 
Defense undertake an analysis of the Department's roles and missions. 
In 1947, a similar effort helped shape the Pentagon through the 
National Security Act. After 60 years, it is time for a new analysis to 
help eliminate duplication among the services, identify core 
competencies, and strengthen the Department of Defense and the military 
while helping us spend money much more wisely.



Before I close, let me spend just a moment talking about something 
that is not in this bill. The Military Commissions Act, which was made 
into law by the last Congress, precludes detainees in Guantanamo from 
petitioning courts under habeas corpus. This bill does not include a 
provision to restore the principle of habeas corpus for detainees at 
Guantanamo, even though I feel strongly it should.

My judgment is that the most promising course of action will be for 
this House to take up this issue as a separate bill. To that end, I 
have prepared legislation to address the habeas corpus issue, and I 
intend to work with the leadership, members of our committee and with 
the Judiciary Committee on that issue.

Mr. Chairman, this is a critical time in the defense and security of 
our Nation. This is a very important bill. I urge the Members in this 
House to support this Defense authorization bill. It does so much to 
restore readiness, to support our men and women in uniform, and to 
protect the American people.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.