# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `2556313059aaea2f3f2ddea792b0df8b`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in reluctant support of House 
Joint Resolution 20 to fund the essential services of the Federal 
Government through September 20 of this year.

On November 7, the American people voted to fire the former 
Republican majority for gross


mismanagement of the Nation's finances and woeful neglect of the 
priorities of the American people. This imperfect legislation is 
necessary to clean up the mess the former majority left behind.

Mr. Speaker, the former Republican majority passed only 2 of the 11 
bills necessary to fund the discretionary accounts of the Federal 
Government. Failing to pass their obligatory legislation by October 1, 
2006, the former majority passed a stopgap measure to keep the 
Government functioning when they adjourned the 109th Congress. Our new 
Democratic majority was left with the unfinished business of the fiscal 
year 2007 appropriations legislation. Today marks the 123rd day since 
the start of fiscal year 2007, and the President's 2008 budget request 
is scheduled to be delivered to this Congress on Monday. Now is the 
time to finish last year's work, so we can move on to the essential 
work at hand to deliver a new direction for the American people.

Although I am disappointed that funding priorities for our districts 
were left out of this bill, it is important to note several important 
improvements this bill makes over previous year's appropriations. For 
example, H.J. Res. 20 will raise the maximum Pell grant award from 
$4,050 to $4,310, the first increase in 4 years of this critical effort 
to make college more affordable for working families. The bill 
increases special education funding under the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act, IDEA, by $200 million. This Continuing 
Resolution will increase low-income public schools' Title I funding by 
$125 million and thereby reverse the decline in Title I education 
funding. Even with these increases, Federal investment in education 
continues to lag far behind the levels needed to create a first-class 
school system for the 21st century, and I look forward to working to 
address these shortfalls in the fiscal year 2008 appropriations 
legislation.

I am concerned about the military construction projects left out of 
this legislation, and I want Congress to work on a bipartisan basis to 
address this problem in the fiscal year 2007 supplemental 
appropriations legislation. This bill includes an important increase of 
$3.6 billion for veterans health care to meet the needs of an 
additional 325,000 patients, and it increases funding for health care 
services at the Department of Defense by $1.2 billion, including 
treating soldiers wounded in action in Iraq and Afghanistan. The CR 
also increases funding for the basic allowance for military housing by 
$500 million. Finally, the bill increases funding for intelligence 
analysts at the FBI that are critical to protect the American people 
from the terrorist threat as well as increasing funding for COPS local 
law enforcement.

Mr. Speaker, as a new member of the House Budget Committee, I have 
learned over the past several weeks that the budget mess created by the 
former majority is far worse than the American people know. It will 
take a lot of hard work to restore order to our Nation's books. H.J. 
Res. 20 is the first necessary if unpleasant step in that vital effort. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this legislation.