# None
## `2558636d5ff93117083af19af183a277`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I think it is important for us to 
look at the following line. This bill puts also enforcement behind what 
is already out there. There is no policy risk here in this bill. We 
know that the Iraq Study Group says that we should have timelines. That 
is in this bill.

We know that the military, as it relates to readiness, and we know 
that there are four basic components to readiness, you have, for 
instance, we have 100 Striker brigades that are in our military right 
now. We know in every Striker vehicle you have to have a commander, a 
gunner and a driver. We need to make sure that we have all three of 
those components before we send a Striker force into Iraq or 
Afghanistan. That is in this bill, and that is what the military calls 
for.

I think it is important to also outline that there is not a National 
Guard unit that is right now in our National Guard force that is combat 
ready. Right now, I say that with great confidence. We don't have that 
right now. I am on the Armed Services Committee because I know this 
stuff. I mean, I know this stuff because we talk about it.

We talk about the fact that we are not ready to do the things that we 
need


to do as it relates to equipment maintenance. In many parts of the 
theater we don't have what we need to keep heavy vehicles moving. We 
look at the reason why we don't have up-armored vehicles, in some 
instance, going out on patrol. If you ask some here in Washington DC, 
that is every time, but not all the time.

In Baghdad, this is very, very important, the training and making 
sure that everyone is trained and have what they need to have to carry 
out the task within a brigade is very, very important.

In this supplemental we are meeting the needs of the Army as it 
relates to what they need. I think it's 36,000 troops, additional 
troops. They need an Army, and we are also increasing the Marines by 
three brigades, if Members want to vote against this piece of 
legislation.

I think it's also good to outline in 2001, we were at 80 percent of 
readiness. When we say ''readiness,'' everyone was trained and 
equipment was in place to be able to deal with it. We haven't been down 
at the numbers or the level we are now as it relates to readiness or a 
lack thereof since the end of the Vietnam War.

In this day and time when we have Iran and we have Syria and we have 
North Korea and we have other countries of interest to the United 
States as it relates to a threat, now more than ever we need to make 
sure that we are there not only for the troops but also for the 
American people.

I think it is also important to shed light on the fact that there are 
several other great things that are in this bill, $2.6 billion to deal 
with Homeland Security issues that were not dealt with, Hurricane 
Katrina relief, $2.9 billion, also as it relates to urgent State 
children's health care and insurance needs at $750 million, urgent 
needs for pandemic flu preparedness at $1 billion.

As we start to look at and uncover in these hearings, as some talk 
about, that are a waste of time, we start looking at the gaps of the 
lack of oversight and a lack of execution on behalf of programs and 
initiatives that will make our troops' lives better, those that are 
enlisted, those that are Reservists, to be able to secure our troops 
that are in theater at this time, many of whom are in the areas of 
great danger and constant fire, and also looking at the needs of the 
country, of the everyday American people.

Now, it is interesting because the minority side, the Republicans 
over there, when we start looking at some of them, when we start 
looking at some of these votes that have taken place, many of the 
Members of the leadership, if not all, have voted against commonsense 
legislation that we passed on a bipartisan basis.

I mean, we had a number of Republicans voting for bills that were 
brought up by this Democratic Congress. You look at implementing the 
9/11 Commission recommendations, we had 299 votes, Democrats voted in 
the affirmative, we had 299 overall votes, 86 of those individuals were 
Republicans. Minimum wage, to be able to raise minimum wage, 315 with 
82 Republicans joining us.

Also, you have funding enhancement for stem cell research, 253, and a 
majority of Members voted for that bill. Thirty-seven Republicans 
joined us making prescription drugs affordable for seniors. H.R. 4, 
255, it passed with 24 Republicans joining us. Cutting the student loan 
interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356, with 124 Republicans joining us.

Again, creating long-term energy initiatives, H.R. 6 passed, 264, 
with 36 Republicans joining us.

Now, I can tell you tomorrow or Thursday, there will be a number of 
individuals thinking about how they are going to vote. But I can tell 
you this, there are several things that we can say about this emergency 
supplemental that is really, really good for the country, and there are 
also eight or nine points that I can point out that are leadership 
calls. You have to be a leader to take a position on anything, and I 
think we have some Members on the minority side that don't want to take 
a position.

Let me go back to David Broder's article that he wrote, and the 
Members can get it at miamiherald.com; it was March 18. It should still 
be on, you can get it for free on the World Wide Web: ''Congress won't 
sign any more blank checks,'' but it goes on down to paragraph 6 and 
talks about the fact that for 6 years the Bush administration and the 
aids that they are talking about earlier in the bill would have free 
rein on carrying out whatever political policy or assignment they 
wished, and also the President. Let's just say hypothetically, that the 
President wanted this done.

A Congress, under a firm Republican control, was solemn when it came 
down to oversight of the executive branch. No Republican committee 
chairman wanted to turn rocks over as it relates to the Republican 
administration.

I think it's important that we have the kind of forward lean that we 
have now, because that is what the American people have called for. 
They asked for accountability. They asked for oversight. They asked for 
Members of Congress to come here and be Members of Congress, not just 
say Mr. Murphy is my friend, and we all get along and I see him in the 
hall, he wears nice ties, what have you, is a member of Financial 
Services and also Government Oversight.

They didn't send us here to have great relationships and to slap each 
other in the back. They sent us here to provide the kind of leadership 
that they deserve. The bottom line is, when that bill and this 
emergency supplemental bill comes up, war supplemental comes up on the 
floor, we will have to take a position. We have to answer for the fact 
that we have put benchmarks in this bill saying that the Iraqi 
Government, their feet have to be held to the fire, because, guess 
what, back in my district there are mayors and there are county 
commissioners and there are city commissioners and there are school 
board commissioners and there are constituents of mine that want health 
care, and their feet are being held to the fire. Mayors have to fill 
out more paperwork. I guarantee you the mayor of Baghdad has to fill 
them out too as it relates to Federal dollars.

You talked about in the early days of voting money on the back of a 
truck and passing out cash money to pay government workers in Iraq and 
to do other things that we know very little about now. We also know 
that weapons that we bought are unaccounted for at this time.

To say that we are the so-called board of the United States of 
America, and the President is the chief CEO, the chief executive 
officer, we are not carrying out our responsibilities, making sure that 
the President does exactly what he said he would do, making sure that 
Iraqi government does what they said they would do. We need to make 
sure that our men and women don't have to speak under their breath as 
it relates to readiness, as they board a plane to go to Kuwait to then 
be shipped to Iraq, that they don't have what they need in a Striker 
brigade, that they don't have what they need as it relates to the 
training or the equipment or the down time that they deserve, not a 
rotation based on some bureaucrat in Washington DC saying, well, we 
need three more brigades in Iraq.

Oh, well, I know they have only been home for 120 days, but we need 
them there to keep up our troop level there at over 147,000. I must 
add, where other countries have announced or have withdrawn, we have 
replaced them with American troops. Yes, this is a leadership vote, 
and, yes, some of us are going to have to go to the wizard and get some 
courage and come here and vote on behalf of the supplemental.

Now, I respect folks having different opinions, but this is a far 
better supplemental bill than Members in this Congress have voted on in 
the past. We have voted on at least two of them since I have been here. 
I can remember two of them, and they did not have benchmarks. They just 
had money in the bill saying trust the President and trust the 
Department of Defense, they know what they are doing.