# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `2578935039823a71153bacc0dff4c8d1`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Today I join a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing 
the Iraq Security Agreement Act of 2008. This bill, consistent with the 
Constitution of the United States, prohibits the Bush administration 
from entering into a binding security agreement with Iraq without the 
approval of Congress. It would also prohibit the obligation of any 
funds to implement such an agreement.

I regret that I am compelled to introduce this legislation. If the 
President had embarked on these negotiations in a more responsible 
manner--by being clear about the objective, by ensuring that the 
agreements would not tie the hands of the next administration, by 
actively consulting with Congress as a partner in the process--this 
bill would be unnecessary. But the Administration has done none of 
these things, and so my colleagues and I want to ensure that Congress, 
and thus the American people, is brought into the process.

Let me take a step back and summarize how we got to this point. From 
October 2003 until the present day, the American military presence in 
Iraq has been authorized under international law through a series of UN 
Security Council Resolutions. Last November, President Bush and Prime 
Minister Maliki signed a ''Declaration of Principles,'' which set out a 
framework for our countries to negotiate, by yesterday--July 31, 2008--
agreements governing cooperation in the political, economic and 
security spheres. The Declaration indicated that the two countries 
would not seek to renew the United Nations mandate for American troops 
in Iraq past December 31, 2008. Among other things, the Declaration 
contemplates ''providing security assurances and commitments to the 
Republic of Iraq to deter foreign aggression against Iraq'' and 
supporting Iraq ''in its efforts to combat all terrorist groups,'' 
including Al-Qaeda, Saddamists, and ''all other outlaw groups 
regardless of affiliation.'' In other words, all the folks fighting in 
Iraq and killing each other.

The Declaration may result in two pacts. One would be a ''Strategic 
Framework Agreement'' that will ''set the broad parameters of the 
overall bilateral relationship in every field,'' according to the U.S. 
Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker. This might be better titled ''What 
the United States will do for Iraq,'' because it consists mostly of a 
series of promises that flow in one direction--promises by the United 
States to a sectarian government that has thus far failed to reach the 
political compromises necessary to build a stable country.

The second agreement is a ''Status of Forces Agreement'' or SOFA, 
governing the presence of U.S. forces in Iraq, including their entry 
into the country and the immunities to be granted to them under Iraqi 
law. The administration claims that this agreement is mostly 
''routine'' because we have SOFAs with over 90 countries around the 
globe. But conditions our soldiers face in Iraq are far from 
''routine,'' despite recent improvements in security. Moreover, this 
SOFA would be much broader than the typical SOFA, from what we know. It 
would provide us with access to bases from which our military would 
operate, provisions that are usually in a separate facilities or 
''basing'' agreement. This SOFA would also deal with contractor 
immunity, would permit U.S. forces to engage in combat operations in 
Iraq, and would provide authority for detaining insurgents. This is not 
a typical SOFA.

One of these agreements will reportedly contain a ''security 
arrangement''--a pledge by the United States to consult on next steps 
if Iraq is threatened. The Administration suggests that such an 
agreement is unremarkable, and that it does not bind the United States. 
But at a time when we have over 100,000 troops on the ground, an 
expansive program to train and equip Iraqi forces, and multiple U.S. 
military facilities, the pledge is, in reality, little different from a 
binding security commitment. Certainly, the government of Iraq and its 
people will perceive that we are signing up to defend Iraq against 
external threats.

Yesterday's deadline has apparently not been met. The New York Times 
reports, however, that the Bush administration and Iraqi government are 
close to an agreement. But Congress still remains largely in the dark.

We have not seen draft language. We do not definitively know which 
portions of the agreement will be binding, and which will not be. We 
are not in a position to evaluate whether the agreement will create 
obligations--either legal or political--that will constrain the next 
administration, whether Democratic or Republican. The President cannot 
make such a sweeping commitment on his own authority. Congress must 
grant approval. The legislation we introduce today requires that 
Congress be made part of the process.

I have often stated that no foreign policy can be sustained without 
the informed consent of the American people. More than 5 years ago, 
President Bush went to war in Iraq without gaining that consent--by 
overstating the intelligence and understating the difficulty, cost and 
duration of the mission.

In the final months of his term, President Bush is once again acting 
without the informed consent of the American people, putting us on a 
course to commit the Nation to a new phase of a long war in Iraq, and 
thereby bind his successors to his vision of U.S. policy in Iraq. By 
these agreements, the President will make it harder for his successor 
to change course.

Let me be clear. I support the concept of a Status of Forces 
Agreement with Iraq. But not at the cost of limiting our operational 
latitude or making security commitments--legal or political--that are 
not approved by Congress.

Administration officials have indicated that the Iraqi government is 
resisting the inclusion of key provisions that U.S. forces need in 
order to operate in Iraq. Given the difficulty of securing Iraq's 
consent to the broad authorities that the United States now has by 
virtue of the U.N. Security Council Resolutions, I believe the best 
option for the United States at this juncture is to seek an extension 
of the current United Nations Security Counsel resolution for Iraq.

 Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.