# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `257a6ab15da3de78335a3966c2cc6d98`
`Mr. REYES — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, for purposes of debate only, I yield the 
customary 30 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Hoekstra). Pending that, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of overriding the President's veto. 
This year, for the first time in 3 years, the Congress passed an 
intelligence authorization act and presented it to the President. This 
was something that had proved impossible for a Republican-controlled 
House and a Republican-controlled Senate. In recent years, while the 
bill passed the House, it never even got to conference. When I took 
over as chairman of the Intelligence Committee, I made passing an 
authorization all the way through conference a high priority. It wasn't 
easy, but I thought it was crucial that we revitalize the oversight 
process, and I committed to getting an authorization bill not only 
passed through the House but sent to the President.

The intelligence community, by its very nature, presents a very 
difficult oversight challenge for Congress. This is why the 
intelligence authorization bill is so critical. It is the culmination 
of the committee's oversight activities conducted over the previous 
year. Intelligence funding is one of the few areas where the law 
requires funds to be both appropriated and authorized. Our 
constituents, of course, are demanding that we weigh in on all the 
important intelligence-related challenges that our Nation is facing.

This legislation goes a long way towards strengthening oversight of 
the intelligence community, which the President seems to consistently 
want to fight. That's why the President vetoed it. He wants the 
authority to do whatever he wants, in secret, with no oversight or 
authorization or without any checks and balances.

Well, Mr. Speaker, I don't agree. The Constitution gives us a role in 
this process. We do have a say, in the name of the United States of 
America, in what the intelligence community does. That's why we need to 
override this veto.

This legislation enhances oversight in several ways. It requires 
quarterly reports to Congress on the nuclear weapons programs of Iran 
and North Korea. We learned a lesson from the experience in Iraq. 
Congress must be careful and must be part of the process and a consumer 
of intelligence to avoid being sold a bill of goods.

The act requires the CIA inspector general to audit covert activities 
at least once every 3 years. Covert activities are historically where 
our intelligence community runs into legal and policy trouble. An 
independent CIA audit is one way to prevent problems that have 
embarrassed our Nation and have eroded our moral authority.

The authorization act also requires detailed accounting to Congress 
on the use of intelligence contractors. The use of contractors has 
grown exponentially, and no one is asking critical management questions 
about whether this is a good use of taxpayer money.

An important substantive provision of the legislation also requires 
the CIA and the rest of the intelligence community to abide by the same 
regulations that DOD follows in the context of interrogations. If it's 
not permissible for soldiers in Iraq, where they face a life-or-death 
threat daily, it shouldn't be permissible for a CIA officer or 
contractor.

Mr. Speaker, if this veto stands, all of these important oversight 
provisions will disappear. If we believe in strong oversight, we need 
to override this veto.

In addition to addressing long ignored oversight issues, the 
legislation is fundamentally the mechanism for authorizing funds for 
the intelligence community. This legislation authorizes funds for the 
full range of critical intelligence activities. It authorizes funds to 
support counterterrorism operations to keep Americans safe today, and 
it authorizes funds for the strategic intelligence investments to keep 
Americans safe in the future.

Mr. Speaker, if we fail to override this veto, the Intelligence 
Committee will be silent on these important authorization issues. Once 
more, we'll have no authorization bill.

The bill also addresses some persistent management problems in the 
intelligence community. It requires steps towards a multi-level 
security clearance system to recruit more native speakers of critical 
languages into our intelligence community. It takes important steps 
towards creating a more diverse workforce to strengthen our ability to 
collect intelligence all over the world.

Mr. Speaker, if we fail to override this veto, it's business as 
usual. No new solutions, just the same old intelligence problems.

I have visited the patriotic men and women of the intelligence 
community in the far corners and in the far reaches all over the globe. 
They deserve our support. They are brave, they are competent, and, in 
most cases, they are humbled to be doing the job to keep us safe. Many 
serve our Nation behind the scenes and at great risk, without any 
expectation of recognition or congratulations. For them, and for all 
Americans, this is important legislation.

The intelligence community came to us for money, they came to us for 
tools, and they came to us for new authorities. We gave them what they 
asked for. The President, with his veto, is denying them those very 
things simply because he wants no limits on his Presidential power.

So today, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote to override the 
President's veto.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.