# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `258a76818195cb7576afdd473799b70a`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise to offer this very 
simple and straightforward motion to recommit.

Included within Mr. Obey's emergency supplemental proposal is 
legislative language that requires the President to report by July 13 
on the specific progress the Iraqi Government has made in meeting 16 
specific goals. Once this report is received, only the chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee can introduce a joint resolution of approval 
to release any additional funds to our troops in Iraq.

The chairman of the House Appropriations Committee is not required to 
introduce the joint resolution of approval, and no other Member can do 
it. The authority that this gives the chairman of the committee to 
introduce or not introduce legislation is unprecedented.

Further, in an almost unprecedented move, this supplemental includes 
the rule under which the joint resolution will be brought to the floor. 
And under this rule, the only amendment made in order is one that 
mandates the withdrawal of troops from Iraq within 6 months.

Mr. Speaker, this legislative language sets dangerous precedents that 
should be of great concern to Members on both sides of the aisle.

My motion to recommit strikes this legislative language in section 
1331, the so-called fence language, limiting the availability of funds 
for our troops. This ill-conceived language not only grants the 
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee extraordinary authority, 
but also preordains the rule by which the joint resolution will be 
brought to the floor.

I strongly urge a ''yes'' vote on this motion to recommit.