---
---

# CALLING FOR A TIMETABLE TO REDEPLOY FROM IRAQ
## `258b59b5934892fd97a1b86d433a865d`
`Mr. SESTAK — 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, a little over 5 years ago I was on the 
ground in Afghanistan and then returned with an Aircraft Carrier Battle 
Group. I then took that Aircraft Carrier Battle Group into the Persian 
Gulf for the precursor operations just before we began that war.

After that war had commenced, I returned to the ground in Afghanistan 
18 months later for a short period of time and saw what had not been 
done. We had accomplished so little compared to what might have been 
because we diverted our attention and our resources from our Civil 
Affairs Forces to our Special Operations Forces to the tragic 
misadventure in Iraq.

I speak of Afghanistan because as it becomes prey to terrorists and 
as the Taliban has moved back into the southern provinces, it is a 
poster child for why I believe we must bring about a timetable for the 
end of the war in Iraq.

That war has hurt U.S. security throughout this globe as well as here 
at home, yet not one Army unit, Active, Reserve or Guard is in a state 
of readiness that it could deploy anywhere in the world if another 
contingency were to occur. Never mind that we are failing to engage 
properly from the Western Pacific to Southeast Asia to the Middle East.

There is a change in our strategy that can bring about an end to this 
tragedy without a failed state in Iraq. That is to set a date that is 
certain by which we would redeploy out of Iraq, because a date certain 
changes the structure of incentives within that region to change the 
behavior of other


nations, in particular, Iran and Syria, that are involved destructively 
in this conflict because we are, to their delight, bleeding, bleeding 
profusely.

I asked when I was there with Senator Hagel, our highest political 
officer there, does Iran want a failed state if we are to redeploy? His 
response was no. Therefore, we must have the confidence to set a date 
that is certain to redeploy out of Iraq, put our troops in Afghanistan, 
remain in the region on our bases in Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, or Aircraft 
Carrier Battle Group or Amphibious Ready Group, and bring others home, 
so we don't degrade the readiness of our forces, but have the 
competence to deal with Iran and Syria, bring them together with the 
Iraqis as they deal with the extreme elements and we deal with the 
middle.

There is a saying in the Middle East, ''Insha'Allah,'' basically, 
''God willing tomorrow.'' Tomorrow for U.S. security has been enough. A 
date certain, approximately a year, 9 months, to give those countries 
time to work with us to bring about the political decisions that must 
cease the civil war, to have the Iraqis step to the plate and assume 
responsibility in the 32 ministries that thus far have been personal 
fiefdoms for personal ambitions as we provide the political and 
military cover for them to go about their personal pursuits. This is a 
change that can only about be brought about not by doubling down on a 
bad military bet by more troops, but by enforcing a date certain within 
a timetable. And lastly, we should do so on an authorization bill.

We should never again put our troops between us and the President. 
Being in the military is a dangerous business, but it doesn't have to 
be unsafe. Our business in the military has the dignity of danger, but 
you must provide them the bullets and the equipment they need to 
protect themselves, while having an authorization bill provide the date 
certain by which no forces in Iraq would remain, or funding for them to 
remain would not be there.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the remainder of my time with the 
understanding that there is a strategic approach to end this conflict 
without a failed state in order to enhance U.S. security.
