---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `259830e889fab2130ecac4a31b41acf1`
`Mr. DENT — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Mr. Speaker, this has been a long debate. But two points 
must be absolutely clear at the outset. First, it is imperative that we 
continue to support our troops on the ground. Our servicemembers 
deployed to Iraq have done a magnificent job. They have performed their 
missions admirably, effectively, and with valor. They have done 
everything we have asked them to do. They have made sacrifices as have 
their families. They deserve our unqualified support. And as a Member 
of Congress, I strongly disagree with some of my colleagues who have 
suggested cutting off funds for our troops serving in Iraq.

A second point to be made here is that immediate withdrawal from 
Iraq, which has likewise been advocated by some members on the other 
side of the aisle, is also a bad idea. The Iraq Study Group has said 
that ''it would be wrong for the United States to abandon the country 
through a precipitate withdrawal of troops and support.'' The National 
Intelligence Estimate of January 2007 says that ''if Coalition forces 
were withdrawn rapidly during the term of this estimate, we judge that 
this almost certainly would lead to a significant increase in the scale 
and scope of sectarian conflict in Iraq.''

Religious conflict aside, there is another reason for avoiding 
immediate withdrawal, and that is simply that al Qaeda and its 
affiliated groups still operate in Iraq. Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin 
Laden's chief deputy, considers their efforts in Iraq to be ''crucial'' 
towards furthering al Qaeda objectives in the region. Thus, these 
groups are aggressively pursuing terrorism within the borders of that 
country, commiting acts of violence against Shias, Kurds and anyone 
else who dares to disagree with them.

By instigating this mayhem and bloodshed in Iraq, al Qaeda hopes to 
realize its supreme goal, to destabilize the government, assume control 
over the country and its oil wealth and eventually install a Taliban-
style government in Baghdad. This is not good for the United States. It 
is not good for Iraq. And it is not good for the region. That is why I 
oppose immediate withdrawal.

That being said, and understanding the need for Congress to debate 
the issue of the war, I am disappointed in the way this debate has 
taken shape. The majority has given much time for us to express our 
views, but it has limited the options that might be employed to make 
this legislation more effective. They allowed no amendments either from 
Republicans or from their own Democratic colleagues. They refused to 
permit any substitutes. They even denied us a motion to recommit.

By putting before us this highly restrictive rule, the other side has 
effectively foreclosed dialogue on other measures that might have added 
substance to the debate. While both Democrats and Republicans utilize 
the Iraq Study Group findings to justify their positions, the majority 
leadership has refused to consider my colleague from Virginia's 
legislation, Mr. Frank Wolf, his legislation, H. Con. Res. 45, which 
would implement some of the most significant recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group's report. This legislation would emphasize the need 
for U.S. forces to accelerate the training of their Iraqi counterparts, 
would establish milestones for success in Iraq, and would promote 
diplomatic initiatives in order to advance stability in the country and 
in the region.



Yet no debate on such a bill and no opportunity to offer an amendment 
consistent with those objectives was tolerated by the majority. What 
does this say about their commitment to fulfilling the objectives 
recommended by the Iraq Study Group's report? You know, we are all 
speaking about this report, but we are simply not voting on it. That is 
wrong.

I stand before you today in my second term in Congress as someone who 
has tried to understand the Iraq war from many different viewpoints. I 
have talked with my constituents both pro and con about the war. I have 
listened to military and intelligence briefings. I have visited Iraq. I 
have studied the Iraq Study Group report. I have read journal articles, 
academic studies and news clips on the subject, all to increase my 
professional awareness of what is going on over there.

But I do not just see this from a professional perspective. The Iraq 
war has had personal consequences for me as well. One of my staffers, 
Jason Lane, is a Reservist who has been called to active duty and is 
deployed there right now.

I have talked with the troops who have served there. I have visited 
the wounded in hospitals and most painfully attended the funerals of 
those who gave to this country what Abraham Lincoln called the last 
full measure of devotion. I attended one of those funerals just last 
Friday.

From all of this, I must admit, I have my concerns about the efficacy 
of the President's troop surge. I believe that it is far more important 
that the Iraqis


show the political will to achieve reconciliation and end the sectarian 
violence that is slowly but surely strangling their capital and their 
country.

As their Prime Minister, Maliki said on November 27, 2006, ''The 
crisis is political, and ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation and 
the bloodletting of innocents are the politicians.''

Success in Iraq is essential to achieving America's foreign policy 
objectives, and it is in America's best interest to ensure that Iraq 
can sustain, govern and defend itself. But I believe in holding Prime 
Minister Maliki to his word. We cannot and will not abandon our troops 
who are currently on the ground in Iraq.

We must make sure that our forces effectively engage al Qaeda, as 
opposed to mediating a Sunni-Shia conflict that is the responsibility 
of the Iraqi government to resolve. We all know these are the 
challenges facing this Congress, and these are challenges that must be 
met in a bipartisan manner.