# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `25a3aa31e786fb3c6e3c60d77508d7e4`
`Mr. SCHUMER â€” 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I have two topics to address, the first 
on the bill that Senator Grassley and I have on HGH, to keep it out of 
the hands of people who don't need it, but I will wait a few minutes on 
that. We are hoping that maybe we can get clearance on the other side 
of the aisle. I have talked to both of these Senators who have 
objections, but I will talk about housing first.

We are now on our housing stimulus bill. It is called the Foreclosure 
Prevention Act of 2008. It was offered by Senator Reid, but Senator 
Reid had consulted, of course, with all of the relevant committee 
chairmen--Senator Dodd, chairman of the Banking Committee; I am 
chairman of the Subcommittee on Housing of the Banking Committee; 
Senator Baucus on the Finance Committee; Senator Leahy on the Judiciary 
Committee--and this is a carefully thought-out, modest, balanced 
package that aims at the bull's eye of our economic crisis, which is 
housing.

Make no mistake about it, unless we address the housing crisis, we 
are not going to be able to clear up this economy. In fact, 
unfortunately, the inverse is true. If we don't address the housing 
crisis, the likelihood of this economy plummeting into a rather deep 
recession is large. So there is an urgency to addressing this housing 
crisis.

The voluntary measures President Bush has supported, that Secretary 
Paulson--a man I have great respect for--has tried to put together, 
have not worked. That is a general and broad consensus, that it has not 
worked at all. The need to do something is greater than ever. Over 2 
million people are likely to have their homes foreclosed upon in the 
next few years. That, of course, damages them greatly, but it also 
damages the financial institutions that hold the mortgages, estimated 
at each foreclosure to cost the mortgagor, or mortgagee, the financial 
institution, over $60,000.

It hurts the people who live around them. Because what has been shown 
is that if there is a foreclosure within one-tenth mile of your home, 
your housing value goes down about .8 percent. And it hurts the overall 
economy,


because when people are not in their homes, or even people who are in 
their homes and who have fully paid their mortgage but they find their 
housing values declining, they spend less. The housing crisis is 
directly related to the fact that this Christmas season was the lowest 
spending Christmas season in about 7 years.

Then we have another problem also emanating from the housing crisis, 
and that is the credit crunch. We have a severe credit crunch occurring 
in our country today. All kinds of financial instruments are not being 
bought and sold. They do not have a market and there is a freeze. 
People are afraid to move. As a result of this credit crunch, our 
markets are frozen.

The Port Authority of New York, one of the most stable institutions 
in this country--it owns the airports, it owns a lot of the bridges--
gets a steady, regular stream of income. No one believes it is ever not 
going to pay its bonds. Yet it had to pay 20 percent on temporary bonds 
because the markets are so frozen.

I heard from my roommate in that little house we live in, George 
Miller of California, that the East Bay has a similar authority, and 
the East Bay of San Francisco had to pay about 17 or 18 percent. So 
this is a nationwide problem.

We have problems with student loans now. I read in today's paper that 
the Pennsylvania Student Loan Authority is no longer lending. So this 
is spreading way beyond housing, and it relates to a fear that we have 
not evaluated credit properly.

We have to do something about it. The package that has been put 
together and offered by the Democratic majority has five pieces--five 
easy pieces--that should be acceptable to everybody.

It includes two kinds of tax changes: raising the cap on mortgage 
revenue bonds, so that States can issue more of these bonds and help 
homeowners get refinanced; and it also includes what is called the loss 
carryforward, so home builders and others in the housing area, who are 
not able to actually go forward because they have losses, carry forward 
those losses and build homes again.

It also contains another $200 million for mortgage counselors. This 
is a provision I originated with Senator Casey and Senator Brown, 
because we need someone on the ground to help those about to go in 
foreclosure to avoid it, particularly those who have the financial 
means to do it. Over 60 percent of the people who will potentially be 
foreclosed upon have that ability. We did allocate $180 million in the 
omnibus bill, with Senator Murray's leadership. We went to her, and she 
was great, and put it right in. But of that 180, 130 has already been 
spent. It shows you the great need. We always predicted 180 wouldn't be 
enough. This is another modest amount--200.

The fourth provision is money for CDBG, Community Development Block 
Grants, to go to the cities so they can buy foreclosed homes, they can 
buy vacant lots, and prevent the whole neighborhood from going down the 
drain because of the foreclosure crisis.

And, finally, the bankruptcy provision which my friend and colleague 
Senator Durbin has authored, which I support, would say that 
homeowners, when they go into bankruptcy, can use their primary 
residence as part of the workout, which now, for some arcane reason, 
they are not allowed to do.

These are five modest provisions that can do a lot. But, 
unfortunately, there are some on the other side, including the White 
House, who are sticking to the status quo. They say, don't do anything. 
The Government should not be involved. They have ideological handcuffs 
on. The Government not being involved? That is reminiscent of the 1920s 
or the 1890s. It sounds like William McKinley or Herbert Hoover. That 
is no longer the economics the vast majority of Americans live by 
today. No Government involvement when someone's house is about to be 
foreclosed upon?

Earlier this week we saw status quo on the war in Iraq. Now we are 
beginning to see status quo on the mortgage crisis. The American people 
are crying out for change on the war in Iraq and on housing. And it is 
so regrettable that so many of my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, and it is so regrettable that the President, ensconced in the 
White House, is talking status quo when 75 percent of the people in 
America want a change in the direction in this country.

We can certainly debate that change. There are different 
prescriptions for it. But almost no one says status quo except, it 
seems, the minority in this body, the minority in the other body, and 
the President: The status quo, do not have the Government be involved, 
have these voluntary programs which do virtually nothing.

It is not going to work. So I would urge my colleagues to support us 
in this housing program. Senator Reid has said he will allow amendments 
if we have changes in the housing program. I am not talking about 
whether we should debate the estate tax or debate Bush's tax cuts but 
real changes in these programs, modifications or additions. I heard my 
colleague from Georgia, Senator Isakson, who has a proposal for a 
$5,000 credit for new home buyers. That is something that I would look 
at seriously. We can come together and have what unfortunately now has 
become a good, old-fashioned debate on this issue that affects us and 
come up with a consensus piece of legislation.

So, please, do not block the bill. Do not stand there with your arms 
crossed and say: Do nothing. There are 2 million homeowners about to go 
into foreclosure. There are 50 million homeowners whose home values are 
declining. There are 300 million Americans who see the economy hurdling 
south, all of them crying out for us to do something.

The one thing on which there is a consensus, and there may be a broad 
consensus on what to do, that although I think there may be in our 
bill, but the one thing everyone agrees on is do not just stand there 
and do nothing. Yet my colleagues across the aisle, when we vote on 
this housing measure, who will try to block it with another filibuster, 
they are saying: Do nothing.

I don't think that is wise policy. Frankly, I don't think that is 
wise politics. I am sort of surprised because when we offered the 
package, we did it in the best of faith. And Senator Reid has offered 
to allow amendments that are germane amendments to be debated to show 
that we do not want to say our way or the highway, but we did want to 
move forward on housing.

To repeat, the need to do something is real. Housing is the bull's 
eye of our economic problems. We can do things that almost everyone 
agrees will do some good. To my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, please, please, please, join us. We want to work with you and 
come up with a package that will turn our economy around, and the 
housing market and the other markets as well.

I am going to briefly ask to put us into a quorum call so I can 
discuss with some of the folks on the other side of the aisle whether 
we can move forward on the HGH bill.