# None
## `25b10e8bdc7977e8383d61e3440aba34`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. I thank the gentleman from Louisiana, my friend, my 
classmate of the Class of 2005. I am glad to be with you tonight. I did 
sit today through General Petraeus' testimony, as well as Ambassador 
Crocker's testimony, and then later in the afternoon, we heard from 
both General Richard Cody, as well as General Robert Magnus, Army Vice 
Chief, and the Marine Corps Vice Chief respectively, on the status of 
our current forces. And I would like to talk about kind of a 
combination of those conversations that we heard today.

Ambassador Crocker was asked, what does success look like in Iraq? We 
ought to know both sides of the equation, both sides of the coin of 
success and failure. He described ''success'' in Iraq as an Iraq that 
is developed into a


united, stable country with a democratically elected government that 
operates under the rule of law. And that is a path that they are on to.

Ambassador Crocker also said today that just because something is 
hard, as this mission is, does not make it impossible, does not mean it 
is hopeless simply because it is hard. We have seen some progress on 
the government side, the national government as well as the provincial 
government side, in making progress. This surge, as it has been 
described, was intended to reduce violence as your chart shows. It was 
intended to allow the government to begin to function in an atmosphere 
where daily death was not an issue, but they could have the 
conversations and the sharp disagreements from a debate standpoint on 
how to run that country. And they have made some progress, not nearly 
as much we would like, but Ambassador Crocker pointed out today that 
something as simple as an Iraqi flag, the Council of Representatives 
and the leadership have adopted a national flag that now flies 
throughout the country. The Kurds would not fly the flag that had flown 
previous to that because it had such a connection to Saddam Hussein. 
And so something just as simple as rallying around a single flag, and 
we all know how important our flag is to us in its representation to 
our country, they have been able to do that, and now a common Iraqi 
flag flies over that country.

They have executed a 2008 budget recently in September which provides 
for record amounts of infrastructure spending, oil revenues that they 
are getting from these record high oil prices that they are now plowing 
back into the infrastructure that every government would have to do 
that is in that circumstance. They have passed a pension law that 
addresses some of the pension issues related to people that were there. 
They have passed an accountability and justice law after vigorous 
debate on both sides because this deals with de-Baathification, in 
other words, that process of bringing those Iraqi citizens who had 
previously been Baath party members under Saddam Hussein, ferreting out 
those who had sold out to Saddam's thuggery and really just have to be 
retired, and those who simply were members of the Baath party in order 
to have a job, in order to be a schoolteacher, in order to be a local 
administrator. They passed a Provincial Powers Act which deals with the 
elections that are coming up in October, elections which now all major 
parties have endorsed and they are going to support and will come to 
the table including the Sunnis.

And these are not earth shattering. They are not all that they need 
to do. But this is a clear line of march down a path that this surge, 
with its sacrifices that had been made, has provided a space to get 
that done, and they are making progress. We all want them to make much 
more progress than they have made. We want them to be quicker than they 
have currently been.

Today, General Petraeus told us that his team on the ground seized 
the successes that they have had and take great comfort in that. They 
take great pride in what they are doing. One of the issues that comes 
up is continuing to replace the number of folks in our Army that we 
need, I'm speaking specifically of the Army. Third, he told us today 
the third I.D. has met its April goal for total re-enlistments already 
just from people serving in Iraq. General Cody participated in a re-
enlistment service earlier this month in Iraq. Men who were defending 
their country today signed up for additional tours and additional 
extensions on their service to this country, which is an incredibly 
heartening issue.

As I said, ''hard'' does not mean hopeless. But imagine how much 
easier this fight would be if every American recognized enemy 
propaganda for what that really is and could parse that out of what we 
try to think about. Imagine if every American would not tolerate 
inaccurate reporting and biased reporting out of our media, how much 
easier our tasks might be. Imagine if all those Americans who oppose 
this war, and have every right to, would refrain from using rhetoric 
that is cast just to discourage our fighters, just to cause our 
veterans to question their service to our country.

And the easy one is imagine how much easier this fight would have 
been had Congress provided the funding on a timely basis through the 
supplemental process that we have been doing it on. We have a large 
supplemental that is hung up. It was requested last summer, and this 
Congress has sat on its fist, leaning back on its thumb for 7 months 
now, waiting for who knows what. I think it is waiting until next week 
rolls around, quite frankly.