# RECOGNIZING THE UNITED STATES-POLAND PARLIAMENTARY YOUTH EXCHANGE  PROGRAM
## `25b2299e5bf772b938d2bb33a845f8dc`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 377, the 
United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program Act of 2007. 
I was a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 1636, the House companion to S. 377, 
and was the lead original co-sponsor of the bill in the 109th Congress. 
This legislation will establish a new program to help American students 
learn about the Polish parliament, help Polish students learn about the 
U.S. Congress, and help both of these countries better understand one 
of their closest allies.

Since the establishment of the Polish Republic in 1919, the United 
States has been in diplomatic relations with Poland. Our friend has 
cooperated closely with us on issues such as nuclear proliferation, 
human rights, and democratization. It is important that the youth of 
our nations ensure that both social and diplomatic ties between our two 
great nations remain a top priority.

The purpose of the youth exchange program is to demonstrate to the 
youth of the United States and Poland the benefits of friendly 
cooperation between the United States and Poland based on common 
political and cultural values.

On behalf of the more than 110,000 residents of Illinois' Fifth 
Congressional District of Polish descent, I want to extend our 
gratitude. Poland has long been a strong ally of the United States, and 
has assisted in global efforts to combat terrorism. Our friends have 
also provided troops and resources for Operation Iraqi Freedom. This is 
a country that is committed to the democratic ideals of liberty and 
human rights.

Madam Speaker, I am proud that we are considering this legislation 
today, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting a strong 
symbol of our friendship with Poland.
