# IRAQ
## `25b9112496ffed0b17085d2d9e47746d`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, the American people have demanded a 
new direction in Iraq, and the momentum building toward that change is 
strong. It is not difficult to understand why. More than 3,600 brave 
American troops have lost their lives. Tens of thousands have returned 
home gravely injured--gravely injured. The war now costs Americans $10 
billion every month in Iraq, with total spending now exceeding that of 
the Vietnam war. It has ruined our international standing.

Despite all this, little has changed on the ground. Violence has 
worsened. Sectarian fighting goes on virtually unabated, with deadly 
attacks taking a severe and relentless toll. While courageous Americans 
die, Iraqi politicians argue and stall.

Leaving U.S. troops caught in the morass of Iraq has not made that 
country more secure and, more important, it does not make our country 
more secure. To stay President Bush's course will continue to cost our 
men and women in uniform their lives and their physical and mental 
health. It will continue to drain our national Treasury and further 
erode what little good will remains for America around the world. It 
will leave our military with overstrained troops, overstressed 
families, and equipment and resources in disrepair. We are breaking our 
military in Iraq.

It is time for a change. The American people know this. Democrats 
and, to their credit, many Republicans in this Congress know this. 
Anyone who is listening or looking with clear eyes knows this. Yet 
after years of misjudgments, years of misleading slogans, years of 
misplaced priorities, and years of failure, this President still 
refuses to do what he must do: Change course in Iraq and bring our 
courageous American troops home.

Just the other day, the President reasserted his intention to stay 
the course, to continue this war indefinitely, an open-ended 
commitment, a blank check, with no prospects for redeployment or a new 
direction. Again, President Bush has failed to listen to the millions 
of Americans who have called on him and who have called on us to bring 
the war to an end. Enough is enough. It is time for a change.

Mr. President, a Member of this body recently said this about our 
Nation's course in Iraq:




 In my judgment, the costs and risks of continuing down the 


 current path outweigh the potential benefits that might be 


 achieved. Persisting indefinitely with the surge strategy 


 will delay policy adjustments that have a better chance of 


 protecting our vital interests over the long-term.


I happen to agree with those words spoken by the very distinguished 
Senator, Richard Lugar of Indiana, but what I like the most about them 
is the voice of reason and thoughtfulness they impart to this debate. 
There has been too little of that to date. The questions we face over 
this war in Iraq are serious questions, and they demand seriousness and 
reason from those who would grapple with them. Senator Lugar's 
statement reflects that thoughtfulness, reflects that reason, in the 
midst of a debate which has all too often been characterized by a lack 
of those characteristics.

Look at this administration, which too often communicates not with 
reason but with slogans and sound bites: ''Stay the course.'' ''Global 
war on terror.'' ''Cut and run.'' ''Precipitous withdrawal.'' People 
watching this continuing debate, mark when you hear the phrase 
''precipitous withdrawal.'' You are hearing the end of reason, and 
sloganeering. This is no service to the people of our country, not when 
serious and difficult problems must be solved. Just look where this 
slogan leadership has gotten us so far. It is a dishonor roll of 
failure: weapons of mass destruction, nonexistent; occupation planning, 
incompetence; reconstruction efforts, failed; the strain on our troops 
and their families, disabling; the treatment of our wounded troops, 
disgraceful; expenditures, massive; fraud, run rampant; the confidence 
of the American people, forfeited after cascades of false optimism and 
phony good news.

It is time, as Senator Lugar's words exemplify, to pursue 
intelligent, thoughtful, and realistic decisions about our course in 
Iraq, decisions that will protect our national interest. It is time to 
put the slogans away and thoughtfully extricate ourselves from a 
disastrous mess.

I hope we can take these steps forward in the Senate together. I am 
encouraged that several Republican friends have stated clearly that 
they cannot support the President's failed course in Iraq and are 
seeking real change.

As I have said many times in this Chamber, our strategy to effect 
change in Iraq requires the rapid and responsible redeployment of our 
troops. As I told the President directly when I met with him several 
months ago, I see the prospect of U.S. redeployment as the most 
powerful force at our disposal in this conflict now. That prospect of 
redeployment of American troops will eliminate the insurgents' argument 
that America is an occupying army, taking away from them a powerful 
recruiting tool for militant extremists. It will spur Iraq's political 
leaders to step forward, to quit slow-walking us through their own 
civil war and take responsibility for the security and governance of 
their own country. It will confront neighboring nations with a real 
impetus to assume more positive roles in assuring the region's 
stability. It will help restore the faith of the world in the 
leadership, the integrity, the good judgment, and the good will of our 
great country.

The President's surge plan is not the new direction Americans are 
calling for. It is a tactic--a tactic that can only be effective as 
part of a larger coherent strategy. And strategy, in turn, largely 
depends on whether the overarching dynamic works in America's favor. In 
this regard, America is presently on the worst possible footing.

A redeployment of our troops creates the potential to change this 
overarching dynamic for the better, freeing us to focus on more 
effective strategies to counter al-Qaida and to stabilize the region. 
Iraqi leaders will have to reach compromises with each other because 
their vision for their country's future will no longer be drawn with a 
major U.S. military presence in it. In the time it will take to bring 
our massive deployment of troops home, we can send a clear signal to 
Iraqi leaders and to Iraq's neighbors that America is standing down and 
it is time for them to stand up. We can help them do that.

This is a critical step, and thoughtful, reasoned, political, and 
diplomatic leadership will be essential to take advantage of the new 
dynamic a redeployment offers. I will confess that I am deeply troubled 
that this administration may not have the credibility it needs to 
accomplish this difficult task, even if it were of a mind to try.

This Congress can help set favorable conditions for executive action. 
We cannot legislate diligence, we cannot legislate thoughtfulness, we 
cannot legislate competence, and it is not clear that this 
administration is viewed as capable of those qualities any longer. It 
may take new faces and new voices to represent our country credibly in 
this process. Fortunately, there are many talented and accomplished 
people in this country whose perspectives and experience can help build 
America's credibility and prestige around the world. It will be a 
significant diplomatic challenge, but it presents a significant--
perhaps historic--diplomatic opportunity.

That executive responsibility--the need to put ourselves in that 
diplomatic arena--does not relieve us in the Senate of our duty to 
continue to press forcefully on behalf of the millions of Americans who 
demanded a change in Iraq, to apply reason, thought, and our best care 
and judgment to a problem that has not yielded to sloganeering. We will 
keep the pressure on this President and his administration, whose 
inability to admit failure is leading our precious Nation deeper and 
deeper into disaster in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.