---
---

# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `25c8edecf366134049e31c4d196813c8`
`Mr. ELLISON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Well, Mr. Speaker, I'm always happy to join my 
colleagues, the difference-makers, who heard the call of the American 
people and came to Congress to really make the case for a safer 
America, a stronger America; an America that is not mired down in the 
quagmire which is Iraq; an America that says, look, we are ready to 
defend American interest around the world, but that does not include 
being mired down in a war we never should have been in in the first 
place.

I'm proud to have voted for this safe redeployment act today, but I 
just want to point out something that's so very important; and that is, 
that while dollars and cents clearly are important in this debate, no 
one can calculate the loss of a loved one. Since this surge began, 600 
families have received the most devastating news that any family can 
ever receive, 600 spouses, 600 sets of parents, 600 sets of children, 
600 communities lost a loved one because of this surge that was wrong-
headed from the very beginning.

We can't calculate the costs of this war in dollars really. It must 
be calculated in terms of the lives of our fellow Americans that have 
gone forward in this horrible conflict. We have to calculate this war 
in terms of the injuries and the casualties that have been faced, in 
terms of the young people who have lost limbs, who have lost their 
strong sense of mental health, their ability to discern reality, their 
ability to have a calm frame of mind because, for so many of these 
young people, the helicopter sounds don't stop even after they come 
home. For so many young people, the explosions, a car backing up, any 
sort of sound sends them back to that war zone they used to be in. And 
it's a horrible tragedy, it's a human tragedy, and no amount of 
calculation of dollars and cents will ever truly capture what we have 
lost as a Nation.

So, Mr. Speaker, as we stand here, the difference-makers, today we 
want to state to the American people that we are here to keep the faith 
with the American people. We will never forget all of our fellow 
Americans, our brothers and sisters who have gone forward in this 
conflict, who have lost lives, who have lost limbs, who have lost their 
health and their families, who have received an injury that is so 
impossible to ever heal from. But we know the resilience and the 
strength of the American people, and we know that they expect us to put 
their best interests first forward always, and that means a safe, 
responsible redeployment out of this conflict.

So, Mr. Speaker, just as I say that the losses in this war cannot 
simply be calculated in dollars and cents but in terms of real human 
lives, it is also true that they be calculated in dollars and cents as 
well.

And before I yield back, Mr. Speaker, I just want to point out this 
very important graph that I have right to my right, and this shows very 
clearly the costs of this war. It wasn't the $8 billion that we thought 
it was.

Now, we know it's 10 billion per month, but just look here. Per year 
we're talking about a number with so many zeros behind it I think that 
my young children will be very hard pressed to be able to pronounce 
this number. This is a huge number. What is this, this number is about 
120 T, trillion? Billion. I think I need an arithmetic lesson, and I'm 
a fellow that's had a little bit of schooling.

But as I look at this big number, it will be a challenge for any 
fifth grader, Mr. Speaker. It's a whopper of a number and it can't even 
begin to calculate the true losses of our country in this war.