# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `25cb1218cb05cd09c26c77f5af652d61`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 17 June 2009`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the men and 
women in our armed forces and H.R. 2346, the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act of 2009.

I support this bill because it is the first step toward ending the 
war in Iraq and bringing home the troops, as President Obama has 
pledged to do by August 2010. This bill is consistent with the 
President's plan and provides the troops with increased pay and better 
protection over the next few months as we begin to withdraw.

H.R. 2346 will provide $1.9 billion more than requested for Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected, MRAP, vehicles. Since most of our 
casualties in Iraq result from roadside bombs, it is critical that we 
fully fund vehicles capable of keeping our troops safe. In addition, 
this bill recognizes the hardships of ''stop-loss''--remaining on 
active duty beyond one's contract--on military servicemembers and their 
families by providing a retroactive pay increase for those serving 
under stop-loss orders.

This bill does what Bush-era war funding bills did not. By mandating 
performance reports, it illustrates the understanding that Congress 
needs to be fully informed about the progress of the military actions 
undertaken by the United States. By refocusing our efforts on success 
in Afghanistan, it demonstrates a shift from an open-ended two front 
war to a focused mission in Afghanistan centered on establishing a 
strong Afghan military and political infrastructure. Lastly, by 
extending a line of credit to the International Monetary Fund, which 
will be significantly leveraged, this bill reflects the 
Administration's strong belief that diplomacy and economic empowerment 
are critical to winning the war on terror.

Finally, I also support the funding for preparedness against pandemic 
flu. New York City has been hit the hardest by the recent outbreak of 
the H1N1 strand of influenza with 567 hospitalizations to date. 
Pandemic flu preparedness funding will prepare New York and the nation 
for the worst case scenario by increasing the national stockpile of 
antiviral drugs and medical supplies and improving our capacity to 
develop and produce vaccines to prevent infection.
