# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `25d9a4729b9b51d7b9b3c78d81496020`
`Mr. WALSH of New York — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WALSH of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, Mr. 
Lewis, for his hard work in providing this response, this very, I 
think, respectful response.

I would submit to you that any sacrifice any American has made in 
Iraq is a worthy, worthy sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, here we go again. Thus far in the 110th Congress, the 
House has considered two pieces of appropriations legislation. Thus 
far, we have twice done so under rules that stifle debate and 
amendment.

First, we operated under a closed rule on the 2007 continuing 
resolution, limited debate, no amendments, a bill that spend hundreds 
of billions of dollars. Now we are doing the same thing with a war 
supplemental. Let me be clear about what is happening here tonight.

The majority does not want a vote to remove the egregious and 
unconstitutional provisions restricting the Commander in Chief's 
authority over our Armed Forces. They do not want to allow us the 
opportunity to strike the unprecedented deadline for withdrawing our 
troops. Never before has a Congress in our history written into law a 
date for the withdrawal of American troops in a war.

They won't allow us that opportunity because Republicans and 
Democrats would vote bipartisanly to strike that deadline. They have 
proposed a rule that will prohibit Members from offering amendments 
that could modify the bill in such a way that the President could sign 
it.

Let's be clear: by proposing a closed rule, the Democratic leadership 
signals it wants this bill vetoed. In short, the majority would rather 
play politics than find a solution to the problem. And who will lose 
this game of political chicken? The troops who stand in harm's way as 
we talk; the troops, who are relying on this Congress to provide the 
necessary funds before the end of May so they can complete their 
mission successfully and as safely as possible.

This bill should be rejected out of hand and the majority should 
immediately bring back a clean supplemental so we can ensure that our 
troops will have the resources they need. Let's stop the posturing and 
pass a clean bill. That's the bottom line.