---
---

# TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT MICHAEL A. BECHERT
## `25db00027301618d331e2406fe62a6d2`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness and deep 
respect that I wish to commend Army SSG Michael A. Bechert for his 
bravery and his willingness to fight for his country. Staff Sergeant 
Bechert was assigned to C Company, 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Infantry Division in Schweinfurt, Germany. Tragically, 
Staff Sergeant Bechert passed away on June 14, 2007, due to injuries 
sustained on May 30, 2007, when his vehicle encountered an improvised 
explosive device in Baghdad, Iraq. His sacrifice for his country will 
forever be remembered by a community that has been devastated by the 
loss of one of its own.

Staff Sergeant Bechert felt tremendous pride for his country, and it 
will never be forgotten that he was willing to endanger his own life to 
protect the lives of his fellow citizens. His courage and heroism will 
always be remembered, and his sacrifice will forever live in the hearts 
and minds of those for whom he battled. Staff Sergeant Bechert enlisted 
in the United States Army, fully aware that danger could arise in any 
situation. He accepted this so that the freedoms and values he 
treasured could be enjoyed by men, women, and children around the 
world.

For his efforts, Staff Sergeant Bechert was awarded several military 
medals and honors, including: the Expert Infantryman Badge, the Combat 
Infantryman Badge, and the Army Commendation Medal for heroism, as well 
as a Purple Heart for previous injuries sustained in battle. In 
addition, he will be posthumously awarded an additional Purple Heart 
and a Bronze Star medal.

Although he loved his unit and his country, Michael treasured his 
family above all else. He is survived by his wife, Daniela, and his 
son, Branden Andrew, as well as many other friends and family members 
whose lives he has touched. My condolences go out to all who knew and 
loved Michael. His eagerness to serve and his willingness to sacrifice 
himself is worthy of the highest admiration.

Madam Speaker, at this time I ask that you and my other distinguished 
colleagues join me in honoring a fallen hero, United States Army SSG 
Michael Bechert. He will forever remain a hero in the eyes of his 
family, his community, and his country. Let us never forget the 
sacrifice he made to preserve the ideals of freedom and democracy.
