---
---

# SUPPORTING DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL DAY
## `25dc7bb7f3f846b6d813206440f3d188`
`Mr. TOWNS — 11 May 2010`

---


Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of H. Res. 1294, a resolution supporting the 
designation of a National Explosive Ordnance Disposal Day in honor of 
the selfless service and sacrifice of the men and women of the United 
States armed services who risk their lives every day as explosive 
ordnance disposal experts. Explosive ordnance removal has always been a 
profession fraught with exceptional danger and emotional stress. My 
colleague, the gentleman from California (Mr. Issa), knows this 
firsthand from his time as a bomb disposal technician in the United 
States Army.

Now, as the United States Military is engaged in two unconventional 
wars, our explosive ordnance disposal teams


are under pressure as never before. They must respond on a daily basis 
to roadside bombs and land mines that threaten our troops. It is their 
nerves of steel and high level of technical expertise that keep their 
comrades safe during ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These 
brave men and women deserve a day of honor and remembrance for the 
difficult tasks we ask them to carry out in the service of their 
country. Wherever they may be--patrolling the ring road of Afghanistan 
or disarming an IED in the streets of Baghdad--they are in our thoughts 
and in our prayers.

This resolution was introduced by our colleague, the gentlewoman from 
Florida, Representative Ginny Brown-Waite, on April 22, 2010. It was 
referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which 
reported the measure by unanimous consent on May 6, 2010. This measure 
enjoys the support of 60 Members of the House. I thank the gentlewoman 
for introducing this bill, and I thank the ranking member of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Mr. Issa, of course, and 
his staff, for their help in bringing this bill to the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.