---
---

# ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `25e2e9ca16cc6bf281596c83ef3a48e0`
`Mr. HODES — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I'm very 
glad to be here on this Halloween night. I'd like to think this is a 
treat for us, a treat for those who are listening to us or watching on 
television and in the country, although lots of folks are probably out 
with their kids trick-or-treating tonight.

But it is an absolute honor to be here with the Members of the class 
of 2006, and many of us are wearing article I buttons. And the 
importance of those buttons is to raise the awareness in Congress and 
around the country about the importance of the checks and balances in 
our system of government.

We spoke last week about some of these issues, and I was flooded with 
calls not just from my constituents but from people around the country 
thanking us for talking about the checks and balances in our system and 
explaining in as clear a way as we could the importance of our system 
of government and why the Founding Fathers put Congress first.

Many people think that Congress is three coequal branches of 
government. Many people think that the President and the House of 
Representatives and the Senate somehow are coequal when actually the 
Congress, in article I of our Constitution, as the people's House, as 
the voice of the people, is given preeminence.

It is the Congress that makes the laws, not the President. The 
President doesn't make the law. He's got to follow the law that 
Congress makes. It is the Congress that raises the money to run 
government, to fill the programs, and Congress that spends the money we 
raise. It is Congress that has the power


to assess taxes, levy taxes. It is Congress that has the power to 
declare war and only Congress that has the power to declare war.

And these days, as we contemplate very difficult issues of war and 
peace in the Middle East, our involvement in Iraq and around the world, 
those powers, the war powers of Congress, versus the powers asserted by 
this President have come into sharp focus and occasional sharp 
contrast. I believe that we're going to see in the days ahead those 
kinds of debates in this people's House as we discuss who has the power 
to take this country into armed conflict, who has the power to declare 
war or not, are we at war. These are questions that are going to be 
heard.

There's a very interesting example of the clash between the assertion 
of Presidential power, which we've seen here, and the real power that 
Congress has. Right now, as many of my colleagues know, the House 
Judiciary Committee, as well as the Senate Judiciary Committee, is 
investigating. These committees are investigating whether there was 
something amiss in the way the United States Attorney's Office was run, 
whether there was political interference with United States attorneys. 
And Congress, the Judiciary Committee, has issued subpoenas.

Subpoenas are the method by which a body that has the power to make 
witnesses come issues a subpoena that says to a witness, you've got to 
come and testify under oath. And Congress has issued subpoenas to two 
members of the White House, who previously were in the White House, 
Karl Rove and Harriet Miers. They have refused to come to testify 
before Congress, and a question arises.

Congress can hold them in contempt and then ask the Justice 
Department to enforce that contempt, and right now we're looking at a 
new Attorney General possibly for this country. He was asked, this 
Attorney General who was nominated by the President, he was asked 
whether or not if Congress holds these witnesses in contempt for not 
answering the subpoenas, would his Justice Department refer the matter 
to grand jury for criminal prosecution as Federal law requires. Mr. 
Mukasey, the nominee for the Attorney General, suggested that his 
answer would be no.

Now, this is not the law. That is not the proper balance for Congress 
and the President. He made, in addition, a startling claim. He claimed, 
this is the possible Attorney General of the United States, that the 
President of the United States could defy the law as it's written in 
Congress if he believed that it was his responsibility to defend the 
country. That is a huge exception to the rule that Congress' laws are 
supreme and it is Congress that makes the law and the President is to 
follow them.

So this issue, what is Congress' power, what are the powers given to 
us by article I and how we assert them, and the clash between 
congressional power and Presidential power is alive today. It's going 
on right now, and it's of vital importance to the future of this 
country as we decide whether we are a Nation of laws or a Nation of 
men.