---
---

# HUMAN PAPILLOMA VIRUS
## `25e4cc0e0aab06717c9bd3d774a79939`
`Mr. GINGREY — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, this looks like Georgia night in the great 
Chamber of the House of Representatives. My colleague, Representative 
Price, just talked about one of the most important debates that we have 
had in this body in a long time and will have in regard to the 
situation in Iraq and the Commander in Chief and the constitutional 
right for the Commander in Chief to make the decisions along with the 
combatant commanders.

These issues are hugely important. Things like the energy crisis that 
we faced 25 years ago, and we are facing again today, are hugely 
important issues. In fact, former Vice President Gore will be before 
the Science and Energy and Commerce Committees on Thursday talking 
about global warming and what we think we ought to do in regard to not 
only solving the energy crisis, but to keep from polluting the 
atmosphere. Hugely important issue.

Trying to solve the crisis that is looming in regard to the 
entitlement spending which is, that along with the interest on the 
debt, is probably approaching 65 percent of what we spend each year in 
a $2.7 trillion budget, hugely important issue.

Then, Mr. Speaker, every now and then along comes something that 
maybe does not get at first notice very much. There is not a lot of 
press. It is not one of the marquee issues of the day, but what I am 
speaking to my colleagues about tonight is also hugely important, and 
it, thank goodness, is beginning to get the attention that it deserves.

That is an issue that I, as a physician and OB/GYN specialist in 
particular, physician Member of this body, feel very, very strongly 
about. What I am referring to is the recent decision by one of the 
Governors of our 50 States to mandate that young girls in the public 
school system of that particular State would be required to receive a 
new vaccine, which I will describe in detail in just a minute.

They would be required before they could enter the sixth grade, the 
sixth grade, we all know sixth, seventh and eighth, and in some cases, 
considered the middle school years. So coming out of elementary or what 
I used to call grammar school, where there are many of these young 
girls, including my precious granddaughters, are still thinking about 
watching Little House on the Prairie as an example or playing with 
their dolls, would be required, just like they would be required to 
have their shots up to date in regard to measles and mumps and rubella 
and chickenpox, these highly contagious, infectious diseases that can 
be acquired just on casual contact; if you sneeze in the vicinity of a 
classmate, the disease is spread. This new vaccine, though, is not 
against one of these highly contagious communicable diseases, no, Mr. 
Speaker.

This vaccine, called Gardisil, is a vaccine against cervical cancer-
causing viruses, referred to as human papilloma virus, or HPV. There 
are probably 100 strains of that virus in existence that have been 
identified, but four of them, virus number 6, number 11 and 
particularly number 16 and number 18, have been associated with the 
dreaded disease of cervical cancer about 70 percent of the time. About 
70 percent of the cases that occur, the 9,000 new cases that occur in 
this country every year, are associated with that HPV virus. So there 
is certainly a suggestion, a strong suggestion, of cause and effect.

One of our great pharmaceutical companies in this country developed a 
vaccine that was approved a year ago, June of 2006, to prevent the 
contraction of this HPV virus, and it is a great vaccine. The studies, 
the phase III trials, while there, Mr. Speaker, may be some minor side 
effects, the safety seems to be there. The recommendation, of course, 
is that sexually active young women between the ages of, well, actually 
9 and 16, I would hasten to add that there are not too many 9-year-olds 
that are sexually active, but the vaccine is approved for those in that 
age group.

It is thought that a series of three vaccines, given a month or two 
apart, at the cost of $360 just for the vaccine, probably up to $500 
once you add the cost of going to a physician, going to a gynecologist 
and having these vaccines administered, the cost of an office visit, 
the administration of the vaccine, probably a $500 charge, but a good 
investment in this humble Member, physician Member, former 
gynecologist, in his opinion, probably a good choice for a young woman 
even at the age of 14 or 15, if she is sexually active or going to be 
sexually active, or maybe even a little bit younger if her parents are 
concerned about that possibility.

Then I think the vaccination that has been developed by this 
pharmaceutical company and the vaccine referred to earlier, Gardisil, I 
would highly recommend, and if I was still practicing medicine, Mr. 
Speaker, and a mom brought her daughter in and asked me about that and 
said that she heard about it and wondered if I would recommend it, I 
would absolutely recommend it.

But what was done in the last month or so, and this Member just 
happened to notice, and that is why I say this maybe seems like a small 
thing, but what it does is the mandate was issued that every single 
girl in that State at age 11, before going from elementary school, 
grammar school, to middle school, would have to have that vaccine, or 
she would not be able to continue in that public school system.

Mr. Speaker, that is just flat wrong, and my bill that I introduced 
the very next day in this body, H.R. 1153, the title of that bill is 
the Parental Right to Decide Protection Act, because this is all about 
the rights of a parent to decide what is best for their child. There is 
no State interest in this because, as I point out, you do not contract 
human papilloma virus by casual contact. No, it is by sexual activity, 
and to force every single 11-year-old child in this country to get that 
vaccination or they cannot go to the public school system, even though 
they have paid their property taxes, they live in that school district, 
they have been in that school district, they have supported that school 
district, and their parents teach their children, maybe they believe 
firmly in abstinence-based sexual education, but they have that right 
to decide. The State does not have that right.



That is why I say to my colleagues tonight that this is a hugely 
important issue. Cancer is a dreaded disease. We all probably would 
choose any other way to die than from a long, protracted case of any 
kind of cancer. Cervical cancer worldwide is probably the second 
leading cause of cancer death in women. That is not true in the United 
States. It may be the ninth or tenth or eleventh but it is too many. 
There are probably 9,700 new cases of cervical cancer in this country 
every year, and of those, approximately 3,700 die, and that is too 
many. We need to do everything that we can to prevent cervical cancer, 
and that is why I say the vaccine is a good thing.

That is why I say that I, as a compassionate physician Member of this 
body, would recommend that vaccine to someone who has either told their 
parents that their daughter and her boyfriend are sexually active or 
they plan to be sexually active, and that could be 14 years of age. I 
know we all would hope that it would not be, but our daughter or 
granddaughter, but it could, and in those cases the recommendation to 
voluntarily take this opportunity to get that immunization on board 
really before they become sexually active, certainly before they become 
sexually active with multiple partners, is a good thing, but it is not 
a good thing to mandate it and to require it.


We will talk about this throughout the hour, and I am very, very 
pleased to welcome one of my colleagues, a new Member, a very bright 
Member. He does not seem like a new Member because he is doing such a 
great job in these first 3 months of the 110th Congress. At this point 
I would like to yield to my good friend Mr. Jordan for his comments.