# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `26049bdaf78d5ee06af0f437f71dd322`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I wish to point out to my colleagues what 
we will not be funding if this amendment fails. First and foremost, we 
will not be funding critical military construction projects for our 
troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. These are emergency 
infrastructure requirements that our men and women in uniform have 
requested--projects that will contribute to their safety and security 
and that are crucial for them to be able to perform the mission with 
which they have been tasked.

We will not be funding construction of critically needed VA 
polytrauma rehabilitation centers. These are cutting-edge centers for 
the treatment of Active Duty and separated Iraq and Afghanistan war 
veterans suffering from the signature injuries of those wars: traumatic 
brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, hearing loss, 
amputations, fractures, burns, visual impairment, and spinal cord 
injury. It is hard to think of anything more important than providing 
the best possible care to our wounded soldiers.

We will also be leaving a $787-million shortfall in the BRAC account, 
meaning that important construction at our bases here at home will be 
delayed, and the 2011 deadline for completing BRAC may become 
impossible to meet.

We will be delaying emergency renovation and replacement of barracks 
for our soldiers returning from war. Many of us were appalled at the 
deplorable conditions at Fort Bragg, which is why this bill provides 
$200 million to rebuild the ''worst of the worst'' of the Army's 
barracks. If we fail to pass this amendment, we will be leaving our 
soldiers to continue to live in unacceptable conditions.

We will not be funding childcare centers for our military families. 
Childcare is a serious quality of life issue for the families who bear 
the brunt of war, and this bill would accelerate funding for 31 of the 
highest priority child development centers--funding for which the 
President himself has signaled support.

In short, this bill provides critical funding for some of the highest 
priorities of our Nation, including our military forces. All of my 
colleagues should be very aware of what they are voting against if they 
vote against this amendment. I urge my colleagues to support it.