---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `2605841f8ed2eec8df73ac63c4ae6f4e`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. I thank the chairman.

Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the resolution. I am frankly 
astonished that the resolution has even come to the floor. I am afraid 
some of our colleagues either misunderstand the plain text of the War 
Powers Act or would like the House to initiate a legislative version of 
the so-called ''memory hole'' described by George Orwell in his 
foreboding novel 1984. The War Powers Act provides that in the event 
U.S. forces are engaged in hostilities without either a declaration of 
war or a specific statutory authorization, a concurrent resolution can 
be considered to force the withdrawal of our troops. An important piece 
of law to be sure, but one that is wholly irrelevant to the actual 
circumstances under which our troops are currently fighting.

Like many others in the House, I was present on September 14, 2001, 
when the House passed House Joint Resolution 64, to authorize the use 
of United States Armed Forces against those responsible for the then-
recent attacks launched against the United States. The vote, I would 
remind you, was 420 in favor and one against. I would note that the 
gentleman from Ohio, along with myself, was present and voted aye, as 
was the gentleman from Texas, as were 420 of us.

I would like to quote from that resolution which we are seeking to 
deny existed, which became Public Law 107-40 on September 18, 2001. It 
says, quote, ''That the President is authorized to use all necessary 
and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons 
he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist 
attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such 
organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of 
international terrorism against the United States by such nations, 
organizations, or persons.''



Members may like or dislike the war in Afghanistan. They may think 
the President's new strategy is wise or foolish. They may regard the 
costs of the war as bearable or not, but they are plainly not entitled 
to argue that the hostilities were not pursuant to specific 
authorization by the United States Congress.

The 107th Congress authorized the use of force. The President of the 
United States signed that authorization into law. If a Member of this 
House is opposed to the war, and I am sympathetic to such views, then 
the proper remedy is to pass legislation to mandate withdrawal through 
the Congress under regular order.