# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2615227b9bb6c9f108468f64ed7c60be`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, these are very difficult days in our 
history, and I welcome the comments of my friend and colleague from 
Arizona and his views about the position of the United States and its 
policy with regard to Iraq. He reminds us that we ought to free 
ourselves from these political considerations. This situation is too 
demanding. The value of our involvement in terms of American service 
men and women is too dear. The resources of this country are too 
important to squander them.

A number of us had serious reservations about involving the United 
States in military engagement, a war with Iraq. A number of us still 
remember being on the Armed Services Committee and listening to the 
combat commanders--the first panel in the Armed Services Committee on 
that particular day. We listened to General Hoar, from Hyde Park, MA, a 
highly decorated marine. We saw a number of decorations for bravery and 
courage in Vietnam. We listened to General Nash, who had been in the 
first gulf war and had been our Commander in Bosnia. We read through 
General Zinni's comments at that time. We listened to General Clark as 
well. They are a group of combat commanders, and all urged that the 
United States keep its focus and attention on those who brought the 
tragedy to the United States on 9/11.

Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida were the real danger and threat to the 
United States. They were located in Afghanistan. They said that is 
where our focus and attention should be and that involvement in Iraq 
would be clearly not in our interest. I remember those extraordinary 
words of General Hoar, who said if we become involved in Iraq, the 
battle in Baghdad that he foresaw would make the first fifteen minutes 
of ''Private Ryan'' look like a church picnic. ''Private Ryan'' was 
that extraordinary film by Steven Spielberg. That made a very profound 
impression upon me. That impression was enhanced when we listened to 
the statements that were made by Defense Secretary Rumsfeld when they 
talked about the weapons of mass destruction being on the north, south, 
east, and west of Baghdad.

The ranking member of our committee, the chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee, Carl Levin, had suggested that we give information 
to the inspectors. The response was that we cannot give it to the 
inspectors because Saddam Hussein will move them. Senator Levin said: 
Well, why don't we then watch where they are being


moved to, to be able to convince the world community about these 
weapons of mass destruction?

At least it was assumed by the response that was given at that time 
that we were going to make available to the inspection teams the 
locations of those weapons of mass destruction. We found out, 
historically, that never happened because there weren't any. So there 
was important debate and discussion within the administration.

Should we follow the precedent of President Bush 1, which said this 
is a very important issue about going to war in Iraq, and rather than 
attaining it in the course of an election, let's have an election and 
then have the Congress make a judgment and decision. The decision said 
public opinion at that time was overwhelmingly to go to war, and we 
were going to have that vote just prior to the election. I hope we are 
going to spare ourselves this idea that those of us who are supporting 
the Levin-Reed amendment are looking at the politics of it. We saw the 
realities of it when we made the mistake in going to war.

Secondly, we are very mindful that Iraq is a country with 26 million 
or 27 million people. It basically has an extraordinary history and 
incredible culture, amazing oil reserves, many different kinds of 
assets. But it was defeated 10 years ago by the United States of 
America in a war--defeated. We had the air space, controlling that over 
Iraq. We have the best fighting force in the world over there now for 
in excess of 4 years fighting.

As many of us have said, the military has done everything they were 
called to do. Does anybody doubt the finest military force which swept 
through western Europe and Africa and Italy, went through the Pacific 
in less time in World War II? We have had them over there bogged down 
in this country of 27 million people. Has anybody doubted that we need 
more than a military resolution and solution, and the fact that we 
continue to keep the American service men and women in harm's way, that 
we are somehow protecting them? Is that what we are being asked to 
believe after they have been over there for 4 years, when they are able 
and capable of doing everything which they have done, and done so 
bravely, I say it is time to bring them home. I say it is time to 
support the Levin amendment.

I hope during this debate we are not going to have the continued 
references on the issues of patriotism. We have worn out that argument, 
and we heard it all. It didn't work in the last election, where many of 
us who were strongly opposed to the war faced those kinds of drum 
beats.

Secondly, our Founding Fathers had a very important view about what 
the Senate of the United States should be and the importance of 
protecting minority views in this body. This was going to be the 
institution that was going to be able to permit individuals who 
represented minority views, differing views, to be able to express 
themselves. As we have learned historically so often, those expressed 
by a small group often become the majority accepted views in future 
years. The Founding Fathers understood that. They wanted to make sure 
those ideas and concepts were going to be protected.

What the Founding Fathers never anticipated was that rules were going 
to be used to abuse the American people's right to be able to express 
themselves, particularly on issues of war and peace. That is what we 
are seeing now--delay for delay's sake, not delay so that we can have 
greater information about what is happening over in Iraq. That is not 
the issue. It is delay for delay's sake, a refusal to permit the Senate 
to express itself.

The House has expressed itself. Permit the Senate to express itself. 
Let's have a debate and discussion. The American people have made up 
their minds on this issue. We don't have to doubt that. The American 
people have made up their minds. They want their elected 
representatives to speak. I understand why the Republicans don't want 
their name on that rollcall as supporting this President, this war, at 
this time. I understand it. That, my colleagues, is really what this is 
about. People just refuse, don't want it.

Let's have some process or procedure, some way to avoid calling the 
roll and taking a stand on an issue of war and peace. That is what this 
debate, at least for the next several hours, is going to be about.

Are we going to be able to permit this institution to function in the 
way it was intended to function; that is, at a time when the American 
people have made a judgment and a decision on a particular issue, to be 
able to call the roll and have accountability, or whether we are going 
to be denied that. After all of the rhetoric about the role in history 
and the importance of this issue, that is where it comes down.

So, Mr. President, this is an extremely important debate. What is so 
important to understand is this is not an issue that is going away. 
Those of us who were opposed to the war continue to be opposed to it. 
Listen to the argument about what the consequences are going to be. 
What are the consequences going to be now, what are they going to be in 
3 years, what are they going to be in 5 years, what are they going to 
be in 7 years? Many of us are sufficiently uncertain about this issue 
that we voted ''no'' in terms of giving to this President the authority 
to move this country and commit it in a way we have done so.

America is paying an enormous cost for a war we never should have 
fought, and it is time to bring it to an end. The war has divided us at 
home. It has made us more isolated in the world. Never before, even in 
the Vietnam war, has America taken such massive military action with so 
little international support.

As the intelligence community confirmed yet again today, the war has 
become a significant recruitment tool for al-Qaida. What was the surge 
intended to accomplish? The surge was meant to reduce violence; it has 
not. To permit reconstruction; it has not. To promote reconciliation; 
it has not. All we have to do is read the Administration's own reports.

As the intelligence community confirmed yet again today, the war has 
become a significant recruitment tool for al-Qaida. The NIE says:




 We assess that Al Qaeda's association with Al Qaeda Iraq 


 helps Al Qaeda to energize the broader Sunni extremist 


 community, raise resources, and recruit and indoctrinate 


 operatives, including for homeland attacks.


This has obviously made the war on terrorism harder, not easier, to 
win. Nevertheless, the administration still continues to turn a deaf 
ear to all the voices calling for change. It continues to plead for 
more and more time to pursue its failed course in Iraq. Republicans in 
the Senate continue to filibuster any effort to outline a clear 
timetable for the withdrawal of American troops.

The disastrous consequences of our policy could have been avoided if 
the President and his advisers had asked the right questions before 
rushing headlong into an unnecessary and unjust war.

In my church, there are six principles which guide the determination 
of just war. They were developed by Saint Augustine in the 5th century 
and expanded by Saint Thomas Aquinas in the 13th century. To be just, a 
war must have a just cause, confronting a danger that is beyond 
question. It must be declared by a legitimate authority acting on 
behalf of the people. It must be driven by the right intention, not 
ulterior, self-interested motives. It must be a last resort. It must be 
proportional so that the harm inflicted does not outweigh the good 
achieved. And it must have a reasonable chance of success.

These are the sound criteria by which the President should have 
judged our war in Iraq, but he failed our men and women in uniform by 
refusing to seek honest answers to these important questions before 
recklessly plunging the Nation into war.

We now know with crystal clarity that the war in Iraq did not meet 
these criteria. Saddam did not pose the kind of threat that justified 
this war, but we went to war anyway without legitimate support from the 
international community. The administration was wrong to allow the 
anti-Iraq zealots in its ranks to exploit the 9/11 tragedy to make war 
against Iraq a higher priority than the war against terrorism in 
Afghanistan.

War with Iraq was most certainly not the last resort. All options 
were not pursued. We should have given inspectors more time to reveal 
that there were, in fact, no weapons of mass destruction.



The human cost of this war has been unacceptable. More than 3,600 
Americans have been killed and nearly 27,000 wounded. Tens of thousands 
of Iraqis have been killed and Iraq has descended into civil war.

The administration's incompetence in waging this misguided war has 
left no reasonable chance for success. Americans have spoken clearly 
and urgently about the need to end the war, and it is time for the 
President to listen to their pleas. We should end this war with a 
scaled-back mission for our troops and a clear timetable for withdrawal 
specified in the Levin-Reed amendment.

America has been sadly diminished in the world because of this 
colossal blunder. Anti-Americanism is on the rise. We have seemed to 
have lost our way, our vision, and our confidence in the future.

In his farewell address to the Nation in January 1989, Ronald Reagan 
described one of the singular triumphs of his Presidency: the recovery 
of America's standing and morale. I believe he was right when he said:




 America is respected again in the world and looked to for 


 leadership.


Other nations understood that the best guarantee of peace and 
stability was for the United States to live up to its ideals as a 
beacon of hope for the rest of the planet. We were admired for our 
democracy and respected for our economic strength.

Today, others have stopped listening to us the way they once did. At 
the end of June, the Pew Global Attitudes Project reported that since 
2002, the image of the United States has plummeted throughout the 
world. Our image is abysmal in most Muslim countries and continues to 
decline among the people of many of America's oldest allies. We have 
strained the extraordinary alliances that advance our ideals, as well 
as our interests.

At the root of much of the anti-Americanism that has surfaced in 
recent years is the perception of American unilateralism in 
international affairs. I am astonished when some say it does not matter 
that so many in the world no longer respect the United States. Of 
course, it matters. It matters to our security, as it has mattered 
since the first days of our Republic.


The opening paragraph of the Declaration of Independence acknowledges 
the importance of a decent respect for the opinions of mankind. That 
respect is as important today as it was when our Founders signed the 
Declaration, affirming it on the first Fourth of July.

To restore America's standing and strength, we must end the war in 
Iraq and recapture that combination of realism and idealism that has 
inspired Americans for generations. Ending this unacceptable war is 
essential to our security and to regaining our respect in the world.

The great challenges facing our fragile planet require an abundance 
of hope that only a united and a determined America can provide. 
America has to lead. America has to inspire. But we cannot do so if we 
remain bogged down in Iraq's civil war. Might alone cannot make America 
right. By prescribing our own rules for the modern world, we have 
deprived our great Nation of the moral claim that is the basis of our 
being, the purpose of our power, and we are paying an exorbitant price.

We can and sometimes must defend democracy by force, but we cannot 
impose it by force. Democratic principles are universal, but democracy 
must find its champions within each country's culture and traditions. 
We need to end the war and regain a time when America is able to seek 
common ground with our friends. We need to renew the alliances that 
kept the world safe for human rights and human survival when the threat 
for nuclear war was a clear and present danger.

We will always defend our interests, but we put them at grave risk 
when we act unilaterally in an independent world. We live in a time of 
enormous possibility and enormous risk. No nation is guaranteed a 
limitless future of prosperity or security. We have to work for it. We 
have to sacrifice for it. The sacrifices we are making in Iraq are no 
longer worth the immense cost in human lives or the immense cost to our 
national prestige and interest.

President Bush has squandered every opportunity to stabilize Iraq. 
Any honest assessment can realistically lead to only one conclusion: 
America's interest will best be served when our military disengages 
from Iraq. Certainly, there will be violence when our combat troops 
leave, but there will be far more violence if we continue to police 
Iraq's civil war indefinitely, as the President proposes.

Last week President Bush said, ''There is war fatigue in America. 
It's affecting our psychology.'' For once the President is right. There 
is fatigue in America. Americans are tired of an administration whose 
ill-conceived notion of a preventive war plunged this Nation into 
Iraq's bloody civil war. Americans are tired of an administration that 
told us the mission was accomplished when the tally of American dead 
was only beginning to mount. Americans are tired of an administration 
that continues to promise that hope is just around the corner and begs 
for time for a policy that stands no chance of succeeding now, in 
September, or ever.

Years ago, one of the giants of the Senate said:




 Partisanship should stop at the water's edge.


Arthur Vandenberg, a Republican from Michigan, who was chairman of 
the Foreign Relations Committee, worked closely with President Truman 
to lay the foundation for the foreign policy of the United States that 
could guide us through the Cold War. Senator Vandenberg set the bar 
high for us in the Senate. We can aspire to that idea, but it is hard 
to achieve it in this Congress, as it has been in other Congresses.

Over the past few weeks, a shift has begun to take place, not as 
quickly as many of us feel is necessary, but nonetheless a change. Two 
weeks ago, in a speech on this floor, one of the successors of Arthur 
Vandenberg as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, our 
distinguished colleague from Indiana who was himself chairman of the 
Foreign Relations Committee, reminded us that we do not owe the 
President our unquestioning agreement, but we do owe him and the 
American people our constructive engagement.

Last Friday, Senator Lugar was joined by the senior Senator from 
Virginia, Mr. Warner, in offering an amendment that would require the 
administration to review our Iraq strategy and outline plans for an 
orderly redeployment of our troops.

Two weeks ago in a statement on this floor, Senator Lugar said:




 The United States has violated some basic national security 


 precepts during our military engagement in Iraq. We have 


 overestimated what the military can achieve, we have set 


 goals that are unrealistic, and we have inadequately factored 


 in the broader regional consequences of our actions. Perhaps 


 more critically, our focus on Iraq has diverted us from 


 opportunities to change the world in directions that 


 strengthen our national security.


I agree with that judgment, although I believe the Warner-Lugar 
amendment does not go far enough in bringing this war to an end. It is 
undeniable that the American people have turned against this war, and 
it is imperative for the President to understand and accept that basic 
fact. We call for the President to end the war, not as Democrats or 
Republicans, but as Americans who are deeply concerned about the 
perilous path on which the Nation is moving.

The American people understand there are no easy options, but they 
also understand that the President's strategy simply does not protect 
U.S. interests. They understand it is wrong to buy time, to hand off 
the mess in Iraq to the next President, and to keep our troops in 
harm's way with a policy that is not worthy of their sacrifice.

The overarching question is not whether we leave Iraq but how we 
leave Iraq. Disastrous choices and disastrous leadership have brought 
us to this dangerous point. We need to redefine our strategic goal in 
Iraq and the region and have a realistic policy that supports that 
objective. Whatever we do, it is going to be difficult, but we need to 
move forward and begin the process, and soon.

We need to work with Iraq's neighbors to mitigate the damage the 
President's policies have created and minimize outside intervention, 
but we cannot allow the fear of instability to put the brakes on the 
process of military disengagement.

Majorities in free countries bordering Iraq--Turkey, Jordan, and 
Kuwait--say


our troops should be removed. In Turkey, one of our most important 
allies in the region bordering Iraq, only 9 percent support our 
position. Even in Iraq, just a few months ago, tens of thousands 
marched demanding an end to what they call the ''American occupation.''

Each country in the region has an interest in Iraq's stability, and 
we need to work with them diplomatically to find common ground and 
mitigate the damage caused by the President's failed policy. They need 
to come forward and work with our Nation and play a constructive role. 
Part of that effort needs to address the growing needs of the millions 
who have fled the violence in Iraq.

More than 2 million Iraqis have fled to neighboring Jordan and Syria, 
and they are a destabilizing force in the region. The toll of suffering 
is immense. The danger these tragic circumstances pose for our national 
security and the countries in the region hosting these vulnerable 
people is real. The anger, the desperation, the hopelessness that 
envelope these refugees is a breeding ground for terrorists and will 
undoubtedly be exploited by our enemies.

America has a fundamental moral obligation to help, especially those 
who have supported America in Iraq. There is no doubt that Iraqis who 
have worked in positions in direct support of the United States have 
been killed or injured in reprisals for that support. Many more Iraqis 
associated with the United States have fled in fear and lost all they 
had. We must keep faith with those who now have a bull's-eye on their 
back because of their ties with our country.

At a hearing by the Senate Judiciary Committee earlier this year, 
Iraqis offered chilling testimony about the dangers they face because 
of their association with America. A translator for U.S. and coalition 
forces told of seeing his name posted on death lists and said his 
friends turned on him because they believed he was a traitor. An Iraqi 
truck driver who delivered water to American forces said that terrorist 
groups had targeted him, his wife, and their six children because of 
his support for our soldiers.

Not only do we have an obligation to help those who have helped us, 
we have a precedent for action. As the war in Vietnam drew to a close, 
President Ford emphasized America's duty to rescue those who had helped 
and assisted us. He called our response to that refugee crisis a 
reaffirmation of America's awareness of the roots and ideals of our 
society, and he personally greeted Vietnamese refugees on their arrival 
here.

But, sadly, there are many Iraqis working with our Armed Forces, our 
diplomatic mission, and our reconstruction teams in Iraq who have 
performed valiantly but have been abandoned by our Government in their 
hour of need. Because of this support, insurgents have threatened and 
attacked their family members. Many have lost their lives, and many 
more have lost their houses, property, and livelihood. For some, it 
will be too dangerous to ever return.

America cannot resettle all of Iraq's refugees, but we must show 
leadership by accepting far greater numbers of refugees closely 
associated with our military operation. Keeping our troops in Iraq 
indefinitely, as the President proposes, is simply not the solution to 
the humanitarian and refugee crisis.

The consequences of the decisions we make here in Congress profoundly 
affect our military, their families, and the communities they have 
left. We have an obligation to our soldiers to make sensible decisions 
that will not place them needlessly in harm's way. In February, I spoke 
about the 65 soldiers from Massachusetts who had died in Iraq. Since 
then, Massachusetts has lost 10 more. We in Massachusetts feel 
especially deeply the loss of these sons and daughters killed in Iraq:

PVT John Landry, SGT Adam Kennedy, CPT Anthony Palermo, SSG William 
Callahan, 1LT Ryan P. Jones, SPC Kyl Little, LCpl Walter O'Haire, LT 
Andrew Bacevich, SGT Daniel Newsome, and SSG Robb Rolfing.

We salute them, we pray for their families, we honor their sacrifice 
today and every day. We must insist on a policy worthy of their 
sacrifice.

The choice is clear: We can continue on the same failed course as 
those who are leading this filibuster in the Senate are proposing or we 
can adopt the Levin-Reed amendment and begin to bring our troops home 
to the hero's welcome they have earned and so obviously deserve.

For the sake of our men and women in uniform and our national 
security, I hope we will change course and approve the Levin-Reed 
amendment.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.