# SUPPORTING THE GOALS OF INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
## `261c4304d86e8e9206d4150bd6090b8f`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 6 March 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding 
to me and for her great support for this measure, and I also thank 
Representative Ros-Lehtinen for her help for a long time making this 
resolution possible today.

I do rise in support of H. Res. 149, the International Women's Day 
resolution. I want to also thank Representative Judy Biggert, who is 
the lead Republican sponsor, for her consistent support and work to 
bring this resolution to the House floor. We have introduced this 
resolution honoring women three times, and it has been a pleasure 
working with her over the years.

Also, as the vice chair of the Women's Caucus, I am honored to have 
this resolution to be the first of our top five priority agenda items 
to make it to the House floor with such remarkable bipartisan support 
under the leadership of the chairwomen, Lois Capps and Cathy McMorris 
Rodgers. I appreciate their help.

Each year, countries around the world mark March 8 as International 
Women's Day as a day to recognize the contributions and the impact that 
women have made to our world's history, to recognize those women who 
have worked for gender equality and to acknowledge the work that is yet 
to be done.

Over the years, women have made significant strides. Women all over 
the world and throughout history have consistently contributed to their 
economies, participated in their governments and improved the quality 
of life of their families and their Nations.

In 2007, Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi became the first woman in the 
history of the United States to be Speaker of the House. In 2006, I 
attended the inauguration of Michelle Bachelet, the first woman 
President of Chile, and visited in Liberia its President Ellen Johnson-
Sirleaf, the first woman President in Africa's history. In the 110th 
Congress, we have an all-time high of 74 women in Congress, a 35 
percent increase from just 8 years ago. However, women still make up 
only 16 percent of the House of Representatives.

In the United States, we have made significant strides in education. 
In fact, women now graduate from high school at higher rates and earn 
bachelor's or higher degrees at greater rates than men. While that is 
true, yet two-thirds of the 876 million illiterate individuals in the 
world are women. That is, two-thirds of them are women. Two-thirds of 
the 125 million school-aged children who are not attending school 
worldwide are girls, and girls are less likely to complete school than 
boys elsewhere around the world.

Women are making progress in business, and women make up 11 of the 
current CEOs of Fortune 500 companies. However, more progress still 
needs to be made. While great strides have been made in business, women 
still earn less, own less and have less access to education and 
employment than men. Globally, while women work two-thirds of the 
world's working hours and produce one-half of the world's food, we 
still earn only 1 percent of the world's income and own less than 1 
percent of the world's property. Of the 300 million people living in 
poverty, 70 percent are girls and women.

Although Congress passed the PROTECT Act, a good bipartisan bill to 
prevent trafficking, there are still millions of women and girls who 
are trafficked, physically abused, sexually abused or face the threat 
of violence every day. In Iraq, Darfur and Afghanistan, women and girls 
continue to be the targets of extreme violence, brutality and 
intimidation where they face overwhelming, if not insurmountable, 
obstacles to legal recourse and justice. And in times of war and 
conflict, although most women and children are not engaged in that 
conflict, they continue to suffer the most.

So, Madam Speaker, it is important that Congress recognize the 
importance of March 8 and participate with the rest of the world in 
celebrating International Women's Day. Hopefully, the passage of this 
critical resolution will help raise awareness of the work we need to do 
and will help women continue to overcome the overwhelming obstacles 
that are still left to be overcome.

We must make a commitment to invest in women. Women contribute to the 
growth of economies and improve the quality of the lives of their 
families, the health of their communities and their Nations. We have 
won many battles for equality and justice for women worldwide, and we 
can do it.

The passage of this resolution puts us, the United States House of 
Representatives, firmly on the side of women who are seeking gender 
equality across the world, and I urge its passage