---
---

# PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS
## `2630bf111e72402e5b51ee5bba8eae8d`
`Mr. COHEN — 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. COHEN. Well, I thank you for having this hour and for letting me 
join you, each of you.

These are the issues that are important to the American people. And I 
tried to address some of them in 1 minute. You can't discuss them in 1 
minute. One of the issues we heard about was the deficit. The deficit 
was created by the Congress that was begun in the beginning of this 
century. The Congress in 1994, when President Clinton was President, a 
Democratic Congress with all Democratic votes passed a balanced budget 
bill that balanced the budget by the year 2000, and that balanced 
budget with a surplus was squandered with Bush tax cuts that cost 
tremendous amounts of money and a trillion-dollar war in Iraq without 
weapons of mass destruction and without a well-defined purpose and 
without the truth behind the purpose, I believe, of that war. And then 
an additional war in Afghanistan that was made the secondary war. This 
has created the great deficit that we have now, and you've got to 
correct that through income or through cuts.


What has been recommended by the bipartisan panel the President set 
up bears looking at as a beginning. It's going to take some tough 
decisions, but we also need revenue; and the revenue can't be across-
the-board extensions for the Bush tax cuts. And to the upper 2 percent, 
as Mr. Garamendi was talking, they don't spend that money. My friends 
all drive Chryslers, I must make amends; dear Lord get me a Mercedes-
Benz. That's an old sixties song. That's what they buy, is a Mercedes-
Benz or maybe something from Cartier, which doesn't really stimulate 
the economy. It might tickle the fancy of somebody, but it doesn't 
stimulate the economy.

We've got to make some difficult decisions and earmarks aren't the 
issue. Earmarks don't take away from the deficit. It just means that 
rather than your Congressperson from your district who knows your 
needs, it will be somebody in Washington spending that money. The 
earmarks need to be done in a transparent manner, and this Congress has 
seen that they are published. The people have to say that they are 
theirs, they have no financial interest, they don't have a personal 
stake, and they can't be for a for-profit company.

Earmarks in and of themselves are not bad. They just need to be 
cleaned up, and this Congress has cleaned them up. But the fact is, we 
need to make some difficult decisions. I'm prepared to make those 
difficult decisions on some long-term economic policies that will help 
clean up the deficit, which we need to do. I don't agree with much of 
what was put in the bipartisan proposal that was just recently 
announced by Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson, but it's a starting point; and 
it should not be summarily dismissed as it was by some from my party. 
On the other hand, the issue of earmarks is a subterfuge or just an 
issue to be thrown out there which has nothing to do with the deficit.




It's going to take some tough decisions, and the Department of 
Defense can't be off the table. Some say, Oh, you can't deal with the 
Department of Defense. There's a lot of money in the defense budgets 
that's there because of who manufactures the weapons and not the 
purpose of the weapons, and there's a lot of waste in the Department of 
Defense, and we need to look there as well. And we're going to have to 
make some large cuts, and that's where most of the money is.

So I join with you. I appreciate, Mr. Ellison, your work. I 
appreciate Mr. Stein's quoting you in Time Magazine when you cited me 
as part of your team, and I'm going to be part of your team. And, Mr. 
Garamendi, I appreciate what you've done from California and in your 
leading these discussions. And I just want to be a part of the ending 
of this Congress that does some economic justice and that we try to see 
that economic justice is not forgotten in the 112th.