---
---

# BURUNDI
## `263e9e751cadb7500061272fe7e1d4af`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 3 August 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, Burundi is a country that should receive 
much greater attention from this Congress and the Obama administration 
in the months and year ahead. As many of my colleagues will recall, 
Burundi was devastated by political violence throughout the 1990s, 
leaving over 100,000 people dead. Yet with the mediation of the late 
Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere and then South African President 
Nelson Mandela, and the active engagement of President Clinton, a peace 
agreement was finally signed in August 2000. Several armed groups 
refused to accept the agreement, but they were brought into the fold 
over subsequent years. And in 2005, Burundi held multiparty national 
and local elections, a major milestone on its transition to peace.

In 2010, Burundi is set to hold its next round of elections. These 
elections have the potential to be another milestone in Burundi's path 
toward reconciliation, lasting stability and democratic institutions. 
Over the last 4 years, Burundi has made significant progress in that 
direction. However, there are still persistent tensions within 
Burundian society, which could be strained during this electoral 
period.

Despite all the progress that has been made, Burundi remains a 
fragile state and regularly appears on watch lists of countries 
vulnerable to internal conflict. For example, the Brookings 
Institution's Weak States Index last year listed Burundi as the fifth 
weakest state in the world, behind Iraq, the DRC, Afghanistan, and 
Somalia. Moreover, according to the U.N. Human Development Index, 
Burundi continues to be one of the poorest countries in the world.

I have been particularly concerned by reports that both the Burundian 
government and the armed opposition Forces for National Liberation--
FNL--continue to resort to violence, intimidation and repression. 
According to the State Department's ''Country Reports on Human Rights 
Practices,'' members of the army, the police, and the National 
Intelligence Service were responsible for killings, torture, and 
beatings of civilians and detainees in 2008, although there were fewer 
such reports than in the previous year. Human Rights Watch has 
documented a number of abuses committed against democratic political 
opponents by state agents and unofficial proxies in the first few 
months of 2009. Meanwhile, the FNL reportedly continues to abduct 
civilians and use violence against local officials.

In the run-up to the 2010 elections, it is quite possible that these 
abuses and killings will increase as the parties compete for political 
power. Therefore, it is critical that the international community speak 
out now against human rights violations and the importance of 
maintaining the rule of law. We need to press the Burundian government 
to ensure it is not participating in any abusive behavior and help it 
to improve the independence and capacity of its judicial institutions. 
We also need to engage with and help strengthen the Electoral 
Commission so it can guard against any manipulation actual or perceived 
of the electoral process. Finally, we need to continue working with the 
United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi and the new Partnership for 
Peace in Burundi to advance disarmament and demobilization, 
transitional justice, reconciliation and development efforts. Burundi's 
peace process has come a long way, but the process is far from 
complete.

The United States has a unique role to play in these efforts. Because 
of our role in helping to broker the Arusha peace accord, the United 
States has significant good will in Burundi and is seen by many as a 
credible arbiter. In the years since, we have continued to work with 
regional stakeholders in support of peace. In the months leading up to 
Burundi's election, we need to increase that support and amplify our 
voice against abuses and political violence. I know President Obama's 
nominee to be our next ambassador to Burundi, Ambassador Pamela Slutz, 
understands these challenges and I look forward to working with her. 
Working together, regional leaders and the international community can 
help Burundians avert an electoral crisis and keep the peace process on 
track.
