---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `265002f99f0511194b590e6510d3634b`
`Mr. REHBERG — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. REHBERG. Madam Speaker, as an elected representative of our brave 
men and women serving in harm's way, every vote regarding war is a 
solemn matter.

Debate about the war in Iraq is necessary, required, and many 
important points were brought up over the more than forty hours of 
discussion.

No doubt about it, there have been setbacks in Iraq. And mistakes 
have been made on the ground and here in Washington. It's safe to say 
that all of us--the President, the Congress, and the American people 
wish we could have achieved stability in the region sooner.

However, I believe it's necessary to separate the resolution being 
debated in the House from the real issue. The real issue is that a 
failed state in Iraq would present a serious threat to the United 
States' national security interests, could allow terrorists to further 
establish safe-havens in Iraq, and could create regional and global 
unrest for many years to come. This is a threat we must not pass on to 
our children and grandchildren. September 11th showed us that 
terrorists can reach our soil and kill innocent Americans. We must 
fight this war on our terms, but on their turf.

This non-binding resolution, H. Con. Res. 63, is nothing more than an 
opinion about a strategy.

While opinions are interesting, solutions are necessary.

So I say to those who want to support this non-binding resolution: If 
you disagree with the strategy--put forward a plan; if you disagree 
with the tactics--put forward an alternative; if you disagree with the 
mission--put forward a solution.''

A non-binding resolution means non-leadership; a non-binding 
resolution means non-accountability. A non-binding resolution is not a 
plan for victory.

This week, Congress has spent a lot of time debating one of the most 
important issues facing this body. Unfortunately, this legislation 
limited a true debate on the alternatives and direction we can take.

A real resolution on Iraq needs to include real benchmarks and real 
guidelines, not simply a vote of no confidence.

There are those of us who are willing to disagree with the President 
at the strategic, tactical or project level, and a true solution would 
be for Congress to debate the McCain-lieberman proposal. This 
bipartisan alternative not only reaffirms Congressional support for our 
troops, but provides military, political, and social benchmarks for the 
Iraqi government. This approach lays the groundwork for not only 
victory, but also brings our troops home as soon as possible.

We owe it to our troops and their families to provide the necessary 
oversight to ensure any new strategy is successful, while at the same 
time giving our troops confidence that Congress will not cut off their 
funding to settle policy disputes while they are separated from their 
families by distance and danger. I continue to stand, ready, willing 
and able to contribute to that oversight.