# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `265f9366597c1d198849ad9e47d78689`
`Mr. BIDEN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. So folks, I must tell you, I am getting frustrated with 
all the tactical--not strategic--suggestions that have been made with 
how to deal with this war. Because if you put together a basic 
syllogism, the basic premise is what? There is no military solution; 
only a political solution.

So what yields that political solution? Can I guarantee the Senator 
from Minnesota, the Presiding Officer, that my solution will work? No. 
But I can guarantee--I will rest my career on what I am about to say--
that there is no other political solution being proffered that has 
any--period; not one ''being offered''--and none of the tactical 
solutions offered will, in fact, solve this problem, none.

I know you are all afraid. I know everybody who is running is afraid 
to sign onto a specific proposal. ''Afraid'' is the wrong word--
reluctant. Because then you become the target. You become the target. 
You offer a specific alternative, and it is easy to focus on whether 
your solution can work. If it is tried and failed, then you made a 
mistake. As the old saying goes: What do they pay us the big bucks for? 
Why are we here? Why are we here?

Let's stop pussyfooting around. Either vote for this political 
solution or offer another one or say you think there is a military 
solution or say you think it is totally hopeless, there is no 
resolution. Let's leave and hope for the best. But don't tell me you 
have a plan if it does not fall in one of those four categories. Don't 
tell me. That is disingenuous.

So, again, can I guarantee this will work? No. Every single day that 
goes by, absent an attempt to implement what I am proposing, or 
something similar to it, without it being attempted, makes it harder. 
Look, it is not often that Thomas Friedman, David Brooks, Charles 
Krauthammer, Henry Kissinger, Madeleine Albright, Les Gelb--I will go 
down the list--


agree on the same principle about the most fundamental, immediate 
foreign policy issue facing the United States of America.

I am open--I have no pride of authorship--I am open to amending, 
tweaking, changing, but I will end where I begin. The central, 
fundamental, animating principle of this concurrent resolution is: Iraq 
will not be governed from the center anytime soon, and I am not 
prepared for my son and his generation to continue to shed their blood 
in an effort to do that. I will not do that.

As we leave--and we will leave, as my friend from Virginia knows--as 
we leave, the only honest question that any President or Senator must 
ask himself or herself is: Do we have any ability to affect what we 
leave behind? If we do, we have a moral overriding, overarching 
obligation to the next generation to try to do it.

Because let me tell you something, I am out there, as the old saying 
goes, on the trail. The easiest thing to say is: I wash my hands, man. 
Out. It is--let me choose my words correctly--it is not an answer. It 
is not an answer. It is not an honest answer.

So I ask unanimous consent that recent supporting ideas relating to 
federalism--whether or not they use the Biden language--be printed in 
the Record.