---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `26668ac2afb309a926a7fdd8460d25a1`
`Mr. DURBIN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Washington for 
her leadership and especially to Senator Byrd from West Virginia, the 
Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee.

What we are considering on the floor of the Senate is not normal 
business, this is emergency spending. President Bush has come to 
Congress and said: We have an emergency in Iraq. Set aside whatever you 
are doing and deal with this emergency. He said: I am not going to pay 
for this. It is such an emergency, we are going to add it to the debt 
of America--not the first time President Bush has come to us and asked 
for that. In the 5 years plus of this ongoing war, President Bush has 
now asked us for $660 billion to be spent on the war in Iraq and the 
reconstruction of that country, $660 billion this administration says 
is such an emergency that we do not pay for it, we are going to spend 
it, put it on the debt of America and leave it to our kids and 
grandchildren.

Well, some of us believe that, first, Iraq has a responsibility to 
pay its own bills; this country has a surplus. Iraq, with all of its 
oil, has a surplus of almost $30 billion. Why in the world are we 
taking billions of dollars out of our Treasury, the hard-earned 
paychecks of American families at a moment when we are facing a 
recession to send over and rebuild Iraq?

Why would not the Iraqis spend their own money from their own oil 
first? That is going to be part of this in a later amendment. But to 
put it in perspective, this President says no. He wants $180 billion 
for the war in Iraq. We met in the Appropriations Committee, on a 
bipartisan basis. We said, as important as the war in Iraq may be to 
the Bush administration, we believe a strong America begins at home.

If there is an emergency in Iraq, there is an emergency in America, 
and we need to address that emergency. No. 1, we include in this 
amendment the Webb GI bill. You know what happens when a Nation goes to 
war, when America invades a country as we did in Iraq? I can tell you. 
We love our soldiers when we send them to war. Our hearts go out to 
them and their families. We honor them while they are serving in that 
war, some unfortunately losing their lives and some coming back 
injured. We honor them with our speeches and all of our attention.

Senator Webb, with this GI bill asks the basic question: Will you 
honor these soldiers when they come home? Will you make sure they have 
the education they need to go on with their lives or will they join the 
ranks of the unemployed after serving our country?

We know a GI bill works. It worked after World War II. Millions of 
returning veterans, women and men, had an opportunity to go to college, 
and America enjoyed the greatest prosperity in our modern history 
because we put an investment in people in our future.

Jim Webb, with this bipartisan amendment, does exactly the same 
thing. I tell my friends on the Republican side of the aisle, do not 
tell me how much you love the soldiers if you will not stand behind 
them when they come home. Do not tell me how much you honor our 
military if you will not honor them and their families by giving them a 
chance at a quality education.

Voting ''no'' on this GI bill will be remembered across America not 
only by soldiers but by many others. And that is not all. In this bill 
there is $437 million for VA polytrauma centers. Do you know why we 
need them? Because of traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress 
disorders, amputations. Our VA was not ready for this, all of these 
thousands of returning veterans with all of their problems. We put the 
money in to rebuild the VA so they can respond and help those veterans.

It also provides money for our communities and towns. In the city of 
Chicago, which I am proud to represent, we have had a painful year of 
gang violence. Over 20 schoolchildren have been killed outside of 
Chicago public schools by gang warfare.

We put money in this bill, $490 million, to give to police forces 
around America to fight the drug gangs, to fight the violence, to bring 
peace to our neighborhoods. I want peace in Baghdad, but I want peace 
in Chicago as well. We can spend some money on America if we can find 
$180 billion to spend in Iraq.

We also provide money for the Americans who are out of work. We are 
facing a recession. We have millions of Americans who cannot find a 
job. This bill provides them an extension of unemployment insurance so 
they can keep their families together. Is there a higher priority? Is 
there a higher family value?

Let me also tell you, this bill provides assistance which is 
essential for health care for the poorest people in America; families 
who are struggling to get by, many of them going to work with no health 
insurance whatsoever. This bill provides assistance through Medicaid 
and Medicare. So if you believe a strong America begins at home, if you 
believe we have to honor our soldiers not only when they are at war but 
when they return, there is only one vote that can be cast. It is a 
''yes'' vote for the pending amendment.