---
---

# LIEUTENANT TODD JASON BRYANT POST OFFICE
## `266df89b9d74d3b3f5d60bbb38bc9096`
`Mr. DREIER — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as a proud cosponsor of H.R. 
988, the Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant Post Office Building Designation 
Act. Todd Bryant, a First Lieutenant in the United States Army, was 
killed in action on October 31, 2003 when his Humvee encountered an 
explosive device on the road between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 
years old. He is a recipient of the National Defense Service Ribbon, 
the Purple Heart, the Iraqi Freedom Medal, the Meritorious Service 
Medal and the Bronze Star.

Bryant, a 2002 graduate of West Point, was a member of Company C, 1st 
Battalion and 34th Armor Regiment of the 1st Infantry Division at Fort 
Riley, Kansas. Todd Bryant was deployed to Iraq in September 2003, a 
few days after he married his wife Jenifer.

Todd was born at the Long Beach Naval Hospital. Although he grew up 
in Riverside, he attended La Canada High School, located in La Canada-
Flintridge, California, one of the cities I am privileged to represent. 
While at La Canada High, he participated in the band and played for the 
Spartans football team. Todd came from a military family. His parents, 
Larry and Linda, prior to both working at Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 
La Canada-Flintridge, both served as Captains in the U.S. Air Force. 
His older sister Tiffany is a fellow West Point graduate and his older 
brother Timothy is a U.S. Marine. Although Todd excelled at being a 
solider, he also had other interests. He volunteered as a Congressional 
intern in Congressman Ken Calvert's office and he spent a summer 
participating in Service America at West Hills Elementary School in 
Bremerton, Washington in 2001. Learning more about Todd's interests and 
actions, one can not come away without noting the extraordinary impact 
he had on his friends, family and community. Today, his friends and 
family are still reminiscing about his humor, his love of In-N-Out 
burgers and his charisma.

Mr. Speaker, without question, Congress and the American people will 
continue to honor and remember the men and women who gave the ultimate 
sacrifice in this war. We hope this small act of memorializing 
Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant at the Rubidoux post office honors his 
memory and serves as a reminder to those in the community of the 
remarkable heroism of Todd and his family.
