# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `267a83a735bfcd7b86f7980ca5ef1221`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Thank you, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis and all Members of 
Congress.

Madam Speaker, as we honor Dr. King's legacy, let's remember it is a 
living legacy. We are not talking about cold prose and someone who is 
so distant from this moment. His ideas are so alive today and so needed 
today; that is why a month from now, I will be introducing legislation 
to create a Cabinet level Department of Peace, which takes Dr. King's 
vision of an America which organizes around principles of nonviolence 
and brings it to life in addressing the issues of domestic violence, 
spousal abuse, child abuse, violence in the schools, racial violence, 
violence against gays, police, community relations conflicts, and 
provides the resources so that we can deal with these as a living 
testimony to the love that we are showing today for Dr. King.

But he also was a visionary on the matter of war. He spoke many times 
warning this country about the danger of what happened in Vietnam. He 
spoke about the price that was being paid for the people of two nations 
in a speech at Riverside Church nearly 40 years ago. At Ebenezer 
Baptist Church he spoke about the interrelationship of all people, but 
how all people are one. It was that understanding of oneness that drove 
him to take a stand for peace.

Let us celebrate not only his life, but let the principles of his 
life continue to guide us as Americans. This is the moment to take a 
stand as we grapple with the question of Iraq.

I met with representatives of over 1,000 soldiers today who say it is 
time to get out of Iraq. Let us protect Dr. King's memory by standing 
for peace.

Madam Speaker, I would like to put into the Record Dr. King's speech 
from Ebenezer Baptist Church and part of his speech from Riverside 
Church, which need to be read today. I would also like to put in the 
Record a speech that I gave recently called ''Out of Iraq and Back to 
the American City,'' which shows that only when we take a stand for 
peace are we able to get the resources that we need to provide jobs and 
health care and education and retirement security and housing for the 
American people.

Make Dr. King's legacy a living legacy.












A Christmas Sermon on Peace




 Dr. King first delivered this sermon at Ebenezer Baptist 


 Church, where he served as co-pastor. On Christmas Eve, 1967, 


 the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation aired this sermon as 


 part of the seventh annual Massey Lectures.



 Peace on Earth. . . .



 This Christmas season finds us a rather bewildered human 


 race. We have neither peace within nor peace without. 


 Everywhere paralyzing fears harrow people by day and haunt 


 them by night. Our world is sick with war; everywhere we turn 


 we see its ominous possibilities. And yet, my friends, the 


 Christmas hope for peace and good will toward all men can no 


 longer be dismissed as a kind of pious dream of some utopian. 


 If we don't have good will toward men in this world, we will 


 destroy ourselves by the misuse of our own instruments and 


 our own power. Wisdom born of experience should tell us that 


 war is obsolete. There may have been a time when war served 


 as a negative good by preventing the spread and growth of an 


 evil force, but the very destructive power of modern weapons 


 of warfare eliminates even the possibility that war may any 


 longer serve as a negative good. And so, if we assume that 


 life is worth living, if we assume that mankind has a right 


 to survive, then we must find an alternative to war--and so 


 let us this morning explore the conditions for peace. Let us 


 this morning think anew on the meaning of that Christmas 


 hope: ''Peace on Earth, Good Will toward Men.'' And as we 


 explore these conditions, I would like to suggest that modern 


 man really go all out to study the meaning of nonviolence, 


 its philosophy and its strategy.



 We have experimented with the meaning of nonviolence in our 


 struggle for racial justice in the United States, but now the 


 time has come for man to experiment with nonviolence in all 


 areas of human conflict, and that means nonviolence on an 


 international scale.



 Now let me suggest first that if we are to have peace on 


 earth, our loyalties must become ecumenical rather than 


 sectional. Our loyalties must transcend our race, our tribe, 


 our class, and our nation; and this means we must develop a 


 world perspective. No individual can live alone; no nation 


 can live alone, and as long as we try, the more we are going 


 to have war in this world. Now the judgment of God is upon 


 us, and we must either learn to live together as brothers or 


 we are all going to perish together as fools.



 Yes, as nations and individuals, we are interdependent. I 


 have spoken to you before of our visit to India some years 


 ago. It was a marvelous experience; but I say to you this 


 morning that there were those depressing moments. How can one 


 avoid being depressed




 when one sees with one's own eyes evidences of millions of 


 people going to bed hungry at night? How can one avoid being 


 depressed when one sees with one's own eyes thousands of 


 people sleeping on the sidewalks at night? More than a 


 million people sleep on the sidewalks of Bombay every night; 


 more than half a million sleep on the sidewalks of Calcutta 


 every night. They have no houses to go into. They have no 


 beds to sleep in. As I beheld these conditions, something 


 within me cried out: ''Can we in America stand idly by and 


 not be concerned?'' And an answer came: ''Oh, no!'' And I 


 started thinking about the fact that right here in our 


 country we spend millions of dollars every day to store 


 surplus food; and I said to myself: ''I know where we can 


 store that food free of charge--in the wrinkled stomachs of 


 the millions of God's children in Asia, Africa, Latin 


 America, and even in our own nation, who go to bed hungry at 


 night.''



 It really boils down to this: that all life is 


 interrelated. We are all caught in an inescapable network of 


 mutuality, tied into a single garment of destiny. Whatever 


 affects one directly, affects all indirectly. We are made to 


 live together because of the interrelated structure of 


 reality. Did you ever stop to think that you can't leave for 


 your job in the morning without being dependent on most of 


 the world? You get up in the morning and go to the bathroom 


 and reach over for the sponge, and that's handed to you by a 


 Pacific islander. You reach for a bar of soap, and that's 


 given to you at the hands of a Frenchman. And then you go 


 into the kitchen to drink your coffee for the morning, and 


 that's poured into your cup by a South American. And maybe 


 you want tea: That's poured into your cup by a Chinese. Or 


 maybe you're desirous of having cocoa for breakfast, and 


 that's poured into your cup by a West African. And then you 


 reach over for your toast, and that's given to you at the 


 hands of an English-speaking farmer, not to mention the 


 baker. And before you finish eating breakfast in the morning, 


 you've depended on more than half of the world. This is the 


 way our universe is structured, this is its interrelated 


 quality. We aren't going to have peace on earth until we 


 recognize this basic fact of the interrelated structure of 


 all reality.



 Now let me say, secondly, that if we are to have peace in 


 the world, men and nations must embrace the nonviolent 


 affirmation that ends and means must cohere. One of the great 


 philosophical debates of history has been over the whole 


 question of means and ends. And there have always been those 


 who argued that the end justifies the means, that the means 


 really aren't important. The important thing is to get to the 


 end, you see.



 So, if you're seeking to develop a just society, they say, 


 the important thing is to get there, and the means are really 


 unimportant; any means will do so long as they get you 


 there--they may be violent, they may be untruthful means; 


 they may even be unjust means to a just end. There have been 


 those who have argued this throughout history. But we will 


 never have peace in the world until men everywhere recognize 


 that ends are not cut off from means, because the means 


 represent the ideal in the making, and the end in process, 


 and ultimately you can't reach good ends through evil means, 


 because the means represent the seed and the end represents 


 the tree.



 It's one of the strangest things that all the great 


 military geniuses of the world have talked about peace. The 


 conquerors of old who came killing in pursuit of peace, 


 Alexander, Julius Caesar, Charlemagne, and Napoleon, were 


 akin in seeking a peaceful world order. If you will read Mein 


 Kampf closely enough, you will discover that Hitler contended 


 that everything he did in Germany was for peace. And the 


 leaders of the world today talk eloquently about peace. Every 


 time we drop our bombs in North Vietnam, President Johnson 


 talks eloquently about peace. What is the problem? They are 


 talking about peace as a distant goal, as an end we seek, but 


 one day we must come to see that peace is not merely a 


 distant goal we seek, but that it is a means by which we 


 arrive at that goal. We must pursue peaceful ends through 


 peaceful means. All of this is saying that, in the final 


 analysis, means and ends must cohere because the end is 


 preexistent in the means, and ultimately destructive means 


 cannot bring about constructive ends.



 Now let me say that the next thing we must be concerned 


 about if we are to have peace on earth and good will toward 


 men is the nonviolent affirmation of the sacredness of all 


 human life. Every man is somebody because he is a child of 


 God. And so when we say ''Thou shalt not kill,'' we're really 


 saying that human life is too sacred to be taken on the 


 battlefields of the world. Man is more than a tiny vagary of 


 whirling electrons or a wisp of smoke from a limitless 


 smoldering. Man is a child of God, made in His image, and 


 therefore must be respected as such. Until men see this 


 everywhere, until nations see this everywhere, we will be 


 fighting wars. One day somebody should remind us that, even 


 though there may be political and ideological differences 


 between us, the Vietnamese are our brothers, the Russians are 


 our brothers, the Chinese are our brothers; and one day we've 


 got to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. But in 


 Christ there is neither Jew nor Gentile. In Christ there is 


 neither male nor female. In Christ there is neither Communist 


 nor capitalist. In Christ, somehow, there is neither bound 


 nor free. We are all one in Christ Jesus. And when we truly 


 believe in the sacredness of human personality, we won't 


 exploit people, we won't trample over people with the iron 


 feet of oppression, we won't kill anybody.



 There are three words for ''love'' in the Greek New 


 Testament; one is the word ''eros.'' Eros is a sort of 


 esthetic, romantic love. Plato used to talk about it a 


 great deal in his dialogues, the yearning of the soul for 


 the realm of the divine. And there is and can always be 


 something beautiful about eros, even in its expressions of 


 romance. Some of the most beautiful love in all of the 


 world has been expressed this way.



 Then the Greek language talks about ''philia,'' which is 


 another word for love, and philia is a kind of intimate love 


 between personal friends. This is the kind of love you have 


 for those people that you get along with well, and those whom 


 you like on this level you love because you are loved.



 Then the Greek language has another word for love, and that 


 is the word ''agape.'' Agape is more than romantic love, it 


 is more than friendship. Agape is understanding, creative, 


 redemptive good will toward all men. Agape is an overflowing 


 love which seeks nothing in return. Theologians would say 


 that it is the love of God operating in the human heart. When 


 you rise to love on this level, you love all men not because 


 you like them, not because their ways appeal to you, but you 


 love them because God loves them. This is what Jesus meant 


 when he said, ''Love your enemies.'' And I'm happy that he 


 didn't say, ''Like your enemies,'' because there are some 


 people that I find it pretty difficult to like. Liking is an 


 affectionate emotion, and. I can't like anybody who would 


 bomb my home. I can't like anybody who would exploit me. I 


 can't like anybody who would trample over me with injustices. 


 I can't like them. I can't like anybody who threatens to kill 


 me day in and day out. But Jesus reminds us that love is 


 greater than liking. Love is understanding, creative, 


 redemptive good will toward all men. And I think this is 


 where we are, as a people, in our struggle for racial 


 justice. We can't ever give up. We must work passionately and 


 unrelentingly for first-class citizenship. We must never let 


 up in our determination to remove every vestige of 


 segregation and discrimination from our nation, but we shall 


 not in the process relinquish our privilege to love.



 I've seen too much hate to want to hate, myself, and I've 


 seen hate on the faces of too many sheriffs, too many white 


 citizens' councilors, and too many Klansmen of the South to 


 want to hate, myself; and every time I see it, I say to 


 myself, hate is too great a burden to bear. Somehow we must 


 be able to stand up before our most bitter opponents and say: 


 ''We shall match your capacity to inflict suffering by our 


 capacity to endure suffering. We will meet your physical 


 force with soul force. Do to us what you will and we will 


 still love you. We cannot in all good conscience obey your 


 unjust laws and abide by the unjust system, because 


 noncooperation with evil is as much a moral obligation as is 


 cooperation with good, and so throw us in jail and we will 


 still love you. Bomb our homes and threaten our children, 


 and, as difficult as it is, we will still love you. Send your 


 hooded perpetrators of violence into our communities at the 


 midnight hour and drag us out on some wayside road and leave 


 us half-dead as you beat us, and we will still love you. Send 


 your propaganda agents around the country, and make it 


 appear that we are not fit, culturally and otherwise, for 


 integration, and we'll still love you. But be assured that 


 we'll wear you down by our capacity to suffer, and one day 


 we will win our freedom. We will not only win freedom for 


 ourselves; we will so appeal to your heart and conscience 


 that we will win you in the process, and our victory will 


 be a double victory.''



 If there is to be peace on earth and good will toward men, 


 we must finally believe in the ultimate morality of the 


 universe, and believe that all reality hinges on moral 


 foundations. Something must remind us of this as we once 


 again stand in the Christmas season and think of the Easter 


 season simultaneously, for the two somehow go together. 


 Christ came to show us the way. Men love darkness rather than 


 the light, and they crucified him, and there on Good Friday 


 on the cross it was still dark, but then Easter came, and 


 Easter is an eternal reminder of the fact that the truth-


 crushed earth will rise again. Easter justifies Carlyle in 


 saying, ''No lie can live forever.'' And so this is our 


 faith, as we continue to hope for peace on earth and good 


 will toward men: let us know that in the process we have 


 cosmic companionship.



 In 1963, on a sweltering August afternoon, we stood in 


 Washington, D.C., and talked to the nation about many things. 


 Toward the end of that afternoon, I tried to talk to the 


 nation about a dream that I had had, and I must confess to 


 you today that not long after talking about that dream I 


 started seeing it turn into a nightmare. I remember the first 


 time I saw that dream turn into a nightmare, just a few weeks 


 after I had talked about it. It was when four beautiful, 


 unoffending, innocent Negro girls were murdered in a church 


 in Birmingham, Alabama. I watched that dream turn into a 


 nightmare as I moved through the ghettos of the nation and 


 saw my black brothers and sisters perishing on a lonely 


 island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material 


 prosperity, and saw the nation doing nothing to grapple with 


 the Negroes' problem of poverty. I saw that dream turn into a 


 nightmare as I watched my black brothers and sisters in the 


 midst of anger and understandable outrage,




 in the midst of their hurt, in the midst of their 


 disappointment, turn to misguided riots to try to solve that 


 problem. I saw that dream turn into a nightmare as I watched 


 the war in Vietnam escalating, and as I saw so-called 


 military advisors, sixteen thousand strong, turn into 


 fighting soldiers until today over five hundred thousand 


 American boys are fighting on Asian soil. Yes, I am 


 personally the victim of deferred dreams, of blasted hopes, 


 but in spite of that I close today by saying I still have a 


 dream, because, you know, you can't give up in life. If you 


 lose hope, somehow you lose that vitality that keeps life 


 moving, you lose that courage to be, that quality that helps 


 you go on in spite of all. And so today I still have a dream.



 I have a dream that one day men will rise up and come to 


 see that they are made to live together as brothers. I still 


 have a dream this morning that one day every Negro in this 


 country, every colored person in the world, will be judged 


 on the basis of the content of his character rather than 


 the color of his skin, and every man will respect the 


 dignity and worth of human personality. I still have a 


 dream that one day the idle industries of Appalachia will 


 be revitalized, and the empty stomachs of Mississippi will 


 be filled, and brotherhood will be more than a few words 


 at the end of a prayer, but rather the first order of 


 business on every legislative agenda. I still have a dream 


 today that one day justice will roll down like water, and 


 righteousness like a mighty stream. I still have a dream 


 today that in all of our state houses and city halls men 


 will be elected to go there who will do justly and love 


 mercy and walk humbly with their God. I still have a dream 


 today that one day war will come to an end, that men will 


 beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into 


 pruning hooks, that nations will no longer rise up against 


 nations, neither will they study war any more. I still 


 have a dream today that one day the lamb and the lion will 


 lie down together and every man will sit under his own 


 vine and fig tree and none shall be afraid. I still have a 


 dream today that one day every valley shall be exalted and 


 every mountain and hill will be made low, the rough places 


 will be made smooth and the crooked places straight, and 


 the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh 


 shall see it together. I still have a dream that with this 


 faith we will be able to adjourn the councils of despair 


 and bring new light into the dark chambers of pessimism. 


 With this faith we will be able to speed up the day when 


 there will be peace on earth and good will toward men. It 


 will be a glorious day, the morning stars will sing 


 together, and the sons of God will shout for joy.