---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `26844a4d007d2cbb2d4b6fd9b11f5a36`
`Mr. REED — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, we must change the mission of our military 
forces in Iraq. We have to concentrate on training Iraqi forces so they 
can assume the burden of this hostility. We have to continue our 
efforts in counterterrorism to strike those international terrorists 
wherever they may be. And we have to protect our forces at all times. 
But we cannot continue an open-ended commitment and involvement in a 
civil war. That is essentially what the President is urging us to do.

This appropriations bill provides more resources for our military 
than was requested. It also funds extremely important domestic 
concerns, including the Veterans' Administration, so we can keep faith 
with those veterans who have served and will continue to serve; and 
also, as my colleague from Louisiana pointed out, we have to begin to 
reconstruct our gulf coast. It is ironic that we are pouring billions 
into Baghdad, helping them build all sorts of utilities, and still 
Americans languish along the gulf coast.

It also includes the Murtha standards of readiness on our forces as 
they deploy, to ensure that no American unit goes into the war zone 
without proper equipment, proper training, and appropriate personnel. 
The President has the ability to waive this under certain 
circumstances, so we are not unduly constricting his ability as 
Commander in Chief.

Then, of course, this legislation has benchmarks so that the Iraqi 
Government can stand up to their task. I think the one common theme 
that I have heard in this body is, ultimately, this is a political 
struggle and, ultimately, the Iraqi Government will make the decisions 
that are so important to the success of their efforts, which will allow 
us to begin a phased redeployment. But their record is very 
discouraging when it comes to their government.

Leon Panetta published an editorial a few days ago in the New York 
Times. He points out the Iraqis promised to achieve by the end of last 
year and the beginning of this year the approval of a provincial 
election law but, so far, no progress; approval of a law to regulate 
the oil industry and share revenues, and a draft is circulating, but it 
has not been approved by the parliament; approval of a debaathification 
law to reintegrate officials of the former regime and have a 
reconciliation, but there has been no progress; approval of a law to 
rein in sectarian militias, but no progress there either.

By March, the Government promised to hold a referendum on 
constitutional amendments. No progress.

By May, the Prime Minister committed to putting in place the law 
controlling militias, with no progress; the approval of the amnesty 
agreement, with no progress; and the completion of all reconciliation 
efforts. No progress.

If the Iraqi Government is unwilling to stand up to the demands they 
must face, then I think we can legitimately--and, indeed, we must--tell 
them very strongly that we will not support an open-ended commitment to 
that Government, that we will change our mission and refocus our 
resources.

It is interesting to me that our Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of State, those who travel to Baghdad, stand up and say this: 
Tell them what we are doing here is important, critical, and will 
happen, unless the Iraqis change. But in Washington, we are criticized 
for doing this.

I think the reality in Baghdad has to be the same as here. We have to 
move forward with this legislation to change the course, protect our 
soldiers in the field, and to allow a chance for success in Iraq.



I think we are all committed, we hope, to a policy that will lead us 
and the people of Iraq to a much better day. I believe supporting this 
initiative will do that.