---
---

# None
## `2696ab23627bdef6b1d94fcc69a45d6f`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, today I offer an amendment that 
will enable our Nation to more effectively plan and execute national 
security and interagency operations.

To enhance our national security, we must be able to effectively 
integrate the military and nonmilitary elements of our national power. 
This requires the effective integration of all agencies of the Federal 
Government, not only those with traditional national security roles. 
However, achieving highly integrated national security interagency 
planning and execution requires personnel who have the knowledge, 
skills and attributes to plan and participate in these interagency 
operations. At present, there is no permanent, institutionalized system 
for developing the skills and experience required.

Examples abound of the need for this change, and I will cite two 
briefly. My first relates to our ongoing interagency operations in 
Afghanistan, and I commend President Obama for his determination to 
pursue an integrated interagency approach to resolving that conflict.

As our national security community knows, helping the Afghan 
Government create a secure and stable society requires, among other 
things, that we assist farmers in growing crops other than poppies, 
which are used to produce opium. Unfortunately, the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture has never been used before now to provide personnel in 
support of operations like those in Afghanistan. Instead, the military 
has been required to fill the gap with people without agricultural 
experience.

While our soldiers are very adaptable, we would be better off if USDA 
were routinely engaged in overseas national security operations with 
other agencies, military and civilian, of the Federal Government.

Next I cite our experience in Iraq. In the early days of the Iraq 
occupation, there was no modern banking system in Iraq, and Iraqi 
security forces could only be paid in cash, which required them to 
leave their units and to spend days away from their units taking money 
home to their families. During this period, the deputy Treasury 
Secretary told me that if he was given the go-ahead, he was prepared to 
help Iraq establish a modern, electronic banking system which would 
have, among other things, enabled Iraqi soldiers to get their pay at 
home without leaving their units and ongoing combat operations.

If Treasury, and in particular a Treasury cadre of national security 
professionals, had been properly involved early on, the problem and 
rise of criminal gangs and militias could have been mitigated sooner, 
thereby contributing to increased Iraqi combat power, lightening the 
load on our troops during a very difficult period.

My amendment, simply put, would require the President to commission a 
study by an executive agency to develop national security professionals 
across departments of the Federal Government to provide skilled 
personnel for planning and conducting national security interagency 
operations.

It is critical that we achieve a transformation in national security 
education, training and interagency experience to produce national 
security professionals who are able to work seamlessly together. By 
requiring the President to commission such a study on an interagency 
national security professionals program, my amendment lays the 
foundation for that transformation.

I commend Chairman Skelton. He has spent a lifetime supporting 
defense


reforms going back to Goldwater-Nichols and championing these reforms 
to further integrate our national security tools moving into the 21st 
century.

I thank Ranking Member McKeon for his work on this issue during my 4 
years on the Armed Services Committee and continuing now as our ranking 
member on the committee.