---
---

# HONORING OLD HICKORY POST 77 AMERICAN LEGION AUXILIARY
## `26a41c3c44ed01163565c3d8a059e5f7`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 24 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating the Old Hickory Post 77 American Legion Auxiliary in 
Lexington, Tennessee on its outstanding work and accomplishments. 
Across the country, the women of the American Legion Auxiliary strive 
to promote American patriotism and responsible citizenship. This 
particular auxiliary in Lexington has fully lived up to the American 
Legion Auxiliary's mission to serve veterans, their families and their 
communities.

Chartered in 1933, the Lexington auxiliary was recently reactivated 
on January 26, 2008. Led by their current president, Julia McBee, the 
members of this auxiliary have accomplished a great deal in a short 
period of time. Only days after reactivation, the members of the 
Lexington Auxiliary organized a Valentine Project for the local 
National Guard Unit deployed to Iraq. A resounding success, the event 
raised enough money to send care packages to every member of the unit. 
These ladies have instituted various projects not only to promote the 
well-being of veterans and troops, but also to support the community as 
a whole, with special attention to local Lexington schools.

Please join me in honoring the members of the Lexington American 
Legion for their hard work, dedication, and unwavering patriotism. I 
wish to thank all the members of Old Hickory Post 77, including their 
officers and chairmen: Julia Annice McBee, Jo Ann Cody, Kathy Brown, 
Oneida Dangler, Mary Appell, Marcia Gilbert, Ruth Hurtt, Marene Snow, 
Jane Galey, Lutie Houston, Patricia Holmes, Venita Russell, Linda 
Lindsey, Denise Joyner, Hester Stitch, Diane Jowers, Lynn Lewis, Marcia 
Gilbert, and Janice Barker.
