---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `26a5898caf292bf5dddb6bc2a26a464e`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. No government today poses a greater threat to the 
United States, indeed, to the Middle East and probably to the world, 
than the Islamic Republic of Iran. We are all aware of the belligerent 
international behavior of the Iranian regime, its efforts to develop 
nuclear weapons, its use of Islamist terrorist groups such as Hamas, 
Hezbollah, and the Taliban, to undermine moderate governments across 
the Middle East, its designation by the United States State Department 
as the No. 1 state sponsor of terror and, of course, its escalating 
proxy war against American troops and Iraqi civilians and military in 
Iraq, where the Iranian Revolutionary Guard has been training, arming, 
equipping, and directing terrorists who are responsible in turn for the 
murder of hundreds of American soldiers and the murder of thousands of 
Iraqi civilians and soldiers.

What may, I fear, be less appreciated is that Iran's extremist 
terrorist behavior abroad is matched by equally extremist behavior at 
home. Just as the Iranian regime has been supporting the forces of 
repression and terror against the people of Lebanon, Palestine, Iraq, 
and Afghanistan, it is also escalating a campaign of repression and 
terror against its own citizens, the people of Iran. As the New York 
Times reported yesterday, the Iranian Government has in recent months 
''arrested prominent intellectuals, suppressed the Iranian student 
movement, rolled back social freedoms, purged university faculties, 
[and] closed newspapers.''

This assault on Iranian civil society has been well documented by the 
most prominent international human rights nongovernmental 
organizations. Amnesty International, for instance, reports that ''in 
recent months, the Iranian authorities have been carrying out a 
widespread crackdown on civil society, targeting academics, women's 
rights activists, students, journalists and labor organizations.''

Dissidents and democrats in Iran today are under attack by their own 
Government. The question before this


Congress is whether we are going to stand with them in solidarity or 
whether we will turn away our heads. This amendment would provide $75 
million in funds, the amount requested by the administration; in fact, 
announced by Secretary of State Rice. That announcement, I know from 
sources I have, was broadly heard and appreciated within the Iranian 
civil society dissident movement. The committee has recommended one-
third of that amount of money. This $75 million would go to labor 
activists, women's groups, journalists, human rights advocates, and 
other members of Iranian civil society. It provides Congress an 
opportunity to demonstrate that even as we condemn the behavior of the 
Iranian regime, we stand with the Iranian people, a people with a proud 
history who truly are, in my opinion, yearning to be free. That freedom 
is suppressed by the fanatical regime that dominates their lives today.

The alternative path before Congress, if we don't adopt this 
amendment, would be to cut the administration's request by two-thirds. 
At that level of funding, existing programs will not only be unable to 
expand, they will actually be cut back. In other words, at just the 
moment when the Iranian Government is engaged in an unprecedented 
rollback of the human rights and political freedoms of the Iranian 
people, the American Government will be rolling back its own programs 
to help defend those rights and freedoms. Why would we do this?

The report language of the Appropriations subcommittee, I say 
respectfully, says that ''the Committee supports the goals of promoting 
democracy in Iran,'' but ''it is particularly concerned that grantees 
suspected of receiving U.S. assistance have been harassed and arrested 
by the Government of Iran for their pro-democracy activities.''

I ask unanimous consent to be given another 5 minutes.