---
---

# None
## `26a83f671377db488b491b911ccdb09d`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act. Although this bill includes some 
very important provisions, like the private security contracting 
language I fought so hard to include, I am unable to support this 
legislation because it authorizes $41.8 billion to continue the war in 
Iraq. It is unfortunate that this funding was part of this bill because 
otherwise I would have been proud to vote for this legislation. 
Nevertheless, I am very proud of the provisions to increase oversight 
and transparency over private security contractors, which 
Representative Price, Senator Obama and I worked so hard to include in 
this bill.



This bill contains important provisions to regulate private security 
contractors, including nearly all of the provisions from H.R. 897, the 
Iraq and Afghanistan Contractor Sunshine Act, which I introduced in 
February to give Congress access to the basic information necessary for 
us to do our job of providing gravely needed oversight of private 
contractors. The Defense Authorization Act would give Congress access 
to information about contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan including a 
description of each contract, the value of each contract, the total 
number of personnel employed on contracts and the total number of 
contractors killed or wounded. I am happy to see these provisions from 
my legislation included in today's bill.

The series of lethal incidents involving private security contractors 
in Iraq over the past 2 months have made it crystal clear that we must 
provide oversight of private contractors. This National Defense 
Authorization Act would increase oversight by the Department of Defense 
and the Department of State by mandating that they create clear 
regulations to govern contractor conduct, investigate any violent 
incidents like the September 16th Blackwater shooting, and clarify 
contractors' use of force.

Further, any new contract signed 180 days after the bill is enacted 
would have to contain a clause saying that contractors must comply with 
the new regulations and that all contract personnel performing private 
security contracts understand that they must comply with U.S. laws and 
the laws of the host country, orders issued by the combatant command, 
rules on the use of force, and any investigation into violent incidents 
conducted by DOD. If they do not comply, their contract could be 
terminated. This will create a powerful tool that the United States 
could use to ensure that private security contractors follow the law 
and are held responsible for their actions.

The National Defense Authorization bill also goes a long way toward 
restoring troop readiness. It includes a badly needed 3.5 percent pay 
raise for servicemembers and prohibits increases in TRICARE and 
pharmacy user fees. The bill also includes the Wounded Warrior Act to 
address the problems experienced by wounded and injured servicemembers 
that became apparent earlier this year at Walter Reed.

I also support the increase in the number of visas for the brave 
Iraqis who have worked with the United States and have been targeted 
for their efforts.

While I cannot vote for the bill because it includes $41.8 billion 
for the war in Iraq without a withdrawal deadline, I would like to 
thank Chairman Skelton for addressing so many of my concerns about 
bringing accountability to private contracting and to the wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.
