# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `26aeec9f9c2463df87212471fe942d62`
`Mr. DORGAN — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wish to comment on a couple of issues 
dealing with the Energy bill this morning. We will be back on the 
Energy bill starting on Monday. Before I do, I wish to mention as well 
the Washington Post column by Robert Novak yesterday entitled 
''Dorgan's Poison Pill.'' Mr. Novak once again stops just about a page 
or two short of good research. He has the opportunity on the op-ed page 
of a major paper to make his case, and we are so seldom offered that 
same opportunity by the Washington Post that I thought I would at least 
use the floor of the Senate to describe accurately what Mr. Novak was 
trying to write about.

He talks about an amendment I offered to the immigration bill. He 
calls it a ''poison pill'' in the title, and then he says: Dorgan 
pushed his ''killer amendment'' by voicing the Great Plains populism of 
his own State. That is sort of sniffing down your nose at the Great 
Plains populism that exists in some parts of this country.

Let me describe what this amendment was. The immigration bill is a 
bill that is complicated, it is controversial, it is a very large bill, 
and it has a lot of moving parts to it. One part of the bill deals with 
the issue of bringing in guest workers--people who aren't now here, who 
are living elsewhere in other parts of the world--bringing them in to 
take American jobs.

Now, I have great difficulty with the immigration bill as it is 
written. My feeling about immigration is we have a problem with illegal 
immigration. That is true, we certainly do, and we ought to try to 
address that problem. I think the first way and the thoughtful way to 
address that problem is to decide we are going to provide border 
security and border enforcement--just do first things first. First of 
all, provide border enforcement, and then we can do the other things.

That is not what this bill does. This bill brings in about six or 
eight moving parts, and in order to sign up support for it--for 
example, in order to get the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to support it, 
they also include a temporary or guest worker program that says we have 
people who are not now in this country whom we want to bring into this 
country to take American jobs because we don't have enough American 
workers, they claim.

In fact, they put together this Byzantine approach that says guest 
workers will come in, they will be able to bring their family with them 
and stay for 2 years. They have to go home for 1 year, take their 
family home, and then they can come back for 2 more years, then go home 
for 1 year and come back for 2 more years. So they can be here a total 
of 6 years, with 2 years gone, and their family with them their first 
or second tour. And by the way, no one knows whether they are going to 
go home once they get here. Who is going to keep track of people coming 
in three times in 6 years for 2-year periods each of the three 
occasions?

I offered an amendment on that particular issue of guest and 
temporary workers who would come in to take these jobs. My amendment 
was very simple. It said: Let's sunset that provision after 5 years and 
try to understand what has happened as a result of it, what has 
happened to American workers as a result of bringing in all these 
temporary workers. Is there downward pressure on American wages? Has 
this hurt American workers? My guess is it will. What if 80 percent of 
the people who come in under the temporary worker program never leave? 
Then they are here as illegal immigrants. Maybe that ought to matter. 
Maybe we should sunset this in 5 years and take a look at it.

That was my amendment. It passed by one vote on the floor of the 
Senate and is described by Mr. Novak as the ''poison pill,'' the 
''killer amendment.'' That is unbelievable. I know where he got the 
language. He got the language from my colleagues here who were part of 
the ''grand bargain''--a group of 14, I think it was, who went into a 
room, reached a grand bargain putting together this Byzantine 
immigration bill, brought it to the floor, and behaved as if they were 
the only people out of 100 Senators who had any ideas. There are 14 of 
us who have this idea, they believed, and anybody who offers amendments 
would not have an idea that would be worthy of improving it; therefore, 
we must resist and oppose all amendments.

That is the way this immigration bill went on the floor of the 
Senate. But it was not a poison pill or a killer amendment or anything 
of the sort. It was a kind of commonsense approach to try to say: Why 
don't we do this the right way?

Mr. Novak points to my colleague, Senator Kyl from Arizona, in his 
column. It is interesting. Mr. Kyl was part of the grand compromise 
and, of course, described my amendment, I think, as a ''poison pill.'' 
Mr. Kyl voted for the identical amendment 1 year ago. I offered the 
identical amendment 1 year ago, and Senator Kyl voted for it then.

But those are just facts that Mr. Novak missed because, as I said, 
when you stop one page short of good research, you are not going to 
have the entire story.


















 Energy


Mr. President, let me now talk just a bit about the Energy bill. This 
is important.

We live on this little old planet, we circle the Sun, and we have 
about 6.4 billion neighbors. We live in this little portion of the 
planet called the United States, and we have built an economy that is 
extraordinary. We have expanded the middle class, created an economic 
engine that is almost unparalleled on this Earth.

In this planet we stick little straws and suck out oil. We suck out 
about 84 to 85 million barrels of oil every single day. One-fourth of 
that oil must come to the United States and be used here because we 
need it. We use one-fourth of all the oil every day that is pulled out 
of this earth, and 60 percent of the oil we use in this country comes 
from outside of our country. So we use one-fourth of the oil on the 
Earth every day, and over 60 percent of it comes from elsewhere. It 
comes from the Saudis--Saudi Arabia--Kuwait, Iraq, and Venezuela. Some 
troubled parts of the world--very troubled parts of the world--produce 
a substantial portion of the oil we need for our economy to work. If, 
God forbid, one morning we woke up and terrorists had interrupted the 
pipeline of oil to our country from troubled parts of the world, our 
economy would be flat on its back, and that is reason we have an energy 
bill on the floor of the Senate.

I think this is the first time we have debated the Energy bill in 
which we have come to an intersection in understanding that energy and 
climate change are intertwined, energy and climate change meet at the 
same intersection.

So we discuss all of these things. We discuss renewable electricity 
standards. Should we require that 15 percent of all electricity 
produced in this country be produced with renewable energy--wind 
energy, biomass, geothermal, solar energy? I believe the answer is yes. 
I feel very strongly about that. We will have a vote on that next week, 
and I think it will be very close.

Standards that would increase the efficiency of automobiles, we will 
have a vote on that, and it will be very close. We haven't had a change 
in the CAFE standards for automobiles for 25 years--25 years. 
Everything else about an automobile has changed. There is more 
computing power in a new automobile than there was on the lunar landing 
that put Neil Armstrong on the surface of the Moon. There is more 
computing power in one new car than was in the lunar landing. 
Everything has changed--cup holders, music systems, keyless entry--
everything has changed about these vehicles except efficiency.

My wife purchased an automobile some years ago. She purchased an 
automobile that had a certain mileage standard on the window sticker. 
After 10 years, she was going to buy another car, and she looked at the 
new version,


the new car version of exactly what she purchased 10 years earlier. The 
mileage standard on the new car, 10 years later, was identical to the 
mileage standard of the car she had purchased, identical. Everything 
about the car had changed--the color, the look, I am sure the springs, 
the suspension--almost everything was changed, and it has cup holders 
and a better music system and keyless entry.

By the way, all those car companies opposed seatbelts and airbags and 
have always opposed CAFE standards.

But the point is, regarding efficiency, nothing is changing. So the 
question is this: If we are consuming all of this oil--much of it from 
troubled parts of the world--because we have such an oil-intensive 
economy and we want to be less dependent on the Saudis, Kuwaitis, and 
others, and 70 percent of our oil is used in vehicles, then don't we 
have to insist that this change and that vehicles become more 
efficient?

The automobile industry is doing full-page newspaper ads in my 
State--and I assume other States as well--telling people things about 
the proposal on the floor of the Senate that just aren't true--just not 
so. I think it was Will Rogers who said:




 It is not what he knows that bothers me so much, it's what 


 he says he knows for sure that just ain't so.


Well, some of the advertising that is going on around the country is 
just wrong. They have these screaming ads saying somebody is going to 
take your pickup truck away. It is not true. The new CAFE standards--or 
any efficiency standards--aren't like the old ones where if you produce 
too many pickup trucks, you have to cut back on pickup trucks and 
produce far more subcompacts. That is not the case.

These new approaches say that for every class of vehicle--and there 
are eight, including the big, heavy trucks--every class of vehicle must 
have efficiency. You must have increased efficiency for each class, not 
measured against another class. You must have increased efficiency in 
that class, and, yes, that includes pickup trucks. But those who are 
buying pickup trucks--and a lot of people are--ought to expect more 
efficiency. It is not a case where someone is going to say that you are 
not going to be able to find a pickup because we have to produce more 
subcompacts.

In my part of the country, it does occasionally--only on rare 
occasions--get cold. In North Dakota, when a rancher is going out in 
late March, and there is a blizzard and the wind is blowing 40 miles an 
hour and the temperature is 30 below, and he or she is out checking on 
the calves because it is calving season and they are trying to figure 
out what is going on--they don't want to go out in 40-mile-an-hour 
winds, with temperatures 30 below; that rarely happens, but 
occasionally--they do not want to go out driving in a Chevette or some 
subcompact car trying to figure out where they are going to move in the 
pasture to find those cattle. They want a substantial vehicle. So they 
want four-wheel drives and pickup trucks, and I understand that. That 
is why this CAFE or this automobile efficiency standard has been 
changed and changed in the right way, requiring all classes of vehicles 
to be more efficient. We don't measure them against other classes. 
Every class is required to meet greater efficiency standards.

So that will be debated next week. I know there are people who will 
come and oppose it because the automobile industry is taking a position 
of: Yesterday forever; let's just keep doing what we have been doing, 
and that will be just fine. It is not just fine as a matter of public 
policy for this country. This country needs a changed agenda with 
respect to energy, and part of that changed agenda is increased 
efficiency for automobiles and for vehicles.

With respect to the renewable energy standard, the renewable 
electricity standard, I regret and I have said from time to time that 
my political party--we are not as good at developing titles and labels 
as the other party. No matter what they come up with, they are good. 
They come up with something that is probably going to even cause more 
pollution, and they call it Clear Skies. They come up with something 
that will cut down trees, and they call it Healthy Forests. They are 
good at labeling.

We come up with something called renewable portfolio standard. We 
talk like twits. So we need to improve that. I call it homegrown energy 
or renewable electricity standards.

Let me describe what that means. It means we produce a lot of 
electricity, and we use it. We get up in the morning and the first 
thing we do is turn on a switch and that switch makes all things 
possible for us. It allows you to get hot water from a hot water 
heater, it allows you to plug in an electric razor, allows you to have 
the lights in your bathroom as you get ready for work. All of these 
things happen, but it is not automatic. Somebody is out there producing 
electricity in a coal-fired generating plant perhaps, or a generating 
plant that is fueled by natural gas.

What we are saying is, we want to set a standard of 15 percent of our 
electric energy to be produced with renewable energy. We now have 
unbelievable turbines that can take energy from the wind and turn it 
into electricity. Yes, you can advance your electricity issue with that 
or, an experiment I have in North Dakota that I am very excited about, 
you can take the energy from the wind, produce electricity, and with 
that electricity in the process of electrolysis, separate hydrogen from 
water and store hydrogen as a vehicle fuel; the wind to hydrogen, all 
renewable.

You can do the same with respect to the renewable electricity 
standard by requiring that 15 percent of the electricity we produce 
comes from biomass, solar energy, wind energy, geothermal, and more. We 
should do that. I know it is a close vote. I know some oppose that. We 
should do that because it will advance this country's interests.

I want to make one additional point. There are some who say: You are 
out here talking about increased efficiency standards, you talk about 
renewable electricity and so on--what about more production? In fact, I 
just had a person call me a few minutes ago who said the same thing. 
What about more production? I believe we ought to have more production 
of energy. I have supported, along with my colleague, Senator Craig 
from Idaho--bipartisan--the two of us have supported something called 
the SAFE Act, which proposes and calls for more production from that 
area offshore that has the greatest potential. No, it is not Alaska, 
not California; it is the gulf, the Gulf of Mexico that has the 
greatest potential.

I was one who helped open lease 181, which was just opened. But I 
believe much more can be done to increase the potential on the Outer 
Continental Shelf on the Gulf of Mexico. I support that. I filed an 
amendment--we have not called it up because I don't believe we have the 
votes for that--but Senator Craig and I are discussing that issue. I 
support increased production because I believe it is a necessary part 
of a balanced energy strategy.

I think all of these issues are important. I know there are some who 
probably do not think the Energy bill is as important as it really is, 
but it is at the root of this country's future economic opportunity. 
This engine of ours, this economic engine of ours cannot and does not 
work without energy, and our energy policy has not been a particularly 
thoughtful policy. We waste a prodigious amount of energy in every way, 
every day. We can make buildings more efficient, we can make 
automobiles more efficient, we can make appliances more efficient. We 
should produce more. We should conserve more. There is so much we 
should do in energy policy.

Senator Bingaman and Senator Domenici, who are the chair and ranking 
member of the Energy Committee--I am a senior member of that 
committee--but with their leadership they have put together a bill that 
is now on the Senate floor, and I think it will advance our interests. 
But we need to do a couple of things.

No. 1, we need to support the CAFE standards. By the way, that comes 
from the Commerce Committee on which I serve. Senator Inouye and 
Senator Stevens are to be complimented for what we were able to do in 
the Commerce Committee with respect to CAFE standards. Senator Boxer 
and the leadership of the EPW committee has also contributed to this 
bill. But we need to have a 15-percent standard of renewable fuels 
coming with respect to the production of electricity, and we need to 
support the CAFE standards that have come from the Commerce Committee.



I do not believe there are others who wish to speak. Let me do a 
couple of unanimous consents.
