---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `26bad1de245177d1676d17cafe2ee7e9`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) women and men who were killed 
recently in Khost, Afghanistan.

I recently returned from a House Intelligence Committee oversight 
visit to various locations in Europe and the Middle East. I met with a 
number of CIA officers, who provided me with exhaustive briefings on 
the December 30 bombing in Khost, Afghanistan.

That bombing killed seven of their CIA colleagues and wounded a 
number of others, several grievously.

Many others have offered words of praise for the selfless patriots 
who gave their lives for their country, and words of condolence to 
their families and loved ones. In memorial services and private 
funerals scheduled for the coming weeks, many more will surely do the 
same. I am honored to add my voice to this chorus.

I have met with hundreds of CIA professionals in my years on the 
Intelligence Committee. I can tell you that they are invariably brave, 
committed patriots who have dedicated their lives to the protection of 
this nation. Their jobs are difficult and dangerous in the best of 
times. In others--as the recent tragedy reminds us their missions 
require the ultimate sacrifice.

We owe the seven Americans killed in Khost our thanks and praise. We 
owe their families our condolences and our prayers. And we owe their 
colleagues our respect, admiration, and gratitude.