---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `26bd76f36a0bfb351fe2f0dce55a0b2f`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it is almost like that was a 
benediction of our Special Order here today. I just want to say, 
because you are going to have to yield back your time, that I want to 
not only commend those who work here in the House, the Clerk's Office 
and the Sergeant's Office and the Capitol Police and the folks from the 
physical plant, clerical staff and what have you, I appreciate it. It 
was a long night last night, and it has been a long week.

Also, Mr. Ryan, I think it is important, I want to thank you for 
coming down to the floor. I want to thank Mr. Sestak for coming to the 
floor, my good friend from Pennsylvania, who spoke in a very forceful 
way about this issue of Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I am glad that, on the Democratic side of the aisle, 
we still have the resolve that we had when we were in the minority. Mr. 
Ryan and I both have an opportunity now to serve on two wonderful 
committees.



I actually serve on two. He serves on the mighty and very powerful 
Appropriations Committee that he reminds me of constantly, and I have 
the opportunity to serve on the Ways and Means Committee and the Armed 
Services Committee, through waiver of the Democratic Steering 
Committee.

So the fact that we would come to the floor to say that we promised 
the American people that we were going to do things differently and 
that we had a new direction and still feel that it's our job to come to 
the floor and ask our colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle to 
work with us and work by us on these national security issues and the 
issues that are facing our children I think speaks to the level of 
intent that we had of saying, if you give us the opportunity to lead, 
we will lead.

So, with that, I thank Mr. Ryan for allowing me to be a part of your 
hour.