---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `26cbc4446706506b5efad2b5f435e038`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 12 January 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Thank you, Mr. President.



















Iraq


Mr. President, I want to briefly address the ethics bill before this 
Congress, but before I do that, I want to discuss an issue of paramount 
importance to my State, in light of the President's recent address, and 
that is the war in Iraq.

Sending more American troops is not the change of course the people 
of Minnesota and the American people called for in this past election, 
and it is not the change of course our military forces deserve.

We learned this week that 3,000 of the 22,000 troops added for the 
escalation are from Minnesota's National Guard. These Minnesota 
soldiers have already served honorably and well. They and their 
families were told they would be coming home in March. And I just 
talked to General Shellito, who heads up the National Guard in 
Minnesota. He said the hardest thing for them is they have been hanging 
on--in his words: ''hanging on''--through March. And now they are 
extended well into the summer.

These brave soldiers will be thrust even more deeply into the midst 
of Iraq's civil war. Haven't we asked our soldiers and their families 
to sacrifice enough?

The great burden on Minnesota and the rest of the country should 
remind us that what is needed is a surge in diplomacy and not a surge 
in troops.

With that, Mr. President, I would like to turn to the issue of ethics 
reform. I thank Senator Reid and the other Senators for their 
leadership and for making ethics reform a real priority for this 
Congress.

When I arrived in Washington last week, we pulled up in our family 
Saturn, loaded with my husband's college dishes and a shower curtain I 
found in the basement from 1980. But we brought a little more than 
dishes and a shower curtain. We, also, brought a commitment for change, 
something the people of our State--Democrats, Independents, and 
Republicans, from Worthington to Moorhead to Duluth to Rochester--
called for very clearly and loudly in November.

We also brought a Minnesota moral compass, grounded in a simple 
notion of Minnesota fairness--a notion that all people should be on 
equal footing in the Halls of Congress. But they cannot be on equal 
footing when their elected representatives are selling their votes for 
trips to Scotland or stashing away cash in the freezer. They cannot be 
on


equal footing unless this new Congress delivers real, meaningful ethics 
reform.

Ethics reform is an issue of great importance to the people of my 
State. Wherever I went, Minnesotans told me this was the kind of change 
that they wanted to see in Washington.

It is not an abstract political science issue. It affects real people 
in the real world. And today it comes out of the political science 
classrooms and into the Halls of Congress.

Ethics is woven into the very fabric of how our Government does 
business. Ethics reform goes to the very heart of our democracy, to the 
public trust and respect that is essential to the health of our 
constitutional system.

Recent scandals have cast a shadow over the legitimacy of the laws 
and policies that come out of Washington. The American public's 
receding faith in the integrity of our legislative process means that 
ethics reform is now central to every public issue that we will 
consider whether it is energy policy, health care reform, fiscal 
reform, or even homeland security.

The ability of Congress to deal credibly and forthrightly with these 
other issues depends on reforming our own ethical rules.

The long-term challenges that we face in this country are enormous. 
They include high energy prices and a growing dependency on foreign 
oil, health care costs that have spiraled out of control, global 
warming that threatens the future of our environment and our economy, a 
mounting national debt, and a growing middle-class squeeze.

I believe that there are solutions to these challenges. While not 
always immediate, these solutions are within our grasp. We can achieve 
energy independence by investing smartly and having some guts to take 
on the oil companies. We can get this country back on the right fiscal 
track and move forward to more affordable health care. We can deliver 
much needed and long overdue relief to the middle class. These are the 
things the people of Minnesota sent me to Washington to fight for. They 
sent me here because they have not yet seen the bold change of 
direction that we need to make these solutions happen. Instead, they 
have seen a Washington that too often serves big special interests at 
the expense of the middle class.

As a prosecutor, I learned firsthand how the well-connected and 
powerful do not face the same challenges as middle-class families. 
Every day, I would go into our courthouse in Minnesota with a mission 
to treat people the same no matter where they came from. When we 
prosecuted a wealthy, well-connected person for a white-collar crime, 
the courtroom was packed with his friends. I would get all kinds of 
calls. One of my favorites was, ''I know he stole $400,000 from a 
mentally disabled woman, but he is such a good guy; he shouldn't go to 
prison.''

But when we prosecuted someone who was poor or middle class, they 
were lucky if their mom could take the day off from work to stand 
behind them in the courtroom. My job was to even the playing field and 
to treat people the same no matter where they came from and who they 
knew.

That is still my job, and it is the job of this Congress. With that 
in mind, we need to change business as usual. Business as usual has 
created a playing field tilted toward special interests and against the 
middle class.

When our energy policy is drafted in secret meetings with the oil 
companies, we all end up paying more at the pump because they have 
failed to invest in renewable energy. When our health care legislation 
is written by the drug companies, we pay more because they have banned 
negotiation on prices. The people of this country know corruption when 
they see it. They saw this last November who was benefiting and who was 
getting hurt.

Business as usual doesn't only generate bad policy and wasteful 
spending, it also erodes public trust in the integrity of our 
Government institutions, our elected leaders, and the law-making 
process itself.

We the American people know what we want from Washington. It is this: 
a Government that is focused on doing what is best for our Nation and 
on securing a better and more prosperous future for the people.

There are so many people of good faith on both sides of the aisle who 
want to see this happen. Like me, they want to solve the great 
challenges of our day and to restore public faith in our Government. 
They know, as I do, that General Omar Bradley was right back in 1948 
when he said that ''we need to start steering our ships by the stars, 
instead of the lights of each passing ship.''

The new leadership that took the helm last week has already begun 
that change in course. They have introduced the ethics reform package 
at issue today as the very first bill to be considered by the new 
Senate.


It has been an honor to work with Senator Reid and with colleagues 
such as Senators Feingold and Obama, and with a great class of freshmen 
that includes the Presiding Officer, as well as Senator Tester who is 
here with me today, who share a passion for ethics reform. I am also 
pleased by the bipartisan support for this bill.

The proposals being offered will strengthen the original S. 1 in a 
number of important areas, including stricter travel rules, enhanced 
lobbying disclosure requirements, tougher restrictions on the revolving 
door between Capitol Hill and lobbying firms, and additional earmarking 
reform.

It is also my understanding that the Senate will thoughtfully address 
methods to improve ethics enforcement in debates and hearings over the 
next few months. Speaking as a former prosecutor, I have expressed to a 
number of Senators the great value of strong, sensible enforcement.

I am particularly gratified to see Senator Reid's amendment No. 4 
contain improvements to the Senate gift and meal rules. Under current 
law, anyone, including a lobbyist, is permitted to buy a gift or a meal 
for a Senator or a staff member up to a certain dollar amount. We need 
to make sensible changes to current law.

A decade ago, the Minnesota Legislature passed a strong, clear rule 
in this area. Lobbyists and those who employ them cannot give gifts or 
meals to State or local officials, subject to very limited exceptions 
that were meant to be just that--limited exceptions. For more than 10 
years, our State officials have abided by these rules, which are rooted 
in Minnesota values. I followed them as county prosecutor, and the 
results have been greater fairness in our democratic process and 
greater faith in our Government.

A rule banning gifts and meals from both lobbyists and those who hire 
lobbyists worked in Minnesota, and it can work in Washington, DC.

I want to make clear that my support for this rule is no reflection 
on my colleagues who have humbled me with their good faith, honor, and 
integrity since I arrived in Washington. Instead, I support it because 
the urgency of our need to restore public faith in Government has 
convinced me that clear, bright line rules are best. Such rules don't 
impose unreasonable constraints and do not adversely affect citizens' 
rights to petition their Government. But it does send a strong, clear 
message and an important signal to the American people that we are 
focused solely on representing their interests.

Last week at my swearing in a number of people and Senators from both 
sides of the aisle came up to me remembering the great Senators who 
have come to Washington from the State of Minnesota. It is humbling to 
follow in the footsteps of people such as Hubert Humphrey and Walter 
Mondale and Paul Wellstone. I was reminded many times this past week of 
the great things they did and said.

On Humphrey's gravestone, there is an inscription, a quote from 
Humphrey himself. It says:




 I have enjoyed my life, its disappointments outweighed by 


 its pleasures. I have loved my country in a way that some 


 people consider sentimental and out of style. I still do. And 


 I remain an optimist with joy, without apology about this 


 country and about the American experiment in democracy.


Like Humphrey, Mr. President, I, too, remain an optimist about this 
grand experiment in democracy. I remain an optimist because the people 
in my State and across the country have spoken up for change. I remain 
an optimist because the people in this Chamber are devoted to getting 
things done, and getting them done the right way. I remain an optimist 
because this American experiment in democracy has worked best when we, 
the American people, without apology, have demanded accountability.



This past November was one of those times. The American people spoke 
out for change. We need to answer them.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.