---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `26ccf0591132875d7bbb2d97dfb61555`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

It was on February 5 that the President sent his emergency 
supplemental request to the Hill for our consideration. Today, Congress 
is poised to finally send the President a package that he can sign.

The days, weeks, and months that have passed since the supplemental 
request first arrived on the Hill have been long on politics and short 
on substance. The Speaker and the majority leadership have spent 
valuable time at our troops' expense taking symbolic votes for the 
purpose of placating the Out of Iraq Caucus.

No political party has a corner on virtue, but the Democrat 
majority's reluctance to act swiftly on funding our troops clearly 
calls into question its commitment to our men and women in uniform.

As a longtime Member of the Appropriations Committee, I cannot recall 
a time that legislation has come to the floor under the committee 
chairman's name that the committee chairman apparently plans to oppose, 
and yet that is exactly what is occurring today.

My colleague, Chairman Obey, has indicated that he, like most of his 
caucus, is going to oppose the piece of this emergency supplemental 
that supports our troops, and he is going to support the piece of this 
emergency supplemental that funds political pork. Perhaps my friend 
from Wisconsin would be more comfortable in replacing his name with 
mine as the chief sponsor of the troop-funding bill.

The funding package before us today contains $17 billion in 
unrequested Federal spending. While a small piece of this funding 
addresses legitimate needs, its designation as emergency spending 
serves only one purpose: to make headroom for even more Federal 
spending in the fiscal year 2008 appropriations process.

I urge my colleagues to consider this: In the last week, four 
appropriations subcommittees have marked up bills for the coming fiscal 
year. Already, these four bills are $9.1 billion above the President's 
budget request and provide $21.8 billion above the 2007 enacted level. 
The committee has yet to mark up another eight bills. By the time the 
committee completes its work, it will propose over $20 billion in new 
spending beyond the President's request for next year. Between the 
emergency supplemental and the fiscal year 2008 bills, the Democrat 
majority has proposed spending an additional $37 billion.

I am deeply dismayed that this legislation was written without any 
consultation whatsoever with the minority. The Speaker's public 
pronouncement of a desire to work across the party lines, to say the 
least, runs hollow once again. What makes this more astounding is that 
Speaker Pelosi, Majority Hoyer and Mr. Clyburn, the distinguished 
majority whip, have been longtime members of the Appropriations 
Committee. They know that our committee process has historically been a 
bipartisan, or even, in its ideal form, a nonpartisan process. The 
majority party clearly made a decision early on not only to abandon our 
troops, but to abandon any semblance of bipartisanship in this process. 
That does not bode well for our remaining work this year.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge a ''yes'' vote on the Obey amendment, 
providing critical funding to our troops, which I gather Mr. Obey is 
going to vote against, and strongly urge a ''no'' vote on the Obey 
amendment providing $17 billion in spending unrequested and unrelated, 
I would describe as pork, to hurricane relief or the global war on 
terror. I gather Mr. Obey is going to vote against supporting our 
troops in the first instance and for pork in the second.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of the time.