---
---

# REMEMBERING SENATOR CRAIG THOMAS
## `26cc8acf24d9f3b93b778934a82e29f7`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I thank Senator Kyl for his good 
remarks. I thought perhaps tomorrow I would have the ability to focus 
on our


loss, but I will attempt tonight to say a few words about our 
colleague, Craig Thomas. I loved Craig Thomas. He was a person who came 
from the West. He understood where he came from. He understood the 
values with which he was raised, and he reflected those daily in his 
work in the Senate without ever bragging about it or talking about it. 
People just knew it. He was a man of character and integrity, a man 
who, as Senator Kyl indicated, never allowed personal ego to interfere 
with his commitment to serve his constituents and his Nation.

We had a visit to Iraq together not too long ago. Things had not been 
going well. He would ask penetrating questions. He would ask: When are 
the Iraqis stepping up and how much are they doing so? How long do we 
continue to put our troops at risk if they are not carrying their load?

He did it in a way that was sincere and raised fundamental questions 
of great importance.

Craig liked issues. He believed in a series of principles that made 
America great. He cared about those principles. For a time, he 
volunteered to come to the floor and be a part of a message team for 
the Republican Senate Members and spent a good bit of time at it--over 
a year or two. During that time he would articulate the basic premises 
and values that I think are foundational for the Republican Party and 
for most Americans.

I would say to our wonderful friend Susan, our prayers and our 
sympathies are with you. We can only imagine the loss you have 
sustained. We have watched in these past months the courage that Craig 
had displayed as he suffered from the terrible disease that he had. We 
saw the strength that he had, his refusal to stay at home but his 
determination to be at work. I had several examples of it in which I 
talked to him, and I said it is not necessary for you, you need to rest 
up. He knew he was susceptible to infection. But he was determined to 
fulfill his responsibilities as a Senator and he did so in a way that 
all could be proud.

He ran the race and he fought the fight. He served his country with 
great skill and ability. Our respect and love is extended to the family 
and our prayers are with him and the family.

I yield the floor.