---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `26d2183c977df84f9293cc9cac13dea5`
`Ms. HARMAN — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. HARMAN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, our colleague, Mr. Kucinich, should be commended for 
causing us to debate this issue on the House floor. This is a good and 
thoughtful debate, and I applaud especially the passionate statement of 
Patrick Kennedy of Rhode Island.

Madam Speaker, the war in Afghanistan has continued for 9 years, and 
the Obama administration continues to rely on the almost decade-old 
authorization to use military force which Congress passed, as we have 
heard, by an overwhelming vote a few days after 9/11/2001. Most who 
voted for it, including me, thought it was limited in time and place, 
but it became the basis for many actions taken by the Bush 
administration. In my view, the AUMF has been overused and abused as 
the basis for policy. It is time for us to consider whether it should 
sunset, and I believe that it should. But the resolution before us is 
not, in my view, the right place to address that issue.

After years of giving Afghanistan short shrift, tolerating rampant 
government corruption, and standing by as the Taliban reestablished 
itself, we now have a better strategy. That strategy, developed by 
President Obama late last year, includes a promised drawdown of our 
troops beginning in July 2011--or possibly sooner, according to Defense 
Secretary Robert Gates, who visited there earlier this week.

Let me be clear, I do not support the surge of an additional 30,000 
additional American troops in Afghanistan. I do support multinational, 
NATO-led efforts to clear, hold, build, and transfer to a noncorrupt 
Afghan Government control over parts of that country which are or could 
become training grounds for terrorists intent on attacking the United 
States.

The good news is that Pakistan is making greater effort to crack down 
on Taliban and al Qaeda terror groups on its soil, and those efforts 
are yielding results which should help stabilize Afghanistan.