---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `26f3c5c114b344996b846975de94233f`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding. I often get confused with my good friend from Pennsylvania.

Let's just touch for one minute, before I address the resolution on 
the question that our friends from the other aisle brought to us today 
and that Mr. Ryan was so good enough to talk about as well, that is 
this notion that in order to support the troops, you have to support 
the commander of the troops.

Well, having spent the last 2 years walking around talking to every 
sector of the constituents of the Fifth District of Connecticut, having 
a sense of where the American people came down in November on this 
question, the American people seem to agree with folks on this side of 
the aisle, which says this: There is a difference between supporting 
the troops and supporting the commander.

It is not an issue of patriotism necessarily, it is an issue of 
differentiating between the brave men and women who are over there 
fighting and dying for this country, and the man who sends them into 
battle. You can disagree with him and you can support the troops. You 
can do that out in the public as a matter of your private advocacy, and 
you can do that here on this floor.

That is where the American public came down on election day. They 
said loud and clear that day, ''We support the troops.'' They go every 
day to celebrations of those troops when they leave and when they come 
home. They go to much more somber ceremonies when they don't return 
home. And then on election day they come out and they say this: ''I 
support those troops. I don't support the man who put them into harm's 
way in the manner that he did that.''

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer 
for allowing us to be here this morning. It is late at night, and I 
will be brief in my remarks on the resolution before us.

Amidst the embarrassing overabundance of thorny foreign policy 
questions before this House currently, the question before this Chamber 
tonight is a fairly simple one: Do we agree with the Nation's military 
establishment, with the country's foreign policy community, with 
popular opinion, and reject this President's very wrongheaded plan to 
send 21,000 more troops into Iraq? Or do we remain silent in homage to 
Congress' past and allow this potentially disastrous escalation to move 
forward?

I think the question answers itself. And I am proud today to stand 
here in support of this resolution, and register my strong support of 
our troops and my strong opposition to escalating this war.

As we finish the debate tonight, I have been joined in these final 
remarks by some of the younger colleagues in the House of 
Representatives. And I think our unity is significant. I should remind 
other Members of this House that we are discussing the fates of many 
young men and women, my classmates, my friends, that are this hour 
fighting and dying in a country halfway around the world.



As younger Members we also serve as reminders that our duty here is 
not just to set policies to secure the safety of our country in terms 
of months or years but also in terms of decades.

Mr. Speaker, I have never fought in a war. I haven't shot another man 
on the battlefield nor have I been wounded myself. But I have been 
allowed the privilege to represent my constituents in this body because 
of the selfless bravery of those men and women around this country that 
made a different choice than I did, those that volunteered to go 
overseas and fight and defend this country. It is my duty to stand here 
today and thank them for their service, thank their families for their 
service, but also to be their advocate here tonight. Because the 
President is asking a cadre of our bravest young men and women to go 
house to house in Baghdad to root out an insurgency while he does 
virtually nothing to address the systematic causes of that insurgency. 
One hundred thousand troops may not be able to do the job that the 
President is asking 21,000 to do. Escalating the number of troops in 
Baghdad hasn't worked in the past and it most likely won't work here. 
Through his actions, the President is putting our soldiers' lives at 
unnecessary and unconscionable risk. There is a resolution in Iraq but 
it's a political solution. It's not a military resolution. And we owe 
it to our soldiers who have done everything that we have asked them to 
do to stand up to a President who would ask them to do a job that


they cannot and should not do. And beyond our duty to our current 
generation of troops on the ground, our responsibility, quite frankly, 
also lies with the generations to come. I decided to seek a seat in 
this House at a relatively young age because I was fearful that the 
decisions that were being made here today would have dramatic 
consequences for the world that my future children and grandchildren 
will grow up in. And I came here to begin a conversation that 
acknowledges that what will make this Nation safe for generations is 
not a Nation built on bullying, not a strategy based on scattershot 
military intervention but a comprehensive foreign policy that combines 
American might with American diplomacy. In order to secure this Nation 
for the next generation, we need to acknowledge that the most important 
question we must ask is not who do we attack next, but instead how do 
we reset our place in this world in a way that would prevent the forces 
who would do America harm from becoming stronger?

Mr. Speaker, we need to come to grips with the fact that we live in a 
world in which our own supposed allies create societies that foster 
extremism and violence amongst their most marginalized members. At the 
same time our Nation often strangely views cultural and political 
global detachment as a virtue rather than a weakness. This combination 
causes those that speak different tongues and those that worship 
different gods to look upon our great Nation with undeserved derision. 
This must change.

For my mind, we do that in three parts. First, we must pass this 
resolution in order to pivot to a much broader conversation. And in 
that conversation in the coming days and months, we must redeploy our 
troops both to home and to fights that are central to the war on 
terror, such as in Afghanistan. The gentlemen from the other side of 
the aisle are right. This battle with terrorists who may do harm to 
this country does not end no matter what happens on the ground in Iraq. 
But we must focus on our energies there. Lastly, we need to begin, 
going forward from today, to renew that multilateral spirit that once 
made this country great by proving ourselves in the future to be both a 
strong America and a humble America.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here today in support of this resolution.