---
---

# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `2706c399b394eaf565d88abd8a59b567`
`Mr. KIRK — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. KIRK. Mr. Speaker, foreign assistance works best when we 
accomplish with treasure what we would have otherwise had to do with 
blood. We have 68,000 Americans in uniform in Afghanistan. And they are 
helping our NATO allies and the Afghan Government to fight al Qaeda and 
the narco-Taliban. The narco-Taliban rests and rearms in Pakistan, in 
Quetta and the frontier area. This legislation gives us leverage and 
resources to encourage Pakistani resistance to the Taliban, the 
murderers of their own prime minister. By weakening the narco-Taliban, 
we improve chances for the Afghan Government to expand its authority on 
both sides of the border.

Now last year I served with ISAF's Regional Command South in 
Kandahar, Afghanistan, and we had regular reports of men and material 
moving from Quetta and Spin Boldak into Afghanistan to attack Afghan 
and NATO positions. This legislation enables us to work on both sides 
of this border against the narco-Taliban.

I commend our ranking member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Chairman Berman 
for making this a bipartisan bill, because that's the way our troops 
would want it. When the Taliban shoots at our guys, they are not 
shooting at Republicans or Democrats. They are shooting at Americans. 
And we are responding with unity.

We have no failure option in Afghanistan. If we ignore this problem, 
we risk repeating the mistakes so clearly described in the 9/11 
Commission Report. And with North America's tallest building located in 
Chicago, I believe it's our duty to absolutely prevent an attack from 
Pakistan or Afghanistan from ever happening again to the people of the 
United States. And I thank both of our leaders for bringing this 
legislation to the floor.