---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `2727dbbdc7b2b2227529c641aa9f2103`
`Mr. HOLT — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill.

If the President of the United States were a rational decision maker, 
a bill of this kind would not be necessary in the first place. 
Unfortunately, the President continues to cling to the illusion that 
the situation in Iraq will improve if only we're willing to sacrifice 
still more American lives. But we cannot solve Iraq's civil war any 
more than we could solve Vietnam's civil war 40 years ago.

By unleashing forces he does not understand and cannot control, the 
President has put our military forces in an impossible situation. Our 
troops cannot referee Iraq's sectarian conflict. The longer our forces 
remain in Iraq, the more they become identified with a government that 
is seen as increasingly repressive, and incapable--or unwilling--to 
take the steps necessary to resolve Iraq's internal conflict 
politically and peacefully. It is for all these reasons that it is past 
time for Congress to take steps in forcing the President to change 
course and withdraw our combat troops.

This course correction is far slower and more difficult than I would 
like. I share the frustration of many of my colleagues that the 
President is not moving quickly enough or boldly enough to end our 
military involvement in Iraq. I for one do not expect the President to 
provide the Congress with accurate assessments of the readiness of our 
forces or of the Pentagon's ability to meet some key needs of the 
troops.

Existing DoD readiness assessments already show that our forces are 
overworked and overstretched. My friend from Pennsylvania, Mr. Murtha, 
has included provisions in this bill that seek to limit the President's 
ability to deploy our ground forces to Iraq that are not truly ready 
and therefore less effective and more at risk. I believe zealous 
oversight of these provisions will be required if this bill becomes 
law. The President has shown he is willing to say or do anything to try 
to get his way when it comes to Iraq policy. He must not be allowed to 
politicize readiness assessments the way he has politicized 
intelligence assessments.

One bogus criticism of this measure is that setting a date certain 
for withdrawal is bad policy or micromanagement by the Congress. My 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle have been trotting this 
argument out frequently of late. Their position is undercut by the fact 
that they voted to impose time lines and benchmarks on President 
Clinton during our effort in the Balkans a decade ago.

By the way, I am pleased that this measure contains significantly 
increased funding for two critical areas of veterans health care: 
traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. We are only 
beginning to come to grips with the true costs of this conflict for our 
veterans, and we must take aggressive measures to ensure that they 
receive the follow up care they need to have the best possible chance 
of leading full, productive lives.

Mr. Speaker, we should be under no illusions regarding this bill. It 
is only the first concrete step in our effort to redirect our nation's 
policy in Iraq. Some weeks ago, we passed a non-binding resolution that 
pointed us in a


new direction with respect to the occupation and war in Iraq. That was 
the right thing to do, even though it was non-binding on the President. 
Similarly, this supplemental appropriation is beneficial, although the 
actual withdrawal of troops will require, I believe, additional 
forceful action by Congress to fulfill the provisions of this bill.

It is important to move forward with this measure now and force this 
President to make America's combat occupation of Iraq history rather 
than a limitless, open-ended future.