---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2728a39d29d5c9da782c5218ce8de79d`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, this morning we are going to be voting 
on two supplemental appropriations bills. Both of these bills would 
appropriate funds for our operations in Iraq--one would provide $50 
billion while the other would provide $70 billion. However, the key 
difference between the bills is very simple: the goal of one of the 
bills is to help our efforts in Iraq succeed, and the goal of the other 
bill is to make our efforts fail.

H.R. 4156, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday by 
a margin of only 15 votes, would mandate that the funds appropriated 
through the bill can only be used for a ''safe and orderly'' withdrawal 
of U.S. forces from Iraq and requires that a withdrawal of U.S. forces 
begin 30 days after enactment with a goal for a complete withdraw of 
December 15, 2008. If there is a reason the restrictions in this bill 
sound familiar, it is because they are. This bill employs the same 
jargon and ill-advised deadlines and withdrawal dates that the majority 
tried on the Defense authorization bill and fiscal year 2007 
supplemental appropriations bill earlier this year. Those strategies 
failed and, in the case of the appropriations bill, the proposed 
restrictions were removed after a Presidential veto and Congress then 
passed


a supplemental appropriations bill without surrender dates. These 
strategies will fail this time as well, and they will fail for several 
reasons.

First, in the midst of progress in Iraq--which no one denies--and a 
strategy which is working, it simply does not make sense to tie the 
hands of the commanders on the ground and force them to implement a 
strategy which--in the best judgment of our military leaders, our 
intelligence agencies, and the perspective of countless outside 
observers--will lead to the failure of our mission and the rapid 
deterioration of conditions in Iraq and for the Iraqi people.

Second, the type of restrictions and conditions in this bill exceed 
both the authority and the expertise of the legislative branch. For 
example, section 104 of the bill requires that no unit can be deployed 
to Iraq unless it is certified to be fully mission capable 15 days 
prior to deployment. Everyone will agree that our troops need to be 
trained, rested, and ready to execute the missions they are given. No 
one will disagree that the global war on terrorism has stretched our 
military and that our military is having to adapt to meet the 
challenges we put before them. However, to legislate readiness levels 
in a time of war is extremely unwise and--in my judgment--
unconstitutional. Although appealing at face value, such restrictions 
will hamper our commanders, ability to respond to crises and weaken 
their ability to take advantage of momentum. These types of 
restrictions would have compromised our effectiveness and success in 
previous military engagements with catastrophic results.

Third, the strategy which inspires these restrictions is--at root 
level--not a military strategy. It is a political strategy. The tactics 
being used by those who would enact conditions and deadlines like those 
in this bill are not based on any strategic thought or analysis--
instead they respond to a political base that is anti-war and refuses 
to acknowledge the progress we are making. Political strategies for 
fighting wars--like the strategy we are dealing with now--all have one 
thing in common--they result in failure. They are shortsighted, 
politically motivated, and--most importantly--do not serve any national 
security objective.

We are making progress in Iraq. The strategy our President and our 
military commanders have implemented is working. We are receiving 
regular updates from our leaders in Iraq which are not ''glowing,'' but 
they are positive. Most importantly, our leaders are adjusting their 
strategy in accordance with developments on the ground as well as the 
realities back home. They are doing this wisely, not hastily, or in 
response to opinion polls, but according to good judgment and a 
realistic assessment of what will work, what won't work, and what is 
appropriate at this point of time. H.R. 4156 will put a stop to our 
leaders' ability to do this. It will keep them from doing the jobs we 
have sent them to do, and that is to lead, to decide, to make 
judgments, and to report back to us on their effectiveness.

One week from today, I will be in Iraq. I will be spending 
Thanksgiving day with the troops and I am so looking forward to it. 
While we are there on this bipartisan trip, we are going to be getting 
the facts about what is happening in Iraq. I know militarily, as I 
stated, we are moving forward. That is what this bill is all about, 
supporting our troops. But at the same time, we know there are 
challenges there, particularly on the political side. The stability of 
the Iraqi Government is not where we want it to be, and we are going to 
be delivering a bipartisan message from this body that it is time for 
the Iraqi leadership to get their political Government in order and it 
is time for them to begin to exercise real leadership of the Iraqi 
people because we are not going to be there forever.

They now have the ability, because of the great work the men and 
women of the U.S. military have done and continue to do, to provide 
stability to that Government, and that message will be delivered very 
clearly.

For all the above reasons, I urge my colleagues to vote against H.R. 
4156 and in support of Senators McConnell and Stevens' alternative, S. 
2340.

Now I wish to move to the other vote we are going to be taking today.