---
---

# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
## `272a3c7104163a901167da881b04707d`
`Ms. FOXX — 11 December 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Well, I hope you will repeat that 22 more times tonight, 
and we need to be repeating that every single day. It's one of the 
issues I talk about over and over again, what are our priorities, what 
is the role of the Federal Government. As you say, we could be seen as 
a 51st State and be trying to deal with every single issue, but the 
Constitution is really clear about what our role is, I think.

As you point out, here we are in the middle of December, and what has 
this Congress accomplished? So much was promised by the majority last 
year when they were running for office and condemning Republicans for 
being profligate spenders and being irresponsible about the way we 
spent money. I will tell you that we can't hold a candle to what it is 
they want to do.



I think it was bad enough that Republicans before I got here 
ballooned the budget beyond where it should have been. And I have to 
say that I understand why the American people got upset with us last 
year, why we lost our majority. They felt that we were profligate 
spenders, as I said. But the Democrats promised something different. We 
are standing on our principles now, and they are stunned by that. We 
are earning our way back into the majority by living up to the image 
and the reputation that Republicans have had over the years of being 
careful with the way money is spent.

And, of course, today I heard other Democrats talking about the fact 
that this was going to be a cut in the budget. Well, only in Washington 
is a smaller increase than what they want considered a cut or level 
funding considered a cut. The increase in what the President asked for, 
and again I know you are going to go into much greater detail about 
this, a 3.1 percent increase in spending overall was requested by the 
President; and yet, the majority party is saying that the fault is with 
the White House and it refuses to negotiate, that the President won't 
negotiate with them. They say we are engaged in political posturing. If 
that isn't the pot calling the kettle black, I certainly have never 
seen that. They are totally surprised by the fact that the President 
and we are standing on our principles.

They think they can get by with simply increasing spending. They 
asked for $22 billion plus a lot of money in emergency spending; so 
then they come back and say, well, we will just split the difference. 
It will only be $11 billion and you should compromise with us. And the 
fact that we don't want to increase spending that much more over the 
3.1 percent requested by the President stuns them. So the way they get 
around it is, here we are again the middle of December, and they have 
not passed the appropriations bills that we should have passed. And I 
want to talk some about what they promised they would do and what they 
have done. And we have compiled a list of promises.

On November 8 of last year, Speaker-elect Pelosi said: Democrats are 
prepared to govern and ready to lead.

Here we are, only one appropriations bill that has passed, and that 
is the Defense bill. Thank goodness that has happened.

Another Democratic promise: open, honest, and ethical Congress. 
Speaker-elect Pelosi: we will make this the most honest, ethical, and 
open Congress in history.

And what do we get? We get bills brought on the floor at the last 
minute, thousand-page bills. We get no time to read them, and we are 
asked to vote on them.

We are also told by the Blue Dogs and by others that they believe in 
something called PAYGO. Now, PAYGO, they would have you believe, is a 
way for us to get back fiscal responsibility. Well, I want to say that 
if you look up PAYGO in the dictionary, it means new taxes. That is 
what PAYGO means to them, new taxes. It doesn't mean cutting spending. 
And it only applies to a very small part of our budget, but they want 
to try to fool the American people into thinking that it means 
something different than what it means.

They criticize the Senate for having passed an AMT bill last week, 
which is a clean bill. It simply delays the increase in taxes that 
would go to about 23 million Americans, something they have never paid. 
And to the House, the fiscally responsible way to do this is to add new 
taxes to other Americans to, quote, pay for, that is, offset, taxes 
that have never been paid by another group of Americans.

That is some of the most twisted logic that I have ever heard in my 
entire life. I know that these people never could have taken logic in 
high school or in college.

They also promised no more borrowing from Social Security. But what 
that means is that the money that is currently being spent from the 
Social Security fund will not be spent from the Social Security fund. 
But that is not what they are doing. They are spending that and a whole 
lot more. And Rob Andrews last year, or this year, promised that we 
would not borrow any more money from the Social Security fund. Every 
one of their promises has been broken, and they are taking us down a 
very fiscally irresponsible budget.

The energy bill that was passed last week is a no-energy bill. It 
included nothing to increase domestic energy production. As Christmas 
approaches, 5,000 troops are going to return from Iraq; but they are 
holding hostage the bipartisan legislation to fund key benefits for 
them and their families. It has


been 6 months since the House overwhelmingly passed the veterans and 
troops funding bill and 3 months since the Senate did the same, but 
they have put that bipartisan bill into this omnibus bill that we are 
going to be dealing with, which will have billions in wasteful, 
unrelated pork.

We are seeing a tremendous problem here with only one of the 12 
appropriations bills passed, a year wasted while they have brought 
before us unnecessary bills to vote on and while they have voted 41 
times on measures to withdraw from Iraq, and they have let the 
important work of this Congress go by the by.

I hope again that the American people are paying close attention and 
reading between the lines on the things that they are saying, and I am 
going to yield back to my colleague from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett).