---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `274bf799638a8061a9fb62a55f780d50`
`Mr. KERRY — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, over the first 9 years of this new century, 
we have learned a lot about national security. We learned the hard way 
in 2001. Since then, with two wars, one in Afghanistan and one in 
Pakistan, and also with the global economic crisis we face today, we 
understand the degree to which in a globalized world our problems are 
interconnected. Ultimately, our security is interconnected. We are 
currently endangered by weak states and failed states as well as by 
strong states because those weak and failed states become places where 
terrorism can flourish. We are endangered also by diseases that know no 
borders, by climate change half a world away. We are endangered when we 
allow chaos and crisis to create conditions for ideologies of radical 
hatred and violence to take root.

It is clear to all Members, who are, all of them, no matter what 
committee on which they serve, forced to think hard about how to 
protect our country, that it requires a lot more than just a strong 
military in order to provide that protection. It requires, above all, 
in this new world in which we live, a strengthened commitment to 
diplomacy and to development. To put this as simply and as bluntly as 
possible, that is why passing a robust foreign affairs budget is a 
matter not only of America's world leadership but also of our practical 
national security at home.

I call to the attention of my colleagues the words of Secretary of 
Defense Bob Gates spoken almost a year and a half ago in Kansas where 
he gave a speech while serving as President Bush's Secretary of 
Defense. What he said there is the following:




 What is clear to me is that there is a need for a dramatic 


 increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national 


 security--diplomacy, strategic communication, foreign 


 assistance, civic action, and economic reconstruction and 


 development.


The other day, I was told the story of our National Security Adviser, 
former Marine Commandant Jim Jones, who was commenting how we have 
powerful, enormous ships off the shores of Lebanon, but Hezbollah is 
building schools and building homes and winning the hearts and minds of 
people in that divided and volatile country by doing so. In effect, he 
described a situation where, as powerful as our military is, we are not 
able to win the contest for ideas at the center of security issues 
today.

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, our former colleague, testified 
in her confirmation the following:




 The relatively small but important amount of money we do 


 spend on foreign aid is in the best interests of the American 


 people and promotes our national security and advances our 


 interests and reflects our values.


When our soldiers and generals join our top diplomats in demanding 
increased civilian capacity and increased civilian funding, even in the 
midst of this economic crisis, that is when you know there is not only 
a growing consensus, there is a sense of urgency behind the 
strengthening of our civilian mission.

We just had an elaborate, long period where I think three studies 
were commissioned by President Bush, and then President Obama 
recommissioned another evaluation of what is happening in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan. It is clear that we cannot achieve our objectives unless 
we have the kind of robust budget in the foreign affairs account 
President Obama asked for. Regrettably, that is not what the budget 
resolution currently calls for, even when we add the supplemental 
budgets to it. It falls about $4 billion short from the $53.8 billion 
the President asked for.

I believe that returning diplomacy and development to their rightful 
place is not going to be achieved by talking about it. It is going to 
take money to drive civilian foreign policy. If it keeps us safer, and 
it is the consensus of our military and our diplomats that it does 
that, then that is money well spent. Full funding of the President's 
international affairs budget is a vital step toward greater civilian 
capacity.

I urge colleagues to support this amendment. Senator Lugar, Senators 
Leahy, Voinovich, Durbin, Kaufman, Menendez, Dodd, Feinstein, Brown, 
Sanders, Lieberman, Casey, and Corker have all joined together to 
cosponsor this amendment. We ask for the approval of the Senate to add 
$4 billion worth of funding to the President's fiscal year 2010 
international affairs budget request for the function 150 account. 
There is an offset. The offset that would pay for this transfer would 
come from the function 920 account.

The reality is that we are just not doing enough today to invest in 
the vital components of both diplomacy and development. I was recently 
in the Middle East, in Egypt and Jordan and in the West Bank and Israel 
and Syria, Lebanon. I saw firsthand the degree to which people we 
support in many ways are struggling to push back against enormous 
spending by Iran and other actors who seek to destabilize the region. 
If the United States talks about democracy and doesn't support people 
in the same way the people trying to disrupt it do, we lose our 
credibility and, more importantly, we walk away from people who are 
literally putting their lives on the line to live up to the standards 
we have set and the beliefs we have espoused so powerfully.

It is extraordinary to me that the funding for the Department of 
Defense today, with all of these restraints we see on its ability to 
achieve our goals, as powerful as we know it is and as much as we 
admire the sacrifices and the extraordinary capability of our modern 
military--the fact is, we spent over half a trillion dollars on it. 
Then in 2008, the Army added about 7,000 soldiers to the total. I 
supported that. I believed we needed to do that to relieve pressure on 
the current deployments. But 7,000 soldiers is more people than serve 
in the entire Foreign Service every year all the time. The fact is, 
1,100 Foreign Service officers could be hired for the cost of a single 
C-17 military cargo plane, and $4 billion, which is what we are looking 
for here, is less than 2 percent of what the Government has given to 
AIG over the course of the last year and a half.

This is a vital context to put this discussion into. We have to 
decide around here what is really important to us. What really makes a 
difference to the security and safety of the American people? The 
President requested $53.8 billion in this year to fund next year's 
budget. That is an increase of 8 percent over last year's funding level 
of 49.8.

Why is this so important? Well, first of all, let me put this in 
context, if I can. The total request of the President for this entire 
context of America's security comes to about 1.4 percent of our whole 
budget. In fact, if you break out the entire national security budget, 
which is our defense, homeland security, all the components of 
security, you are only talking about 6.8 percent of the entire national 
security budget of our country for some of the most important things 
that prevent people from becoming terrorists or from being able to 
engage in their terrorist acts with impunity.

Some people try to assert that the President's request has increased 
41 percent from last year's total of $38 billion. Let me say very 
clearly, right now, that is not accurate. The figure of $38 billion 
does not include last year's supplemental appropriations. And those 
supplemental appropriations raised the total to about $50 billion.

What President Obama did was break the practice of past Presidents of 
sending in a phony half budget or a three-quarter budget and then we do 
the rest of it through the supplementals. He decided the American 
people ought to see


it as it is, they ought to know what we are doing, we ought to make the 
request we need. So he put in the request for the $53 billion because 
that is, in fact, reflecting what we actually spent last year, plus 
what we need to do for Afghanistan and Pakistan in this year. This is a 
more straightforward way of doing business, frankly. Rather than hiding 
the amount of money or massaging the spending figures by tucking extra 
spending into the supplemental bills, President Obama has been up front 
and open, and he has put it into one bill and says: Here is what I 
need. That is why my colleague, the chairman of the Budget Committee, 
who labors unbelievably hard under these difficult circumstances to 
make all this work--and I respect him enormously in those efforts--has 
praised President Obama's approach in this openness.

So the real question is sort of, What is this $4 billion going to get 
us? What is the difference it is going to make? First of all, we have a 
vital new package the President announced yesterday that Senator Lugar 
and I will be introducing in a few days to provide additional 
assistance for Pakistan and Afghanistan. The $4 billion is going to 
help build civilian capacity and put our diplomats back on the front 
lines of American foreign policy. It will provide lifesaving treatment 
for people with HIV/AIDS and continue the program that was perhaps the 
single most successful program of the Bush administration, which is the 
PEPFAR efforts in Africa. This $4 billion will help make people all 
over the world safer and in the process help keep America safer.

Ultimately, these kinds of efforts are the key to the strategy in 
Afghanistan. Our on-the-ground ability to be able to win, hold, and 
build is the whole strategy to be able to win people back over to us 
and prevent the Taliban from supplanting or filling the vacuum that 
currently exists.

We need to reverse years of neglect in those two countries. Pakistan 
has nuclear weapons. We just saw the other day an attack on police 
recruits in the heart of Pakistan itself--not out in the Fatah or in 
Baluchistan or the areas we know are harder to control. So we see that 
insurgency with a message clearly sent that they can act with impunity. 
So it is critical for the United States to step up and show President 
Zardari and the Government of Pakistan, who are courageously trying to 
forge forward with their youthful democracy, that, in fact, we are 
supportive and we are there to help them.

I ask my colleagues to imagine a nation as populous as Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and North Korea combined, a nation with a full arsenal of 
nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles capable of delivering them 
anywhere in a 1,000-kilometer range. Imagine a nation with a population 
that is overwhelmingly moderate, overwhelmingly committed to democracy 
and the rule of law, but deeply suspicious of its leadership and of 
America's friendship. Imagine a nation in which Osama bin Laden and the 
leadership of al-Qaida have found sanctuary for the past 7 years--a 
haven from which they and their confederates have plotted and carried 
out attacks on their host country, on neighboring countries, and on 
sites around the globe. That nation can serve as a keystone for a new, 
cooperative relationship between the Western and Muslim worlds, or, if 
we do not do our job, it could become an epicenter for radicalism and 
violence on a cataclysmic scale.

So I believe we are at a critical crossroads, and we need a bold new 
strategy for Pakistan. Our current path has not brought success, and 
tinkering around the margins is absolutely guaranteed to fail. That is 
why President Obama has called on Congress to pass the Enhanced 
Partnership With Pakistan Act that Senator Lugar and I will introduce 
very soon that authorizes up to $1.5 billion annually in order to help 
shape this new relationship with Pakistan.

We also might mention again the importance of standing up with 
respect to Iran. When you look back at what happened in the war with 
Israel and Lebanon, the southern part of the country of Lebanon was 
significantly damaged. Iran, using its surrogate Hezbollah, immediately 
painted flags on the houses--their flags, Hezbollah flags--and 
essentially asserted: Don't worry, we are here, and we are going to 
rebuild this.

So last year both parties came together. We had 73 votes to pull 
together, in addition to the budget, to provide $48 billion over 5 
years. Today, it is imperative that we fund these programs, and I ask 
my colleagues for their support for this amendment.