# None
## `2751581b0481229df0f8193a30475a20`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, they don't say 10 percent match for 
the special interests. When it comes down to big oil and some other big 
guys and gals here in this town, Mr. Speaker, they don't say you have 
to match us halfway. They say just, we will give you what you need. As 
a matter of fact, we will give you technical assistance to be able to 
take the U.S. taxpayer dollar and do what you want. And guess what, we 
will not even look. We will cover our eyes. We won't even have 
hearings.

Get my hearing chart, Mr. Ryan. I want to get down to the nitty-
gritty here.

Mr. Speaker, we come to the floor 10 minutes past 10, 12 minutes past 
10, and there are some things that we could be doing, but this is 
serious business.

We come with the facts. These numbers are from the Clerk of the House 
of Representatives. It is not from the DNC, and it is not from my 
cousin back in Miami that said hey, this looks good, maybe you want to 
take that to the floor and talk about it. This comes from the Clerk's 
Office. I actually like the Clerk's Office. These are the facts. The 
107th Congress, 108th Congress, this is the 109th Congress that many 
media outlets have called the do-nothing Congress.

At this point in March of 2005, compared to March of 2007, the new 
Democratic Congress, the new direction Democratic Congress, the 
Congress only had 90 roll call votes. We have already had 189 roll call 
votes and counting for this month.

When you look at suspension bills that are coming over from the 
Senate what have you, kind of agreed upon, 26 votes that took place by 
this time; 72 we have done here in this new direction Congress, Mr. 
Speaker.

When you look at bills passed under a rule, 11 votes by this time in 
the last Republican-controlled Congress; 24 in this Congress.

We are here to do business. Days in session, 26 days in the 
Republican-controlled Congress; 48 days under this new direction 
Congress, Democratic-controlled Congress.

We bring these facts to the floor to make sure that not only Members, 
but the American people understand we are here to carry out the 
business of the American people. Mr. Ryan has some numbers when it 
comes down to accountability on Iraq because some Members would lead 
you to believe, a small number, would lead other Members to believe 
that there was some backroom decision that was made about 
accountability in Iraq, and all of the things that we are learning 
about Iraq, all of the accountability measures that we come up with as 
it relates to Iraq and policing the U.S. taxpayer dollars and all of 
the protection measures that we have in for the troops and men and 
women in uniform, they just think it happens in some backroom here in 
the capitol.