---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `27569b404e98b02a898254762db188ed`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 26 February 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am pleased to support this bill, and 
congratulate the Senator from Connecticut and the Senator from Utah for 
their tireless efforts. Senator Lieberman and Senator Hatch have


put forward innovative, bipartisan legislation that will strengthen our 
democracy. I also want to recognize the contribution of the majority 
leader, who, by championing this issue, renews and fulfills our 
country's commitment to equality, democracy, and justice.

When I watch my colleagues on the floor today, I see the spirit of 
Paul Douglas, Hubert Humphrey, and Everett Dirksen. This legislation is 
part of the struggle to fulfill the promise of America that led to the 
landmark civil rights bills of 1957, 1964, and 1965. Today, we follow 
in the footsteps of some of our greatest predecessors. We are here to 
right a historic wrong, to enfranchise hundreds of thousands of our 
fellow Americans by giving them a vote in Congress.

The struggle to give Washington, DC, a vote in the House of 
Representatives has already been historic. I was disappointed that the 
Senate was the graveyard for this bill in 2007. By using a filibuster 
to prevent the bill from even reaching the floor at that time, 
opponents of this bill recalled history, too--an unfortunate history we 
should not revisit. I am sure that I do not need to remind anyone here 
that for decades the Senate was an implacable bulwark that no civil 
rights bill could breach. Unfortunately, when this great institution 
was faced a year and a half ago with a new kind of voting rights bill, 
it did not rise to the challenge.

Now we have a chance to correct this breach of American principles 
and pass the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2009. And 
so now is the time to remedy the injustice being done to Americans 
residing in the District of Columbia, and stop this violation of their 
fundamental rights. Now is the time to take action on this legislation 
and to finally give the disenfranchised District at least a partial say 
in the decisions of the Congress, to make the ''People's House'' a body 
that truly represents all of the people of this Nation.

In 1964, the Supreme Court stated that ''[n]o right is more precious 
in a free country than that of having a voice in the election of those 
who make the laws under which, as good citizens, we must live.'' It is 
time for Congress to live up to those words. At a time when Americans 
whose families wait for them at home in the District are fighting for 
our country overseas, it is a cruel and bitter irony that their own 
country denies them the right to representation in the House.

With all of the difficult issues and momentous decisions facing this 
Congress, the people of DC deserve a voice in it, now more than ever. 
As of February 14, 29 DC residents have been killed or wounded in Iraq 
or Afghanistan, wars that their elected representative had no say in 
commencing or funding. Approximately 1,500 homes are in foreclosure or 
pre-foreclosure, unemployment has gone up over 3 percent in the last 
year, to 8.8 percent. Just like all other Americans, the residents of 
the District want to participate in the crucial and difficult debates 
this Congress is having over foreign and economic policy. They want to 
set a new course for this country. Their voices should count just as 
much as their fellow citizens'.

Opponents of this bill have asserted that it is unconstitutional. I 
chaired a Judiciary Committee hearing in May 2007 to examine whether 
the Constitution, perhaps the greatest testament to democracy and 
freedom in human history, prevents the elected legislature of the 
people of this country from granting the most basic right of 
citizenship to the people of the District of Columbia. The hearing 
confirmed that while this is not an easy question of constitutional 
interpretation, there are strong arguments for the bill's 
constitutionality. Our conclusions were strengthened by the finding of 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs that 
Congress's authority to legislatively extend House representation is 
supported by two centuries of judicial precedent.

In light of the historic wrong that this bill will correct, the case 
for its constitutionality is certainly strong enough to justify 
enacting it and letting the Supreme Court make the final decision. The 
Constitution grants Congress the power of ''exclusive legislation, in 
all cases whatsoever,'' over the District; I believe that we can use 
that authority to ensure that this Government's just powers are derived 
from the consent of the governed. Moreover, the basic sweep of the 
Constitution, its very essence, is to protect the fundamental rights of 
the citizens of this country, including the right to be represented in 
Congress.

The other fundamental document of our founding, the Declaration of 
Independence, laid out a list of grievances against the King of Great 
Britain, including the following:




 He has refused to pass other Laws for the Accommodation of 


 large Districts of People, unless those People would 


 relinquish the Right of Representation in the Legislature, a 


 Right inestimable to them, and formidable to Tyrants only.


That inestimable right has been denied to the residents of the 
District of Columbia for far too long.

We in Congress have a duty to fulfill the promise of democracy for DC 
residents. Those who rely on constitutional arguments to oppose this 
bill should ask themselves what the Framers would think today, if they 
were faced with the question of whether their handiwork should be used 
to prevent Congress from granting over a half million people the most 
basic right in a democracy--the right of representation in the 
legislature. It is simply inconceivable to me that those great and 
brave patriots would be comfortable with such a blatant injustice.

I hope that we finally have the votes to right this historic wrong. I 
urge my colleagues to support the District of Columbia House Voting 
Rights Act of 2009, and grant the most basic of democratic rights to 
the people of the District.