---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `27574b219304e0c732949cdf9abe1693`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 9 March 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Thank you, Mr. President.

I thank the majority leader for those words and for him restating 
publicly and unequivocally his commitment to getting this job done, not 
just for the people of Louisiana but for the people of the gulf coast. 
We have spent a lot of time on the floor, as the majority leader knows, 
talking about rebuilding other places in the world. The leader is 
correct, and the Democratic caucus is


leading to try to redirect some of that attention to right here at 
home.

We have over 30 million people who live on the gulf coast right now, 
today, this Friday. The work of rebuilding is being thwarted, is being 
hampered, is being delayed by outmoded, unrealistic Federal regulations 
and bureaucratic redtape that is choking this recovery.

Now, normally this redtape is a nuisance. We work through it. It is 
inconvenient. It is a nuisance. But we just sort of move through the 
redtape of Government. But in this case, it is literally a noose that 
is around the necks of people, of business owners, large and small, 
family members--strangling their efforts to recover their communities 
that were devastated.

Just to put some pieces in the picture I am trying to paint, I would 
like to just share some details about Cameron Parish. You do not hear 
much about Cameron Parish because there are only 9,658 people who live 
there. We hear a lot about New Orleans. We hear a lot about Jefferson 
Parish. We hear a lot about even St. Bernard Parish. But little Cameron 
Parish, down on the southwest border, that was directly hit by Rita, 
the ''forgotten storm.'' We have not. The legislative delegation from 
Louisiana has not forgotten it, but many others fail to remember it.


Cameron Parish lost five fire stations, four community recreation 
centers, four public libraries, three maintenance barns, two parish 
multipurpose buildings, Courthouse Circle; Cameron Parish Police Jury 
Annex Building--destroyed; Cameron Parish Sheriff's Department 
Investigative Office--destroyed. The health unit was destroyed. The 
school board office was destroyed. The mosquito control barn was 
destroyed. And the waterworks district No. 10 office was destroyed. 
Virtually every public building was destroyed, except the courthouse, 
which was built in the early part of the century. It is several stories 
high, and it sort of shines white on the coast. If you flew over it, 
you could actually see it. It is quite large, and many people's lives 
have actually been saved by going to the courthouse during storms, 
where they have been kept from the high water. But everything else in 
the parish is gone. This little parish can no more put up a 10-percent 
match to rebuild four libraries, all their schools, than the man in the 
moon.

Now, normally, if the hurricane was not so bad, the State of 
Louisiana, which is a big State--not huge, but we are not small, we are 
medium-sized--would be strong enough to step up, give Cameron Parish 
the 10 percent of each of these very important public works for the 
10,000 people or so who live there. But the problem is, Katrina and 
Rita were so devastating to the whole State that our State is not 
strong enough.

That is why we have a Federal Government. When the State is not 
strong enough, because of the storms, the Nation steps up. I am asking 
the President of the United States to step up and use his authority to 
waive this 10-percent match so the people of Cameron and the people 
right next door to them on the Texas line who were equally hard hit and 
the people to the right of them on the map--the good people of 
Mississippi--there are towns in Mississippi that lost every school, 
every library. The State of Mississippi will have a difficult time as 
well. But the State of Louisiana is having an unusually difficult time 
because of the devastation.

I want to say again--because I think numbers can paint a picture or 
tell a story better than even words can--the per capita damage to 
Florida from Hurricane Andrew was $139. The per capita damage to the 
State of New York was $390 from the attacks on the World Trade Center. 
These two events were unprecedented and unheard of. Most storms are 
like $20 per capita, $50 per capita. They hardly ever go over $50 per 
capita.

When Hurricane Andrew came through, it really woke us up to the poor 
people of Florida. It wrecked Homestead, FL, and was a great weight for 
the State of Florida. But we all pitched in and helped, and this match 
was waived.

When 9/11 hit, it shook the foundations of this Nation. It also shook 
the great city of New York. But it was waived, and we all pitched in 
and helped.

Here we have Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and we sit here wondering: 
Where is the Government? Where is the President? Where is the 
minority's thinking on this subject? Our per capita damage is $6,700. 
It defies anything we have ever seen.

Our State has been asking for this 10 percent reduction for 18 
months. Do we have to keep asking for it? Do we have to keep supplying 
data like this? What is it going to take to get them to understand if 
there was ever a situation where the 10 percent should be waived, if 
there was ever an example like Cameron Parish, this is it.

So this amendment is pending. It is being opposed by an undisclosed 
person. But the minority is opposing it. I will meet the minority more 
than halfway. I am asking the administration, please, over the weekend, 
to reconsider. Let us get this done on this bill. Every day, every week 
counts. If we cannot, the majority leader has said--and I, of course, 
will support the effort, and many of the members of this caucus are 
supporting it--we will do it on the supplemental. The problem is, it 
will take us weeks. Perhaps the supplemental will run into a veto 
threat. Who knows? Because there are lots of issues that are going to 
come up on that supplemental. But this issue is clear. It could be 
easily fixed on this bill. I am going to work through the weekend to 
see if we can find any kind of compromise that could give a green light 
to the people of Cameron Parish. Let me say that even without that 
light, we visited Cameron Parish several times. Their little girls' 
softball team that was in contention when the storm hit went on to win 
the championship. Without a cafeteria, without a school, without a gym 
to practice, with most of their teachers' homes underwater and their 
own homes underwater, and most of them living in trailers or in tents, 
this team went on to win the championship. So when people say that 
people in Louisiana don't have resilience, we are being as resilient as 
we possibly can be under these circumstances. All we are asking is to 
please look at the data, please consider our case and allow us to get 
this 10 percent waiver so that the public works can move forward on 
fire stations, police stations, libraries, and infrastructure, most 
certainly essential to communities rebuilding. As we rebuild, we are 
rebuilding on higher ground. We are rebuilding with better building 
materials. We are mitigating against future storms. We are not building 
in the old-fashioned ways. But if this 10 percent doesn't get waived, 
we are not going to be building new or old or otherwise. We won't be 
building.


As I said, we may not be a fancy coast, but we are America's energy 
coast. We are proud of the fish that we bring in right off of Cameron 
Parish. We are proud of the shipping industry. We are proud of the ship 
channel that brings liquefied natural gas to keep the lights on in this 
Chamber and sends gas to New York and Philadelphia and California every 
day.

This is Cameron Parish. They are not sunbathing down in Cameron 
Parish. Yet we can't find it out of the goodwill of our hearts--we are 
spending all of this money to rebuild Iraq, and I have 10,000 people 
down on the coast. Does anybody remember they are Americans, taxpaying 
Americans with no libraries, no schools, and no possible way to put up 
their 10 percent match because they lost everything? I would think that 
somewhere in this trillion-dollar budget and maybe in the heart of the 
minority they could find some room for the people of Cameron Parish. 
Please consider our request over this weekend to get this 10 percent 
waived.

I thank the Chair.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.