# NATIONAL SERVICE REAUTHORIZATION ACT
## `27719bd80f6f401722f85e4a4ab7562f`
`Mr. CARDIN — 26 March 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I rise today in support of S. 277, the 
Serve America Act. First, let me thank Chairman Kennedy, Senator 
Mikulski, and Senators Hatch and Enzi, for their leadership and their 
vision in crafting this bipartisan legislation. I am proud to be an 
original cosponsor of this bill, because it will foster the best of 
what it means to be an American--our sense of community and shared 
responsibility for one another.

This bill helps Americans respond to the call to national service. In 
the 63 days since President Obama took office, nowhere have we seen a 
more vibrant example than that set by the First Lady, Michelle Obama. 
Just last week, Mrs. Obama brought a diverse group of successful women 
to the White House--among them an astronaut, musicians, actors, 
businesswomen, scientists, authors--before dispersing them to 
Washington, DC, Maryland, and Virginia schools to meet with students 
and help them to aspire to greatness as well. Three weeks ago, on March 
5, she served lunch to homeless men and women at a soup kitchen in 
downtown Washington. The menu for the day featured fruit salad made 
with donations from White House employees. Mrs. Obama's message was 
simple and eloquent--that times are tough and people need a helping 
hand. She said that those who could not donate food or money should try 
to donate time instead. These are but two examples of how Mrs. Obama 
has inspired civic interest and engagement in others. But one need not 
be First Lady or even a celebrity to serve the community and that is 
what S. 277, the Serve America Act, is all about.

The Serve America Act promotes public service as one avenue to 
address the most pressing challenges facing America. Who can help keep 
our children in school and out of gangs? Mentors provided through 
Education Corps. How can a single mother without insurance get her 
children basic dental care? Through oral health access programs offered 
through Healthy Futures Corps. How can a retiree better afford her 
heating bills? The Clean Energy Service Corps can weatherize her house 
to improve energy efficiency. How can a veteran recently returned from 
Afghanistan readjust to life at home? By working with volunteers at the 
Veterans Corps to pursue educational opportunities and professional 
certification. How can a recently laid-off father get gainful 
employment? Through the job-training and job-placement services and 
financial literacy programs offered through Opportunity Corps. These 
are just a few examples of how this legislation builds on the success 
of AmeriCorps to develop a volunteer base of civic engagement. It would 
reauthorize the basic AmeriCorps program with the goal of increasing 
the number of volunteers from 75,000 up to 250,000.

As our recession has spread and deepened, I have talked with many of 
Maryland's nonprofit service organizations, and the message is the 
same: our communities' need for services has increased, while donations 
have decreased. But true to the American spirit, the number of 
volunteers eager to serve has increased. People are willing to donate 
their time, even though they might be less able to afford monetary 
donations. And for many affected by layoffs and cutbacks, time is all 
they have to give. When I visit with high school and college students, 
I find they are more enthusiastic than ever about the notion of public 
service. S. 277 will harness that enthusiasm and help translate their 
interest into action.

By promoting the involvement of Americans of all ages, this bill 
supports a lifetime of service. It strengthens the current Learn and 
Serve America program to engage middle and high school students in 
meeting community needs. The bill establishes youth engagement zones--
low-income, high-need districts where community based service learning 
projects can be coordinated for secondary school students. For college 
students, in addition to AmeriCorps service opportunities, the bill 
allows institutions of higher education to include service-learning as 
a component of other curriculae such as nursing and criminal justice. 
The bill also creates a ''Campuses of Service'' program, through which 
up to 25 colleges and universities can receive grants to provide 
service learning programs, or to share their programs with other 
institutions.

In addition, the bill provides opportunities for America's seniors. 
Our Nation can benefit from seniors' many years of experience as we 
confront today's problems. S. 277 will enhance current Senior Corps 
programs and offer incentives for service. It will also allow 
participants to transfer any earned educational benefits to their 
children or grandchildren.

I want to draw particular attention to the Healthy Futures Corps. 
This program will provide grants to the states and nonprofit 
organizations so they can fund national service in low-income 
communities. Healthy Futures Corps members will address certain health 
indicators, including chronic diseases, such as diabetes, and other 
conditions where we know there are socioeconomic, geographic, and 
racial and ethnic disparities. It will allow us to put into action 
tools that can help close the gaps in health status--prevention and 
health promotion. For too long, we have acknowledged health 
disparities, studied them, written reports about them. This bill will 
help us eliminate them through community-based interventions. I want to 
express my deep appreciation to the committee for adding language 
specifying oral health as an area of focus. Often overlooked when we 
consider health care, oral health is an essential component of health 
throughout life. No one can be truly considered healthy if they have 
untreated cavities, periodontal disease, or other dental problems. 
Maryland learned that lesson two years ago when 12 year old Prince 
George's County resident Deamonte Driver died of a brain infection 
brought on by an untreated tooth abscess. This measure will help 
recruit young people to work in the dental profession, where there are 
severe shortages of providers in many urban and rural areas. It will 
fund the work of individuals who can help parents find available oral 
health services for themselves and their children. It will make a 
difference in the lives of the Healthy Futures Corps members who work 
in underserved communities and in the lives and health of those who get 
access to care, and so I want to thank the committee for this addition 
to the bill.

I am proud to say that Maryland already has a great track record in 
public service. The Corporation for National and Community Service 
reports that more than 170,000 Marylanders now participate through 115 
national service projects across our State. But there is always room 
for more. This legislation gives our State and the Nation additional 
tools to answer the call to service. I urge my colleagues to support 
this bill and it is my hope that it will receive the unanimous support 
of the Senate.