---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `27834c55d9dbc2fc68fa9f77d64321b7`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise today to speak in support of 
H.R. 2642, an act making appropriations for military construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2008.

Let me say at the outset, the leadership of this committee has done a 
tremendous job in bringing forward legislation that hopefully will 
receive the strong bipartisan support of this body. I am especially 
thankful for the great work of Senator Jack Reed and Senator Kay Bailey 
Hutchison and Senator Tim Johnson and his staff for having moved 
forward in developing a package that, at the end of the day here, will 
hopefully receive the support of most of the Members of this Chamber.

This legislation is important for us as we move forward to try to 
make sure we are doing everything we can for a strong America. This is 
important for us, for our military, for our men and women in uniform, 
and for our veterans. It is essential legislation which we must pass 
and which we all hope the President will sign into law.

With respect to military construction, the bill provides $8.9 
billion-plus for our Active-Duty construction efforts and $929 million 
for the National Guard and Reserve construction. This includes key 
projects around the country for the Army National Guard. This is a 
significant improvement over what the President requested for the 
National Guard. It will be part of making sure we have a strong 
military for America.

Second, the legislation fully funds the 2005 recommendations of the 
BRAC, the Base Realignment and Closure Account. That BRAC 
recommendation which was approved by this Senate and by the Congress 
now 2 years ago is an important document that charts the way forward 
for the American military. This legislation will fully fund the 
recommendations of that legislation.

Third, with respect to Veterans Affairs, I am proud that this 
legislation will provide $87.5 billion for the VA. That is an increase 
of almost $3.6 billion over what the President requested. That increase 
will go to veterans health care and make sure our PTSD and mental 
health issues and TBI issues that we are seeing in great numbers as we 
are involved in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan--that we are 
providing the right kind of care to our veterans.

I am appreciative of the national issues that are embraced in this 
legislation that will allow the funding to move forward and to make 
those projects a reality.

I wish to comment on a few provisions in this legislation that are 
important to my State of Colorado. I must say, as we worked on these 
matters over the years, it has been my honor to work closely with 
Senator Allard as we worked on important projects for our veterans and 
for our military in my State.

I wish to mention the Fitzsimons VA Hospital. There is $61 million in 
this legislation for Fitzsimons. Today in Colorado, the VA hospital in 
Denver is in very rough, shoddy condition. Our veterans deserve better. 
Over the last decade, there has been an effort in Colorado to try to 
establish a VA hospital that can become one of the crown jewels of our 
national health care. We are fortunate today that, under the leadership 
of MAJ Andy Lobb and others, we have found a site at what is the old 
Fitzsimons Army hospital which has been turned over to the city of 
Aurora and to an authority that is rehabilitating that site. At that 
site today, we have already located the health facilities and hospitals 
for the University of Colorado. We are about ready to open a brand-new 
children's hospital at this center. The VA hospital is the next move in 
the creation of what is going to be a crown jewel for health care and 
for biotech in the Rocky Mountain West. The Fitzsimons VA Hospital is 
very much a part of that program, but at its core it is making sure we 
in America are standing up and giving to the veterans of our country 
the health care services they deserve.

Next, Fort Carson. Fort Carson is a very important military 
installation in my State and helps us protect our Nation. Many of the 
men and women who serve and have trained at Fort Carson are now serving 
in Iraq and in Afghanistan. There is $470 million in military 
construction funds for Fort Carson. That amount of money will 
accommodate the arrival of an additional 12,000 Active-Duty and 18,360 
Active-Duty family members who are currently moving to Fort Carson. I 
am very proud of the inclusion of that amount of money in this 
legislation because it will allow us to warmly welcome the soldiers who 
are coming to Fort Carson, as well as their families, with the kinds of 
facilities they deserve.



Schriever Air Force Base is part of our national defense. As I say, 
Colorado is blessed to be the crown jewel of the Nation's homeland 
defense and national security. We do that through many of our military 
installations, including Schriever Air Force Base. It is part of the 
air and space integration program. It is the place where we have our 
Air Force Space Command. It will receive $24.5 million for construction 
of the facilities that are needed there.

The U.S. Air Force Academy, located since the 1950s in El Paso County 
in Colorado Springs, is one of our Nation's premier institutes in 
training the future military leaders of our country. It is an 
installation of which I am very proud. This legislation includes $15 
million for upgrades to the academic facilities at the U.S. Air Force 
Academy.

The National Guard and Reserves station at Buckley Air Force Base in 
Aurora, CO, is an important part of the Army installations in our 
State. This legislation will add $7.3 million to replace the outdated 
squadron operations facility that houses the F-16s of the 140th Air 
Wing of the Colorado National Guard.

This is important legislation, and I am proud to be a supporter of 
this legislation.

We also will be speaking at a later time this afternoon or this 
evening on several other amendments I want to bring forth which are 
important amendments to the future of the State of Colorado but also 
very important to the future of our Nation's military and assuring that 
our military has the appropriate training facilities. We will be 
speaking to an amendment I will be calling up in short order.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.