# None
## `278b42d25220b2ece9590f877f0d7b51`
`Mr. CARPER — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, if there is no pending business before the 
Senate, I wish to be recognized to speak for a few minutes on the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program, which we call affectionately 
SCHIP. I was privileged to be chairman of the National Governors 
Association in the late nineties, when Governors and a lot of other 
folks negotiated with the Congress and the Clinton administration to 
create the State Children's Health


Insurance Program. I am pleased--as I know a lot of people are in this 
country--to see all of the good it has done.

We know that in America today we have roughly 45 million Americans 
who have no health care coverage. It is like a quilt that fits over a 
bed, if you will, and the quilt has different patches to it. One of the 
big patches on the quilt providing health care coverage to a lot of 
Americans is employer-provided coverage, another is Medicare, and then 
there is Medicaid for low-income folks. Another piece of the quilt 
would be the federally funded community health centers; and another 
piece might be veterans health care, or DOD health care. Altogether, 
they add up to provide enough to cover 85 percent of the American 
populace that needs health care coverage. For the folks who are not 
covered, a large part of the 15 percent who have no coverage is people 
who live with families where somebody works every day, every week. The 
problem for those families is they don't have employer-provided health 
care coverage or enough disposable income to pay their share of that 
employer-provided coverage, and they end up doing without.

Most of those people still get health care eventually. That health 
care coverage comes too frequently in an emergency room of a hospital 
in their community. When somebody gets sick enough, that is where they 
go to get care.

My colleague in the chair and I are both familiar with the tragedy 
this year where a young boy in Maryland, I think, had a problem with a 
tooth that abscessed, and he ended up going into the hospital through 
the emergency room and being hospitalized for an extended period of 
time. The cost of the health care he received was in the hundreds of 
thousands of dollars. The greater cost is that he died; he lost his 
life. Another tragedy was in the case of a young man who was eligible 
for SCHIP and his family didn't know it. It is almost like the old 
question: If a tree falls in the forest and there is nobody there to 
hear it, is there a noise? If you have a benefit such as SCHIP or 
Medicaid and a family doesn't know they are eligible, is there a 
benefit? I am tempted to say there probably is not.

A lot of people in this country who ought to be eligible for this 
program, who could be eligible for the program, would be if the 
President had not vetoed the legislation we passed. I listened to 
Senator Grassley talk about the President's veto. I admire him a great 
deal and the way he stood up, stood tall on this issue, along with 
Senator Baucus and others, to craft the expansion of this program. That 
speaks volumes about Senator Grassley and his care for young people.

Among the criticism we hear of this expansion of this program is that 
it is more of a government fix for our health care woes in America. The 
coverage that most kids have under the SCHIP program is not provided by 
the Government. They actually go to a private program and it is 
provided through any one of a variety of programs. We also hear that 
this is more Government spending. This is actually Government spending 
where we pay for it. We have an offset here, and not everybody likes 
it, but it is an increase in the tax on tobacco, cigarettes, where we 
raise enough money to offset the cost of this program over the next 5 
years.

Here is a chart. For the Children's Health Insurance Program, the 
cost over the next 5 years is about $35 billion. We raise the money to 
pay for it, and we are required to under the rules, which is a good 
thing. Our pay-go procedures require that. We have to come up with an 
offset to pay for that so it is deficit neutral. So this $35 billion is 
paid for. It doesn't make the deficit bigger and it provides health 
care coverage for about 4 million more kids. They will have a chance to 
have a primary health care home. They will not have to look for health 
care coverage in an emergency room of a hospital. They will not end up 
spending days or weeks or longer in a hospital as an inpatient trying 
to get better from something that could have been caught early on by a 
primary care physician.

A good comparison here is the SCHIP program expansion is paid for--
the $35 billion is fully paid for. There will be no increase in the 
deficit. Compare that to what the President is asking for an increase 
in spending with respect to the war in Iraq. The President is going to 
ask for additional money in the weeks ahead; he will ask us to 
appropriate $197 billion to pay for our involvement in Iraq and 
Afghanistan for roughly the next year. It is not paid for. It is not 
offset by cuts in spending someplace else. It is not offset by 
increases in revenue somewhere else. That will be $197 billion in extra 
debt.

Some people think we can run up these deficits and we will print the 
paper to pay for them. We don't. We borrow money from folks all over 
this country--from investors, and from investors all over the world.

Some of those investors crop up in unlikely places. Our debt now to 
China is in the hundreds of billions of dollars and growing. We owe a 
fair amount of money to folks in South Korea. A lot of debt is held by 
the Japanese. You kind of wonder sometimes when you consider our 
inability to push back hard on the Chinese for currency manipulation 
and other issues such as the quality of the products, their lack of 
respect for patent rights and intellectual property rights, it is hard 
for us to push back when these people are holding hundreds of billions 
of dollars of our paper, money we owe them, because they have helped to 
fund programs for which we have not had the moral courage or fiscal 
discipline to raise the money to pay for ourselves.

We have a choice. The President is faced with a choice. He is asked 
on the one hand to increase the debt by almost $200 billion to support 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan but not to pay for it, to basically 
put that burden on our kids and say, someday you will have the 
opportunity to pay this debt, and to compare that with the SCHIP 
program which is not cheap, but over the next 5 years, $35 billion, $7 
billion a year to provide health care coverage for 4 million children 
who otherwise would not have it. But the difference is, it is paid for. 
We actually raise the money to pay for this program.

I said to a group of people yesterday, among the words that are most 
used around here, ''reform'' is one of them. We hear a lot about reform 
in almost everything about which we talk. Another thing we talk about 
around here is bipartisan--bipartisan this or bipartisan that. This is 
a place where sometimes bipartisan, a lot of times--the underlying 
appropriations bill on the floor today is actually a bipartisan bill, 
but we don't always see that.

SCHIP, the expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program, is 
about as bipartisan an effort as we can mount around here, especially 
when the administration has been fighting us tooth and nail. Again, to 
our Republican colleagues who stood up and joined a number of our 
Democrats, including Senator Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, 
I say: Good for you. Not just good for you because it is an example, a 
tangible example of bipartisan cooperation, but good for you because 
you put the concerns of our children ahead of those other issues and 
you are willing to pay for something we want to have.

Mr. President, in Delaware, we believe that programs worth having, 
for Government to pay for them, whether it is transportation, 
education, health care, programs worth having we ought to pay for. If 
we are not willing to pay for them, we shouldn't have as much of them 
as we otherwise would have. We have taken this principle and embodied 
this proposal under SCHIP.

I am proud of the stand we have taken and the House has taken. I am 
very disappointed in the decision the President has reached.