# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `2795bb3ac832fc520e08652c4f0817a5`
`Mr. WICKER â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. I appreciate my friend yielding, and I have also been in 
need of a poster before and not been able to find it. If the gentleman 
would put that quote from General Petraeus back up, I will refer to it 
while he looks for the other quote from the ambassador.

To emphasize this point again, coalition and Iraqi security forces 
have made progress toward achieving sustainable security. Now, that is 
the testimony of this well-respected general that we have entrusted 
with this very important mission.

And it disturbs me, Mr. Speaker, that often the message of the 
accomplishments doesn't get through to the American people. We hear 
only about benchmarks not quite being met or expectations not quite 
being realized. For example, people point to the fact that an oil law 
has not yet been enacted by the leadership in Iraq and submitted to the 
Iraqi Parliament.

As a matter of fact, as the testimony indicated today, oil revenues 
in Iraq are up and the revenues are in fact being distributed out to 
the local governments and the provinces. Now, this is in the absence of 
a final piece of legislation enacted by the parliament. But the fact 
remains that under this interim procedure that they have now, the oil 
revenues are there. Iraq is exporting oil for the first time in quite 
some time, and the oil revenues are being distributed out where they 
can benefit the people. That may not be a benchmark of legislation, but 
it is a real accomplishment; and it is the sort of thing that General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker were talking about.

Also, there has been much made of the fact that there has been no 
reconciliation statute enacted into law over there. But as was pointed 
out today in the testimony, former members of the Iraqi Army, former 
Baathists, if you please, are now being accepted into the government 
and being given pensions from the government and many of them are being 
accepted back into the security forces there in Iraq.

Now, a law hasn't been passed, but in my opinion that is de facto 
reconciliation and de facto amnesty for these people who were formerly 
in Saddam's Iraqi Army. By the thousands, these people are being 
integrated back into the mainstream of Iraqi security forces.

Also in the Anbar province, it is well known at least in this capital 
city that the sectarian leaders all across that province have turned on 
al Qaeda. They were in league with them a year ago. They have now 
turned on them, and they are helping the United States and coalition 
forces because they realize that their future does not lie with this 
destructive, violent al Qaeda force, but with the forces that would 
bring freedom and liberty and self-determination to more Iraqis.

Sectarian violence is down, as Senator Lieberman and Senator McCain 
pointed out in their op-ed in the Wall Street Journal today, and I 
would commend that to our colleagues. There is an excellent bipartisan 
piece about that. Sectarian violence is down all over the country, down 
70 percent in Baghdad alone. So there are real accomplishments there.

Certainly, as the general said, innumerable challenges lie ahead. The 
assessment is optimistic, but it is sober


and this is no rosy scenario; but there is much reason to be 
optimistic.

Let me just say this about the feeling of the American people: I know 
that they are frustrated about this. This war has gone on longer than 
expected, and they have been conflicted about it. But I believe after 
being home for much of August and talking to my constituents, I think 
the American people do want us to succeed in Iraq. They realize that 
failure there, that withdrawal there, that leaving too early would 
leave a huge void that probably al Qaeda would fill and probably our 
detractors in Iran would fill, and they know that would be a disaster. 
They want success, and I think these two gentlemen who testified before 
us give us a good opportunity for success.

A few moments ago we gathered on the east steps of the House of 
Representatives, and we commemorated the sixth anniversary of the 
terrorist attacks on 9/11. Two other speakers on the floor today were 
not Members of the House of Representatives at that time. I was, and I 
shall never forget the resolve and the determination of the Congress, 
both ends of this building, both sides of the aisle, on that day to 
defeat these terrorists.

The al Qaeda terrorist network that we are fighting in Iraq today is 
the very same network that brought down those two buildings in New 
York. They are the very same network that sent a plane crashing into 
the Pentagon. And they are the very same al Qaeda that had a plane 
headed toward Washington, DC, which undoubtedly was headed towards the 
Capitol Building.


We are still fighting al Qaeda, and I appreciate people like 
Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus who are fighting that war as 
capably as they know how. Al Qaeda must be defeated, Mr. Speaker. And 
our best opportunity, our greatest chance to defeat al Qaeda today is 
to be successful in Iraq. That's what I would urge my colleagues to 
support, and I believe that is what the American people want us to do. 
I thank my friend for calling this Special Order.