# None
## `279fc5d45df06e969dad9717bfd1b1b0`
`Ms. LEE — 12 February 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise this evening to honor the courageous 
life of our dear friend and colleague, Chairman Tom Lantos.

I am deeply saddened by the loss of Chairman Lantos, and I would like 
to first offer my deepest condolences to Annette, his family, friends 
and staff, and of course California's 12th Congressional District.

And I have to thank Mrs. Lantos and Tom's entire family for sharing 
this great human being with the entire world.

Chairman Lantos was an exceptional human being, and we're hearing 
much of this tonight. But I've always said, To know him was to love 
him.

His life embodied the true meaning of courage and the power of the 
human spirit. As the sole member of his family to survive the 
Holocaust, Chairman Lantos made it his life's mission, and we all know 
it was his life's mission, to fight for the oppressed.

Throughout his years in Congress he fought tirelessly to ensure human 
rights issues always had an important and visible place within these 
Halls. And as the founder of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, he 
continually reminded us that combating injustice anywhere and 
everywhere in the world was not only the right thing to do, but it was 
our duty as elected representatives of the people.

I had the privilege to work alongside this giant of a human being on 
so many issues. As a former member of the Foreign Affairs Committee for 
8 years, we worked together on a number of issues that we both cared 
passionately about, including legislation to combat the global HIV/AIDS 
pandemic, to end the genocide in Darfur, to address the needs of 
orphans and vulnerable children, and, of course, to end the occupation 
of Iraq.



And I will always remember the respect, and his wisdom and his 
insight and his guidance, as he helped me navigate the legislative 
process with the late Chairman Henry Hyde on the HIV/AIDS legislation. 
I imagine that they are, at this moment, renewing their wonderful 
friendship.

I will also miss our personal conversations, especially about his 
grandchildren, my grandchildren, his great grandchildren. He knew all 
of their names, and he knew all of their birth dates.

Also, we have to remember Tom loved animals; his deceased Gigi and of 
course now Chippy. I mean, it was amazing that this giant of a human 
being was such a gentle man.

I know that we must rededicate ourselves to Tom's life. His spirit is 
in us, and I will miss him. I will miss his love. May he rest in peace.

What a gentleman.