# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `27a23731b911e56c93be1b3bc18ca22e`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1963, the 
''Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act.'' I voted for 
components of this bill and would have voted in favor of this bill if 
not home recovering from surgery. This important legislation will help 
us to meet the needs of the men and women who have courageously 
sacrificed for our country and those that now care for them.

This bill ensures that veterans and their families get the care and 
support they need after they have put their lives on the line defending 
our great country. We in Congress made a promise not to leave our 
veterans behind and this bill renews that promise. This bill addresses 
the unique needs of the families and caregivers of our wounded 
warriors, of returning women soldiers and those veterans who are 
catastrophically disabled.

This bill provides support services to family and other caregivers of 
veterans, including education on how to give better care, counseling 
and mental health services, and respite care for family and other 
caregivers of all veterans. It also provides health care and a stipend 
for caregivers living with severely wounded veterans of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, many of whom have had to leave a job to care for their 
veteran full-time.

This bill improves health services for nearly 2 million female 
veterans. The VA will be able to provide care for female veterans' 
newborns for up to seven days for the first time in history and improve 
treatment for sexual trauma victims. It requires the VA to conduct a 
study of barriers to female veterans seeking health care and implement 
a reintegration pilot program.

This law ensures the VA can better treat veterans suffering from 
mental health issues and provides the VA with resources to learn more 
about the tragically high suicide rate among veterans. This bill also 
prohibits copayments for veterans who are catastrophically disabled and 
creates a pilot program to provide certain dental services to veterans, 
survivors and their dependents. It also expands grants that fund 
critical organizations offering transitional housing and other support 
for homeless veterans.

I believe this legislation offers comprehensive solutions to major, 
high-priority challenges facing veterans and their families. It brings 
hope to the men and women in uniform who have dedicated their lives to 
our country, and their families who have in turn dedicated their lives 
to caring for their wounded warriors at home.
