# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `27a3db5adab46f10d9a36297eaf57c67`
`Mr. PUTNAM — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. PUTNAM. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

While this resolution may be nonbinding, we will all be bound by its 
consequences: the immediate and long-lasting consequences, those here 
and in the combat zone.

Democrats continue to put forward an inherently contradictory message 
with dire consequences, on one hand offering rhetorical support for the 
troops and on the other, advancing a slow-bleed strategy that 
methodically constricts those troops' ability to succeed.

From the testimonials we have heard, it is clear our troops believe 
their mission is winnable. And the message they are routinely 
delivering to us could not be more clear. They want a chance to get the 
job done.

Ladies and gentlemen, our troops are not speaking off of a slickly 
produced focus group-tested set of talking points. They are vocalizing 
the overwhelming sentiments that exist on the front lines. We do a 
disservice to the very troops we claim to support when we advance a 
slow-bleed strategy that cuts off their lifeline of support.

We don't support them when we choke off the funding they need to 
succeed. We don't support them when we erect political roadblocks 
designed to deny them the equipment that they need to carry out their 
mission. We don't support them when we tie their hands behind their 
back. And we certainly don't support our troops when we attach strings 
to the funding needed to ensure that when they need help, it is on the 
way.

Yesterday the chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee 
unveiled this dangerous slow-bleed doctrine on a Web site, 
movecongress.org, that is directly affiliated with some of the most 
extreme elements of the antiwar left. This is a political machine 
designed to elect and defeat politicians by using our troops as pawns, 
and now they seek to deprive those same troops of the resources they 
need to succeed in their mission. According to news reports, these 
groups are prepared to spend $8.5 million on a national ad campaign to 
target lawmakers who did not adhere to their extremist, defeatist 
views.

This resolution is not an earnest expression of congressional 
sentiment. It is phase one of the far left's plan to elect more of 
their own. And all of this is for what? To send a message or settle a 
score with our Commander in Chief? To raise campaign cash?

It turns out our worse fears are true; that this resolution is, in 
fact, a first, dangerous step to cutting off the funds our troops so 
desperately need. The remarks of the Defense Appropriations chairman, 
the remarks of the Speaker with major national reporters lending 
support to the slow-bleed doctrine; and next week senior House leaders 
will convene to map out their strategy for maximizing their ability to 
defund the troops while minimizing the political fallout.

Before you cast your vote today, you should see this resolution for 
what it is: phase one of a political campaign to strip our troops of 
the funds they need.



Right now, in some cave in Iraq or Afghanistan, information is being 
located on a hard drive that talks about a plan for a new attack in 
America. Right now, somewhere in the Middle East, teenage boys are 
being groomed to be human bombs to further the aims of these Islamic 
extremists. Right now, money is being transferred across a global 
finance network to fund the attacks here on our soil or on other 
allies' soil who believe in the types of freedom and open society we 
enjoy, in Madrid, in London, in Hamburg, in New York, in Washington.

Regardless of how many Republicans cross the aisle and vote with the 
Democrats or how many Democrats cross the aisle and vote with the 
Republicans, tomorrow morning the terrorists will still wake up with 
hate on their hearts, plotting the next scheme to bring down our 
economy, to bring down our system of government, to bring down the 
lives of innocents.

As recently as last August, as if we didn't learn from the events of 
9/11, as recently as last August, there was still an attempt to blow up 
10 more airliners using baby food as the means for bringing on the 
explosive device.

Resolutions like this do nothing to stop that type of hate. They only 
send the wrong signals to the men and women on the front lines for all 
of us.