---
---

# COMMENDING THE KENTUCKY NATIONAL GUARD FOR ITS SERVICE TO THE  COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY AND THE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES
## `27b159c8c68a7e47796bb79a70f6290f`
`Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to offer a House 
concurrent resolution commending the First Battalion, 149th Infantry of 
the Kentucky Army National Guard for service overseas in defense of the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky and the citizens of the United States.

The First Battalion, 149th Infantry, known as the ''Mountain 
Warriors,'' recently returned home to eastern Kentucky after completing 
a 16-month-long tour of duty. While in Iraq, the Mountain Warriors 
courageously and successfully performed routine and perimeter security 
missions, mounted combat patrols, and personal security details, among 
other assignments.

The 149th Infantry lived up to their strong name and tradition with 
distinguished service and sacrifice and proudly represented our 
Kentucky mountain heritage. The Mountain Warriors have a long and 
storied history dating back to the Mexican-American War and they have 
served our Nation in nearly every major conflict including World War I, 
World War II, and now our global war on terror. While in harm's way, 
the Mountain Warriors successfully completed their mission without any 
loss of life.

This resolution also honors and recognizes the members of the Heavy 
Equipment Transport Platoon, 2123rd Transportation Company, who 
recently returned home after completing their tour of duty in Iraq. The 
2123rd Transportation Company conducted daily resupply missions 
including moving tanks, water, heavy equipment, weapons, and guided 
weapons systems for the United States Army.

Finally, this House concurrent resolution recognizes the members of 
the Rear Area Operations Command from the Second Battalion, 123rd Armor 
of the Kentucky Army National Guard. The ''Orphan Battalion,'' now 
returned to the Commonwealth, performed base operations for coalition 
forces in Iraq including 110 combat patrols, site hardening and 
security improvements, and establishment of 11 guard tower and 17 
vehicle battle positions at Qayyarah Airfield West.

These men and women have made Kentucky proud, serving honorably and 
with steadfast resolve, sacrificing time away from loved ones, careers, 
and their communities. I want to express my deepest gratitude to these 
men and women for their service to our great country. I also express my 
thanks to their families who have waited patiently for their loved ones 
to return home.
