---
---

# None
## `27b4e1ce7add73d241769ff703ef4328`
`Mr. EHLERS — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. EHLERS. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

You heard one speaker say this was a bad bill and should not be 
passed. You heard another one say it is a good bill and should be 
passed. There are good points on both sides of that argument. But I 
would point out that I have never seen a perfect bill reach the floor 
of this House; and, on balance, I believe this bill is good and should 
be passed, and I will be supporting the bill and presumably the rule 
that is presenting it to us.

I do this in spite of the fact that Dr. Gingrey and Ranking Member 
Hall, whom I have great respect for, have serious doubts about the 
bill.

Let me explain why I am supporting this. America is in trouble. It is 
in trouble in several areas. It is in trouble in science, and it is in 
trouble in education, manufacturing, outsourcing. Let me examine some 
of those.

Just an example, science education. Had I the time I could give you 
chart after chart after chart showing you where American students stand 
on the international scale compared to other high school graduate 
students:

In physics, dead last of all developed nations.

High school mathematics graduates, second from the bottom of all 
developed countries.



General science, about fifth from the the bottom.

In the PITA studies, United States last of 21 nations in mathematics.

We think we are the leading nation. We think we are doing a good job 
of educating our students. We are not, and we must face that. This bill 
addresses much of that problem by improving the education and training 
for teachers, both incoming teachers and existing teachers. It will 
improve the curricula, it will help students achieve better, and we 
must achieve higher levels again.

China and India recognized this issue 20 years ago, that the future 
belonged to the nations that educated their children in mathematics and 
science. China did it the dictator's way: You will learn math and 
science. India did it through inducements. But, as a result, they are 
now ahead of us, and we are now losing jobs to those nations because we 
have neglected our math and science education.

In our research efforts, we have always been the leader in scientific 
research for half a century, ever since World War II. We are losing 
ground. Believe it or not, South Korea is starting to put more than we 
are, as a percent of GDP, into basic research efforts, and that is 
being joined by other countries as well.

Manufacturing is a tremendous problem. We are losing jobs to other 
countries. And it is not just the wage base. I come from a 
manufacturing district. I have many conversations with manufacturers. 
It is not just the wage base. They are getting better quality, more 
highly educated workers abroad for lower pay. That is a hard 
combination to beat. And we really have to work hard in this Nation to 
improve education and improve manufacturing.

Now, how does that affect this bill? This bill is designed to affect 
and improve all of those areas. It does not do it ideally. I disagree 
with a number of things in the bill. I join my Republican colleagues in 
doing that. But, on balance, it is a start. If this were an 
appropriations bill, I might have some reservations, but it is an 
authorization bill. We get another bite of the apple each time we 
decide which programs we are actually going to fund.

I could mention ARPA-E in here. I am less than enthusiastic about it. 
If it works, I am delighted. I am skeptical. But why not authorize it, 
let the appropriators work with us, and decide whether or not we should 
fund it.

America as a Nation is based on competition. We are not afraid of 
competition, and this bill will engender competition. It will give us 
the opportunity to compete face-to-face at level-to-level with other 
countries and give us an opportunity to restore our manufacturing base, 
improve our science education, improve our manufacturing facilities and 
really do a better job.

You have heard before, this is endorsed by many major organizations 
in this country, all of whom have a deep interest in improving 
manufacturing and improving our competitiveness. This bill was 
suggested by President Bush in his American Competitiveness Initiative 
in his State of the Union speech last year. This is not a fly-by-night 
idea. This is something that I have been working on for almost every 
year since I came here 14 years ago and particularly the last 10 years. 
It is coming to fruition.

I have worked with the White House on it. I have worked with many 
scientific societies, and much of the genesis of this comes from the 
the National Academy of Sciences and The Gathering Storm Report, which 
is headed very ably by Norman Augustine, one of our leading 
industrialists and scientists.

It is not a perfect bill. I wish it were, but it is not. But in this 
process this is the best we can get, and it gives us a base to build 
on. And through appropriate use of this authorization and the 
appropriations bills, we will strengthen our Nation, we will strengthen 
our manufacturing base, we will strengthen our schools, we will 
strengthen our math and science education, and we will have a better 
Nation and a stronger Nation as a result.

One last comment. We spend a tremendous amount of money on defense, a 
tremendous amount of money on defense. We have always managed to 
succeed in situations like Iraq because of our superior knowledge, our 
superior research, and our superior resources. We are in danger of 
losing that edge. And I have met with people from the the Pentagon 
suggesting scientific ideas to them that they can use to improve the 
situation in Iraq. We need that kind of interaction between the 
scientific community and the military community, and I hope that will 
also result from this and give us a stronger Nation.