---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF CINCO DE MAYO
## `27c5e5892b4613a458e0e6d7b298732f`
`Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD — 5 May 2009`

---


Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. 
Res. 230, a bill recognizing the significance of Cinco de Mayo. This 
day holds special meaning for me as it does for millions of other 
Mexican Americans and it provides a wonderful opportunity to reflect on 
the innumerable contributions that generations of Mexican Americans 
have made to our national life.

On Cinco de Mayo, we celebrate the valor of a small contingent of 
Mexican patriots who prevailed against a much larger French army in the 
Battle of Puebla. Just as in our own fight for independence, they 
triumphed despite overwhelming odds. Indeed, like Lexington and 
Concord, Puebla marks a significant victory in the struggle for liberty 
in the New World.

Today Cinco de Mayo has evolved into a day to celebrate our Mexican 
American culture and the immeasurable ways in which Mexican Americans 
have shaped this country. Through music, literature and cuisine, we 
have enriched the American melting pot. Through an entrepreneurial 
spirit, Mexican American small businesses are playing a critical role 
in our economic recovery. Our men and women on the battlefield are 
helping to secure lasting peace in Iraq and Afghanistan. As CEOs, 
religious leaders, cabinet secretaries and Members of Congress, we are 
providing leadership in the face of unprecedented challenges both at 
home and abroad.

Finally, Mexico is among our most important allies and this day 
offers us the chance to reaffirm that friendship. As our neighbors to 
the south fight drug cartels and the H1N1 flu virus, we should pause to 
consider what more we can do to aid the Mexican people. Just as they 
did on Cinco de Mayo 1862, they are waging a courageous battle against 
forces that seek to undermine their democratic society and just as on 
that famous date, I am confident that Mexico will emerge a stronger and 
more prosperous nation.
