---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `27c71bf1261d4bb594a4ff6ee868a3c0`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to discuss H.R. 
5658, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2009 
which has many important provisions to help our military personnel and 
their families. I want to thank my colleague Congressman Skelton for 
his leadership on the House Armed Services Committee in bringing a bill 
to the floor that not only protects but supports our military and our 
veterans.

Samuel Adams, who was known as the Father of the American Revolution, 
stated ''All might be free if they valued freedom, and defended it as 
they should.'' Well, while most of us value freedom many of us do not 
risk our lives for it the way our men and women in the armed forces do 
on a daily basis.

This defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men and 
women who fight to secure not only our citizen's freedom but the 
freedom of others. This bill will provide the necessary resources to 
protect the American people and our national interests at home and 
abroad. The Armed Services committee has provided for military 
readiness; taking care of our troops and their families; increasing 
focus on the war in Afghanistan; and improving interagency cooperation, 
oversight, and accountability in this year's defense authorization 
bill.















 Defense Provisions


We must maintain our efforts to restore military readiness in order 
to meet current military challenges and prepare for the future. This 
bill directs approximately $2 billion toward unfunded readiness 
initiatives requested by the services, which includes an additional 
$932 million to deal with equipment shortages and for equipment 
maintenance.

The bill also provides $800 million for National Guard and Reserve 
equipment and $650 million to keep defense facilities in good working 
order and to address urgent issues such as dilapidated military 
barracks. To boost readiness and to reduce the strain on our forces, 
the bill increases the size of the military by 7,000 Army troops and 
5,000 Marines, and prevents further military to civilian conversions in 
the medical field by authorizing an additional 1,023 Navy sailors and 
450 Air Force personnel.

To improve the quality of life for our forces and their families, the 
bill provides a 3.9 percent pay raise for all service members, which is 
.5 percent more than the President's budget request, and extends the 
authority for the Defense Department to offer bonuses and incentive 
pay. The bill also preserves important health benefits to improve the 
readiness of our force, keep servicemembers and their families healthy, 
and to reduce the overall need for care.

The bill establishes a Career Intermission Pilot Program to allow a 
servicemember to be released from active duty for a maximum of 3 years 
to focus on personal or professional goals outside of the military. The 
bill also provides tuition assistance to help military spouses 
establish their own careers, authorizes Impact Aid funding to assist 
schools with large enrollments of military children, and establishes a 
DoD School of Nursing to address the critical nursing shortage in our 
military services.

This bill addresses the need to improve the command and control 
structure for military forces operating in Afghanistan providing 
equipment to train and properly equip the Afghan National Security 
Forces (ANSF). This bill urges the President to appoint a Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), as required 
by law, at the earliest possible time.

More importantly this bill contains several layers of transparency 
and accountability. By requiring more detailed reporting to Congress on 
the status and strategies of our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, as 
well as on the performance of Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) 
and information on U.S. contractors--this bill provides greater 
oversight by this body.











Rep. Jackson-Lee Proposed Amendments


While I do believe that Congressman Skelton and the Armed Services 
Committee have done a great job at trying to address the needs of our 
servicemembers, their families, and our national interests, I am 
disappointed to see certain areas were not addressed. I offered two 
amendments to the defense authorization to improve its ultimate 
outcome.

My first amendment would have added three sense of Congress 
paragraphs: (1) the war in Iraq should end as safely and quickly as 
possible and our troops should be brought home; (2) the performance of 
United States military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan should be 
commended, their courage and sacrifice have been exceptional, and when 
they


come home, their service should be recognized appropriately, including 
through the observance of a national day of celebration; and (3) the 
primary purpose of funds made available by this Act should be to 
transition the mission of United States Armed Forces in Iraq and 
undertake their redeployment, and not to extend or prolong the war.


This amendment was borne from my deeply held belief that we must 
commend our military for their exemplary performance and success in 
Iraq. As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic 
young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on 
the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. 
The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi 
government and military. Whether or not my colleagues agree that the 
time has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that 
all of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve 
our sincere thanks and congratulations.

My amendment explicitly stated that the goals laid out by the 
Authorization for Use of Military Force against Iraq Resolution of 2002 
(AUMF) have all been achieved by our troops in Iraq.

Due to the skill and dedication of the members of the Armed Forces, 
the entire world has now been assured that Iraq does not possess 
weapons of mass destruction that could threaten the United States or 
any member nation of the international community. The United States 
Armed Forces successfully toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein and 
captured the key cities of Iraq in only 21 days. The Armed Forces 
performed magnificently in conducting military operations designed to 
ensure that the people of Iraq would enjoy the benefits of a 
democratically elected government governing a country that is capable 
of sustaining itself economically and politically and defending itself 
militarily.

While our troops have achieved the objectives for which they were 
sent to Iraq, they are now caught in the midst of a sectarian conflict. 
Unfortunately, there is no military solution to Iraq's ongoing 
political and sectarian conflicts.

My second amendment would have made a declaration of U.S. policy that 
''The Authorization for Use of Military Force against Iraq Resolution 
of 2002 (Public Law 107-243; approved on October 16, 2002) is the basis 
of authority pursuant to which the President launched the invasion of 
Iraq in March 2003.''

Further, it describes the authorization's two stated objectives: to 
enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions 
regarding Iraq, and to defend the national security of the United 
States (i) by disarming Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that 
could threaten the security of the United States and international 
peace in the Persian Gulf region, (ii) by ensuring that the regime of 
Saddam Hussein would not provide weapons of mass destruction to 
international terrorists, including al Qaida, (iii) by changing the 
Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist regime no longer 
pose a threat to the people of Iraq or Iraq's neighbors, and (iv) by 
bringing to justice any members of al Qaida bearing responsibility for 
the attacks on the United States, its citizens, and interests, 
including the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, known or 
found to be in Iraq.

Most crucially, my second amendment states unequivocally that ''the 
objectives of Public Law 107-243 described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
of paragraph (2) have been achieved. This amendment would have provided 
an expressed acknowledgment by the Congress that the objectives for 
which the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) resolution of 
2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed 
Forces of the United States.

The objectives for which this Congress authorized war in Iraq have 
been met; therefore, that authorization should no longer be the basis 
for ongoing involvement by U.S. armed forces. Our military has already 
paid too heavy a price for this Administration's ill-advised and poorly 
planned war effort in Iraq. My amendment would have recognized the 
exemplary performance of our men and women in uniform, and emphasizes 
that our military has already achieved the objectives for which it was 
sent to Iraq.

Mr. Chairman, although I would have liked to see my amendments 
included in this bill I am supportive of much of the provisions of this 
bill; however since this legislation provides for continued funding of 
the Iraq war I will not be able to vote for the continuation of the 
war. I will vote no.