---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `27c8367f0f655837f8943c0c51665d8f`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. I did fine, and they did great. You can imagine 
in a kayak where it is arms and upper body, they can go where they want 
to go very fast; faster than I can. It is incredibly therapeutic. It 
wasn't not Olympic competition, but it is a perfect example of what you 
were talking about in terms of the therapeutic value of that program.

I am honored to be here with my distinguished colleagues in the House 
supporting Senate bill S. 3023, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act 
of 2008. And I am especially grateful that it contains all of the 
provisions from our Veterans' Disability Benefits Claims Modernization 
Act which I and other members of the subcommittee, including the 
ranking member, Congressman Lamborn, worked incredibly hard on in the 
Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial 
Affairs.

The bill really grew from the testimony of VSOs, individual veterans, 
employees of the VA, various stakeholders on these issues who came for 
a year to hearings and round tables and brought us their ideas. I would 
like to thank all of them for their contribution.

At the end of July I was told that the backlog of claims had reached 
838,000 which is a shameful situation for our country which has so much 
technological and medical capability and capacity, to not be able to 
keep up with the combination of returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans 
at the same time there is the maturing of our Vietnam veterans. And we 
still have vets from other conflicts who are coming in for care at the 
same time.

The backlog was predicted to reach a million cases by next year if we 
didn't do this, and so I am happy we are moving forward and not letting 
that happen. This Congress has done, in a week in which we had the 
financial disaster dropped in our lap, and I was afraid that this might 
all get put on the back burner, I am pleased that the staff worked as 
hard as they did, both House and Senate staff, full committee and 
subcommittee staff, and I think it is the right thing to do, not to 
make our


veterans wait for another 6 months because we are going to a new 
Congress and we have to resubmit the whole thing.

Today's VA claims processing system is labor-intensive and paper 
based. It relies on an archaic rating schedule and outdated medical 
concepts, practices that have been allowed to continue for too long 
unchecked and unaddressed. Too many opportunities for change have been 
missed, too many reports after reports have been shelved to collect 
dust.

This bill will comprehensively repair the VA disability benefits' 
system so that veterans and their survivors can receive accurate and 
timely assistance. The VA schedule by which veterans are rated for 
their disabilities needs to adhere to more modern medical practices and 
disability concepts, and should consider such factors as quality of 
life and earnings capacity.

VA management issues need to be addressed and inefficiencies 
corrected to enhance quality and performance. S. 3023 outlines 
procedures so veterans can expedite their claims when they have 
included all of the available evidence. It also codifies the VA's 
ability to render temporary ratings for undisputed, disabling severe 
injuries or illnesses.

Furthermore, the information technology enhancements in the bill 
require the VA to institute electronic systems and computer softwares 
that are commonplace in other aspects of our society. And I compliment 
Ranking Member Lamborn for his consistent advocacy of that portion in 
particular of this bill.

Veterans should benefit from the modern technological age that we 
live in, and an environmentally friendly, paperless process that can 
award claims in real-time, allow two offices that specialize in 
different aspects of the medical claims to be looking at the 
information at the same time.

Applying for VA benefits should be as easy as online banking, and 
that is what we are aiming to make it.

This bill also calls upon the VA to create a survivors' office. 
Although the VA's motto is ''to care for widows and orphans,'' it has 
never lived up to that visionary idealism of President Lincoln. That 
omission is rectified in this bill, especially important while so many 
military members are giving their lives in service to this country and 
leaving behind their beloved families.

In another measure to support survivors, the bill allows for the 
survivor to become the claimant when the veteran dies so that the 
pending claim can be adjudicated. It is a travesty that so many 
veterans die worried that they will be unable to provide for their 
families. Widows and dependent children are left aggrieved and 
abandoned by the country their spouses faithfully served just at the 
time when they are concerned about so many other adjustments being made 
in their lives and that their grief is still being processed at the 
same time.

A properly operating benefits system could prevent the ills that 
might befall a veteran. We must fight against suicide, divorce, 
bankruptcy, stigma, poverty and homelessness among our Nation's 
disabled veterans by providing to them the quality of life needs, 
providing them with parity among their peers, and elimination of stress 
they encounter in an adversarial and confusing claims processing 
system.

I envision S. 3023 as putting the VA on a 21st century track to lead 
the way to decisions that are made quickly and correctly. We must treat 
our Nation's veterans and their families with the dignity and respect 
that they deserve while restoring their faith in us. We must end the 
turmoil, alienation and injustice that they feel when they file a claim 
for their earned VA benefits by acting now.

I urge all Members to support this bill. I thank both Ranking Member 
Buyer and Chairman Filner.