---
---

# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `27d12968919f84c7c1f328a64fc2cdff`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 5 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
Title III of H.R. 6, the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 
110th Congress. With the adoption of this title, we begin to make good 
on our pledge to restore civility, open government, and honest 
leadership to the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, it is critically important that we adopt the civility 
rules contained in Title III because Americans are paying for the cost 
of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, 
spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the 
Gulf Coast and Iraq for Administration cronies.



But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the 
House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes 
were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into 
signed conference reports in the dead of night.

The American people registered their disgust at this terrible way of 
considering and voting on legislation last November and voted for 
reform. House Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and won 
the majority. Restoring open government and honest leadership is one of 
the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is why 
we have included Title III in the Rules of the House of Representative 
for the 110th Congress. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under 
the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the 
Congress of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman Slaughter and the members of the 
Rules Committee for their excellent work in preparing the rules 
package. The reforms contained in the package are necessary to ensure 
that all Members of Congress, each of whom is elected to represent the 
interests of nearly 600,000 constituents, have sufficient time to 
consider important legislation before casting an informed vote. The 
reforms we are considering also will discourage manipulation of the 
voting rules to alter the outcome of roll call votes.

Mr. Speaker, I support the elements of the civility package, which 
(1) prohibits holding votes open for the sole purpose of affecting the 
outcome; and (2) reforms the conference committee process by requiring 
adequate notice of meetings, ensuring information is available to all 
conferees, and prohibiting changes to the text of signed conference 
reports.

Mr. Speaker, under the previous House Republican leadership, several 
votes were held open for hours in order to change the outcome. The most 
notable example was the November 2003 vote on the conference report on 
Medicare legislation (PL 108-173) that was held open for two hours and 
53 minutes, the longest recorded vote since electronic voting began in 
1973. After the expiration of the 15 minute time limit, the measure 
lost 216 to 218. But the vote was held open hours to afford House 
Republican leaders, the president, and the Health and Human Services 
Department, enough time to lobby enough Republican members to change 
their votes, or cast votes, in favor of the measure, eventually 
achieving a majority of 220 to 215. This kind of unfair manipulation of 
the rules would not take place under the voting rules package we are 
considering today.

With respect to Conference Reports, the rules package we consider 
today includes provisions intended to ensure that conferees have notice 
of conference meetings and the opportunity to participate, as well as 
to prevent the insertion of material into a conference agreement after 
the conferees have completed their work but before the House votes on 
the measure. These new rules also require House managers to ensure that 
conference meetings occur under circumstances that allow every House 
conferee to have notice of the meetings and reasonable opportunities to 
attend. Under the prior Republican leadership, Democratic conferees 
frequently were not invited to meetings of conferees, which prevented 
U.S. from having a meaningful role in crafting an agreement.

The rules also require conferees to ensure that all provisions on 
which the House and Senate have disagreed be considered open to 
discussion at any meeting of the conference committee. Additionally, 
House conferees will be required to ensure that papers reflecting a 
conference agreement are held ''inviolate to change,'' unless there is 
a renewal of the opportunity of all House managers to reconsider their 
decision to sign or not to sign the agreement. This change is designed 
to prevent material from being inserted into a conference agreement 
after conferees have ''closed'' the measure. In this connection, the 
new reforms requires that House managers be provided with a single time 
and place, with access to at least one complete copy of the final 
conference agreement, for the purpose of recording their approval, or 
lack of approval, on the signature sheets that accompany the conference 
report and the joint statement of managers.

Last, the new reforms bar the House from considering a conference 
report if the text differs materially, except clerical changes, from 
the text that reflects the action of the conferees when they signed the 
conference agreement.

Mr. Speaker, to restore public confidence in this institution we must 
commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most 
responsive Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 
six years by putting the needs of the American people ahead of partisan 
political advantage. To do that, we must start by adopting by Title III 
of H.R. 6, the civility reforms to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives for the 110th Congress.