---
---

# None
## `27dd064b72d5e38a580ee1b17ca54792`
`Mr. WICKER — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Madam Speaker, I thank my distinguished friend from 
Washington.

Madam Speaker, my friend from Florida says that this new Democratic 
majority was determined to govern differently than previous majorities. 
He has succeeded in this regard, Madam Speaker: This is the latest the 
Congress has gone without sending a single appropriation bill to the 
President for his signature since 1987. I don't think that is what the 
Democratic majority had in mind when they said they would govern 
differently, but they have certainly done so.

So I rise to express my opposition to the rule and to the conference 
report that will serve no purpose other than to delay funding for 
veterans, for our troops and for their families.

The conference report before us includes both the Labor-HHS Education 
appropriation bill and the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
appropriation bill. The President stands ready to sign the MilCon-VA 
bill into law. He could have done so already and made funding available 
for key veterans health and benefit programs and much-needed military 
construction projects.

But the majority has chosen to link that bill with a bloated Labor-
HHS, Education bill, a measure which the President will veto. So this 
exercise today amounts to a waste of time and sends the wrong message 
to veterans and military personnel. Instead of honoring these men and 
women for their sacrifices and providing assistance to them today on 
the eve of Veterans Day, we are short-changing our veterans in the 
interest of political gamesmanship.

The majority's strategy was to couple these bills with the 
expectation that many Members of Congress would not have the political 
will to oppose funding for veterans even temporarily. We should not use 
our veterans as pawns and we should not insult their intelligence. Give 
our Nation's heroes more credit than that. Our veterans can see through 
this ruse. So can the American people, and they should be rightly 
outraged by it.

I have in my hand a statement taken from the Web page of the American 
Legion, our Nation's largest veterans organization. The American Legion 
says, ''Here we are again, the start of a new fiscal year and Congress 
still has not passed the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Bill.'' The American Legion goes on to 
ask the question: ''So what is the problem?'' And their answer is 
accurate: ''Politics.''

The American Legion goes on to denounce Congress' plans to hold VA 
funding hostage.

Another veterans organization, VetsForFreedom.org identifies this 
process for what it is: ''A cynical attempt to use veterans as a 
political shield for further wasteful government spending.'' 
VetsforFreedom goes on to say they call on Congress to pass clean bills 
for the Veterans Administration and the Department of Defense as 
quickly as possible.

Madam Speaker, we should be moving this legislation under regular 
order. It is true that Congresses in the past have used omnibus bills, 
but always as a last resort after first trying to follow regular 
established procedure. In this instance, the Democratic leadership did 
not even attempt to follow regular order. Instead, their first attempt 
to bring these conference reports to the floor amounts to an 
unprecedented departure from established procedure.

I very much regret the decision of the majority to link these two 
bills. The House passed its version of the MilCon bill in June by a 
vote of 409-2. The Senate passed its bill on September 6, 2 months ago, 
with a vote of 92-1 in favor of the bill. For 8 weeks, Chairman Edwards 
and I stood ready to conference these bills. We could have brought a 
bill to the floor weeks ago that would have passed overwhelmingly and 
been signed into law by the President.

Instead, after waiting 8 weeks, when we were finally given the green 
light to move forward with a conference, the members of our 
subcommittee were not appointed as conferees as is normally the case. 
The majority decided that the Labor-HHS conferees, most of whom did not 
attend MilCon-VA hearings or participate in our bill's creation, would 
be involved in deliberations on VA-specific provisions.

Mr. Edwards and I, as chairman and ranking member, have worked along 
with our Senate counterparts and our staffs to craft a compromise 
between the two versions of the MilCon-VA bill. The compromise before 
the House includes funding for numerous military construction projects 
that are vital to support the working environment and quality of life 
of our soldiers and their families.

We have included funding for base realignment and closure. We have 
included funding for initiatives to restation 70,000 troops and their 
families to Europe and Korea; projects necessary for increasing the 
active duty Army by 65,000 and the Marine Corps by 27,000; relocation 
of Marines from Okinawa to Japan; consolidating U.S. forces in South 
Korea; establishing enduring bases in Afghanistan and Djibouti; 
barracks and family housing projects; new medical facilities; and 
needed support facilities for our Guard and Reserve. And all of this on 
a bipartisan basis.

I was especially pleased to join Chairman Edwards in a very important 
quality of life initiative, funding much-needed child development 
centers.

With regard to the VA portions of the bill, the department is 
receiving the largest increase in the department's history, an increase 
of $4.8 billion over fiscal year 2007. This increase even exceeds the 
independent budget request submitted by the various veterans service 
organizations. The bulk of this increase is going to boost medical 
services at VA hospitals and clinics. In fiscal year 2008, it is 
estimated that the VA will treat 5.8 million patients, including 
263,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.

The conferees have produced a bipartisan conference report. It is a 
good work product. It continues the long-standing tradition of support 
and commitment for the men and women and their families who are serving 
our country and those who have served our country in the past.

It is unfortunate that these worthy projects are now joined with a 
bill that includes $10 billion in excessive spending on domestic 
programs.

Included in the Labor-HHS portion of the bill is a new duplicative 
program for the CDC for comprehensive sex education; a new grant-making 
initiative at the Department of Education targeting the creation of 
full-service community schools.

The only office at the Department of Labor the majority has seen fit 
to cut is the one responsible for union oversight. Apparently union 
accountability is unimportant to the majority, so they cut the labor 
management standards budget by 20 percent.

In conclusion, Madam Speaker, I mention these things to point out 
that there are legitimate differences surrounding the Labor-HHS bill. 
There are good reasons the President will veto Labor-HHS. But there are 
no good reasons for this bill to be linked with MilCon-VA. Vital 
funding for the VA and infrastructure for our troops could be in the 
pipeline within a matter of days, but the majority will simply not 
allow that. Instead, we are sacrificing veterans for the sake of a 
cheap, cheap political stunt. Our Nation's veterans deserve better. The 
American people deserve better.

Vote ''no'' on the rule and vote ''no'' on the conference report.