# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `27e024293ae79d88214010efa40e8db9`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 8 November 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I am pleased today to join my 
colleagues Senators Collins, Lieberman and Coburn in introducing the 
Inspector General Reform Act of 2007. This bill represents a strong 
bipartisan effort to strengthen the independence and integrity of our 
nation's Inspectors General, who represent one of our strongest tools 
in combating waste, fraud and abuse throughout our government.

When I first came to the Senate this January, I made it one of my top 
priorities to become actively involved in oversight and accountability 
in Congress and in the Federal Government. I was thrilled to have been 
given an appointment to the Homeland Security and Government Affairs 
Committee, which is ably run by Chairman Lieberman. I was proud to have 
been able to cosponsor S. 680, the bill authored by Senator Collins 
which included not only extensive reforms of Government contracting 
practices, but also included many provisions geared towards improving 
the Inspector General system. I must thank Senator Collins especially 
for working with me on


the Inspector General legislation, which incorporates not only many of 
her reform ideas, but also those introduced in the House by 
Representatives Jim Cooper of Tennessee in H.R. 928, which has passed 
that chamber by an overwhelming vote of 404 to 11.

My 8 years as State Auditor in Missouri has given me tremendous 
respect for auditors and investigators working to make sure Government 
is spending our taxpayer dollars wisely. While many people are aware of 
the great work done by the legislative branch's Government 
Accountability Office, very few people realize that there are 
Inspectors General in many of our most important agencies. These IGs 
report both to the Executive and Legislative branch, and work in the 
trenches in the agency, constantly ferreting out cases of fraud, waste, 
abuse, and other mismanagement. Their unique role, resting inside the 
very agency they are charged with auditing and investigating, often 
creates unavoidable tensions.

The goal of the first Inspector General Act, passed 30 years ago next 
year, was to create a system that would allow the IG to rest 
harmoniously in the agency but allow them to provide oversight of an 
agency's actions and duties free from interference.

For the most part, this system has worked. But we can do better to 
assure that Inspectors General are free of intimidation or 
inappropriate influence by the agencies they oversee. Recent news 
reports have noted that the CIA Inspector General, John Helgerson, is 
being investigated by his own agency, even though there is no apparent 
legal authority for such an investigation to take place. The 
Administrator for the General Services Administration has been openly 
critical of the GSA IG, and has tried to cut the responsibilities and 
the budget of that office. The State Department IG has answered charges 
that he has failed to investigate allegations of contracting fraud in 
Iraq and Afghanistan with the claim that he has not been provided 
enough money by his agency to do such an investigation.

Obviously, some changes are needed and our IG reform bill attempts to 
make them. For example, IGs currently request their budgets through 
their agencies and then the agency heads determine if that request is 
appropriate before sending their budgets to the White House and then on 
to Congress. No one in Congress has the ability to see how much an IG 
office truly needs to adequately fulfill its oversight duties. Our bill 
requires that IGs can attach comments to the agency's official budget 
request if he or she believes the funding the agency requested for its 
IG is not enough to do the job.

As more Executive agencies move to a pay for performance compensation 
system, bonuses given by the agency have become a bigger part of the 
total compensation for employees. Having the agency that you audit 
decide how much of a bonus you will receive is an obvious, unacceptable 
conflict of interest for Inspectors General. Many IGs refuse to take a 
bonus, and those who do accept them have myriad reasons for doing so. 
However, this practice will be forbidden under the new law. Given the 
negative impact on the compensation for Inspector General and the need 
to attract and retain the best and the brightest, the pay of 
presidentially appointed Inspectors General will be raised one level. 
For the other Executive IGs, their agencies will be directed to pay 
them the same or more than the total compensation received by other 
senior level employees. This system will end the possibility of an 
agency head trying to entice an IG to go easy on them, or to punish an 
IG who refuses to do so.

This bill also gives the IGs more security from the fear of losing 
one's job for the simple reason they are too good. Before any IG can be 
removed, the congressional committees of jurisdiction must be notified, 
in writing, of the intent to remove the IG, and the reasons for doing 
so. This notice must be received at least 30 days before the scheduled 
removal. Bringing transparency to this process should guarantee that no 
IG will be removed for the wrong reason.

I want to make sure that the good work of the IGs is readily 
accessible to the people who pay for it, the taxpayer. I was shocked to 
realize that many IGs did not post their reports on the web. At least 
one IG shop didn't even have a website. In this day and age the public, 
and Congress, should have timely and easy access to all the public 
reports produced by Inspectors General. This bill requires all reports 
which are open to the public to be posted on the web within three 
working days of their release. It also requires all IG shops to 
provide, on their websites, a method for anonymously reporting waste, 
fraud or abuse.

Finally, this bill codifies a council for the IGs to have as a 
resource. This council, which exists now only pursuant to Executive 
order, would provide a structure for IGs to pool their resources when 
it would effectively help them perform their mission, such as providing 
Government-wide training for investigators and auditors. It will also 
include an Integrity Committee that will investigate allegations made 
against Inspectors General and certain staff members. Congress would 
receive periodic reports from this committee on the number of 
investigations they have undertaken, the results of those 
investigations, and any action by the agency taken in response to the 
findings of the committee.

I want to make clear that I am one of the biggest fans of the current 
cadre of Inspectors General, with very few exceptions. I want to make 
sure these dedicated public servants are able to perform their duties 
free from interference. I am very proud to be part of the effort to 
make sure this happens, and again thank my colleagues Senators Collins, 
Lieberman and Coburn for their hard work and dedication to this issue.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.