---
---

# None
## `27e9740890e784309639555386f3ed5b`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you so much. And thank you for those kind 
words you said about me. I appreciate it. And I would have called my 
mom, because she would have loved to hear those words, too.

You know, over this weekend, I did a couple of things when I was 
home. One was that I really got into the Constitution of the United 
States. I really got into that section in article I, section 8, that 
clearly gives us the exclusive responsibility as Congress to raise and 
support armies.

It is clear as a bell there. It gives it to us, it does not give it 
to the White House or the President or the executive branch. It gives 
it to Congress. And up until now we have failed the American people. 
The large measure of this--you touched upon it earlier, Mr. Ross, but 
this Republican-led Congress has just completely rolled over and 
allowed this President to fund this war on emergency supplementals, 
which means that we in Congress cannot conduct the constitutionally 
required oversight to do what the Constitution wanted us to do.

Now, that is why we are in this situation we are in, and I would like 
to talk for a moment on two points.

When I was home, the other thing I did was I got around and I had 
some great interaction with my constituents out in Cobb County and 
Douglas County and in Clayton County and in Henry County. We all had 
town hall meetings, we had my office open. I mean, we had Chamber of 
Commerce annual dinners.

That is a great opportunity for folks to just come up to you and let 
you know exactly how they feel. And I can tell you, Mr. Ross, they are 
proud to see us on this floor, offering this bill. This is not just a 
resolution that is nonbinding. We are going to have those that voice 
our opinion about this war, they are going to be voted on up or down.

Everybody knows my personal feelings about the mistake of this surge, 
but this resolution that we have carries a tremendous amount of weight. 
That is why I care about it so much. And I want to share with the 
American people exactly what it is in this resolution that we are doing 
and why it is needed and why, finally, this resolution provides a 
direct link and connection with what the Founding Fathers wrote in 
article I, section 8, of the Constitution over 200 years ago that we 
have the exclusive right to determine how we will manage.

Now, why do we need that?

The other thing I did over this weekend was, I read my home 
newspaper, the Atlanta Journal Constitution. And in there there was an 
extraordinary article by the Associated Press that I would like to make 
a part of this Record because this article points out the very need for 
this measure that we in the Blue Dog Coalition are pushing.

This article in the Atlanta Journal Constitution was written John 
Heilprin with the Associated Press. The title of it was this: 
Contractors Investigated After Army Fraud Alleged. Just listen to this, 
America. ''From high dollar fraud to conspiracy to bribery and bid-
rigging, Army investigators have opened up to 50 criminal probes 
involving battlefield contractors in the war in Iraq and the U.S. fight 
against terrorism.''



What an opening sentence, what a declarative issue we have here.

It goes on to say, senior contracting officials, government 
employees, residents of other countries, and in some cases U.S. 
military personnel themselves have been implicated in millions of 
dollars of fraud allegations. ''All of these involve operations in 
Iraq, Afghanistan and Kuwait,'' Chris Grey, a spokesman for the U.S. 
Army Criminal Investigation Command, confirmed just this past Saturday. 
''The agents will pursue leads into truth wherever it takes us. We take 
this very seriously.''

Here is the point. Battlefield contractors have been implicated in 
allegations of fraud and abuse since the United States invaded Iraq in 
the spring of 2003. Any wonder why this has happened? Because the 
Congress did not apply the oversight, because this Republican Congress 
just simply rubber-stamped everything.

The Special Inspector General's Office, focusing solely on 
reconstruction spending, has developed cases that have led to four 
criminal convictions. The problems stem in part from the Pentagon's 
struggle to get a handle on the unprecedented number of contractors now 
helping run the Nation's wars, and these contractors are used in battle 
zones to do nearly everything but fight. But they can war-profiteer, 
they can commit fraud, they can commit bribery, and they can abuse the 
taxpayers' money on the backs of our good, brave soldiers that are 
putting their lives on the line for much less than what these 
contractors are making.

They run the cafeterias, the laundries for the troops. They move 
supplies, run communication systems and repair weapons systems.

Special agents from the Army's Major Procurement Fraud Unit were 
recently dispatched to Iraq, Afghanistan and Kuwait where they are 
working closely and sharing information. One case involves an Army 
chief warrant officer accused of taking $50,000 in bribes to steer a 
contract for paper products and plastic flatware away from a government 
contractor to a Kuwaiti company, according to an indictment.

The Government Accountability Office reported in December that the 
military has been losing millions of dollars, and contractors are being 
investigated because it cannot monitor industry workers in far-flung 
locations. It summarizes this way: Commanders are often unsure how many 
contractors even use their bases or even require the food and housing 
protection, according to one report. One Army official quoted said, 
''The service estimates losing $43 million each year just on free meals 
that are provided.'' That is why this bill is important.

Let me just mention specifically how this bill will help prevent and 
address this glaring situation that was reported in the Atlanta Journal 
Constitution by the Associated Press, John Heilprin, who I commend for 
doing an excellent job. Our bill will require, within 30 days of 
passage, that every 90 days hereafter the Department of Defense 
Inspector General and the Special Inspector General for Iraqi 
Reconstruction shall prepare and transmit to Congress an unclassified 
report, but with a classified annex, if necessary, that will contain 
the following:

One, a detailed accounting of how military and reconstruction funds 
in Iraq have been spent thus far;

Two, a detailed accounting of the types and terms of contracts 
awarded on behalf of the United States, including the methods by which 
such contracts were awarded and contractors selected;

Three, it will require a description of efforts to obtain support and 
assistance from other countries during the rehabilitation of Iraq;

Four, an assessment of what additional funding is needed to complete 
military operations and reconstruction efforts in Iraq, including a 
plan for security of Iraq, a detailed plan for how any future funds 
will be spent, and a statement of how those funds will advance the 
interests of the United States in Iraq.

If either inspector general fails to submit a quarterly report, the 
Government Accountability Office shall conduct an audit and report to 
Congress. Sanctions will be imposed against contractors who have 
engaged in fraud or abuse or war profiteering, and we will create the 
Truman Committee that Mr. Chandler spoke to earlier.

Funding requests for operations in Iraqi Freedom in fiscal year 2008 
and


beyond must come through the regular appropriations process and not 
through these emergency supplementals that are explicitly designed to 
bypass oversight. That is why we have the problems we have here; and 
also, that is why there was not enough money put in the budget when we 
sent our Armed Forces over there 3 years ago, as you recall, the news 
reports where many of our soldiers were digging in dung heaps and 
landfills trying to get body armor for them.

No. No more. This Blue Dog resolution addresses that, and I would 
expect an extraordinarily large vote in getting it passed.

And it is so good to be on the floor with my good friend, Mr. Ross, 
and also my good friend, Mr. Israel from New York, who we serve 
together, both as cochairs on our Democratic Group on National 
Security. And we have been addressing these issues. So it is just a 
pleasure to be on the floor with you. I hope with this story and this 
Associated Press Atlanta Journal Constitution report, it will show the 
American people why we need the specific legislation and the importance 
in getting some accountability passed concerning our war funding.