---
---

# THE BLUE DOG COALITION
## `27eea67acb1ef063cf00ca807f7290e9`
`Mr. ROSS — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida, a real 
leader in the fiscally conservative movement, cochair for 
administration in the Blue Dog Coalition, for his insight this evening.

Mr. Speaker, if you have any comments, questions or concerns for us, 
you can e-mail us at bluedog@mail.house.gov. That is 
bluedog@mail.house.gov.

Mr. Speaker, we are often asked how we got the name Blue Dog 
Coalition if we are just simply a group of fiscally conservative to 
moderate Democrats. Quite frankly, Mr. Speaker, ironically, after the 
Republicans took control of Congress in 1994, we were a group, which I 
wasn't yet a part of, I came here in 2000, but the conservative-
moderate movement in this Congress was a group of Democrats that, you 
have heard the phrase ''yellow dog Democrat,'' well, the Democrats to 
our left were choking us blue and the Republicans to our right were 
choking us blue, and we found ourselves in the middle, which is where 
we believe America is and where we are trying to bring our country, or 
at least our Congress as we try to restore fiscal discipline to our 
national government.

But on this accountability measure, if you think with me, Mr. 
Speaker, no business in our country could succeed financially if it 
failed to fully report to its shareholders on how it is spending its 
money. However, that is exactly how our Federal Government has been 
operating for the past 6 years. This administration is not telling its 
shareholders, the American taxpayers, how it spends the money coming 
into our Nation's capital.

In 2004, $25 billion of Federal Government spending went absolutely 
unaccounted for, according to the Treasury Department.



The Bush administration was unable to determine where the money had 
gone, how it was spent or what the American people got for their tax 
money. Even worse, the Republican-controlled Congress at the time 
failed to hold the executive branch accountable for this omission. 
Again, a rubber-stamp Congress year after year. The 107th Congress, a 
rubber-stamp Congress; the 108th Congress, a rubber-stamp Congress; the 
109th Congress, a rubber-stamp Congress; the 110th Congress, no more 
rubber-stamp Congress.

You are going to see a Congress that upholds its constitutional duty 
given to it in the Constitution of the United States of America to 
provide oversight. That does not mean go on witch hunts. It means do 
our job that we have been elected to do in providing oversight and 
accountability on how the American people's tax money is spent.

In fact, in 2005, the General Accountability Office reported that 18 
of 24 major Federal agencies had such bad financial systems that they 
do not even know the true cost of running some of their programs. Yet 
the Republican-controlled Congress at the time did not force these 
agencies to fully account for how money was being spent before doling 
out billions more of your tax money, Mr. Speaker, to the same programs.

Clearly, Congress year after year has failed to ask the serious 
questions


about the Bush administration's fiscal irresponsibility and record-high 
deficits 4 years in a row and have now pushed the Federal debt to 
nearly $9 trillion.

The time has come to hold this administration accountable for its 
reckless behavior here at home, as well as in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
other parts of the world. You are going to see this 110th Congress do 
that under the leadership of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue 
Dog Coalition.

I believe Congress must act now to renew its constitutional 
responsibility to serve as a check and balance for overspending, waste, 
fraud and financial abuse within the executive branch. Wasteful 
government spending has forced the national debt to its current record 
level; and future generations, our children and grandchildren, have to 
pay that bill. Future generations will have to pay back with interest 
the money the Federal Government is borrowing from other countries due 
to this administration's fiscal recklessness.

The time has come to restore commonsense and fiscal discipline to our 
Nation's government. As members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we have a 
plan to restore accountability to our government and we have a 12-point 
plan for budget reform.

At this time, Mr. Speaker, I yield to a new Blue Puppy, if you will, 
a new member of the Blue Dog Coalition from Ohio (Mr. Wilson).