---
---

# IRAQ
## `27faba8ee16f3c29d3ae5d088b35902c`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the Chair.

Last week, the new National Intelligence Estimate confirmed the 
nightmare scenario unfolding for our troops in Iraq. The country is 
sliding deeper into an abyss of civil war, with our brave men and women 
caught in the middle of it. The prospects for halting the escalating 
sectarian violence is bleak, with greater chaos and anarchy looming and 
many additional U.S. casualties inevitable.

It is abundantly clear that what we need is not a troop surge but a 
diplomatic surge, working with other countries in the region. Sending 
more troops into the Iraq civil war is not the solution to Iraq's 
political problems. Not only does President Bush fail to see that 
reality, but he is also going out of his way to deny and defy it.

Congress needs to express its opposition to this strategy. If the 
President refuses to change course, we must act to change it ourselves 
to protect our troops and end this misguided war. The war today is not 
the war Congress authorized 4 years ago. It is now a civil war. The war 
today is not about Saddam's weapons of mass destruction or alleged 
relationship with al-Qaeda, it is Iraqi against Iraqi. Iraq is at war 
with itself, and American soldiers are caught in the middle.

Madam President, it is time for the Members of this body to stand up 
and take a position on the issue of the surge.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.