# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `2803f7c038a9ee058a489f7ab5022f9f`
`Mr. LEAHY — 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, obviously I disagree with the description 
of the Senate Judiciary Committee's amendment. I spoke on this 
yesterday, but I am going to take a few minutes to describe what is in 
the Judiciary Committee's bill.

I support the Judiciary Committee amendment to the FISA Amendments 
Act of 2007. The Judiciary Committee amendment would make important 
improvements to the Intelligence Committee bill, at the same time 
maintaining its structure and its authority.

The so-called Protect America Act was rushed through the Senate last 
summer in an atmosphere of fear and intimidation. We even saw a key 
member of the administration make commitments to numerous Senators, 
Republicans and Democrats, on that bill and then break his word, first 
to us and then on national television.

It was a bad bill that has provided sweeping new powers to the 
Government. It imposes no checks on the Government and provides no 
oversight or protection for Americans' privacy.

The Intelligence Committee did important work last fall in crafting a 
bill that begins to walk back from the excesses of the Protect America 
Act. I commend both Senator Rockefeller and Senator Bond for that. But 
two committees in the Senate have jurisdiction over FISA the 
Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee.

The Intelligence Committee acted first to establish a good structure 
for conducting critical overseas surveillance. The Judiciary 
Committee's amendment maintains that structure and the authority for 
surveillance. But in my view and in the view of many Senators, the 
Intelligence Committee bill does not do enough to protect the rights of 
Americans. Indeed, many members of the Intelligence Committee voted for 
that bill knowing that the Judiciary Committee would have an 
opportunity to improve it, and they expected us to do that.

FISA is among the most important pieces of legislation this Congress 
has passed. It is there to provide a mechanism to conduct surveillance, 
it is critical to our security, but also protect the privacy and civil 
liberties of all Americans.

Let's be clear, this new authority expands FISA to allow more 
flexibility to conduct surveillance. If we are going to expand 
surveillance, we have to take great care to protect American civil 
liberties, and that is what the Judiciary Committee adds.

I praise the members who serve on both the Judiciary and Intelligence 
Committees--Senators Feinstein, Feingold, and Whitehouse, who 
contributed so much to the Judiciary Committee's efforts to improve 
this legislation. These Senators and others on the Judiciary Committee 
worked hard to craft amendments that preserve the basic structure and 
authority in the bill reported by the Select Committee on Intelligence, 
while adding crucial protections for Americans.

The Judiciary Committee bill makes about 12 changes to the 
Intelligence Committee bill. Let me address a few of them.

First, the Judiciary Committee bill contains a very strong 
exclusivity provision. This provision makes clear that the Government 
cannot claim authority to operate outside the law--outside of FISA--
from measures that were never intended to provide such exceptional 
authority.

This administration argues that the Authorization for the Use of 
Military Force, passed after September 11, provided the justification 
for conducting warrantless surveillance of Americans for more than five 
years. No, what it did was authorize going into Afghanistan to get 
Osama bin Laden--the man who masterminded the attacks on 9/11. Not only 
did the administration fail to do that, it took our troops out of 
Afghanistan--when they had bin Laden cornered--to invade Iraq.

When we authorized going after Osama bin Laden, we did not authorize 
explicitly or implicitly the warrantless


wiretapping of Americans. Yet this administration still clings to this 
phony legal argument. The Judiciary Committee bill would prevent that 
dangerous contention with strong language reaffirming that FISA is the 
exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance for foreign 
intelligence purposes. The Senate Intelligence Committee's bill would 
do nothing to preclude the AUMF argument in the future.

We also provide a more meaningful role for the FISA Court in this new 
surveillance. This court is a critical independent check on Government 
excess in the sensitive area of electronic surveillance.

The fundamental purpose of many of the Judiciary Committee changes is 
to ensure that this important independent check remains meaningful, 
while maintaining the flexibility of ''blanket'' orders, which we all 
agree are necessary. The Intelligence Committee bill would give the 
FISA Court only a very limited role in overseeing surveillance.

The Judiciary Committee bill would give the FISA Court the authority 
it needs to assess the Government's compliance with minimization 
procedures. It would allow the Court to request additional information 
from the Government, and allow the Court to enforce compliance with its 
orders. The amendment would also give the court discretion to impose 
restrictions on the use and dissemination of Americans' information if 
it is collected unlawfully.

The Judiciary bill would make other important changes. It reduces the 
sunset for this new law from 6 years to 4 years. This was Senator 
Cardin's amendment. There is too much here that is new and untested to 
allow the authorities go longer than even the next President's term 
before requiring a thorough review. It clarifies that the bill does not 
allow bulk collection that would simply sweep up all calls into and out 
of the United States. It also clarifies that the Government may not use 
this new authority to target Americans indirectly if they are not 
allowed to do it directly. The administration says it would never do 
this. They have no credibility. The Judiciary Committee's bill would 
make sure they keep their word.


Finally, the Judiciary Committee bill includes a requirement that 
inspectors general, including the Department of Justice inspector 
general, conduct a thorough review of the so-called Terrorist 
Surveillance Program and report back to the Congress and, to the extent 
it can in an unclassified version, to the American people.

The Department of Justice inspector general will have the 
responsibility to look at, among other things, the process at the 
Department of Justice that limited knowledge and review of important 
legal decisions to a tiny group of like-minded individuals, at great 
cost to the rule of law and American values. This is a key measure that 
would finally require accountability for this administration. We have 
not yet had anything close to a comprehensive examination of what 
happened and how it happened. We cannot expect to learn from mistakes 
if we refuse to allow them to be examined.

I strongly oppose a provision in the Intelligence Committee bill that 
would grant blanket retroactive immunity to telecommunications carriers 
for their warrantless surveillance activities from 2001 through earlier 
this year. That provision goes even beyond the so-called Protect 
America Act. It would insulate this administration from accountability 
for its lawbreaking. The Judiciary Committee bill does not have that 
provision. I know that will be a separate debate on this floor.

With the authority of a majority of the Judiciary Committee members, 
I made a few changes to the amendment as we reported it in November. 
There are no major additions or deletions. The original 12 changes are 
still there. The revised version makes some changes to address 
technical issues and concerns the administration raised about our 
substitute. We have considered the Statement of Administration Policy 
from last December and we have talked with the administration. We have 
listened and made changes that we think address some legitimate 
concerns.

For example, we have revised the exclusivity provision. The provision 
in the earlier version of the Judiciary Committee amendment could have 
been read to extend the scope of FISA in a way that was not intended. 
We corrected that.

Another concern we addressed was about the issue of staying FISA 
Court decisions pending appeal. The Intelligence Committee bill would 
automatically stay FISA Court decisions, thereby requiring possibly 
illegal surveillance to continue throughout a lengthy appeal process. 
The original Judiciary Committee amendment left the decision about a 
stay to the discretion of the FISA Court judges--which is how it is 
typically done in courts. The administration was concerned that this 
left too much power to stop surveillance in the hands of a lone judge. 
We listened and made a change that would permit the stay decision to be 
made--promptly--by a panel of the FISA Court of Review.

Another change we made to address an administration concern was the 
important IG audit provision. That provision now makes it clear that no 
department inspector general has the authority to conduct a review of 
another department.

These revisions make the Judiciary Committee's product stronger. I 
think overall the Judiciary Committee's bill dramatically improves the 
Intelligence Committee bill. As the distinguished chairman of the 
Intelligence Committee said, we included a number of items he supports. 
If this gets voted down, these are changes that Senators will have to 
offer piece by piece, and will. Most of it will be germane after 
cloture. If we really want to conclude this FISA debate quickly, 
adopting this amendment will save the Senate countless hours of debate. 
I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. Now, Mr. President, 
what is the parliamentary situation?
