# None
## `2804af105693eab6e84a9cda56fa7835`
`Mr. DELAHUNT — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. DELAHUNT. I appreciate my friend from Florida, and I have, it is 
getting late for me and I am going to have to excuse myself for the 
remaining 15 minutes. But I want to pick up on something that you just 
referenced, and that is the American people have to understand that we 
are now alone. We are now alone with this issue.

Just this past week there was a report in the British press that the 
withdrawal of the troops from the United Kingdom would not be slowed. 
There are no plans on the part of the British,


or anyone else, any other nation, state on this planet, to introduce 
additional troops as part of this escalation. We are alone. There is no 
more coalition, if there was ever one to begin with, other than in name 
only.

America is now alone, because the rest of the world has concluded 
that the invasion of Iraq was a mistake, a mistake for reasons that I 
think we all know but are not going to list them here today.

But let's remember this, Mr. Speaker. In the past 6 or 7 months, 
there was a poll that was commissioned by our own Department of State, 
and the results were painful because this was the conclusion on two 
questions. The first question was, do you believe it is better for 
American troops to leave? This was asked in a way that presumably was 
done in a survey that was accurate. It was commissioned by our own 
Department of State. And 70 percent of the Iraqi people said, yes, we 
would be better off if the American troops left.

But what was more disturbing and painful was that in excess of 60 
percent of the Iraqi people, according to this poll, said that it was 
okay to kill a member of the American military.

What are we fighting for now? What are we fighting for? Saddam 
Hussein is gone. There were no weapons of mass destruction. There were 
never any links to al Qaeda.

What have we accomplished? Well, I dare say that what we have done is 
we have managed to create an even stronger Iran that has a relationship 
with Iraq, that includes all kinds of agreements, including a military 
cooperation agreement between the government of Iraq and the government 
of Iran. Does anyone ever talk about that? Can anyone explain to me 
what the terms of that agreement are?

What are we fighting for? What are we fighting for?

And, with that, I yield to the gentlewoman and ask to be excused.