---
---

# IRAN
## `280b1f033871516bd8c86e453fc0cb7f`
`Ms. LEE — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. I, too, want to commend the gentlelady from Texas for 
raising some of the constitutional issues that we have to grapple with 
each and every day.

I would like to talk briefly about the issue of the preemptive strike 
which is central to this administration's foreign and military policy.

In essence what the Bush administration has decided is that it is all 
right, and actually it is their standard, to be able to use force not 
necessarily in the face of an imminent threat, but it is all right and 
it is a policy of this administration to be able to use force to 
prevent a future perceived threat. All of this is couched in this 
global war on terror where oftentimes they believe they do have a blank 
check to use force wherever they want to go in the world.

When you look at what they are trying to do now in Iraq with regard 
to the security agreements, they are trying to negotiate a permanent 
military presence in Iraq without even coming back to Congress to try 
to get the authority to do that. I think minimally, and we have several 
bills that have been introduced into this body, that basically just say 
before the administration decides to use force or take military actions 
or strike Iran, minimally they must come to Congress to seek 
authorization.

Well, for the life of me, this is the People's House. I cannot figure 
out why we cannot have a resolution as basic as that come to this body 
so we can pass that. I think that should be a minimum standard to 
protect the American people from first of all what could be total 
chaos. Secondly, when you just look at the expenditure of resources and 
what a possible preemptive strike could cost as it relates to Iran in 
terms of treasury, blood, our young men and women and also our 
financial resources. We may just be a few voices in the wilderness 
crying out tonight, but we are crying out very loudly and asking the 
American people to look at these signs because as Congresswoman Waters 
said, we are sounding the alarm so we can stop what appears to be on 
the horizon.