# SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `280cd1462564601244e7b85f59867d89`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 30 October 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Chairman, in recent years, the Federal marketplace has seen 
phenomenal growth. However, while procurement opportunities are 
increasing, agencies are failing to meet their small business, women, 
service-disabled veterans, minority and low-income contracting goals. 
This has not only cost small businesses billions of dollars in lost 
opportunities but deprives the government of a valuable supplier.

Our Nation's entrepreneurs play an important role in the procurement 
system, providing diversity, competition, and ensuring we get the best 
value for the taxpayers' dollar. To help them get a start, there is an 
array of contributing programs offering technical assistance, 
purchasing flexibility and targeted benefits. Unfortunately, due to 
legislative neglect, under funding and mismanagement by several 
administrations, the programs have fallen far short of their full 
potential, leaving many small businesses outside of the Federal 
marketplace.

The Small Business Contracting Program Improvements Act, introduced 
by myself and Representative Mary Fallin, will change that by making 
important improvements to women, minority, HUBZone and service-disabled 
veteran contracting programs. H.R. 3867 will immediately implement the 
Women's Procurement Program that has languished in the current 
administration's endless delays. It also updates the economic criteria 
for the 8(a) program, reflecting current fiscal realities. The last 
time Congress addressed the 8(a) program was almost 20 years ago, when 
a gallon of gas was 90 cents and the average cost of a home was less 
than $90,000. For too long we have forced minority businesses to 
operate under antiquated financial standards that in many cases were 
simply setting them up to fail.

Most importantly, this legislation will give our service-disabled 
veterans top priority when it comes to contracting. For those men and 
women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, many with life-altering 
injuries, this bill will provide the tools to start a new endeavor and 
begin a new life. These changes would go a long way to addressing many 
of the program's shortcomings that have frustrated our Nation's small 
business owners.

Mr. Chairman, H.R. 3867 also fights fraud in the Federal marketplace. 
Contracting opportunities are a privilege, not a right. The Small 
Business Contracting Improvement Act makes that clear. For the first 
time, we are imposing a business code of conduct on all participants, 
requiring the Federal Government to verify that individuals are who 
they claim and empowering small firms to police their own programs. 
This will restore integrity to these critical programs.

Through modernizing programs and increasing accountability, H.R. 3867 
brings SBA's contracting programs into the 21st century. It is for this 
reason that this legislation has attracted remarkably broad support, 
including the National Federation of Independent Business, the 
Associated General Contractors, the American Legion, Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, AMVETS, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the 
National Black Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Women's Chamber of 
Commerce, the International Franchise Association, as well as the 
National Defense Industrial Association and the Aerospace Industries 
Association.

This is a measured approach that balances the need to give program 
flexibility within the realities of current agency buying strategies. 
It is good for small business, good for the agency, and, most 
importantly, good for taxpayers.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.