# STUDENT AID AND FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2009
## `280d04bd6bf307299ec9f3af96b7ea1b`
`Mr. TEAGUE — 17 September 2009`

---


Mr. TEAGUE. Madam Chairwoman, I rise today to offer the first of two 
amendments I have to H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal 
Responsibility Act of 2009. I would like to thank Chairwoman Slaughter 
and Chairman Miller for allowing the House to debate my proposals.

Madam Chairman, this amendment makes three commonsense changes to the 
American Graduation Initiative and the Student Aid and Fiscal 
Responsibility Act. The American Graduation Initiative makes a historic 
investment in our community colleges.

In my home State of New Mexico, community colleges enroll over 51,000 
students. These institutions of higher education provide critical 
pathways for many nontraditional students to receive an education, and 
they provide training for workers looking to get hired on in a local 
industry.

My amendments will help the community colleges in my district access 
resources to serve the many veterans across New Mexico and help my 
constituents get training for energy jobs, which represent most of the 
good-paying jobs available in southern New Mexico.

My first amendment makes sure that the programs geared toward helping 
our veterans be successful in school are given priority in receiving 
grants. I consider one of my most important responsibilities in 
Congress to be looking out for the interests of our veterans. That's 
why I work for and earned a seat on the Veterans' Affairs Committee, 
and that's why I introduced this amendment and other legislation on 
their behalf.

By adopting this amendment, we will make sure that our veterans are 
at the front of the line in receiving the benefits of the bill. And 
after the service they have so selflessly given to our country, they 
deserve to be at the front of the line.

I encourage my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on this amendment and show 
our veterans that they are a priority by giving them priority under the 
American Graduation Initiative.

The next change makes sure that schools can use grant funds to 
establish, enhance, or expand programs that are geared towards training 
personnel who can serve our veterans. This change will allow schools to 
use money from this bill to train workers to serve our veterans in VA 
hospitals, clinics, and centers across America. And it could mean that 
we will be training the mental health professionals we need to address 
the growing problem of post-traumatic stress disorder.

The return of the soldiers from Afghanistan and Iraq is putting a 
tremendous strain on our already understaffed Veterans' Administration. 
We must start training workers to fill in these positions. This cannot 
happen overnight, and we must start making investments in solving this 
problem today.

The last part of my amendment will help schools in my district train 
students for energy jobs. In the northeast part of my district, they 
are looking for wind turbine technicians, and in the southeast we need 
skilled hands in the oilfield. No matter which part of the energy 
industry somebody wants to work in, they should be able to get the 
training they need at the community college in their town.

So my amendment aims to make it easier for schools to use grant funds 
to establish, enhance, or expand programs that train workers for 
careers in energy-related fields. A trained energy workforce will help 
us produce more energy in America, and producing more energy in America 
is the only way we can end our dependence on foreign oil and make our 
Nation secure.

I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.