---
---

# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `280eb67ec779f254195db2681a9b4cb7`
`Mr. KAGEN — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you for yielding. One of the lessons I learned when 
I entered the world of politics and politicians was that it's 
politicians that determine who will live and who will die. It was, 
after all, politicians that took us to war based on lies and 
deceptions, and it's politicians today who are preventing my patients, 
my constituents and those who are most in need from having access to 
their health care that they require to survive. It's politicians that 
are very important.

So our politicians I believe on every level, whether you're a mayor, 
an alderman, a county board person, a Governor, a President, our 
elected leaders must now, more than ever, have good judgment, and good 
judgment will yield good results.

Now, this bill isn't just paid for with SCHIP. It saves money. 
Instead of a low-income family taking their children with a strep 
throat to the emergency room, they will get to go to a doctor, and you 
know, I can share with you a scientific fact you already know, but 
sometimes people who point out the obvious are called geniuses. You 
know, a cataract never had a name on it like Republican or Democrat. 
Strep throat never had a name like Independent or Progressive or 
Republican. Human disease has no political affiliation. I have not 
asked my patients what political party they're in before we decide 
what's best for them. The motto is, the thematic idea is, do what is 
best for your patients if you're a physician.

Here in Congress we have to have that same mantra, that same idea: do 
what is best for our constituents. That's our duty. That's our job, but 
we have to have good judgment.

Now, the other thing I've discovered here, when I served in the 
Veterans Administration hospitals as a physician during my training 
days, we had a slogan that said, hey, wait a minute, if it makes sense, 
don't do it; it's the military. If you served in the Marines or the 
Army, you might have that same idea, wait a minute, if it makes sense, 
what are we doing it for?

But we have to now make sense of our judgments, especially with 
health care for our children. They are the ones most at risk. Early in 
life, the early development of the human brain, the first 5 years of 
development are so critical to the future health and psychology of that 
person. We have to invest in our children's health care. SCHIP is not 
perfect but it is the best way forward. It just makes too much common 
sense for many people.

I'm hoping that tonight people watching throughout America will 
understand, yeah, it does matter who my politician is, who my 
congressperson is. They should call and write their congressman and 
congresswoman today. Don't wait till tomorrow. This is far too 
important.

This is a matter literally of life and death. It's not just your 
pocketbook. We're talking about your neighbors, the people that live 
just down the street that don't have access to care that they require.

We can change it. I believe in good government. I know you do as 
well. I know people listening want good government. This is their 
opportunity to participate. We have shared their stories here tonight. 
It's their story, and it's their lives that we're attempting to 
improve. Their quality of life is on the line on the 18th of October.

This President has failed to listen to ordinary people, people from 
my district who are asking for access to their doctor, who are asking 
him to take a new and different direction away from Iraq and back after 
Osama bin Laden and his followers.

The President, who I believe is a good man, has poor judgment on this 
one, is listening to some people that are giving him bad advice. We'd 
like to work with the President.

The third lesson I've learned: One congressperson can't make a 
tremendous change, but they don't have to give up trying. What really 
matters here in our government is who's in the White House. I'm 
convinced, now more than ever, with this recent battle over health care 
for children that makes sense, that's paid for, that saves money, saves 
tax dollars, if we can't win over this President and the Republican 
Party on this argument, they don't deserve to be in the White House for 
a generation. Their judgment is ill, spoken like a physician, and no 
joke meant.

I cannot tell you how hard I took it when the President said ''no'' 
to our children, to our Nation's children most in need. It's the most 
unkind act, other than taking us to war based on poor judgment and 
deception.
