# IMMIGRATION
## `282dfd1b14c91adcd23ed8fa02372f16`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 20 May 2010`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it's a privilege and an honor to be 
recognized to address you here on the floor of the House. I listened 
intently to the dialogue that took place before with Mr. McClintock of 
California and Mr. Poe of Texas. And as I sat back here and listened to 
the speech of President Calderon, I had some thoughts of my own that I 
wish to impart here into the record and for your attention, Mr. 
Speaker.

First I want to say that on the plus side of the speech that was 
delivered here to this joint session of Congress by President Calderon 
of Mexico, there were some up sides to it. He made some points that I 
think were constructive and needed to be said. One of the things that 
he said--and I am just going from my scratch notes--was that they are 
going to finally reestablish the rule of law in Mexico. Excuse me. To 
correct that, I want to make sure I'm accurate for the record, Mr. 
Speaker. I have the text of the speech here. It says, ''firmly 
establish the rule of law in Mexico.'' That's an important point.


As I go to some of the worst places in the world, and I go there 
intentionally because I think to have that contrast, to understand 
where it's the toughest place in the world to operate, then it gives us 
that contrast to understand how well we're blessed here in America, and 
it helps us understand the functions of the institutions here in 
America and the functions of the culture and our values. Those pillars 
of American exceptionalism need to be understood and polished and 
refurbished, and we need to do that on a daily basis here in this 
Congress instead of have them chiseled away at by the other side of the 
aisle.

But the contrast of how bad it might be, AIDS villages in southern 
Africa where there's not a single person there of reproductive age 
unless they're a missionary because the rest have died of AIDS. I go to 
Iraq, I go to Afghanistan, I go into those places in the world where 
poverty is a dominant force. Up into Tibet, for example. And most of 
those places that I go to--in fact, almost every place I go to, I can 
at least put together a formula on how to fix it, to be able to 
identify what's wrong and processes and procedures to put in place to 
put it on the right track. Most of us in this Congress believe we can 
at least gather the information to address these situations. When I 
come back from Mexico, I have this other sense. It's a different 
feeling. I can see a lot of the things that are wrong, but I don't know 
how to fix it, because the corruption goes so deep, it threads through 
so many components of their society. Unless there's a good formula to 
fix the culture of corruption, I don't know how you fix the rest of the 
institutions in Mexico.

I want to give a hats-off to President Calderon for taking on the 
drug cartels. I know, being down there in part of the exchange program, 
as he was a candidate for office shortly before he was elected, one of 
the things that I was advised, sitting in those meetings and sometimes 
it was one-on-one with the door closed, was that he is going to have to 
take on some of the forces that helped get him elected in order to 
straighten things out in Mexico. So when I see the numbers that show 
the thousands of casualties in the drug cartel wars that are going on 
and the federal officers that have been lost in that battle and the 
local police departments that are either afraid to enforce the law or 
are corrupt and wrapped up in the cartels, it's a very difficult task 
that he has faced.

I will give another point to the point that he has made that the 
consumption of illegal drugs here in the United States is one of the 
huge forces that drive the illegality that comes through Mexico. I have 
to concede that point. We need to address the illegal drug consumption 
in America. We lack the ability to do that. Our society, our culture, 
our civilization has accepted a certain level of illegal drug 
consumption and abuse in America. We've accepted the violence that goes 
with it. We've accepted the child abuse, the domestic problems that go 
along with it as simply a component of our society, as we accept the 
rotting inner cities in America, and we essentially send money there to 
start a new inner city economy that isn't based on something productive 
as a rule. Those are American problems that we need to address. He 
spoke to those lightly. He spoke to those gently. He referenced them. 
But President Calderon came on very strong against the Arizona 
immigration law. And I'm wondering who briefed him before he gave his 
speech here today. It almost looks as though the speech was prepared by 
the Obama White House.



When you look at the language that was used and the language that he 
emphatically disagrees with Arizona's immigration law, SB 1070, that's 
the bill, he emphatically disagrees with the bill, even though he says 
that he recognizes our constitutional right to pass laws and establish 
immigration laws and enforce those immigration laws.

So I am wondering what it is that offends President Calderon so much 
about the Arizona immigration law since it mirrors the Federal 
immigration law. Was he offended then by the Federal immigration law? 
And when he sat down in the Oval Office with President Obama, did he 
say, I think you ought to amend the Federal immigration law so people 
here as legal immigrants don't have to carry their papers after the age 
of 18. That is the law. It has been the law for a long time. It is not 
something that offended people before. I hadn't heard about it before 
Arizona stepped forward and made it part of their State law.

So if President Calderon is offended and disagrees with Arizona 
immigration law, which mirrors Federal immigration law, if he hasn't 
voiced an objection to Federal immigration law, by the law of deductive 
reasoning, you would just boil it down to he is only offended because 
local law enforcement in Arizona will be enforcing the mirror of the 
Federal immigration law, because it can't be the law itself that he is 
offended by or he would also be offended by the Federal immigration 
law. I think that is a simple law of deductive reasoning to take it 
down to that. I am not sure that the people on the opposite side of the 
aisle from us have the capability to do that deductive reasoning any 
more.

And when I look at the people in the administration who have taken on 
Arizona's immigration law and willfully misinformed the American 
people, and I will include President Calderon of willfully misinforming 
the American people on the Arizona immigration law, but I look at the 
President of the United States who made comments that there could be a 
woman in Arizona taking her daughter off to get some ice cream and 
apparently because of the way they looked, they could be called over 
and asked to produce their papers.

Now that was playing the race card, and that divides the American 
people. And that recognizes a statement made by Mr. McClintock a few 
minutes ago that there is an intentional effort to divide people for 
political purposes. The President has done it. And I can't imagine that 
he had read the bill until last night. He sounded a little more like he 
had, but he couldn't have read


it if he was going to say the things that he said.

He knows Arizona law doesn't allow for a woman or her daughter to be 
stopped for no other reason than their skin color when they are going 
off to get some ice cream. It specifically states that in the bill, not 
the ice cream part. But it specifically states there has to be probable 
cause; and in order to investigate the immigration status, there has to 
be a reasonable suspicion.

We understand reasonable suspicion. I happen to have written 
reasonable suspicion language in Iowa's workplace drug-testing law. We 
didn't ask a trained law enforcement officer to evaluate the reasonable 
suspicion. We simply asked an employer to either appoint himself or 
designate an employee to take 2 hours of course training in identifying 
reasonable suspicion. And then with that 2 hours of training and 1 hour 
per year refreshing training could be able to point to an individual 
and say I have a reasonable suspicion you are a drug abuser; you have 
to provide a urine sample. Here is the clinic. Here is the nurse. Go in 
there and we are going to test you.

For 12 years it has been in the law in Iowa, and I heard all of the 
same things when we passed that law. That reasonable suspicion would be 
used to discriminate against people because someone didn't like them 
because of their skin color, sexual orientation, gender identity, or 
whatever it might be. All of this hysteria that gets built up around 
this legislation and the willful misrepresentation of the language and 
the effect of the law turns out to be--what do we call it, a tempest in 
a teapot in the end, not something that is going to produce substance 
on the other side of this, but a lot of hysteria created.

As Tom Tancredo, who used to say these things on the floor of this 
House, he said the level of hysteria is proportional to the degree to 
which they are afraid the law will actually work and that Arizona will 
be able to enforce the mirror of Federal immigration law and they will 
be able to effectively outlaw sanctuary cities in Arizona. That is what 
this is about.

The people who object to Arizona immigration law are lying to the 
American people. Many of them know it. The Attorney General sat right 
here in that seat today and when President Calderon said that he 
objected to Arizona's immigration law, who led the standing ovation, 
the Attorney General of the United States who confessed to the 
gentleman from Texas that he didn't read the bill.

But he would commit the resources of the Justice Department to 
investigate Arizona for constitutionality questions, statutory 
questions, case law questions that had to do with Arizona's immigration 
law, not having read the bill, not having examined this or been even 
briefed by his own people, but having been directed by the President of 
the United States to use the full--well, use the force of the Justice 
Department to examine Arizona's immigration law and could not to me in 
that same hearing respond to a question, Could you point to a single 
place in the United States Constitution that causes you concern? Can 
you point to a single Federal statute that you think might preempt 
Arizona's immigration law? Can you point to a single piece of case law 
that would indicate that Arizona doesn't have the authority to enforce 
Federal immigration law.

He could do none of those things, and subsequently the gentleman from 
Texas asked him if he had read the bill. I thought when that question 
was asked that it was a question to set up something else because I 
thought it was a given that the Attorney General of the United States 
would have read the bill before he misrepresented it to the American 
people.


I yield to Judge Poe.