# TRIBUTE TO DR. THOMAS GRAMS
## `28386bff19087ca01c54752d863bc91d`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a great 
leader in humanitarian aid, Dr. Thomas Grams. Dr. Grams was tragically 
killed last week in Afghanistan by the Taliban. Dr. Grams was in a 
remote region of Afghanistan fulfilling a medical aid mission with a 
group of nine other volunteers from the International Assistance 
Mission.

Dr. Grams practiced dentistry in Durango, Colorado for many years. 
Several years ago, he retired from private practice so that he could 
dedicate his life fulltime to the assistance of residents in developing 
countries. Dr. Grams took countless trips to India, Nepal, and 
Afghanistan to provide care for the indigent residents of these 
countries.

In particular, he was able to provide essential dental care for 
thousands of children in these countries. To the children he was known 
as ''Dr. Tom.'' Many of the children he treated had suffered for years 
with untreated dental problems. After their treatment when he returned 
to the villages and towns in future years, he would be able to see the 
lasting smiles on the children's faces.

The focus of Dr. Grams' life was to provide service to others and his 
mission was to provide access to dental and health care in some of the 
most remote corners of the world. His enthusiasm and devotion to the 
places he visited enabled him to cultivate great trust within these 
communities. He leaves behind him a legacy of countless people, 
especially children, whose lives were made better by his service. Dr. 
Grams represented western Colorado and his entire nation with honor. He 
exemplified that which is best in our country, a strong sense of 
compassion paired with the will and ability to help those in need.

Dr. Grams' passion for service will be sincerely missed in both 
Durango and around the world by those he helped. Our nation and our 
world have lost a strong voice for compassion and healing. We will 
remember Dr. Grams as a shining example of that which is best in 
humanity. My condolences and prayers go out to his family and friends 
during this difficult time.
