---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `28410a5708653159c94c52600ef707ca`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is always an honor to come 
before the House and address the Members.

I can tell you that today, in this great country of ours, we have a 
lot going on. There is a lot of news on the Presidential race. There 
are a lot of issues that are facing our Nation with Iran testing 
missiles. And there are a number of issues that American families are 
also facing.

We're going to talk a little bit tonight about energy. We're going to 
talk about the Iraq factor. We're going to talk about the things that 
American families are going through right now. And I think it's very, 
very important because many people feel that there are issues that are 
not being addressed here in Washington, DC as it relates to the 
executive branch. And I think that it's important that we share with 
the Members that we have a number of issues that this Democratic-led 
House has put forth on behalf of the American people in a leadership 
role.

As you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we always start our 
hour off--and I'm joined tonight by my very good friend, Mr. Jason 
Altmire, and also Mr. Ryan, Tim Ryan, on this 30-Something Working 
Group. And you know we come to the floor, Madam Speaker, to actually 
speak in what you may say the arena of fact versus fiction. We know 
that sometimes we get a little excited and we may not have the 
necessary footnotes we need to back up the information that we are 
providing, but tonight we did come to the floor to share with the 
American people fact, not fiction.

I think that, when we start to reflect, Madam Speaker, on a number of 
issues that are facing Americans, we have to look at the everlasting 
issue of fuel costs, for someone to fill up their car, for someone to 
do something that we may call very common, being able to put gas in 
their car to be able to take their children to school, to be able to 
make it to their jobs. And I think that as we look at this issue we 
need to know who is on the side of the American people. When I say 
''we,'' I'm saying Members of Congress.

I'm hoping that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, my 
Republican colleagues who have joined us on a number of major pieces of 
legislation that we passed out of this Congress that has gone to the 
President, I want to applaud those Members for being a part of this 
great democracy and this great leadership that we have here in the 
House, to be able to bring about the paradigm shift of bipartisanship. 
We have not seen bipartisanship in the 109th Congress, 108th Congress. 
I can attest to that because I was here for those two Congresses. The 
110th Congress has brought about bipartisanship on major pieces of 
legislation that I will talk about a little further later on, but I 
just want to mention a few things.

Madam Speaker, I always start off by giving what is going on in Iraq. 
The $8.5 billion war that's taking place right now in Iraq, some over 
$230-something million a day war. And I had the opportunity, Madam 
Speaker--and I don't want to digress--to speak to some first responders 
from New Jersey. They are from New Jersey, and Representative Rush Holt 
asked me to speak to his first responders. As you know, Madam Speaker, 
I was, once upon a time, a first responder as a Florida Highway Patrol 
trooper. And we talked about funding, and they were talking about the 
grants. And there was a grant here for, you know, $50 million or a 
grant there for equipment for fire fighters and State troopers and 
sheriffs, $70 million.

But when I started talking to them about the $230 plus million a day 
that's being spent in Iraq, you should have seen their eyes opening 
wide. We all believe in making sure that we give our men and women what 
they need in Iraq; and we do that, this Congress has done it. But I 
think that when you start looking at the policy, when you start looking 
at how this administration has not put the Iraqi Government's feet to 
the fire to let them know that we have homefront security and hometown 
security needs to be addressed, they will never see the kinds of 
dollars that we're spending there.

I also want to share the numbers with you. The total deaths in Iraq 
is 4,117 as of July 9; total number of wounded and returned to duty is 
16,866; and the total number of wounded not returning to duty is 
13,483. I think we have to look at that in perspective.

I want to yield to my good friend, Mr. Altmire, at this time as we 
talk a little bit about a number of issues that


are facing the American people. Like I said, we're going to talk about 
fuel, we're going to talk about dining room table issues. So we're 
going to bounce around a little bit tonight, Madam Speaker and Members. 
And hopefully we will be able to share with the Members exactly what 
they need to know versus what some on the other side may not want to 
hear, because we're going to need this bipartisanship to push it 
through, to send the President a message that the American people have 
to be heard.

With that, I yield to my friend, Mr. Altmire.