---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2851c3cb3f3e1cede4e5db1968e4ad5a`
`Mr. GOODLATTE — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. GOODLATTE. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the nonbinding 
resolution being offered by the majority which, despite the rhetoric, 
amounts to nothing more than a vote to maintain the status quo in Iraq.

This resolution offers no change from the recent course of events in 
Iraq. It does not take into consideration the recommendations of the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group. It does not require the Iraqi people and 
their elected leaders to step up and take responsibility for their own 
future. It certainly does not set any benchmark that must be met by the 
Iraqis. Most importantly, passage of this nonbinding resolution does 
not protect the funding of our troops in Iraq and, according to many 
Democrats, it is likely the first step in cutting off that funding 
altogether.

Madam Speaker, we have spent 3 days debating a resolution that does 
nothing more than serve as a vote of no confidence in the brave men and 
women who are fighting for freedom and democracy in Iraq. Not only is 
this resolution discouraging to our commanders and forces, it will fuel 
the efforts of our enemies who are determined to spread terror and 
suppress freedom.

Despite numerous attacks by terrorists on U.S. military and 
diplomatic targets throughout the 1990s, Americans on September 11, 
2001 awoke to the painful realization that we are engaged in a long-
term global war with terrorists, an international campaign to combat an 
ideology that spreads hate and destruction.

Iraq is now the central front in this global war. Success in bringing 
about a stable and democratic Iraq in the heart of the Middle East is a 
goal that I believe we all share.

While the difficulties cannot be minimized, neither can the 
consequences of failure and withdrawal. If we fail, the resources now 
devoted by terrorist organizations and nations sponsoring terrorism in 
Iraq will be turned to spreading terror around the globe including, 
again, on American soil. Do not embolden them with this resolution.

The United States and our allies, in fact, all freedom-loving 
peoples, need to support the popularly elected Iraqi Government in 
establishing control over their country and providing a stable 
environment for the Iraqi people and our troops as they assist in this 
process. Together, we have made significant progress, despite numerous 
obstacles.

Iraqis made history when they turned out in record numbers, despite 
increased violence, to vote in the first free elections in over 50 
years. Millions of Iraqis waved their purple-tipped fingers with pride 
as they came out of the voting stations, a message to the world that 
they chose freedom.

The President is the Commander in Chief and has the authority to make 
decisions about the best way to accomplish our goals in Iraq. He has 
initiated changes to our course in Iraq.

However, today we will not be voting for change. We will not be 
voting for a comprehensive review of our strategy in Iraq. It is too 
bad that when we all have concerns about how best to achieve success in 
Iraq, the Democratic leadership has brought this polarizing and 
political resolution to the floor to divide us, rather than unite us, 
on the most serious question facing the country today.

For this reason, I urge my colleagues to vote against this nonbinding 
resolution, which lacks any substance. I remind my colleagues that a 
''no'' vote on this resolution is certainly not a rubber stamp for the 
President's troop surge.

While I continue to support the mission in Iraq, I think it is clear 
that the administration's efforts to achieve the mission have not been 
flawless. But a vote against this resolution is a clear vote to support 
our commanders and troops and all those who have lost their lives 
spreading freedom to the people of Iraq.

I believe that more should be done to press the now established Iraqi 
Government and U.S.-trained Iraqi military to take the lead. I believe 
more can be done on the diplomatic front to engage the countries of the 
Middle East to help.

But unfortunately, no such resolution offering concrete evidence has 
been allowed, and this hollow process has resulted in a hollow 
resolution.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no.''