---
---

# None
## `2854f3d6d24496071f91e60b5d252f38`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her 
perspective and especially bringing to light the interesting articles 
that we are now seeing come out in the national press.

And the editorial that you and that Colonel Kline brought to us today 
from the L.A. Times saying, ''Do we Really Need a General Pelosi?'' And 
the underheading of that was ''Congress can cut funding for Iraq, but 
it shouldn't micromanage the war.'' And, in fact, that is what we would 
suggest, that if the majority party believes so strongly that we ought 
to end our involvement in Iraq, then let us have that vote. Let us have 
that debate, and let us have that vote. And if that is what they 
believe we ought to do, then we should have that vote. I would be 
interested to see what the outcome would be. I suspect that we are not 
having that vote because the majority leadership is afraid of the 
outcome of that vote because it doesn't fit with what they have been 
telling people and with what they would like to see. So I think it is 
important that we do concentrate on what they are doing, and that is 
proposing to micromanage the war.

And if I am able to bring a few quotes from some other folks to talk 
about this slow-bleed micromanagement of the war plan, about a week ago 
it was quoted in one of the local newspapers that ''House Democratic 
leaders said the measure, expected to put conditions on the President's 
use of funds . . . '' And then quoting the Speaker on March 8, she 
said: ''The House Democratic plan for the Iraq funding bill could force 
a pullout of U.S. combat troops starting on July 1, with all American 
units out of the country by the end of 2007.''

And then another quote from the Associated Press on March 8: 
''Speaker Nancy Pelosi . . . told reporters the measure would mark the 
first time the new Democratic-controlled Congress has established a 
'date uncertain' . . . ''



That is micromanagement by anybody's definition. In fact, 
Representative Dan Boren, a Democrat from Oklahoma, said, ''It is still 
micromanaging the war.'' Goodness knows that is the last place this 
Congress needs to be is micromanaging the war. Again, that is why we 
have the principles of the system in place that we have, that it is the 
executive branch's responsibility to conduct a war, to conduct the 
defense of our Nation.

Again, if we in Congress believe that it is appropriate to cut off 
funding for that, then let's have that vote. Let's have that vote, 
Madam Speaker. I would welcome the opportunity to defend the action of 
our military currently and would welcome the opportunity to oppose that 
kind of vote. But I suspect the majority leadership in this House is 
not interested in having that vote. That would be a truthful and honest 
debate about what this Nation ought to do; and, frankly, we haven't 
seen that to date on this issue. But I encourage them to bring that 
forward.

I am pleased to be joined by my good friend and fellow Georgian, 
Congressman Lynn Westmoreland. Georgia has a strong history of 
relationship with our military and with our Defense Department, and 
Congressman Westmoreland represents a number of those areas. We welcome 
you and appreciate you joining us today and look forward to your 
perspective.

I yield to the gentleman.