---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `285d79e17ce0f584e65c39fbc5aab6ca`
`Mr. DURBIN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want the record to show that I support 
President Obama's supplemental request for the remainder of fiscal year 
2009. This supplemental provides critical funding for military and 
security efforts in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. A small portion is 
for international programs, including assistance to Jordan, one of our 
important allies in the Middle East. Jordan is struggling with a huge 
influx of Iraqi refugees that strains its national services and 
particularly its water resources. Jordan has been a friend and ally, 
and it is right that in the supplemental bill we give them a helping 
hand because the war in Iraq has created a situation which we should 
address in Jordan.

It also provides additional support to the Global Fund which partners 
with other nations to tackle AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. I have 
worked with my colleagues for years to provide adequate funding for the 
Global Fund. I am glad this supplemental request from the Obama 
administration continues critical food assistance to help meet urgent 
needs of the world's poorest, which is also included. Funding is 
provided to help stem the flow of drugs and violence across our border 
in Mexico.

At home, the supplemental includes money to prepare and to respond to 
a global disease pandemic, including the recent H1N1 virus. This $1.5 
billion went through my subcommittee and is money well spent so the 
President can have resources to respond quickly to any outbreak of 
disease or pandemic; that we would have adequate money for 
vaccinations, as well as providing medications, should people be 
stricken. We are looking ahead, planning ahead, thinking ahead, hoping 
the H1N1 will disappear from the world scene before the next flu season 
but being prepared if it does not or if something else threatens us.

This bill also provides funds critical to helping President Obama 
meet a key campaign promise--bringing an end to the war in Iraq. In 
late February, President Obama made an important announcement to 
thousands of marines at Camp Lejeune: bringing an end to the war in 
Iraq. After only 5 weeks into office, he delivered on his major 
campaign promise to end one of the longest wars in American history.

The President's plan is measured, thoughtful, and will bring an end 
to this costly and unnecessary war. The supplemental also wisely shifts 
resources to the real sources of the September 11 attacks on America--
Afghanistan. For too long, this war in Afghanistan did not receive 
adequate civilian and military resources as they had been diverted to 
the war in Iraq. The supplemental corrects this mistake.

It also focuses resources on Pakistan, a nuclear-armed nation 
struggling with insurgents based in the border area with Afghanistan. 
It provides pay and allowances to our brave men and women in the U.S. 
military. These are some of the many important needs which deserve our 
support.

The President should be commended for recently presenting a budget 
for 2010 which moves away from repeated supplementals. This got to be a 
habit around here. We didn't go through an orderly debate on the budget 
about wars. Every time President Bush wanted money for a war, he said: 
I am declaring this an emergency. It will not be considered in the 
ordinary budget process. Here it is.

An emergency is defined as something unanticipated. After 5 or 6 
years


of emergencies, you begin to realize you can anticipate next year we 
are going to have another unanticipated emergency.

This President, President Obama, wants to change that so that we go 
to an orderly budget process. This supplemental bill will be the last 
of the requests, and I think it is one we should honor as he tries to 
tackle some situations that were given to him when he took office just 
a few months ago. The President inherited many challenges at home and 
abroad, and I hope, on a bipartisan basis, we can help him address 
them.

This supplemental appropriations bill will provide critical funding 
for our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, and I hope Congress passes it.

Unfortunately, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have 
decided to use this legislation to open a debate about the future of 
Guantanamo. They have filed a number of amendments related to this 
issue. I am sure it is not their intention, but these amendments will 
have the effect of slowing down delivery of critical funding for our 
troops. Nevertheless, it is their right to offer these amendments, and 
though they are not germane to this legislation, they raise policy 
questions which we can debate.

Senator Inouye, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, has 
offered an amendment, which has broad support on both sides of the 
aisle, that will eliminate any funding in this bill for closing 
Guantanamo and make clear that none of the funds in this bill can be 
used to transfer Guantanamo detainees to the United States.

Here is the bottom line: There will not be any Guantanamo funding in 
this bill. So for the Republicans to bring up a series of Guantanamo 
amendments tells me they are more intent on raising an issue than on 
responding to the critical need this supplemental addresses.

These amendments are also premature. President Obama has not yet 
presented his plan for closing Guantanamo to the Congress and the 
American people. When he does, we will have plenty of opportunity to 
debate it. This bill, which will provide critical funding for our 
troops, is not the right place for this debate. This is not the right 
time. In fact, some of the amendments would have the effect of tying 
President Obama's hands, preventing him from moving forward with the 
closure of Guantanamo before he has even had the chance to present his 
plan.

There is a great irony here. For 8 long years, Republicans opposed 
congressional oversight of the Bush administration's counterterrorism 
efforts. When Democrats in the minority during the Bush years would ask 
for oversight by congressional committees so that we could get more 
information about a variety of issues relative to terrorism, we were 
told: No, the President has an important job to do and don't bother 
him, Congress; leave him alone.


For 8 years, Republicans criticized Democrats who asked questions 
about the misguided war in Iraq and controversial policies related to 
interrogation, detention, and warrantless surveillance.

For 8 years, they claimed congressional oversight was nothing more 
than micromanaging the important and critical work of the Commander in 
Chief.

Now, after 8 long years, the Republicans are unwilling to give 
President Obama a few short months to formulate and present a plan for 
closing Guantanamo.

Let's take one example. The distinguished minority leader, Senator 
McConnell, has offered an amendment that would require the President to 
submit a detailed report to Congress on each detainee at Guantanamo 
Bay, including a summary of the evidence against each detainee.

For many years, the Bush administration refused to provide Congress 
with even a list of the names of the detainees at Guantanamo. They 
claimed that a disclosure of those names would threaten national 
security. I don't recall Senator McConnell or anyone from his side of 
the aisle protesting this lack of disclosure by the previous 
administration.

Yesterday, Senator McConnell said his amendment is designed to 
prevent released Guantanamo detainees from getting involved in 
terrorism. He said:




 Recidivism is of great concern for those of us who have 


 oversight responsibilities here in Congress.


I do not recall Senator McConnell, or any other Republican, 
protesting when the Bush administration, over the course of many years, 
released hundreds of Guantanamo detainees, some of whom have actually 
been involved in acts of terrorism since they were released.

So during the Bush years, while Guantanamo was churning hundreds of 
detainees, some being released and returned to their countries, there 
was not a whimper or a peep from the Republican side of the aisle. Now 
that President Obama has said the days of Guantanamo are numbered, they 
are coming in asking for detailed accounting of every single detainee. 
It is clearly a double standard.

There is also concern that the McConnell amendment could taint 
prosecutions of Guantanamo detainees by requiring the Obama 
administration to turn over critical evidence to Congress. Imagine for 
a moment that we gathered evidence that can be used successfully to 
either detain or prosecute one of the detainees, and Senator McConnell 
insists that it be shared with Members of Congress. Is that in the 
interest of national security? I don't think so.

For 7 years after the 9/11 attacks, the Bush administration failed to 
convict any of the terrorists who planned these attacks. At President 
Obama's direction, career prosecutors are now reviewing the files of 
each Guantanamo detainee and gathering evidence to determine if each 
detainee can be prosecuted. Isn't that what we want, an orderly process 
looking at each detainee to determine whether they are guilty of 
wrongdoing, deciding whether they can be prosecuted, whether they 
should be detained and doing this with the understanding that a lot of 
the information is classified and most of it should be carefully 
guarded so as not to jeopardize the prosecution?

The McConnell amendment would say: Let Congress take a look at each 
detainee and all the evidence. That does not make sense, and I hope 
Members of the Senate will reject it.

The last thing Congress should do is interfere with the efforts of 
the Obama administration to gather evidence against terrorists that 
could ultimately bring them to justice.

There is another amendment. Senator John Cornyn of Texas has an 
amendment that has 18 detailed findings about the Bush administration's 
use of abusive interrogation techniques, such as waterboarding.

Among other things, the Cornyn amendment claims these techniques 
''accomplished the goal of providing intelligence necessary to defeat 
additional terrorist attacks against the United States.'' To say the 
least, we could debate that proposition for quite some time.

Former Vice President Cheney has been burning up the cable channel 
airwaves in recent weeks. He claims waterboarding produced valuable 
intelligence in the interrogation of al-Qaida leader Abu Zubaydah. But 
back in 2004, Vice President Cheney also told us the Bush 
administration had learned from interrogations at Guantanamo that the 
Iraqi Government had trained al-Qaida in the use of biological and 
chemical weapons. We now know there was no such link between al-Qaida 
and Iraq. This was part of the justification for the invasion of Iraq, 
and Vice President Cheney told us the interrogation at Guantanamo was 
producing the information to confirm a link that never existed.

What about Abu Zubaydah? Just last week in the Judiciary Committee we 
heard testimony from a former FBI agent who actually interrogated him. 
He testified under oath in our committee that he obtained valuable 
intelligence from Abu Zubaydah using traditional interrogation 
techniques and that abusive techniques, such as waterboarding, are 
''harmful, slow, ineffective, and unreliable.''

Senator Cornyn does not serve on the Intelligence Committee. I don't 
know the basis for his claim that waterboarding produced intelligence 
that prevented terrorist attacks. I do know the Intelligence Committee, 
under Senator Dianne Feinstein's leadership, is now conducting a 
detailed, thoughtful, and thorough investigation into the Bush 
administration's detention and interrogation practices. 


I have said publicly--others have said it as well, including the 
majority leader, Senator Reid--that before we talk about creating an 
outside commission, the Senate Intelligence Committee should be allowed 
to do its work so Members of Congress can at least learn, through open 
and classified information, what did happen. But Senator Cornyn can't 
wait. Senator Cornyn wants to pass out ''get out of jail free'' cards 
to the previous administration before we even have a thorough 
examination of what happened.


One of the things the Intelligence Committee is reviewing is the 
effectiveness of these techniques in obtaining useful intelligence. The 
Senate is certainly not in a position today to go on record with 
conclusions such as those in Senator Cornyn's amendment before the 
Intelligence Committee even completes its investigation. It is not only 
premature, it certainly is questionable as to whether we should be 
engaged in this debate until their work is done.

I might remind Senator Cornyn, and those following this debate, that 
the Intelligence Committee is a bipartisan committee. It works in a 
bipartisan fashion. Senator Bond and Senator Feinstein and others can 
continue to work together to come to good conclusions, to provide the 
Senate with good evidence, before we jump at the Cornyn amendment, 
which reaches conclusions not based on fact.

Senator Cornyn's amendment would also express the sense of the Senate 
that no one involved in authorizing the use of abusive interrogation 
techniques, such as waterboarding, should be prosecuted or sanctioned. 
It is inappropriate for Congress to interfere in ongoing investigations 
by the Justice Department.

During the Bush administration, political interference significantly 
undermined the credibility and effectiveness of the Justice Department. 
Attorney General Holder has pledged to restore the integrity and the 
independence of that department.

There are two ongoing investigations into the Bush administration's 
interrogation practices. One investigation is looking into the CIA's 
destruction of evidence of interrogation videotapes. The other is an 
investigation of Justice Department attorneys who authorized abusive 
techniques such as waterboarding.

Here is the reality: Both of these investigations didn't begin under 
President Obama. They began under the Bush administration. Both are 
being conducted by Department of Justice attorneys. So the suggestion 
that this is some partisan witch hunt is obviously false.

You wonder, with these two Department of Justice investigations 
underway and with the Senate Intelligence Committee doing a thorough 
investigation of this subject, why does Senator Cornyn want to come to 
the floor and have the Senate go on record saying that nothing possibly 
could have been done that was illegal or wrong? That would be the 
height of irresponsibility, should we pass that amendment.

Decisions about whether crimes were committed should be made by 
career prosecutors based on the facts and the laws, not political 
considerations or statements made by Senators on the floor without 
evidence to back them up. I urge my colleague from Texas to withdraw 
his amendment and allow the Justice Department to do its work.

There is an organization which I like and respect very much called 
Amnesty International. When you take a look at John Cornyn's amendment, 
he would qualify for some amnesty award because he wants the Senate to 
go on record offering amnesty when it comes to the interrogation of 
detainees by not only--and let me go through the list--any person who 
relied in good faith on those opinions at any level of our Government, 
but also it includes Members of Congress who were briefed on the 
interrogation program.

To offer this kind of a statement ahead of time, without any 
gathering of evidence or fact, is, in my mind, an indication of how 
nervous some people are on the other side of the aisle. We should let 
this run its course in a professional manner. We shouldn't make a 
political decision, and we should defeat the Cornyn amendment.

Several of my Republican colleagues came to the floor yesterday to 
criticize President Obama's intention to close Guantanamo and argue it 
should remain open. I listened carefully to their arguments, and, 
frankly, there were enough red herrings to feed all the detainees at 
Guantanamo.

One of my colleagues said President Obama wants to close Guantanamo 
''to be more popular with the Europeans.''

Well, I know President Obama. I served with him. He was my colleague 
in the Senate. His first interest is the United States and its safety. 
But the safety of the United States also involves being honest about 
what has happened. What happened at Abu Ghraib and what happened at 
Guantanamo has sullied the reputation of the United States and has 
endangered alliances which we have counted on for decades. President 
Obama is trying to change that. By closing Guantanamo and responsibly 
allocating those detainees to safe and secure positions, he is going to 
send a message to the world that it is a new day in terms of America's 
foreign policy.

The American people want to see that. They want a safer world and 
believe that if the United States can work closely with our allies 
around the world who are opposed to terrorism, we will be safer. That 
is what President Obama is setting out to do. Some of those allies may, 
in fact, be European. They may be African or Asian. They could be from 
all corners of the Earth. But if they share our values and want to work 
for common goals, President Obama wants to work with them.

GEN Colin Powell and many other military leaders have said for some 
time that closing Guantanamo will make America safer. Experts say 
Guantanamo is a recruitment tool for al-Qaida and hurts our national 
security. That is why President Obama, like President Bush, Senator 
John McCain, and many others, wants to close Guantanamo.

Some of my Republican colleagues argued that Guantanamo is the only 
appropriate place to hold the detainees because ''we don't have a 
facility that could handle this in the United States'' and American 
corrections officers would ''have no idea what they are getting into.'' 
Well, I would say to my colleagues who made those statements that they 
ought to take a look at some of our secured facilities in the United 
States and they ought to have a little more respect for the men and 
women who are corrections officers, who put their lives on the line 
every single day to keep us safe and who make sure those who are 
dangerous are detained and incarcerated.

The reality is, we are holding some of the most dangerous terrorists 
in the world right now in our Federal prisons, including the mastermind 
of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the ''shoe bomber,'' the 
''Unabomber,'' and many others.

Senator McConnell said yesterday, ''No one has ever escaped from 
Guantanamo.'' Well, that is true, to the best of my knowledge. But it 
is also true that no prisoner has ever escaped from a Federal 
supermaximum security facility in the United States.

In fact, the Bureau of Prisons is currently holding 347 convicted 
terrorists. Is Senator McConnell going to come to the floor and say 
they should be moved from these Federal correctional facilities because 
they pose a threat to the United States being incarcerated in the 
continental United States? I haven't heard that. But in his efforts to 
keep Guantanamo open at any cost, he wouldn't even consider allowing a 
detainee to be brought to the United States for trial and being held, 
even temporarily, in any type of secure facility.

Republicans are criticizing the President, but the reality is, they 
do not have a plan themselves to deal with Guantanamo. I assume, from 
Senator McConnell's statements, he would leave it open. He doesn't care 
about the impact this might have on the United States around the world. 
If he has a plan to close it, I would like to hear it. I think he ought 
to come forward and join with President Bush, join with President 
Obama, join General Powell, join Senator McCain, Senator Graham, and 
others who have said Guantanamo should be closed. Otherwise, 
unfortunately, he is being critical of the President's intentions 
without producing his own approach.

The Bush administration had many years to deal with Guantanamo, but 
they didn't follow through. President


Obama has taken on the challenge of solving one of the toughest 
problems his administration faces, beyond the state of our economy. The 
President is taking the time to carefully plan for the closing of 
Guantanamo, with the highest priority being the protection of America's 
national security.

I urge my Republican colleagues to withdraw these Guantanamo 
amendments. These amendments don't fit in the supplemental 
appropriations bill. They tie the President's hands and keep him from 
making the necessary decisions to keep us safe and to make sure 
terrorists do not, in any way, threaten the United States. They also 
slow down our efforts to provide critical funding for our troops in 
Afghanistan and Iraq.


I hope when this matter comes before the Senate in the hours ahead, 
my colleagues will read carefully and closely, particularly the 
amendments by Senator Cornyn and by Senator McConnell. The amendment by 
Senator Cornyn, which grants a sense-of-the-Senate amnesty to those who 
were involved in interrogation techniques, is not consistent with a 
nation that is guided by the rule of law. For that Senator to make 
conclusions in his amendment that have not been supported by evidence 
and fact should be grounds enough for us to reject his amendment.

I don't know where these investigations in the Department of Justice 
or the Intelligence Committee will lead, but if we are truly sworn to 
uphold the Constitution and the laws of our land, we should allow them 
to run their course with the facts and law being honestly considered by 
those different panels.

Senator McConnell's amendment, which asks for more detailed 
information about detainees at Guantanamo than any Republican ever 
dared ask under the Bush administration, could jeopardize the 
prosecution of terrorists. Is that a good idea? It is certainly not. I 
certainly hope my colleagues will join me in opposing the McConnell 
amendment as well.

I yield the floor.