---
---

# None
## `286f7319316a73a8620f3bea54cd23eb`
`Mr. DURBIN — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, there are reports in the newspaper about 
the approval ratings of politicians and political institutions. 
Certainly, the President has had some problems, has had better days. 
His numbers are low. The numbers for Congress, in many respects, as an 
institution, are even lower.

Those of us who serve in the Congress are asked from time to time: 
What does this all mean? Why are the American people so critical of 
Congress, and what is it doing?

I think it reflects several points. First, the last election, which 
changed control of Congress from Republicans to Democrats, many people 
believed would be a watershed, a real change in direction. They have 
looked and haven't seen it, particularly when it comes to the war in 
Iraq. Despite our best efforts in the Democratic majority in the 
Senate, with only 51 out of 100 Members, we sent the President an 
opportunity to change the direction of his policy and start bringing 
American troops home. The President used his power in the Constitution 
to veto that legislation.

We tried over and over, with all-night sessions, long debates, a 
variety of amendments and have not been able to break through and come 
up with a solid enough, strong enough bipartisan majority to change the 
policies in Iraq.

It is frustrating--frustrating, I am sure, to the American people, 
frustrating to us in Congress, for some who voted against the war and 
now believe this war has no end in sight and should be ended soon in a 
responsible way.

I think that is an indication of one of the reasons why the 
disapproval numbers for Congress are what they are today.

We tried, however, when it comes to our budget and spending in the 
Congress, to focus resources on the needs of America. We have a chance 
to do that. But, unfortunately, we face another veto threat from 
President Bush.

Our budget that we passed includes a lot of spending that will make a 
big difference--more Border Patrol agents to protect America, 
explosives detection machines in airports, research into cancer, 
diabetes, heart disease, other major killers of Americans, a much 
stronger food safety inspection system, an issue near and dear to me, 
energy efficiency and renewable energy projects and tax cuts for 
middle-class families.

The total difference between our spending and what the President 
requested is $22 billion out of a national budget that borders on 
passing a trillion, depending on how one counts. That is eight-tenths 
of 1 percent of the Federal budget, the difference between the 
President's request and what we are appropriating. That is less than we 
spend in 2 months on the war in Iraq. The money we want to spend in 
America is less than 2 months of the war in Iraq. It is less than half 
of what the President wants to spend next year for tax breaks for the 
wealthiest Americans.

We have passed a lot of appropriations bills to meet long-needed, 
long-neglected wants of middle-class and working families. 
Unfortunately, the President's priorities are different. There is no 
clearer contrast in our priorities and the President's priorities than 
the issue of children's health insurance.

Senator Kennedy has come to the floor, and I am going to yield to him 
in a moment. He has been a national leader, certainly a Senate leader 
when it comes to the issue of children's health insurance. Think about 
this: A great and good and prosperous Nation, America, with 300 million 
people, has 15 million people without health insurance.

Ten years ago, we said: Let's move forward and do something about it. 
A Republican Congress passed the Children's Health Insurance Program, 
and we managed to find coverage for 6.6 million of those kids. Now with 
a Democratic Congress, we want to continue the program and expand it to 
cover more children. So we set a goal of 10 million children. That 
still leaves 5 million uninsured. But 10 million would be insured over 
the next 5 years. The cost? An additional $35 billion. The way we pay 
for it is direct: an increase in the Federal tobacco tax with proceeds 
going to insure children.

We believe this is sensible, keeping in mind the kids we are talking 
about are not the poorest kids in America. The poorest kids in America 
are covered by Medicaid. They get help, and I am glad they do. It says 
something good about our Nation. The kids who are well off, with 
parents in jobs that have health insurance, have no concern. How about 
those kids right in the middle? Mom and Dad go to work every single day 
and don't have the benefit of health insurance. They may make minimum 
wage or a little better. They don't have any benefits and the kids have 
no protection.

A child without health insurance is less likely to have a regular 
doctor, regular checkups, regular immunizations, and less likely to 
have detected in their early lives medical problems which, if left 
untreated, become very serious and very expensive.

We wanted to help those kids. So we put a bill together with the 
support of 18 Republican Senators, all 51 Democrats. We had 69 Senators 
committed to it. We sent it to the President, and he vetoed it. He said 
it was socialized medicine. I am not sure what that term means today. 
Forty years ago, it was the suggestion of too much Government.

What the President doesn't tell us, and should, is this program is 
not about a government health insurance program. Overwhelmingly, the 
health insurance for these kids will be provided by private companies 
that will receive some subsidies, some incentive from the Government to 
provide this


care with the State governments. So it is not socialism, if that is the 
President's concern.

Secondly, he worried about whether it is fiscally responsible. We pay 
for it. The President and his war of $169 billion a year is unpaid for. 
He heaps it on our children and their children by adding to the 
national debt. We pay for this program.

Finally, this notion that somehow we are going to discourage private 
insurance for these kids, if the private insurance market was so 
anxious to cover these kids, they would have been there long ago. These 
kids have gone months and years without coverage. Now is the time to 
change it.

The President used his veto pen four times since he was elected 7 
years ago--once to veto a change in the war in Iraq, two other times to 
veto bipartisan-passed stem cell research, and now in vetoing the 
Children's Health Insurance Program.

Senator Reid, the majority leader, came to the floor yesterday and 
said: We will give you a little more time to work out our differences 
with the Republicans, we will have an effort at compromise. They 
objected to being given a little more time to work this out.

We have tried. We have had good bipartisan support for this bill. We 
want to bring it across the line. We want to pass a bill either the 
President will sign or we override his veto, and we are trying to do 
that.

In closing, because I see Senator Kennedy is here and prepared to 
speak, it will not be long now, maybe a matter of days, before this 
President asks for $196 billion for the war in Iraq. Some of us who 
voted against it are troubled that we continue to see the cost of this 
war go up in human terms, with almost 3,900 Americans killed, with tens 
of thousands injured, and who knows how many innocent Iraqis lost their 
lives, and the war continues to go on.

The good news from Iraq? Oh, they like to tell us the administration 
has all sorts of good news. The good news is the death rate is down. We 
have seen ethnic cleansing in neighborhoods and now the vacant 
neighborhoods where 4 million Iraqis have become refugees. These empty 
neighborhoods don't have as much fighting. Is that a victory? I am not 
sure it is.

We need to be more honest with the American people. If the President 
believes he can ask with a straight face for $196 billion for the war 
in Iraq, if he can ask for that kind of money to help the people of 
Iraq, he ought to step back and sign a bill that helps the children of 
America.

A strong America begins at home. It begins with strong American 
citizens, strong families, strong neighborhoods, strong communities, 
and a strong Nation. The President can move us in that direction.

I hope my colleagues in the Senate this week will join us. Let's pass 
this Children's Health Insurance Program. Let's send it back to the 
President. Let's hope, as he considers $196 billion unpaid for his war 
in Iraq, he can find $35 billion paid for the children of America.

I yield the floor.