# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `2876b3b53be59d2809a5b53791f155ee`
`Mr. McDERMOTT â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
Representative Kucinich's resolution to call our troops home from 
Afghanistan. When the President announced in December that he wanted 
30,000 additional troops sent to Afghanistan, I said that I was 
unconvinced his plan would work. And now that many of those troops are 
in place, I'm still not convinced. We recently watched the start of 
Operation Mushtarak, the largest coordinated offensive since 2001, 
which is intended to loosen the Taliban's grip in the Southern region 
of the country. It was originally supposed to take a few weeks, but now 
estimates say that it may take 12 to 18 months. I think this is a 
perfect example of the biggest obstacle we face: we are asking troops 
to fix problems that the military is not capable of solving.

American soldiers have been in Afghanistan for nearly a decade and 
have been doing a magnificent job of what's been asked of them. But 
with every passing year, I grow more doubtful that we have the ability 
to build a stable democracy with the military alone. And I certainly do 
not believe that committing more troops will bring about the change 
necessary to stabilize the country, nor do I believe that it will 
hasten the process.

But that's the course that many continue to advocate, including 
President Obama. And while I know that the President wants to get out 
of Afghanistan as fast as possible, I also believe that if we want to 
help the Afghani people form a stable democracy and functioning 
economy, we need to help them with even more aid and support, not an 
increase in troops.

Over the last 30 years, Afghanistan has served as a battlefield in a 
series of devastating conflicts, first between the Soviet Union and the 
United States, and then between the United States and the Taliban. We 
hear a lot about the problems with poppy farming in the region, but we 
don't hear much about the cause. Before any of these incursions, 
Afghanistan was considered the orchard capital of central Asia, with 
nearly 80 percent of the population working on the land. But now it is 
estimated that more than 60 percent of the orchards and vineyards have 
been destroyed, which led many Afghanis into poppy production and the 
drug trade. This is in part due to the fact that the Soviets thought 
that orchards were too good a place to hide, so they cut them all down.

The kinds of problems that Afghanistan faces are not the kinds of 
problems the U.S. military or NATO are equipped to solve. That is 
ultimately up to the Afghani government and its people, and we need to 
realize that our involvement can only do so much. The sooner we 
understand that, the sooner we can make a strategically acceptable 
exit.

I rise today to voice my support for Representative Kucinich's 
resolution to invoke the War Powers Act to call all of our troops home 
from Afghanistan within the next 30 days--or, as the legislation 
outlines, by the end of the year if 30 days is deemed too dangerous. I 
refuse to watch as we send soldier after soldier into a battle I do not 
believe the military can win.