# PRIVATE FIRST CLASS PETER CROSS, USA
## `287cd935b6f65c7948d60c059189145d`
`Ms. GRANGER — 7 July 2009`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the courage of a 
brave and dedicated hero of the state of Texas and of our nation.

Private First Class Peter Cross was a soldier in the United States 
Army and is a true American hero. Peter gave his life in the service of 
his country on June 26, 2009, due to injuries he sustained from his 
vehicle overturning on a mountainous road in Afghanistan.

Assigned to 2nd Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, 10th Mountain 
Division, Fort Drum, New York, Private First Class Cross made the 
ultimate sacrifice for his country in a time of war, an action that 
speaks volumes far greater than words about his character and 
patriotism.

A native of Saginaw, Texas, Peter had aspirations of missionary work 
following his service in the Army. These ambitions, along with his 
efforts to avoid children herding sheep near Combat Outpost Carwile, 
Afghanistan, which ultimately resulted in the overturning of his 
vehicle, led his father Mike Cross to point out, ''His last act in life 
shows what kind of man he was--selflessly thinking of others.''

Peter had been on active duty in the United States Army for less than 
one year. He joined the Army in August of 2008 and was deployed to 
Afghanistan in February of 2009. Peter quickly developed a sincere 
passion for the people of Afghanistan that he was there to help. His 
father specifically noted, ''He really had a heart for the Afghani 
people. He used to hand out candy, and pens and papers, and anything 
else he could spare for the kids when they came around the guys. He was 
a fun guy. A godly guy.''

Our thoughts and prayers are with Private First Class Cross' parents, 
siblings, grandparents, and all of his family and friends. His 
community and nation honor his memory, and we are grateful for his 
faithful and distinguished service to America.

Private First Class Cross will not be forgotten. His memory lives on 
through his family and the legacy of selfless service that he so 
bravely imprinted on our hearts.
