---
---

# None
## `2881367a281ed0a2f87a5e34cefd4d43`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I know we have our freshman colleagues 
coming in after us, so we are going to give them some room here.

But I want to turn for a few minutes to a subject that you alluded to 
earlier, and I know you may have some more areas here in which we want 
to talk about what the devastating cuts are going to do, but I want to 
talk for a second before we hand it off to some of our other freshman 
colleagues about what is not in the budget, and you alluded to it 
before, most importantly, the cost of the war isn't truly reflected in 
this budget.

In fact, some staff members on the Republican side made a comment 
earlier today that they even admit that the $70 billion that is put in 
this budget is essentially just a downpayment on what we are going to 
need to perpetuate the costs of this war in Iraq for the rest of the 
year. And it is just I think becoming impossible for our constituents 
to really understand why we can't include the costs of this war, 
whether you agree with it or disagree with it. We will save that for 
another day. Mr. Altmire, you know where I am on this question. I 
believe that we should get ourselves out of this mess sooner rather 
than later in a planned-for way. But while we are there, and while we 
are still spending money, let's pay for it. Let's budget for it 
responsibly.

Now, I think you could probably make the argument in the first year 
or 2 years of this conflict that it was emergency spending, and that 
there was an argument to be made in the first few years of the war in 
Iraq and the war in Afghanistan that we were going to need to borrow 
some money for that. I have no problem understanding that in emergency 
circumstances, we are going to have to do some deficit spending. Nobody 
likes that. But with regard to the economic stimulus package that we 
are passing, it makes sense in very narrow circumstances to borrow some 
money in order to get some short-term gain when the spending is on an 
emergency basis. But we are 5 years into this war now, both in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It is not catching us by surprise anymore. It is not an 
emergency expenditure anymore. We can plan years in advance for the 
money that we are spending on this war. There is no justification for 
this money not being in the budget. What happens is it is just hidden. 
When you get these figures about how big the deficit is going to be 
when we pass the President's budget, which we obviously won't do, but 
if we were to pass the President's budget, that doesn't even take into 
account the real costs of this war. If I were a taxpayer out there that 
was for this war, or if I were a taxpayer out there that was against 
this war, I would be greatly aggrieved, and I think they are greatly 
aggrieved by the fact that we are not paying for it. Well, we're going 
to. We're going to. Because these bills, whether they are on the tab of 
the war or whether they are on the tab of the domestic programs that 
haven't been paid for for years, they are going to be paid at some 
point. Those bills and those promissory notes are going to come due, 
and they are going to be paid for by your children and my future 
children, and your future grandchildren and my future grandchildren. We 
are hamstringing generations to come to pay for the costs of this war, 
and we should account for it.

The second thing that is not covered, Mr. Altmire, is this thing that 
we keep on talking about down here called the alternative minimum tax. 
Now, I know there are still a lot of people out there that don't 
understand what the alternative minimum tax is because year after year, 
Congress has done the right thing and has held in abeyance the 
adjustment to the alternative minimum tax that would essentially make 
it cover most middle-class taxpayers in this country. In my district in 
Connecticut we have about 20,000 people that pay the alternative 
minimum tax that was initially set up just to cover the richest of the 
rich who weren't paying any tax through deductions or were paying very 
little tax through deductions and credits.



If we don't fix the Alternative Minimum Tax again this year, in my 
district it is going to go from like 19,000 people paying it to like 
80,000 people paying it. It is going to be a huge problem, thousands of 
additional dollars in tax obligations for millions of Americans. Well, 
the President doesn't say anything about that in this budget. I think 
he just assumes that we are going to fix it again, but he doesn't put 
the cost of doing that in the budget.

So, if you tack on the costs of the war that aren't in this budget, 
if you tack on the costs of once again fixing the Alternative Minimum 
Tax which we should do and put that in the budget, this deficit is 
enormous, is enormous. I think we should be having a real argument over 
the real cost of this budget. Through all this sort of gimmickry that 
we see, all this trickery in how the numbers are accounted for, the


war is not in there, the Alternative Minimum Tax fix isn't in there.

I know this sort of goes over the head of a lot of people out there, 
because they say this is just the logistics of a budget. This is just 
numbers, where you put one number, where you put another number. It 
matters, because you can't hide money that we have to spend. Whether 
you put it in the budget or out of the budget, if you spend the dollar, 
somebody is going to have to pay for it. Maybe not now, but in 10 years 
or 20 years.

Mr. Altmire, part of the reason that the 30-Something Working Group 
talks so much about deficit spending is because we are going to be 
around when those bills come due. We have an obligation, I think a 
special obligation as some of the younger Members of this House, to cry 
bloody murder when this President tries to do more deficit spending 
than he is even telling us here, because it is going to be our 
generation and our kids' generation that are going to have to pay for 
it.