---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `289638780b17564a62b1aa4a50ae2df4`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I yield myself such time as I need 
from the time allotted.

Let me respond to a few points made in this debate.

First, as was clear, the original place that proponents of this 
second engine, which I believe is an unnecessary engine or unnecessary 
expenditure of taxpayer money, the place from which they would take the 
money originally for the Huey helicopters for the marines, I think 
there was a lot of upset about that. So the choice that Senator Bayh 
has put before us today would cut the HC-130 and MC-130 aircraft which 
would seriously impact both the Air Force's air combat command and the 
special operations command. This is a late-breaking development this 
morning, the change of source of the funding, but we asked for a 
response from the office of the Secretary of Defense and it was this, 
that this ''take'' from these two variants of the C-130s that the Air 
Force special operations command is using in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
elsewhere, wherever they are needed in the world, the Secretary of 
Defense says this would slow down the rate at which the aircraft would 
be delivered.

The argument Senator Bayh made is that in the supplemental we adopted 
earlier, three additional MC-130s and four HC-130s were included, seven 
planes. But the Air Force says to us this morning: Based on the JROC 
validation requirements--that is the joint operating committee that 
determines acquisition--the Air Force has validated requirements for 37 
MC-130s and 78 HC-130s.

The Air Force, including the Air Force special operations command and 
air combat command, is grateful for the seven the supplemental gave 
them, but they need many more. They need 115 total, and so far we have 
given them 7. Removing the nine planes that were in the President's 
budget for the Air Force to fund the unnecessary second engine is not a 
costless move. It would do damage to the Air Force and its program.

I know Senator Reed is here and wants to speak on the amendment 
before us.

I yield the floor.