# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `28bb13efc88fccf019a5b618823415c4`
`Mr. MURTHA — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Let me read to the gentleman, Mr. Chairman:

''With respect to the list of specific programs, projects and 
activities contained in the tables entitled 'Explanation of Project 
Level Adjustments' in the Report of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives, those which are considered congressional 
earmarks for purposes of rule XXI of the House of Representatives, when 
awarded to a for-profit entity, shall be awarded under full and open 
competition.''

This amendment would prohibit $2.5 million for AARGM Counter Air 
Defense Future Capabilities. Now, I know that Members of Congress 
represent their districts. I know that Arizona gets $9.7 billion in 
defense. I'm sure that this Member is not worried about the fact that 
some of this money may go someplace else. I know that's not his reason 
for this. It's $9.7 billion. It's fifth in the number of defense 
industries throughout the country. Let me tell the Chair a story:

When I first took over the committee in 1989, I looked at one of the 
projects that the Navy was working on. They made consoles for all of 
the ships in the Navy, and they were paid $850,000 for those consoles. 
We said, You've got to compete them. We had probably 25 to 30 hearings 
that year. We had 51 trips that we sent the troops on, which is the 
same as we had this year. We had 37 hearings this year, and we had 
hundreds and hundreds of meetings.

This one particular program was called the Q-70. We forced them to 
compete it, and it's a very interesting thing. The Navy went to the Air 
Force and said, Look, we want you to buy this particular program, and 
we'll buy it from you. This is so they wouldn't have to compete. Well, 
the staff found out about it; and in the end, that didn't work and they 
competed.

That particular console now costs $125,000 per unit. We've saved over 
$1 billion. They happen to make that in my district. Some people would 
say that was an earmark. We saved over $1 billion in one contract. On 
another submarine torpedo contract, we saved over a half a billion 
dollars.

So small business is the backbone of industry in this country. All 
the growth has been in small business. These folks are working 
diligently. They pay taxes. They go home every day, and they know how 
important it is to do good work. They meet super-specifications from 
the military. They complain all the time that the specifications are 
too tough and that competition is too tough.

The first time that I brought defense companies to my district, I had 
24 percent unemployment, and we couldn't get any business out of them 
because none of my companies knew how to do defense work. Now, in 
Arizona, they obviously know how to do defense work. They've got $9.7 
billion worth of business in Arizona. Pennsylvania is not even on the 
list for the amount of defense work. That's embarrassing with all of 
the troops that we send. We send more National Guard members to Iraq 
and Afghanistan than any other National Guard unit in the country. I've 
lost 19 people in my congressional district, so I feel very strongly 
about this.

Small business is the backbone. These people that I visit are working 
hard. They know how tough it is. They know that they meet the 
specifications, and they bid on these contracts, and they win these 
contracts, and I'm proud to represent them. With that, I ask for a 
''no'' vote.

I yield back the balance of my time.