# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `28bde9ddd77e74007cca0395ab5d792e`
`Mr. BUTTERFIELD — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from 
American Samoa (Mr. Faleomavaega) for yielding this time to me, and 
thank the Speaker for convening this very important debate this 
evening.



Madam Speaker, I come to the floor this evening to express my 
unconditional support for H. Con. Res. 63. I also come to the floor 
this evening to thank the leadership, to thank Speaker
Nancy Pelosi 
and the majority leader, and Chairman Ike Skelton for their leadership 
on this issue, and thank them very much for scheduling this debate. I 
am confident that the American people are also appreciative of this 
debate.

Madam Speaker, 4 years ago, shortly before I was elected to this 
body, the President of the United States convinced this Congress that 
dictator Saddam Hussein had in his possession weapons of mass 
destruction, and that he was prepared to use those weapons against our 
country. The world now knows that he was wrong, and history will decide 
whether that intelligence was manipulated or whether it was an honest 
mistake.

But this evening, Madam Speaker, the invasion we all know, happened. 
We captured Baghdad, and we arrested Saddam Hussein, and he has now 
been convicted and executed. But the search for weapons of mass 
destruction revealed that there were no weapons whatsoever.

Our aim then turned to helping the Iraqi people create a democratic 
government with free and fair elections, a constitution was ratified, 
and elected representatives are now making decisions on what is best 
for their country. The Iraqi Government has a security force in place, 
and we are assisting in training them to defend their country.

In 4 years of fighting the brave men and women of our Armed Forces 
have accomplished every mission put before them. They have performed 
admirably and completed all that is possible militarily possible in 
Iraq. There is an intractable problem on the ground in Iraq. The 
tensions between the sectarian groups are centuries old. We all know 
that, and our continued presence is exacerbating those tensions. It is 
no longer a military problem, but a political problem best resolved 
through diplomacy.

It is clear, Madam Speaker, that a continued open-ended military 
action is not in the best interest of our country. It is not in the 
best interest of the Iraqi people or the citizens of the Persian Gulf 
region. We have reached the point where we need to turn Iraq over to 
the Iraqis. Iraqis know that, so that the Iraqis will know that the 
U.S. is not an occupying force.

Since the invasion we have lost 3,000 lives. We have heard that for 
the last 2 days. And so many of those injuries are permanent. The 
financial cost of this war exceeds $400 billion. The President is now 
seeking another $245 billion to finance the war over the next 18 
months.

Madam Speaker, if those funds were invested in rural America, there 
is no question that we would improve thousands of lives in our own 
country.

Our military and their families are tremendously strained. Some 
troops are on their fourth and fifth deployments. Military personnel 
costs are skyrocketing. Further strains on our Armed Forces will leave 
this country unprepared for a wide range of threats that now exist. At 
a cost to the American taxpayer of nearly $2 billion a week, we simply 
will not have the resources needed to prepare for the wide variety of 
future threats that our country may have to face and for our domestic 
needs at home.

America has a problem and we must fix it. This debate this evening is 
the first step in a new direction. Our goals in Iraq have been 
accomplished, and it is now time to begin bringing our troops home. Now 
is not the time for escalation. Surges have not helped before, and they 
will not help now.

The time has come to redeploy and reset our force to begin addressing 
our other challenges around the world and give us an opportunity to 
repair our relationships with our allies and refocus on the war on 
terror.