# AMERICAN ENERGY
## `28cc75ed57cdcf1b4ac1364576b1036e`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California for coming to 
the floor and bringing this issue forward, helping to frame it in the 
fashion that he has.

And the segue gave me an opportunity to put up these two charts, and 
the chart that I just took down was the energy production chart. That 
was 72 quadrillion Btus of energy. The inside circle is the energy 
production chart, 72 quadrillion total energy production in the United 
States. The outside circle is the energy consumption in the United 
States. That's 101.4 quadrillion Btus.

Now, those numbers don't mean a lot to anybody, I don't think, until 
you just put it in perspective. We are producing 72 percent of the 
energy that we're consuming, and if we're going to be energy 
independent, if we're going to stop transferring American wealth 
overseas, as the gentleman from California said, then we've got to 
produce as much energy as we consume.

And I'm not stuck specifically on producing just as much gas as we 
burn or just as much diesel or just as much electricity in whichever 
fashion it is, but I'm insistent upon the idea that we go to full 
energy production, that if we produce enough Btus and natural gas to 
offset something we might use in coal, let the size of the proportion 
of these pie charts change a little bit depending upon what's most 
economical.

But I do think natural gas needs to remain, as John Peterson of 
Pennsylvania said, the mother's milk of manufacturing and that it 
should not be the kind of energy that we're using to expand our 
electrical generation.



And natural gas is also the feedstock for 90 percent of our nitrogen 
fertilizer.

And so there's two essential uses. And we can't turn over the 
nitrogen fertilizer production to places like Venezuela and Russia, but 
that's where it's going. We've almost lost the entire fertilizer 
industry in the United States because we haven't acted to open up these 
energy supplies. We know that we have 420 trillion cubic feet of 
natural gas, and that's known reserves. That's known reserves, and we 
still can't go offshore in many places and explore.

So here's our answer: It is, expand all of these forms of energy, 
every single one. And yes, we need to expand--even the energy that 
Teddy Kennedy objects to, let's expand some wind and some geothermal 
and some solar. That's the three that seem to be the least 
objectionable. But let's do all the rest while we're at it.

And this green one right here, nuclear; when you think we haven't 
built a nuclear plant since the mid-1970s, about 1975, there is a brand 
new one that's under construction in South Carolina today--and boy 
we're on a blitzkrieg to get that built--and it's going to be going 
online in 2017. Can you imagine a nation that--we can put the erector 
set together a lot faster than that, we just can't jump through all the 
regulatory hoops any faster than that. So the master switch gets thrown 
and the lights come on in South Carolina in 2017. And that is then the 
master manual for how to go through all of the regulatory and 
environmental red tape to build the next one after that.

And there was a vote in South Dakota, a public referendum to build a 
new refinery in Union County, South Dakota, Elk Point area, $10 billion 
investment. The referendum passed in favor of it, 59-41, so they said 
most of us think it's okay to have a refinery in our back yard. That 
refinery is one that I think it has a very good chance of going, but 
even those who are driving this don't have the answer to every question 
on how they jump through all of the regulatory hoops that have been 
created.

So here's an example: In 1970, when the oil companies wanted to go up 
to the North Slope of Alaska and open up Alaska for drilling, there was 
a court injunction that was slapped on them. That was a new thing then. 
I can remember being shocked that someone could come along and file a 
court case and shut down an entire region from development for energy.

There used to be a thing called property rights in America, 
constitutional property rights, and that would be a taking of the 
property. They went in there and acquired those leases with all good 
intent and above board, and they were shut down by an environmentalist 
lawsuit that went to court in 1970. In 1972, the final litigation 
hurdle had been leaped and they began the construction of the 600 miles 
of right-a-way and the 800 miles of pipelines and all the wells and 
collector tubes and the terminals on the Alaska Pipeline.

It took 2 years. And in 1972, I was astonished that anybody could 
hold up an operation like that for 2 years. And yet today, that seems 
like a blink of a litigative eye, 2 years. If we could resolve all the 
litigation that's holding up energy in 2 years, in 4 years we could 
have the energy problem solved. And that's because the trial lawyers, 
the environmentalists, the people that want to make their money off of 
litigation, the same kind of people that held up the Intelligence bill 
and put our Nation at risk, those who see profit in squeezing it out of 
somebody else, that's holding us up on energy, and the 
environmentalists.

So now I add this up on production. All of these things are off the 
table by environmentalists:

Can't do biomass, that burns wood, puts greenhouse gas in the air. 
Can't do motor gasoline, same reason. Can't do diesel fuel. Can't do 
jet fuel. None of the crude oil can we do because they're afraid it 
contributes to global warming. And as we come on around the horn, 
kerosene fits in that same category. Natural gas, I spoke to that. 
Coal, can't build any more coal-fire plants, or if we do, we've got 
some new hoops to jump through that no one has jumped through before.

You get to the nuclear, and the French are producing 78 percent of 
their electricity by nuclear, and we're down here where our overall 
energy consumption is 8.29 percent. The percentage of our overall 
energy production is 11.66 percent. But nuclear is also off the table. 
I spoke about hydroelectric, off the table.

So we get to add up geothermal and wind and solar. I add up those 
three things. And I happen to know that in our overall consumption, 
those three sources, geothermal, wind and solar, total .74 of 1 percent 
of our overall energy consumption. And if we're going to be 
independent, we're going to only expand those? What's your answer? Do 
you have an answer? I don't think so. I think you worship at the alter 
of mother nature.

And your default position is to always go back to pre Garden of Eden. 
I don't think you can think beyond that. I'll say this, that I know who 
created this Earth; God created this Earth. And he gave us dominion 
over it, and the animals and the plants in it to be used respectfully. 
And yes, we can improve upon mother nature, we've done it many times. 
That's why we're given the gift of the intellect and free will that we 
have. And we're to be tested in this fashion. And I'm more than happy 
to rise to that occasion and be tested in this fashion. And this side 
of the aisle over there, you all think the default position is, go back 
to pre Garden of Eden, mother nature, whatever the random grab-bag 
thing it was that came out of Darwin's ''survival of the fittest'' 
before man intervened as an intervening species, whatever that was, 
that's the utopian version that you're after because you have no other 
standard. We'll, I just described the standard, look it up in Genesis.

We can do this. We can produce all the energy that this country 
consumes by expanding all of these sources of energy from the 
production chart. Stretch it out to the outside limits of the 
consumption chart. We can do this, we must do this. And if we fail, the 
other people in the world--whom we are sending money to every day by 
the billions--will own us. And when they


own us, then they will tell us what to do and they will be our boss and 
our freedoms will be gone and diminished. And by the way, the people 
we're sending the money to for the most part don't believe much in 
freedom.

And we're doing our best to encourage others to buy into the freedom 
model that we have. If we besmirch the freedom responsibility to make 
good decisions for the best long-term interests of the American people, 
we trail in the dust of golden hopes of the Founding Fathers.

So much has been said about energy tonight, Mr. Speaker, and that 
makes my point on energy. I may come back and reiterate it, but I'll 
take up another subject matter that has me significantly concerned. And 
that is, that as we watch the Presidential race unfold, and we're 
watching as one of the Presidential candidates does his photo-op stops 
around the Middle East and Europe, and as that Presidential candidate--
and specifically the junior Senator from Illinois--has said that he 
expects to be in a leadership role for the next 10 years or so, he has 
already anointed himself as President. And so I would submit--and I 
don't hear anybody on the Democrat side say, wait a minute, calm down, 
that Presidential seal was a little bit of an overreach and the 
statement that you're going to be in command for the next 10 years 
means that, even if you win the Presidency this year and get re-elected 
4 years later, it's still not 10 years. So perhaps you can amend the 
Constitution and make such a prediction. Maybe you're such a marvel of 
nature you can do all of that, Mr. Obama.

But even if you're half of what you say, that makes you the leader of 
the Democrat Party in the United States of America. That means that the 
people over here on this side of the aisle are seeking to accommodate 
the positions that you've taken, trying to make you look good as you 
run for the Presidency, applauding and supporting the globe trotting 
and the speech--that didn't take place at the Brandenburg gate today--
all of that adulation that goes on is surely affecting the agenda here 
on the floor of Congress. It has to be and it has to have been.

For example, 40 different bills and resolutions brought to the floor 
of this House in the 110th Congress, all designed to underfund, unfund, 
deploy our troops out of Iraq and undermine the spirit and the will of 
our own fighting men and women, while they encourage our enemy. Forty 
bills and resolutions. All of those fit exactly with Obama's foreign 
policy, ''get out and get out now.''

I'm a little amazed that he can argue that, when asked if the surge 
worked, he couldn't agree that the surge worked. He said it was a 
hypothetical question. What's hypothetical about sending 170,000 troops 
over into a combat zone? What's hypothetical about some of them that 
come back with a flag draped over their coffin? That's not 
hypothetical, Senator Obama. That's real life, it's real death, it's 
real families that gave their son or daughter, lost their husband or 
their wife for our freedom. And you can't answer frivolously and 
flippantly that it's a hypothetical question, did the surge work or 
didn't it work? Obviously it worked.

And to argue that you have four points out there that the rest of--
the President and John McCain are coming around to, that they're 
agreeing with you because you said we ought to get out of Iraq back in 
2005--I think 2005 was the year that he said my position on Iraq is 
identical with that of President Bush. So I'm not sure when the first 
time was he said I think we should get out, but I know it was when we 
were under combat stress and pressure and things weren't going that 
well over there. And now I see him walking around the tarmac at Baghdad 
International--where I've been five times and I'll be again before this 
election cycle is over. And each time I've been there--hmm, I don't 
know about that. I think maybe the first time I arrived there I didn't 
wear a bullet-proof vest and I didn't wear a helmet. I think I went in 
there in casual khakis because the threat wasn't deemed to be as high 
as it turned out to be. The rest of the time I wore a bullet-proof vest 
and I wore a helmet. And I look there now, Senator Obama gets off of 
the plane or the helicopter, no bullet-proof vest, no helmet. Why is 
that? Senator, it's because the surge worked. The surge worked, and 
it's safe enough for you to walk around at Baghdad International in 
your shirt sleeves.

A couple or 3 years ago, when I was walking around Baghdad 
International and I had security personnel standing between me and the 
line of fire, the other side of the concrete wall was the Mahdi 
militia, Muqtada-al Sadr's militia. They were controlling the civilian 
side of the airport. And the military side, by some truce--we didn't 
shoot each other much, I guess, through that concrete--held the other 
side. And today, the Mahdi militia is decimated and gone. Muqtada al-
Sadr, the bane of peace in Iraq, has gone from doing something he's not 
very good at. Now he's studying. He's no longer a general. When he 
loses his army, he goings off to be a scholar instead. And for him to 
get ramped back up again and ever be commanding a Mahdi militia looks 
pretty slim to the people I'm talking to.

The reason, Obama, you can walk around on the tarmac at Baghdad 
International in shirt sleeves is because the surge worked. And the 
reason that we can pull some troops out of Iraq incrementally, as 
situations adjust on the ground, as they have been adjusting and 
continue to adjust on the ground, the reason is because the surge 
worked. And to take credit because some troops can come out of Iraq 
when you said ''pull them all out now, right now,'' and when you said, 
''I will, on my first day in office, order the immediate withdrawal of 
the troops from Iraq,'' the only condition, the only caveat was, I'll 
maintain a rear guard so they don't get shot in the back as they run 
off and get on board the troop ship, that's what's going on. You can't 
fool the American people in that.

And you say that you want to send a couple of brigades to 
Afghanistan. Do it now, do it before the election. We can't wait until 
January 20--presuming, of course, that John McCain won't make the right 
decision. He's far more likely to make the right decision. And I 
actually think he's actually more likely to be President today. But to 
argue that we should send troops from Iraq to Afghanistan immediately 
is an obscene contradiction to the sacrifice that's been made by our 
military personnel that are there.

It works like this; here's how the logic in the rational world goes: 
If President Bush has the insight and the courage to empower General 
Petraeus, recognize his leadership, allow him the time to go back and 
write the counter-insurgency manual, appoint him to command the troops 
in Iraq for the purposes of initiating the surge, make sure General 
Petraeus comes here before this Congress, explains it to us, we 
appropriate the money--you didn't have the nerve to shut the funding 
off because you didn't want to say, well, absolutely no to the troops 
because the disgrace of shutting the funding off and watching 3 million 
people die in Southeast Asia in 1975 comes back to haunt.

The President had the vision to appoint General Petraeus. He had the 
vision to buy into that vision. He made the tough order. He put the 
troops on the line. They went there. The surge worked. The political 
solution flowed behind it and with it and in anticipation of it because 
they knew that we were going to be there for a period of time and would 
give the Iraqis time to get themselves established.

If the surge worked in Iraq, Obama, tell me why----