---
---

# FOURTH QUARTERLY REPORT OF THE FRESHMEN REPUBLICANS
## `28dc630638704654ccd4ea6d4cdee8e5`
`Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee. Thank you, Kevin. Thank you for your 
leadership. Thank you for your friendship.

You know, we have been here almost a year now, and as I look at my 
fellow freshmen, I feel blessed to represent the American people with 
some of the best people that I know, good people that are willing to 
come here and work hard and try to get things done for the American 
people.

I grew up in the mountains of east Tennessee. My dad has got a sixth 
grade education. I was able to start a business. I was able to succeed. 
I was able to serve in the Tennessee legislature. It just goes to show 
that in America, you can do whatever you want to do.

Henry Ford once said, ''If you think you can or if you think you 
can't, you are right.'' That is common sense. If you go out there and 
you make things happen and you are willing to work hard, good things 
will happen for you. Henry Ford knew it. Teachers know it all across 
America, moms and dads and all across America.

We live in a blessed Nation. As a matter of fact, it even talks about 
that in the Bible. In Psalms 33:12, it says ''Blessed is the nation 
whose god is the Lord.'' We are a blessed people, and I feel very 
blessed to represent the people of northeast Tennessee back in my 
beloved mountains where common sense reigns, American values reign.

You know, we are in America today and we are in an America where we 
spend too much money. Ronald Reagan understood this. When Ronald Reagan 
was President, he once said, ''We don't have a trillion-dollar debt 
because we don't tax enough. We have a trillion-dollar debt because we 
spend too much.'' And I can tell you, Ronald Reagan would not have been 
pleased with this Congress this year because we have certainly, under 
the majority rule, they tried their best at every turn to find a way, a 
new way, to tax the American people.



There are moms and dads sitting around the kitchen table all over 
this great country trying to put a budget together. They are trying to 
put a budget together to decide how they are going to take care of 
their kids, how they are going to buy gas for their automobile, how 
they are going to pay their heating oil bill, how they are going to pay 
for college for the next generation, how they are going to save for 
retirement, how they are going to provide for their health care costs 
that keep increasing day in and day out.

The American people are looking for leadership. And when this new 
majority took over last year, they promised open, accountable, 
transparent government that was going to get results for the American 
people. Well, the results that this Congress has brought about, 
actually, over the last week or two have started to come back to some 
common sense. It took them about 50 weeks to get there, the longest in 
history; but finally they are starting to come back and going to pass 
some bills that cut their spending by about $20 billion. Thank goodness 
we had a President that said, I am going to veto if you spend too much. 
Thank goodness we had a minority party who stood up and said you are 
not going to spend too much money.

Moms and dads across America can spend their money better than a 
Congress. Moms and dads know the answer of how to raise their kids 
better than a


bureaucrat in Washington that has never met those kids.

This majority has failed the American people right up to the last 
week or so. The majority failed to pass 11 out of 12 appropriation 
bills.

Funding for this Congress and for this government actually ended back 
in October, and here we are on the eve of Christmas and we are still 
waiting to put the final touches on a budget that should have been done 
back in October. You couldn't do that back home in east Tennessee. You 
can't do that in any city in America. You have got to use common sense 
and you have got to pay your bills on time.

Michelle talked a moment ago about the majority has failed to protect 
the taxpayer with the AMT fix. You see, no leadership, no results. And 
that is basically where we are at. If the AMT is not fixed this week, 
it will leave 23 million taxpayers owing more money and not bringing 
their refunds home the way they expect. It will be a tax increase on 
the middle class. No leadership, no results.

Then, you look at the energy bill that has been talked about all 
year. Finally passed one this week. It is amazing, you get to the 11th 
hour of the 11th month and you finally start to pass some of these 
bills. But an energy bill that basically had everything in it except 
energy. We had an energy bill that had regulations, we had an energy 
bill that had taxes, and we had an energy bill that had no energy. No 
leadership, no results. And we are certainly seeing that today.

Then we had a majority party that has tried their best to do 
everything they can to make sure that the troops didn't receive the 
funding that they deserve. I went over to Iraq and spent time with the 
men and women in uniform, and there are young men and women over there 
that the American people would be very proud of. They want to be there; 
they volunteered to be there. They want to come home, but they want to 
come home in success, not in failure.

We have a majority party that actually had a leadership back in the 
spring that said: we failed. I can tell you, I can tell my colleagues, 
we have not failed. America has not failed. Ronald Reagan also used to 
say when he said tear down that wall, he said they lose, we win. I 
would hate to be in a situation in this war where we have to look back 
and say, we lost, they won. And we won't do that if we protect our men 
and women in uniform. And we can do that. As a matter of fact, there is 
a bill on the Senate floor tonight to make sure that funding is 
available for our men and women in uniform across the globe, not just 
part of the globe, but across the globe. See, if you have no 
leadership, you have no results.

And then the majority party has talked about health care, probably 
one of the most pressing issues facing the American family today. We 
talk about a need to fix health care, but we have not seen it in this 
Congress. The American people demand the ability to be able to go out 
and afford and feel reasonably comfortable that their children, 
themselves, and their moms and dads are going to receive the health 
care that they need. And there are solutions to those problems, but you 
have to have leadership to get results. No leadership, no results.

Then the cost of energy. When this majority party took over, it was 
interesting. if you look back, they said: the Republicans have left us 
in a lurch. Our cost of energy is skyrocketing. If you will give us the 
opportunity to lead, we are going to lower the cost of energy. When the 
Republicans gave up the majority in January, oil was $56 a barrel. Now 
it is $90 a barrel or thereabouts. $56 to about $90 a barrel. That is 
going in the wrong direction. Again, no leadership, no results.

The American people want us to come together, work as a team, and 
work on these issues, health care, energy, funding our troops so we can 
win, taking care of immigration, building the fence, making sure we 
have a secure Nation, making sure that we have an education system 
where our children can feel reasonably sure that they can go out and 
get the education they need. That is the type of leadership we need. 
That is the type of leadership that was promised for the most honest 
and ethical and open Congress ever. I am still waiting.

Thank you for giving me the opportunity to be with you.