---
---

# PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007
## `28dcd5bb8e0170b7557768a8f3612e09`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I rise to speak directly to the 
American people to tell them that this Senator understands the risks 
that our country faces and I will do everything in my power to protect 
them from a terrorist attack.

We have a President whose words do not match his actions and who 
continues to accuse Democrats of being weak on terrorism and unwilling 
to do what it takes to secure our nation.

Nothing could be further from the truth.

New Jersey was hit on September 11th we lost 700 people on that 
fateful day. Not a day goes by when I don't think about it. And it is 
largely that day that brought me back to this Chamber.

My State is ripe with targets for terrorists, from its ports to its 
chemical plants and it has the most dangerous 2 miles for terrorism 
within it borders. So President Bush please don't lecture me on 
terrorism.

Instead of rhetoric, the Senate has been acting to defend our 
homeland. Just last month we passed a bill to fund our homeland 
security needs next year. It would put $38 billion into making our 
homeland safer and more secure.

What does the President do? He says he will veto it. Why? Because he 
thinks it costs too much. It costs too much? How do you measure the 
cost of protecting us from terror?

And President Bush is accusing others of being weak on homeland 
security?

The President is upset because Congress plans to put $2 billion more 
into homeland security than he thinks we should do. That is less money 
for a year of homeland security than we spend in one week in Iraq. This 
is a critical bill, and the President should have his pen ready to sign 
it, not continue to shortcut security for millions of people within our 
borders and within our homeland.

On Wednesday night, we saw a terrible incident when a bridge 
collapsed in Minnesota, causing fear, death, and injury. It brought to 
light the serious infrastructure needs of our country. What does 
President Bush do the next morning? He played raw politics and accused 
Congress of not working hard enough to fund our transportation needs. 
Again, nothing could be further from the truth.

The Senate Appropriations Committee has passed a transportation bill 
that is ready to go the Senate floor. It includes $5 billion for bridge 
replacement and rehabilitation across the Nation a full $1 billion 
increase over last year's amount. Guess what. The President is 
threatening to veto that one as well. Why? Again he thinks it costs too 
much to protect people domestically.

And now the administration is telling us there are gaps in our 
ability to gather intelligence about terrorists. So we are trying to 
make changes to the law dealing with the surveillance of emails and 
phone calls to make sure we protect the American people. And we must 
make those necessary changes, even if we stay here through the month of 
August to do so. But we must do so in a way that balances our national 
security with our fundamental civil rights.

I yield the floor.