# None
## `28dd5b491649eca5608871a369e773e3`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Thank you, Mr. Marshall, and thank you, Mr. 
Jones, for your kind words of support of my legislation, House 
Resolution 747. Thank you as well to Chairman Skelton and Ranking 
Member McKeon for bringing this legislation through the Armed Services 
Committee to the House floor.

Madam Speaker, H. Res. 747 recognizes the achievement of the United 
States Military Academy at West Point for being named Forbes magazine's 
best college in 2009. Not best military academy, but best college 
overall. In fact, the headline on the front of that issue of Forbes 
said, ''Why West Point Beats Harvard.'' And I think it is something 
that many of us don't realize, that not only is the academy turning out 
exemplary officers who will serve this country with great creativity 
and loyalty and imagination and energy, but they are turning out well-
rounded students who know about a variety of very important subjects 
that are taught as well or better at that school as at any public or 
private university in the country.

I have the honor of representing West Point in the 19th Congressional 
District of New York, and the 4,400 cadets who make up the student body 
at the United States Military Academy. I also have the honor, along 
with my friend, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Marshall), of serving 
on the West Point Board of Visitors.

The Forbes rankings were based on evaluations of students, the 
success of the graduates of the school, and on the average debt 
incurred by graduates. It is a great tribute to the caliber of the 
cadets, the faculty, and the administration of West Point to be ranked 
with and now above the other great institutions of higher learning in 
this country based on these important criteria.

Graduates of West Point have served their Nation with the highest 
level of skill, honor, and devotion for more than 200 years. More than 
70 West Point grads have received the Medal of Honor for their service 
to our country. Each of the senior commanding generals in Iraq and 
Afghanistan are alumni. And 74 West Point graduates have given their 
lives in Afghanistan and Iraq.

West Point's cadets fully embody the academy's motto, ''Duty, Honor, 
Country.'' West Point is a national treasure and a jewel of the Hudson 
Valley, where today's heroes and tomorrow's leaders are trained. I am 
proud of their accomplishments and pleased that they have gotten the 
recognition that they have earned. I am especially proud of my nephew, 
who will be one of the graduates of the class of 2010.

I ask my colleagues to join us in supporting H. Res. 747.