---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `290334d27da67a0a50304c86c311d705`
`Mr. KYL — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Secondly, since the Senator has remained on the Senate floor 
and asked that question a second time, I will go ahead and move to 
answer that question, and then come back to the other points I was 
going to make a moment ago.

Basically, the Senator asked two questions: Why are we there in the 
first place; and, secondly, how is this strategy supposed to enable us 
to achieve the victory we seek to achieve?

Let me answer that second question first, briefly, because the 
President talked about this last night. The concept that the President 
outlined was one that he had developed, or our forces in Iraq had 
developed with the Maliki government. And it was predicated on a 
commitment that the President received from the Iraqi Government that 
it would be willing to do some things differently in the future.

Specifically, what? We appreciate until peace and stability come to 
Iraq, it is not going to be possible for that Iraqi Government to 
engage in the political and economic reforms that will be necessary for 
that society to move forward.

How does one achieve peace and stability? For most of the country 
there is relative peace. But everyone agrees in Baghdad itself there is 
great conflict and killing. So the President talked last night about a 
division of the city into nine specific regions, bringing in more 
troops from the Iraqi Government, twice as many more as the United 
States would bring in, in order not just to clear those areas of the 
killers, as the President called them, but to hold the areas, to 
prevent them from coming back in and then causing harm to the innocent 
Iraqi civilians.

The Maliki government had talked about doing this in the past. But 
when we did the clearing, the killers were allowed to come back and 
continue their bad action right after we left. We established 
checkpoints and curfews, and the Iraqi Government said they would like 
for us to eliminate those checkpoints and curfews. We would arrest 
these killers and put them in jail, but the Iraqi Government would let 
them back out. In other words, it was doing things that were 
antithetical to our ability to consolidate the original victory we 
obtained by clearing those areas of the killers.

The President obtained a commitment from Maliki that this would 
change, so the strategy now would be with Iraqi troops taking the lead 
and American troops assisting, to clear the areas and hold them, and 
hold the killers responsible, keep them from killing again, and go 
after the militias, especially in Baghdad, that were doing most of this 
killing.

Now, that would require some additional troops in Baghdad, and the 
President talked about the number of troops that would be provided for 
that. He said the other area where troops


would be provided would be in Al Anbar Province, to the west, where the 
al-Qaida terrorists had basically developed a tremendous amount of 
strength and taken over parts of that area, and some additional troops 
would be needed there.

There were other elements of the President's speech. There were well 
over 20, as I counted them, of different parts of this strategy. But 
the key elements were the ones I just mentioned. So that is the role 
these additional troops are supposed to play.

Now, to the more fundamental question that the Senator asked, if one 
only looks at Iraq in a vacuum, I can easily understand why one would 
come to the conclusion that with the death and destruction there, and 
the harm to our own troops, it does not make sense for us to be there.

But Iraq is not in a vacuum. Iraq is part of a larger war. And this 
is one thing that both Osama bin Laden and George Bush agree on, 
probably the only thing: Both of them have called the battle in Iraq 
critical to achieving victory in the ultimate--the President calls it 
the war against terrorists; bin Laden calls it the holy jihad. But, in 
either case, they understand that the loser in this battle in Iraq is 
not likely to be able to prevail in the larger global war.

In bin Laden's case, he is talking about the war to establish the 
califate, and he says that Baghdad will be the capital of the califate. 
This is the area that will be ruled by Sharia, the strict law of his 
interpretation of Islam. The U.S. concept of victory is a peaceful, 
stable Iraq that can maintain its society and borders and be an ally 
with us in the war against the terrorists.

Our security there is identified in two ways. First, because of the 
al-Qaida and other terrorists who, as I said, have done a tremendous 
amount of damage in Al Anbar Province and who initiated a lot of the 
conflict between the Shiites and the Sunnis, among other things, by 
bombing one of the most holy of the Shiite mosques; they have initiated 
a lot of this terrorism. We have to be able to defeat al-Qaida and the 
other terrorists in Iraq.

Secondly, we cannot lose the momentum we have gained in this war 
against these terrorists in places such as Jordan and Egypt and Saudi 
Arabia and Pakistan and Afghanistan and Yemen and other places. From a 
situation where they were actually helping terrorists, we have gotten 
to a point where they are actually helping us to find and root out and 
capture or kill the terrorists. Were we to leave Iraq a failed state, 
it would not only be a devastating--I will use the word--Holocaust for 
the people of Iraq, especially anyone who tried to help us or 
participated with the Iraqi Government, but it would be a horrible blow 
to our national security because it would reverse the momentum we have 
gained in the war against the terrorists and cause these other states 
to begin to hedge their bets in working with us because it is a 
dangerous neighborhood. It would be evident that we have no stomach to 
stay there and that the terrorists, therefore, can move back in, can 
use those as a base of operation and continue, then, to work against 
the states of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the like. In 
fact, Saudi Arabia has already talked about trying to provide funding 
for Sunnis in Iraq. Iran is providing assistance to Shiites in Iraq. 
These are the reasons why it is more than a battle for Iraq but, 
rather, to continue the momentum we have gained in dealing with these 
radicals all throughout that region.