# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `29049a4189f198a2f566d29b232f6ffb`
`Mr. THUNE — 4 February 2009`

---


Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I wish to speak to an amendment that I 
introduced and filed and was made pending at the desk earlier today. 
What that amendment will do is eliminate new Government programs that 
are created by the proposed $1 trillion stimulus legislation that is 
before the Senate today.

Earlier yesterday, I presented some information about the size and 
scope of this legislation and tried to put in very visual terms the 
immense amount of money we are talking about when you start looking at 
$1 trillion. It is $900 billion, but when you add interest on top of 
this--$340 billion, $350 billion in interest--you have $1.2 trillion in 
new spending included in the stimulus bill. I say that because I think 
it is important to point out that is not the end; it is, frankly, the 
beginning.

We know for a fact the Omnibus appropriations bill--the sort of 
catchall appropriations bill we didn't complete last year--is going to 
be coming before the Congress, before the House first and then before 
the Senate. For the first time ever, that is going to exceed $1 
trillion. So we have $1 trillion in the catchall appropriations bill. 
We expect at least a request from the administration for additional 
TARP authority--emergency funding to provide stabilization to the 
financial markets--to the tune of several hundred billion dollars. We 
don't know exactly what it will be, but we know it will be in the 
multiples with respect to hundreds of billions of dollars. We also have 
a supplemental appropriations bill that will be coming shortly after 
that to fund the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

My point simply is this: This is trillions of dollars of spending. 
This is a spending spree that is unprecedented even in this city, which 
is known for spending lots of money on lots of programs. What this 
amendment attempts to do is to put a little bit of restraint on some of 
that spending in the stimulus bill. Granted, many of us believe there 
are some things we should be doing, some steps we should be taking that 
would help the economy to recover, that would stimulate the economy and 
create jobs. Regrettably, the stimulus bill that is in front of us goes 
way beyond that.

The President's top economic adviser suggested when this whole debate 
began that whatever we do in terms of stimulus, it should be temporary, 
it should be targeted, and it should be timely. Much of what is 
included in this bill is none of the above. In fact, it is slow and 
unfocused and unending. So I am attempting, with this amendment, to say 
that new programs that are created in this bill have to have been 
authorized by February 1 of this year. In other words, earlier this 
week. So if there is not an authorization for this new program--and we 
would ask OMB to make that determination--that spending would be 
knocked out of the bill, essentially.

The whole purpose of the amendment is, again, to say that if we are 
going to do something that is meaningful in terms of stimulating the 
economy, it should be temporary and it should be targeted and it should 
be focused. Much of the spending that is in this bill is anything but 
that. History has shown, time and again, when you put new programs on 
the books, you almost always take a long time to get those programs off 
the ground. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office has examined this 
issue and they offered this insight:




 Brand new programs pose additional challenges. Developing 


 procedures and criteria, issuing the necessary regulations, 


 and reviewing plans and proposals would make distributing 


 money quickly even more difficult--as can be seen, for 


 example, in the lack of any disbursements to date under loan 


 programs established for automakers last summer to invest in 


 producing energy-efficient vehicles. Throughout the Federal 


 Government, spending for new programs has frequently been 


 slower than expected and rarely been faster.


Again, that is the Congressional Budget Office. Given the current 
state of the economy, we simply can't afford to enact costly new 
programs that have little hope of making any real meaningful impact 
now, when the American people need it the most.

There may be programs in this proposed legislation that are worthy of 
support--I am not arguing that point--but surely not under the guise of 
economic stimulus. There are new programs that are created that will 
add to the size of this, and many of us have reacted to the size of it. 
As I have said already, we know for a fact there is going to be a lot 
of additional spending coming down the pike that we are going to be 
asked to consider. But adding to that $1 trillion for something that 
arguably does not create economic stimulus, does not create jobs, seems 
to me to be the wrong direction in which to head.

My amendment would simply prevent any new funding under the economic 
stimulus plan from going toward new programs that were not authorized 
before February 1 of this year--2009. As I said before, the amendment 
calls on the Office of Management and Budget to determine if a program 
was authorized before February of 2009. If the program fails to meet 
that standard, the program will not receive funding from the economic 
stimulus proposal.

Now, I would argue that this is a very commonsense proposal that 
protects the taxpayer and ensures funds are spent in a timely and 
effective manner. That isn't to say--and I will repeat myself--as I 
said earlier, that many of these programs are not worthwhile and, 
frankly, we ought to consider them. But we ought to do it under the 
regular order and procedures that we have in the Senate. We ought to 
have committee action, we ought to have hearings, we ought to have the 
necessary oversight, and we ought to be able to put these things on the 
floor where they can be debated. We have a process for doing that.

There are lots of programs that are included in the stimulus bill 
which, I would argue, don't meet that criteria. They aren't stimulus 
because they are not targeted, they are not timely, and they are not 
temporary. They are, in fact, creating new programs which, as I said 
earlier, the Congressional Budget Office has told us sometimes take a 
very long time to roll out. I think any of us can speak from experience 
on that point; that whenever we create any sort of a new Federal 
program, we have agencies that have to interpret it, regulations have 
to be promulgated, in many cases we are setting up new bureaucracies 
and people have to be hired and it makes no sense to me whatsoever for 
us to, in the context of an economic stimulus bill, start talking about 
new programs.

I would also say the whole purpose of this exercise, in my opinion at 
least, is job creation. It is to get the economy back on track and 
recovering and creating jobs. We have been losing jobs. The economy is 
hemorrhaging and a lot of people are hurting throughout the country. 
What they don't need is more spending on Government programs in 
Washington, DC. What we ought to be doing, on the other hand, is 
getting more money into the hands of the American people so they can 
spend it--more incentives for small businesses to begin to invest and 
create jobs because that is what they do best. In fact, two-thirds to 
three-fourths of all the jobs created in our economy are created by 
small businesses.


Now, $900 billion, the principal amount--and with interest it is over 
$1


trillion in new spending--is proposed in the stimulus legislation. If 
you divide that by the number of jobs that are proposed to be created--
somewhere around 3 million--that comes out to $300,000 per job. The 
average annual wage in my State of South Dakota is under $30,000 a 
year. It is very difficult to explain to a constituent of mine in South 
Dakota how the Federal Government proposes to spend $300,000 of their 
tax dollars to create one job at a time when we are handing the largest 
burden of debt to the next generation in American history.

Many of these jobs that are proposed are Government jobs. The 
Government can create Government jobs, and many of the spending 
programs in this bill do put money into Federal agencies which create 
Government jobs but at an enormous cost. I will use the example of the 
State Department, where it is over $1 million--I think $1.3 million, 
something to that effect--per job created. That doesn't seem to be a 
very good use of taxpayer dollars, and it doesn't get us the bang for 
the buck everybody has been coming to the floor and talking about.

As I said, it is a straightforward amendment. All it simply says is: 
No new Government programs created in the stimulus. If that program was 
not authorized by February 1 of this year, then any funding for it in 
the economic stimulus proposal would be denied. It is a commonsense 
proposal that does protect the taxpayers, ensures the funds will be 
spent in a timely and effective way, and that we focus on keeping jobs 
out there in the economy, putting people back to work. It is not 
spending on new Government programs in Washington DC which, however 
well intended, needs to go through a normal regular order process where 
Members of the Senate have an opportunity to evaluate those at the 
committee level and go through all the appropriate oversight that we 
normally include when it comes to create a new Government program.


Frankly, I do not think creating new Government programs, in the 
first place, is the way to do this, but at least this amendment brings 
some semblance of sanity to a bill which, as I said, is sort of a 
shotgun approach. It throws money at all kinds of different programs in 
hopes it will do something to stimulate the economy--knowing full well, 
I believe, that many of these are not going to be stimulative but on 
the other hand are creating new programs that people have wanted for a 
long time but have never had the opportunity.

That is not what this is about. This economic stimulus debate ought 
to be focused on creating jobs and getting the economy on the pathway 
to recovery.

That is the amendment. I encourage my colleagues to support it. I 
think it is very straightforward, very commonsensical, and, hopefully, 
it will meet with the approval of the majority of the Members of the 
Senate.

I yield the floor.