---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `290b2dceff4f4bb2f947fdef353a7aed`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida â€” 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Madam Speaker, good evening. It is a pleasure 
to be here tonight on behalf of the freshman class. It certainly has 
been an honor to serve here this last year, and to be joined by Mr. 
Hall of New York, and a number of other Members who are going to join 
us tonight.

What we are going to talk about tonight is something that I think is 
weighing very heavily on the minds of Americans right now, and that is 
the economy. We understand because the United States is the most 
resilient, optimistic, innovative country in the world, that we will 
persevere and we will work out the issues that have caused some of the 
problems in our economy right now.

But that being said, as we speak today, there are people all over the 
United States who are hurting. They are hurting because their jobs may 
be threatened or they have lost their jobs or lost confidence that 
their job may be here in the next weeks and months. They are hurting 
because their home may be threatened from foreclosure or difficult 
terms. They may be hurting because gas prices have shot up. If we think 
about what the cost of oil was not that long ago, literally back in 
2002, it was $28 per barrel. And we know as of today, it hit $114 per 
barrel. Shame on all of us for allowing that to be the case today and 
for having this dependence on oil. We have leadership in this House 
that is working on that.

Americans may be hurting because their health care is a threat, 
preexisting conditions, things that are not covered by their policies, 
and the cost of insurance is just beyond their means.

There are a lot of things that people are thinking about that are 
weighing them down. At the same time, we have a war in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan. And a fight that we, as Americans, obviously understand 
that when America is challenged, we will fight back. But I think there 
is also a broad recognition that the war we are in, at least in Iraq 
right now, we may have gotten into for some of the wrong reasons, and 
without justification.

With that being said, I want to thank the men and women who serve 
this country and put their lives on the line every single day in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and around the world. And their families that are back 
home, persevering and doing the necessary things to carry on while 
their loved ones are gone. I know this Congress has taken upon itself 
to be certain and put all of the dollars on the table that have been 
promised in the past but not delivered, to make sure that every man and 
woman when they come home from service in the armed services, that they 
are given all the medical services, mental health services, physical 
health services, and a lifetime of care if necessary. We are committed 
to doing that as Congress.

But the question today is what should we be doing about Iraq, and how 
does this interplay with the economy. That is the subject of what we 
are going to talk about tonight. Are there things that we should be 
doing to help us as Americans, help us in our daily lives in the United 
States, help us make sure that we have the future, a better future, as 
our parents wished for us, that my children who are in college right 
now, that they will have a better opportunity than I did. That is 
something that is the American dream, and it has been around for 
generations. And yet people today are questioning if that is where we 
are going.

We have to say what do we have to do to make sure that Americans come 
first and also protect our national security and evaluate this foreign 
policy, this fight in Iraq and other places, yes, is it in fact making 
us safer at home and on our streets. Or is it a disastrous situation 
that has cost us $600 billion up to this point, over 4,000 lives of our 
brave men and women, and 30,000 to 40,000 brave men and women who have 
come back with severe injuries and will require lifetime care.

We are going to talk about those issues, engage each other on the 
floor, and we are going to continue to invite the American people to 
work with us and come up with some good solutions.

I am joined by the gentleman from New York (Mr. Hall) who has been a 
strong leader and very focused on the fact that our security is 
important, but our economy is equally important, and I turn the floor 
over to Mr. Hall.