---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2912a6244284db068f25a41b37066c4b`
`Mr. McCAIN — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of the amendment offered 
by the Senator from Connecticut. The amendment puts Iran on notice that 
we in the Congress are aware of actions taken by Tehran that have 
resulted in the deaths of U.S. service personnel. We are aware of it, 
and we must do everything we can to stop it as quickly as possible.

While my colleagues and I may have legitimate differences over our 
policy in Iraq, we stand firmly united against those individuals and 
regimes that would seek to harm our troops. For some time now, American 
diplomats and military officers have suspected that key Iranian 
Government elements are actively engaged in supporting individuals and 
groups seeking to destabilize the Iraqi Government and who are 
deliberately targeting American troops for attack. There is a body of 
evidence, a body of reporting on Iranian material support to Shia 
militias, reports that suggest that Iranian support for the most lethal 
of the improvised explosive devices and for armor-piercing explosively 
formed projectiles. Together, these weapons account for a high 
percentage of American casualties in Iraq.

But the evidence of Iranian activity in Iraq does not end there. In 
order to increase its influence in Iraq, bleed the United States and 
disrupt our efforts in Iraq, Iran has engaged in numerous specific 
acts. A few of the publicly available reports include:

In February of this year, our military confirmed that at least 170 
members of the U.S. Armed Forces have


been killed and at least 620 wounded by weapons tied to Iran.

On May 27, then-MG William Caldwell, spokesperson for the Multi-
National Force in Iraq, said:




 What we do know is that the Iranian intelligence services, 


 the Qods Force, is in fact training, equipping, and funding 


 Shia groups . . . both in Iraq and in Iran. . . . We have in 


 detention now, people that we have captured that, in fact, 


 are Sunni extremist-related that have, in fact, received both 


 some funding and training from the Iranian intelligence 


 services, the Qods Force.


On April 26, General Petraeus stated that the Qazali network, a 
network directly connected to the Iranian Quds Force, was responsible 
for the sophisticated attack against the Karbala Provincial Joint 
Coordination Center in Iraq, which resulted in the murder of five 
American soldiers, four of whom were first abducted.

Last week Brigadier General Bergner, current spokesman for Multi-
National Force Iraq, stated the following:




 The Iranian Quds Force is using Lebanese Hezbollah 


 essentially as a proxy, as a surrogate in Iraq.



 Coalition forces have captured Ali Musa Daqdaq, whom the 


 U.S. believes to be a 24-year veteran of Lebanese Hezbollah 


 involved in the training of Iraqi extremists in Iraq and 


 Iran.



 The Iranian Quds Force operates three camps near Tehran 


 where it trains Iraqi extremists in cooperation with Lebanese 


 Hezbollah. The Quds Force, along with Hezbollah instructors, 


 train approximately 20 to 60 Iraqis at a time, sending them 


 back to Iraq organized into these special groups. They are 


 being taught how to use EFPs, mortars, rockets, as well as 


 intelligence, sniper, and kidnapping operations.



 Iraqi extremists receive between $750,000 and $3 million 


 every month from Iranian sources.




. . . our intelligence reveals that senior leadership in 


 Iran is aware of this activity and that it would be hard to 


 imagine that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of 


 Iran, is unaware of it.


Let me be clear. This amendment is not a call for war. However, it is 
a clear message that America stands by our troops and our interests in 
Iraq and that all Americans are united against those who would do them 
harm.

I ask my colleagues to join us in sending this message. If the 
Government of Iran wishes to prevent further international isolation 
and increased tension with the United States, it must take immediate 
action to end all training, arming, equipping, funding, advising, and 
any other forms of support for those who are destabilizing Iraq and 
killing American troops. That is about as simple as it gets. I would 
hope that however divided we may be on other questions of policy, we 
can all agree on that.

As my friend from Connecticut says, this amendment is a quite 
commonsense, common-ground proposal that would send a clear message on 
behalf of America, our interests, and those who risk everything to 
protect it.

I remind my colleagues of several quotes made by various Iranian 
leaders, including the Iranian President Ahmadinejad, who said:




 Israel is a tyrannical regime that will one day be 


 destroyed.


He said on another occasion:




 Israel is a rotten dry tree that will be annihilated in one 


 storm.


Another time he said:




 The skirmishes in the occupied land are part of a war of 


 destiny. Israel must be wiped off the map.


Those are not the words of the Senator from Connecticut, the Senator 
from Michigan, any one of our enemies, but the elected leader of the 
State of Iran, who has said on numerous occasions that Israel must be 
wiped off the map.

So it is not just what the Iranian Government is doing in Iraq, it is 
the continued threat to the State of Israel. The Iranians, along with 
the Syrians, continue to arm Hezbollah. They are in the process of 
replacing the rockets expended in the battle in southern Lebanon as a 
result of the attack of Hezbollah on Israeli forces, the capture of 
Israeli servicemen. It is clear that the United Nation's Security 
Council resolution calling for the disarmament of Hezbollah in southern 
Lebanon is not in any way, sense, or form being enforced. In fact, 
Hezbollah is being rearmed rather than disarmed.

There is no doubt that the Iranian Government is attempting to 
realize an age-old dream of Persian influence and superiority in the 
Middle East. This is a real and serious threat.

I haven't even talked about the nuclear weapons development. It is 
well known to most of my colleagues here--all of them, as a matter of 
fact. As they continue to progress down the path to acquisition of a 
nuclear weapon, I am not concerned--I am concerned, but I am not as 
concerned about the fact that Iran develops a nuclear weapon and puts 
it on a missile aimed at Israel. I am far more concerned about the 
Iranians acquiring a nuclear weapon and handing it over to one of the 
terrorist organizations with which they have intimate and close ties.

This is a great threat in the region. Even if we are out of Iraq, 
let's suppose the worst-case scenario happens. I think one of the 
greatest threats to stability in the region is the insertion of Iran in 
a broad variety of ways in Iraq, beginning with southern Iraq, and 
their support of continued organizations that practice terror in the 
region.

I also think that obviously you would have some kind of Sunni 
involvement sponsored by the Saudis and you would have a number of 
other catastrophic situations, including the Turks not being able to 
withstand an independent Kurdish state. All of those are subjects for a 
debate for another day and discussion.

But the threat Iran presents, not just to Iraq, not just to the 
region, but peace in the world, is real. It is extremely urgent that we 
address it. If we fail to do so, as we have failed to address threats 
of terrorism in various shapes and forms in the past, we will pay a 
very heavy price. That is why I am very pleased to support the 
amendment of my friend from Connecticut.

Before I yield, could I also say I think that the Senator from 
Michigan and I and the Senator from Connecticut would be glad to enter 
into a time for a vote on this amendment at his convenience and that of 
the leadership's convenience.