# HONORING THE SACRIFICE OF JUAN L. RIVADENEIRA AND JORGE E. VILLACIS
## `2912c8ae2515c0a4ef64785c6a5ce632`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 18 December 2010`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart 
to honor two brave young men from my District who died recently while 
serving their country in Afghanistan.

Staff Sgt. Juan L. Rivadeneira of Davie, Florida died November 13th 
when an insurgent suicide bomber detonated a vest bomb and struck his 
unit in Kandahar, Afghanistan. He was 27 years old.

Rivadeneira was an Infantryman assigned to Company B., 2nd Battalion, 
502nd Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division based out of Fort 
Campbell, Kentucky.

Staff Sergeant Rivadeneira served in two wars, first in Iraq and then 
in Afghanistan. And from the moment he enlisted in 2003, he was hard 
working, a quick learner, and most importantly, a dependable soldier 
that you wanted at your side.

Not surprisingly, during his seven years in the Army, Juan 
Rivadeneira was highly decorated for his bravery and commitment to his 
mission, receiving sixteen medals and badges. His company commander in 
Iraq, Army Major Robert Rossi said of him, ''if someone needed help, he 
was the one to pick them up.''

Corporal Jorge E. Villacis, of Sunrise, Florida died just this past 
Sunday, December 12th when his unit was attacked by an insurgent with a 
vehicle-borne improvised explosive device while serving in Howz E 
Madad, Afghanistan. He was only 24 years old.

Villacis was an Infantryman, who joined the Army in September 2008. 
Born in New Jersey, Villacis graduated from American Senior High School 
in Hialeah.

Also based out of Fort Campbell Kentucky, Villacis' awards and 
decorations include: Army Achievement Medal; National Defense Service 
Medal; Afghanistan Campaign Medal; Global War Terrorism Service Medal; 
Army Service Ribbon, and Combat Infantry Badge.

Both of these young men called South Florida home. Both of these 
young men answered their country's call to service.

And both of these young men left proud, but grieving family members 
behind.

Juan and Jorge met at Fort Campbell Kentucky and they were deployed 
to Afghanistan together in June.

Maybe it was the fact that Juan's family had roots in Venezuela, and 
Jorge's family was from Ecuador.

Maybe it was that both of them hailed from South Florida. Or maybe it 
was that they just hit it off.

But regardless of the reason, Juan and Jorge soon became close 
friends. In fact, last year, Juan and Jorge and their families joined 
together to celebrate Thanksgiving at Fort Campbell.

I didn't have the pleasure to know Staff Sgt. Rivadeneira, nor 
Corporal Villacis. Nor did our families know each other.

Yet, my family, and our nation owes a deep debt of gratitude for the 
service and ultimately the untimely loss of these two brave young men.

Neither of these men was forced to serve their country in the 
military.

Indeed, none of America's soldiers serving our country here or 
abroad, combat or non-combat, was forced to enlist in the military.

Yet they did. Juan and Jorge both answered our nation's call to serve 
and like thousands upon thousands of men and women before them, they 
fought for America's freedom, our liberty, and to ensure that our 
country remains the free and prosperous nation that it is today.

During this holiday season, and as we reflect upon the past year, we 
need to recognize the service and sacrifice of those who are serving 
and have served our country, like Juan and Jorge, who died fighting to 
protect our American way of life.

While I didn't know Staff Sgt. Juan L. Rivadeneira and Corporal Jorge 
E. Villacis, personally, mere words cannot express the gratitude I feel 
for them and their families.
