---
---

# NATIONAL PEACE CORPS WEEK
## `29137ce117c5e1e817d5ab29a83b5edf`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I would like to take a minute 
to recognize an enduring legacy of John F. Kennedy--the Peace Corps--in 
recognition of its 47th anniversary this year and to commend 44 
constituents from Northern Virginia currently serving in 38 countries 
around the world. It is an honor to serve with the likes of my 
colleague and friend Chris Shays and others in this body and the other 
who served our country in the enhancement of citizen diplomacy. I hope 
all Americans will join us in supporting and expanding this enduring 
commitment to convey our values as a nation.

As Fareed Zakaria wrote: ''We must begin to think about life after 
Bush--a cheering prospect for his foes, a dismaying one for his fans 
(however few there may be at the moment). In 10 months he will be a 
private citizen, giving speeches to insurance executives. America, 
however, will have to move on and restore its place in the world. To do 
this we must first tackle the consequences of our foreign policy of 
fear. Having spooked ourselves into believing that we have no option 
but to act fast, alone, unilaterally and preemptively, we have managed 
in six years to destroy decades of international good will, alienate 
allies, embolden enemies and yet solve few of the major international 
problems we face.''

The London Financial Times last December reported that the U.S. has 
suffered a significant loss of power and prestige around the world in 
the years since the beginning of this century, limiting our ability to 
influence international crises, according to an annual survey from a 
well regarded British security think-tank. The 2007 Strategic Survey of 
the non-partisan International Institute for Strategic Studies picked 
the decline of U.S. authority as one of the most important security 
developments of the past year--but suggested the fading of American 
prestige began earlier, largely due to its failings in Iraq.

One of our most special and effective citizen agencies of public 
diplomacy is the Peace Corps. Think of this--more than 187,000 
volunteers have served this venerable legacy of former President 
Kennedy, serving in 139 countries--where they bring our values to other 
peoples, and bring understanding and appreciation of other cultures 
back home.

The greatest gift of the Peace Corps and other civilian programs is 
not just that ordinary Americans share their values and our culture 
with other peoples, but also that when volunteers return, they bring 
greater understanding and appreciation of other cultures.

Foreign policy is not just what we do, but also who we are. America 
as a place has often been the great antidote to U.S. foreign policy--
and it should be again. Mr. Zakaria writes that ''When American actions 
across the world have seemed harsh, misguided or unfair, America itself 
has always been open, welcoming and tolerant * * *''

At the end of the day, our openness is our greatest foreign policy. 
We have succeeded not because of the ingenuity of our government, but 
rather because of efforts like this unique program to keep ourselves 
open to the world--to sending our people out across the countries of 
the world to share our unique culture, our goods and services, our 
ideas and inventions, our people and cultures. This openness, this 
civilian diplomacy, has allowed us to make friends across boundaries. 
It will be central to our place as a Nation in the future.


This week, as we celebrate National Peace Corps Week, we honor the 
more than 190,000 volunteers who have served in 139 developing 
countries since President Kennedy's call to service in 1961--and I 
honor 44 of my constituents currently serving our country in places as 
diverse as China, Mali, Azerbaijan, Macedonia, El Salvador, and 
Namibia. This can be lonely and demanding service but service that can 
create enduring friendships and values that transcend boundaries and 
cultures.

Today, more than 8,000 Peace Corps volunteers around the world are 
currently providing training and education in 74 countries. These 
volunteers each donate their time and skills for over two years, in 
order to make a difference in the world and to promote understanding 
between cultures. By offering their valuable skills and showing a 
passion for helping others, they show the world that Americans value 
learning and cross-cultural exchange.

Volunteers work in areas of education, health and HIV/AIDS, business 
development, environment, agriculture and youth, and must often be 
creative and flexible when living and working in new cultures and 
learning new languages. The resulting experience is rewarding for all 
involved, and it highlights the importance of cooperation and 
involvement between cultures around the globe.

When volunteers return home and share their overseas experiences with 
their communities, the Peace Corps helps Americans as much as the 
people in developing countries. From recent college graduates to 
doctors with decades of experience, volunteers choose to use their 
valuable skills and education to help people all over the world, but 
their work affects their lives long after returning home.

This week we remember the dedication and passion of Peace Corps 
volunteers, young and old, current and returned. We thank them for 
their service, and encourage more Americans to volunteer with the Peace 
Corps.
