---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `291670afb1dcba07ed43ae1b6a8961fa`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I wish to thank Senator Levin and the 
committee for moving these names forward so we can get these two fine 
men into new jobs. The committee worked very decisively and quickly, 
and we are going to have a vote here soon. I hope we can get as close 
to 100 as possible.

My observation about these two officers is very similar to what 
Senator Sessions said. But having met them and spent some time with 
them in theater, and I got to know them pretty well, I need to say 
something on their behalf, that they could have not done this without 
the people under their command.

I have spent a lot of time in Iraq, like many Members here. The 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, members of the Coast Guard, every 
civilian force, have performed magnificently. General Petraeus came up 
with a new strategy. Quite frankly, before he came along we were 
losing.

You can talk about Iraq in any terms you want to, political or 
otherwise. But it was my view that the situation on the ground in Iraq, 
before this new strategy, was going to result in losing, that we were 
losing ground against the insurgency and that General Petraeus and 
General Odierno came up with a new way of doing business, getting the 
troops out into the field, the joint security stations, where our 
soldiers would live with the Iraqi police and the army.

This has transformed the Iraqi Army, and the police are getting 
better. You see this in Basra, you see this in Mosul where the capacity 
of the Iraqi Army is a lot better than it was the last year in terms of 
the capability and numbers. It was a direct result of changing 
strategy, getting out from behind the walls, taking the fight to the 
enemy. The


Anbar Province strategy, with the Sunnis, the Shiaas turning on al-
Qaida, was the defining moment in this war. When General Petraeus came 
up with a strategy to try to get the Sunni population to break away 
from al-Qaida by providing better security, that turned the tide in 
Anbar.

The political progress we have seen with 15 of the 18 benchmarks 
being met by the Maliki government is a direct result of Ambassador 
Crocker and General Petraeus sitting down with the Iraqi leadership and 
doing a lot of hand holding.

The military side of this is important, but I hope the members of the 
body will appreciate how sophisticated General Petraeus, General 
Odierno, and Ambassador Crocker have been when it comes to the economic 
and political aspects of this. They have put money into projects that 
changed the quality of life in Iraq, that got people more emboldened to 
join with the Government. They pushed the Sunnis, the Shiaas, and the 
Kurds to reach political compromise.

These are two of the most talented politicians I have ever met, even 
though they are in uniform. They are American commanders who were dealt 
a tough hand. And the politics of Iraq they understood as well, I 
believe, as the counterinsurgency problems the military faced. What 
they have brought to the table will go down in history as the most 
successful counterinsurgency operation in the history of warfare. I 
have worked on judicial issues. They provided security to the judges, 
additional capacity in the rule of law area. General Petraeus told me 
early on: The population has to believe in the law, because if they do 
not believe in the Government and the law, they will go to militias.

So we celebrate the success of these two men. But on their behalf, I 
wish to thank all of those who served under them, because they are the 
ones who made it happen, along with great leadership. We are winning 
now. We have not won yet, but the difference in Iraq before and after 
is stunning. It is for all of us to see--progress politically, 
economically and militarily. I look forward to promoting these two fine 
officers. Hats off to them and all those who serve in Iraq.