# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `29197a80720db68c452e2401d2c0d5a3`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I had the honor today to be at the 
retirement ceremony, a few hours ago, for the 16th Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff of the armed services of the United States, GEN 
Peter Pace, and the installation of the 17th Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs, ADM Mike Mullen. The weather was beautiful, indeed, in your 
State of Virginia at Fort Myer, the brass shining in the Sun, the music 
was stirring, and the uniforms of the services in their bright collars 
gave appropriate recognition to the passing of the torch from a 
Chairman proven to a new Chairman challenged.

It is always thus, I suppose. It was a thrill to see the commander of 
the Honor Guard one last time advance and say: ''General Pace, the 
Honor Guard of the United States is ready for your inspection.''

And General Pace did just that, it appeared with pleasure and 
satisfaction. That he is admired within the military cannot be denied. 
I understand last week they planned a surprise for him in the Pentagon. 
He was invited to come to a meeting for some business, it was 
suggested, and the halls filled with over 1,200 people who appeared and 
applauded him for 20 minutes. It was a true expression of the 
admiration and affection in which he is held throughout the military. 
Such support is not a surprise for anyone who knows that wonderful man.

He made a number of remarks at his retirement or change of command. 
He expressed his admiration for President Bush's willingness to listen 
to his advice the entire time of his tenure. He made clear President 
Bush did listen, and he was a regular briefer of the President; and 
General Pace's admiration for the President for standing by his 
commitments when he sent military men and women in uniform into harm's 
way was quite personal and strong. In other words, General Pace is 
there. General Pace has been part of this process. General Pace has 
seen this Congress and this President authorize soldiers and send 
soldiers into harm's way. He felt a sense of appreciation for President 
Bush, I would say, for his willingness to not give lightly and to be 
totally supportive of those troops once they had been sent in harm's 
way.


He said the No. 1 question he is asked when he goes about with 
military personnel: Does Congress still support us?

I remember not too many months ago, a gentleman right out there 
caught me. His son was about to go to Iraq. He told me: Senator, make 
no mistake, those soldiers over there and in training to go over there 
are watching what you do like a hawk.

Secretary Gates, President Bush, Admiral Mullen were exceedingly 
complimentary of General Pace. They discussed his bravery as a young 
lieutenant at the battle of Hue in Vietnam. They lost quite a number of 
officers. He was moved up as a second lieutenant to be in command of 
the company they would have to have led. There was a bitter battle and 
he lost a number of marines.

He said he felt a debt to those marines, that he had spent 40 years 
of his career in the military attempting to pay off.

Several people made reference to that. He called those marines he 
served with, who lost their lives there, by names at that retirement 
ceremony. He indicated he still did not believe he had paid that debt 
that he owed those people who had given their full measure to our 
Nation's defense. But other speakers said he had, and they were most 
complimentary of him.

Recently, at a hearing, he was encouraged--let me say it that way--to 
retreat from a statement he had made that reflected his personal moral 
and faith beliefs; but he admirably, I suggest, declined to pander or 
to retreat from what he honestly believed, and he restated his personal 
values. That is the kind of man you want leading us, I suggest.

Our Nation is in the debt, I think, of GEN Peter Pace. He has given 
tirelessly of himself to support the policies of our country and to 
make those policies successful.

I say: Well done, good marine, well done.

Mr. President, on a different subject, I want to take a few minutes 
to note that on Friday, September 21, the Missile Defense Agency had a 
highly successful missile defense intercept. A target vehicle was 
launched from Kodiak, AK. It went into space. The interceptor missile 
was launched at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. It was, 
indeed, a realistic test of this capability. According to Rick Lehner, 
the spokesman for the Missile Defense Agency, ''This was a very 
operationally realistic test.''

In those tests we want to determine whether our missile defense 
capability will actually succeed in knocking down an intercontinental 
missile. These two missiles were launched, the target vehicle on a 
track not unlike what we would see if, for example, the North Koreans 
launched an attack. We launched our defensive missile out of 
California. And they collided and destroyed one another over the 
Pacific, like we planned, a bullet to bullet. There were no explosives 
in the ''kill'' vehicle. Just speed, guided by computers and 
sophisticated guidance systems, allowed those two to collide and to 
destroy the incoming missile.

The American people have a number of questions and misconceptions 
about missile defense. Some think we already have a complete missile 
defense system that can knock down incoming missiles. That is not so. 
Some think we do not have any capability, that this is a bunch of money 
being spent on programs that are never going to work. That is 
absolutely not so. We now have proven the technology. General Obering 
and his team at the Missile Defense Agency have continued to have 
success after success. We know we have the capability to knock down an 
incoming missile that threatens the people of the United States, who 
knows--with a nuclear weapon or biological or chemical munition 
contained within it.

This is an important matter for the United States that the President 
can know. If he is negotiating with some extreme nation that threatens 
to attack us with a missile and tries to use that threat as leverage or 
bargaining power, he can say: We are not afraid of you. You send a 
missile off and we will knock it down.

We are reaching that point in our capability. Intelligence tells us 
Iran also continues to build its systems and produces greater 
capability.

I would say, we need a site in Europe. I hope we continue to work 
toward that. We need to maintain steady appropriations and 
authorizations in this Senate to make sure our missile system that we 
have committed so many years to, and so many dollars to, is now 
completed, since it has been proven to be a good investment from the 
beginning.

I thank the Chair for giving me this opportunity and note I am 
excited about this test's success. I do believe it is important for all 
of us in Congress to note that and make sure about our funding--which I 
think this year is a bit tight. The President took some money down out 
of missile defense. The Congress has taken some more. But I believe we 
have enough funding to keep this program on track.

I see my colleague, Senator Lieberman. I note there are few in the 
Senate who have studied the issue more or who have been engaged in it 
longer than he. I know he and Senator Thad Cochran offered the 
resolution, not long after I came to the Senate, to


deploy a national missile defense system ''as soon as technologically 
feasible.'' That was the language, wasn't it, Senator Lieberman? 
Indeed, we are now deploying it. We are already deploying the system, 
and the American people took comfort last July 4, when the North 
Koreans launched missiles to demonstrate their power--they took comfort 
because of you and others, before I even came into the Senate--such as 
Senator Shelby, my colleague from Alabama--who were pioneers moving 
that forward. We can now take comfort that we do have ability. It means 
a lot for our people and for the safety of America.

I yield the floor.