---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `291a66876b242f7eca03c8b1555a9fd0`
`Mr. BENNET — 21 December 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I would like to first thank the Senator 
from Iowa for his leadership over many years, especially on prevention 
and wellness, and to see so much of this bill devoted to that is a real 
testament to his efforts. So I thank the Senator for that.

Mr. President, a number of years ago, I left a rewarding job in 
business because I had a chance to lend a hand to my community during a 
very difficult time in Denver. The economy was slow and the city was 
facing a record budget deficit. Our great mayor, John Hickenlooper, 
asked me to come be his chief of staff. It was not a glamorous job, but 
it was rewarding because we got results--not by seeking out what 
divided the people of Denver, who were going through a very rough time, 
but by reaching out time and time again to what the mayor called ''our 
alignment of self-interest.''

We fixed the city's budget, and then I had the chance of a lifetime 
to become the superintendent of public schools and serve our children 
and the people who work so hard every day to support them. I came away 
from that experience believing that much of the Republican and 
Democratic ortho-


doxies relating to public education are essentially useless to our 
children--and maybe worse--and that Washington as a whole has 
absolutely no clue about what is going on in America's classrooms.

So it is fair to say I did not come to Washington with a partisan ax 
to grind. As is probably obvious to everyone around here--for good or 
for ill--I am not a career politician. I did not come here to win 
political points so that someone else could lose. I am not interested 
in that. I am here as the father of three little girls with an abiding 
concern we are at risk of being the first generation of Americans to 
leave less opportunity to our kids and our grandkids than our parents 
and grandparents left us. That prospect is shameful.

We are not the only Americans who have been working weekends and late 
into the night recently. There are people in small towns and big cities 
all across America doing jobs much harder than ours, who are taking an 
extra shift before Christmas so they can afford that extra gift beneath 
the tree--Americans who are unemployed in this savage economy and still 
trying to make sure the kids know Santa remembered them.

These same people are reading their papers and watching their 
televisions wondering what in the world we are doing here in 
Washington. All they see are talking heads yelling at each other on 
cable news, needless partisanship paralyzing their government, and even 
people praying that Senators will not be able to make votes.

I am not naive about politics, but I expected more. I will vote for 
health care reform because it is a step in the right direction. But I 
will not go home and defend the actions of a Washington that is out of 
touch, a Washington that is more interested in scoring political 
points, more interested in the 278 health care lobbyists who used to 
work for Members of Congress than it is in what our constituents have 
to say, a Washington that is more concerned with the millions being 
spent by big insurance companies than the thousands of dollars being 
lost by working families who are struggling to pay for coverage.

Columnists opposed to reform have criticized me for saying that I am 
willing to lose my seat to enact meaningful health care reform. Now I 
am being asked why I did not negotiate a special deal with leadership. 
In fact, there was a report this morning criticizing me because the 
National Republican Senatorial Committee was rejoicing that I did not 
ask for special favors. Only in Washington would someone be attacked 
for not negotiating a backroom deal. Just because others choose to 
engage in the same tired Washington rituals does not mean I have to.


So I have a message for the columnists, the political professionals, 
and those back home: I am not happy about the backroom deals. I am not 
happy that the public option was held hostage by people in our own 
party. I do not support rewarding delay with special deals. I will let 
others justify their vote and their tactics.

As for me, I am voting to provide coverage to 840,000 uninsured 
Coloradans, voting to extend Medicare for our seniors and provide free 
preventive care for everyone, voting to close the prescription drug 
loophole and provide tax cuts to small business, voting to make health 
care more affordable and eliminate exclusions based on preexisting 
conditions, voting for health care reform that is fully paid for.

The people in my State and in our country deserve better than a 
politics that cares more about lobbyists and talk show hosts than the 
people we represent. I am committed to delivering on that despite what 
the political experts have to say. And, in the end, when the dust 
settles and the stories focus more on substance and process, I am 
confident Coloradans will see it the same way.

I also commit to the people of Colorado and the people of this 
Chamber that I will do everything I can to make sure this bill is fully 
paid for. That is why I submitted an amendment that will ensure that 
health care will help pay down the deficit by forcing Congress to make 
adjustments if reform does not meet the cost estimates we have 
projected.

I urge my colleagues and the leadership in the Senate to see to it 
that this amendment is included in the conference report. If not, I 
will fight to get it passed on its own. I believe so strongly in this 
because everyone here knows that keeping things the way they are is no 
longer acceptable.

When I first started in the Senate, 800,000 Coloradans were without 
health insurance. That number has grown by 40,000 in the months we have 
debated this bill. On average, 111 Coloradans have lost their health 
insurance every single day. This number will only get worse if we do 
nothing. Our State has spent $600 million in the last year alone on 
uncompensated care.

Colorado's working families suffered double-digit health insurance 
cost increases year after year for the last decade. Many families have 
made terrible sacrifices--no longer investing in their children's 
futures, saving for a home, or carrying crushing credit card balances--
all to pay for health care.

Small businesses pay 20 percent more for health insurance than large 
businesses do just because they are small.

I think back to the Coloradans who shared their stories with me 
during this debate.

I remember Bob and Deb Montoya of Pueblo. They were torn between 
providing health care for their small business employees and keeping 
their business afloat. Last year, their business paid out $36,000 to 
cover two families and one employee. They could not afford to give 
their other 12 employees health care or they would be literally forced 
out of business. So they dropped coverage for the 12 employees to keep 
their doors open.

Hollis Berendt owns a small business in Greeley and told me about her 
daughter Abby who graduated from Colorado State University in 2004 and 
found a job in New York with a large company. Her daughter's company 
made her wait a year before she was eligible for health insurance, and 
during that time Abby was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. Hollis took 
out a second mortgage to pay for her daughter's bills and told me:




 This experience brought to light, all too clearly, how 


 close we all are to losing everything due to a health issue.


I have spoken here before about a young boy named Alex Lange. Alex's 
parents' insurance company refused to cover Alex because he was 4 
months old and 17 pounds. They said he had a preexisting condition, at 
4 months, of obesity.

Then there was 2-year-old Aislin Bates, whose parents' insurance 
company denied her coverage because she was underweight. One child too 
big, the other too small. Today in America, you have to be just right 
to get insurance.

There was Peggy Robertson of Golden, CO, who was told she could not 
receive coverage unless she was sterilized, Mr. President. She came and 
bravely testified in Washington about the need for reform. There was 
Matthew Temme of Castle Rock, who could not receive coverage because 
his wife was pregnant, even though she had her own health insurance.

The sad thing is, there is nothing unusual about these stories. None 
of these people were trying to cheat or game the system. They were 
trying to gain some peace of mind, some stability in their lives and, 
instead, they wasted weeks of their lives fighting against insurance 
company bureaucracy and mounting bills.

We have debated health care reform for over a year. Some have been 
working on these issues for decades. Killing health care reform under 
the disguise of starting over is not an option. We cannot wait until 
after the next election. We cannot wait until our economy recovers or 
until we have come home from Afghanistan to deal with our broken health 
care system.

Now standing so close to the finish line, it is completely 
understandable that some Americans doubt whether this bill will improve 
their situation. They understand we cannot live with the current 
system. But they are also deeply concerned about our capacity to make 
it worse.


The special interests are using tried-and-true tactics that have been 
employed over and over across the decades to prevent reform: phone 
calls to scare seniors, direct mail to scare those already covered, 
television ads to scare just about everyone else, and opponents of this 
reform in this body are trying every delay tactic permitted by the 
Senate rules.



Amidst all this, there is still a reason to hope. After almost a 
century of trying, the Senate is very close to finally passing a 
meaningful health care reform bill, a piece of legislation that while 
not perfect, represents a substantial step forward from business as 
usual. We have a bill that does three important things: It saves money, 
it saves lives, and it gives families a fighting chance in their 
relentless struggle with health insurance companies.

This bill will save money. It reduces the deficit by $130 billion 
over the first 10 years, according to the nonpartisan Congressional 
Budget Office, and is projected to reduce the deficit by 10 times 
that--up to $1.3 trillion--in the second decade. We will save $/1/2/ 
trillion by improving the way we deliver services to our seniors. These 
savings will prevent Medicare from going broke in 7 years by extending 
the life of the Medicare trust fund.

This bill will save lives. It will extend health insurance coverage 
to 31 million Americans who don't have it today. Over 90 percent of 
Americans will have health insurance coverage, the highest percentage 
in the history of the United States. For Colorado, that means over 
840,000 people who don't have insurance will now have access and 
another 300,000 people who have insurance in the unstable individual 
market will be able to get affordable coverage through the new health 
insurance exchange.

The Senate bill makes preventive services, such as breast cancer and 
colorectal cancer screening, available without copayments. Now 
mammograms and colonoscopies, which can cost between $150 and $200, on 
average, will be free as well for seniors--half a million seniors in my 
home State alone. This means catching diseases earlier, promoting 
wellness, and saving millions of lives.

For our Nation's working families, this bill will also rein in the 
worst practices of private insurance companies. They will have to 
commit to covering patients instead of gouging them for excessive 
profits and overhead. Starting in 2011, if an insurance company doesn't 
give you value for your dollar, they will have to refund you back the 
difference. They will not be able to impose arbitrary lifetime limits 
on consumers and punish you just for getting sick or deny you insurance 
because of a preexisting condition. The newest Senate bill does more to 
contain costs, more to demand accountability and transparency from 
insurance companies, and more to give consumers a better choice.

For my home State, in particular, I am glad the bill addresses other 
critical areas. This reform does more for small business and small 
business workers than ever before. Small business tax credits will 
begin next year, giving eligible businesses a tax credit for 6 years to 
purchase health insurance for their employees. We have extended tax 
credits for small businesses, allowing more than 68,000 small 
businesses in Colorado to buy health insurance.

This bill makes a significant investment in Medicare payments to 
rural areas. When I first joined the Senate, my first piece of 
legislation called for a deficit-neutral reserve to address the 
differences in Medicare payments between urban and rural areas. This 
Senate bill recognizes the geographic differences between rural and 
urban areas and makes sure providers in rural Colorado that provide 
higher quality at lower cost receive higher Medicare payments.

This bill also delivers on its promise to seniors. It doesn't use a 
dime of the Medicare trust fund to pay for reform and does not cut 
guaranteed benefits. That is why, on the first day of the health care 
reform debate, I introduced an amendment that would make sure seniors 
will still see their guaranteed benefits, such as hospital stays and 
prescription drug coverage, no matter what changes we make in health 
reform. It was the most bipartisan piece of legislation we have had 
this year, with 100 Senators agreeing health reform would not take away 
guaranteed Medicare benefits for seniors. For Colorado, that means half 
a million Medicare beneficiaries will continue to have their guaranteed 
benefits protected and preventive services free of charge through 
health reform.

I am very pleased Majority Leader Reid included a version of a piece 
of legislation I wrote based on the work in Mesa County, home of Grand 
Junction, CO. Currently, one out of every five Medicare patients who is 
released from the hospital in this country winds up back in the 
hospital in the same month they were released but not in Mesa County. 
They have reduced the readmission rates at the hospital to about 2 
percent, compared to the national average of 20 percent. That is 12 
million patients who aren't receiving the care they need. In Mesa 
County, they have lowered readmissions by creating a transitional model 
that makes sure that when patients leave the hospital, they do so with 
a coach. That coach helps them go from the emergency room to their 
primary care physician, their mental health provider, making sure they 
get the care they need over a period of time, making sure they don't 
forget their prescriptions, and making sure they have the guidance they 
need to take responsibility for their own care. I am pleased the Senate 
bill compensates and reimburses hospitals and providers that set up 
models such as the one in Mesa County that actually saves money.

On another note, I wish to thank the Presiding Officer and my fellow 
freshmen. Together, we worked hard to introduce a package of amendments 
to further contain costs and make our system more efficient. As I 
traveled throughout Colorado on the August break, I heard from doctors 
and nurses who told me repeatedly all they wanted to do was work with 
patients, while all the government was doing was making them fill out 
one form after another. When I came back, I was determined to do 
something to help cut the red tape and bureaucracy for these people so 
they could spend more time with their patients. That is why, as part of 
the freshman package, I introduced an amendment to put an end to 
multiple forms, confusing codes, and unnecessary paperwork that burden 
providers. If health plans don't follow the rules, they will suffer 
financial penalties. Our health care workers deserve better, and this 
amendment gives them back time to spend with their patients.


Our freshman package rewards and emphasizes efficiency: one form to 
fill out, not 10; less red tape; fewer bureaucrats; a system that makes 
sense. Thanks to the leadership of the Presiding Officer, that package 
was endorsed by the Business Roundtable, the AFL-CIO, and the Consumers 
Union--proof that at least off this floor, there are still people from 
all different points of view who are willing to work together.

This bill also makes progress in the area of tort reform. It includes 
language I worked on with Senators Baucus, Carper, and Lincoln to 
create a State grant program for States to develop, implement, and 
evaluate alternatives to tort litigation for medical malpractice 
claims. The purpose of these grants is to limit litigation while 
preserving access to courts for patients and promoting strategies to 
reduce medical errors.

I know many in this Chamber take issue with one particular part of 
this bill or another. I have my own issues with the bill. I am one of 
many who have expressed their strong preference for a public option. 
But I urge my colleagues to consider how much good this bill can do for 
the American people--those with skyrocketing health care costs, small 
businesses forced with the impossible choice of helping workers keep 
their coverage or even just maintaining their business. To have the 
nonpartisan experts at the Congressional Budget Office validate that in 
the second decade we will have cut health care costs by up to $1.3 
trillion and that we will reduce the rise in costs of Medicare from 8 
percent in the next two decades to 6 percent in the next two decades, 
while covering 31 million insured Americans, is truly groundbreaking.

We know what more time elapsing without fixing this system means for 
Colorado's working families and small businesses. It means more double-
digit premium increases, less time to fix Medicare before it goes 
bankrupt in 2017, and more names added to the rolls of the uninsured. 
It means another big win for the special interests, more people denied 
coverage for preexisting conditions, and more small business employers 
will have to make impossible decisions about covering their workers or 
keeping their doors open.



So let's reject business as usual. Let's look at the promise of this 
Senate bill as a whole. Let's put the pettiness, scare tactics, and 
obstruction aside. Reform is what is needed to control costs, give 
people more choice, and provide support for our small businesses. This 
package will reduce our deficit, and it does so by reforming the way we 
provide health care.

We have much to do. Even before we were in the worst recession since 
the Great Depression, during the last period of economic recovery, 
working families' incomes in this country actually declined, the first 
time in the history of the United States, the first time our economy 
grew and left the middle class behind. At the same time, in my State of 
Colorado and in all States across the country, the cost of health 
insurance rose by 97 percent and the cost of higher education in my 
State went up by 50 percent. Finally, because of the short-term 
politics practiced around here, we now have an annual deficit and long-
term debt that is cheating our children and constraining our choices.

We still have a lot to do to live up to the legacy that our parents 
and grandparents left us. It has taken me less than a year to 
understand that Washington still doesn't get it. I know we can do 
better, and despite so much evidence to the contrary, I believe we 
will.

I believe we will because, in the end, the national creed that each 
generation of Americans has fought for and fulfilled--the idea 
expressed in our Constitution that our responsibility lies not just 
with ourselves but to our posterity--is so much more powerful than the 
trivial politics that animate so many of the charges and countercharges 
that ricochet around this building.

It is for this reason I urge my colleagues to come together and 
support this meaningful improvement in our health care system.

I yield the floor.