---
---

# None
## `291b98b3834f266ecf80b117377d7101`
`Mr. AKIN — 25 February 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, through the period of the last 6 years, one of 
the things we have heard pretty commonly in the media has been the 
tremendous cost of the war in Iraq, and that every day we hear there 
are more and more millions being squandered on the war in Iraq. So it 
is an interesting fact to add up all of the spending in the war in Iraq 
and all of the spending in the war in Afghanistan and add it together. 
What you find is that there is less spending there than there was in 
the first 5 weeks of this new year, particularly with the new stimulus 
bill.

Well, how is was it that we got into such a fix, into such a problem, 
that our economy seemed to dictate these kinds of draconian solutions? 
That story actually starts back some number of years. It goes back to 
the Carter administration, the Community Reinvestment Act and the idea 
that there were some people that couldn't get a decent home loan. So we 
were going to tell banks that they had to make some loans to people 
that were riskier, and maybe even risky enough that some of them 
couldn't make their loan payments.

That started under the Carter administration, but over a period of 
time we then developed a couple of organizations called typically 
Freddie and Fannie, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Those organizations are 
neither quite government, but really not quite private either. Their 
objective was to create a source of innovative financing so


that people could afford home loans and the average person could have a 
piece of the American Dream and own their own house.

Well, over a period of time Freddie and Fannie were established and 
they took more and more different loans, underwrote various loans for 
people's homes. By the time we got well through the Clinton years as 
President, President Clinton demanded that the Freddie and Fannie 
corporations, if you would call them corporations, had to change their 
rules, that they had to release more and more loans to people who in 
effect couldn't pay. So the percentage of these loans that were more 
marginal were increased.

In the meantime, you had some other things going on. You had the 
government policy under Greenspan. The Federal Reserve had reduced the 
interest rate down quite low to about 1 percent, so you had the money 
being flooded as we moved on with more and more very low priced capital 
at 1 percent, so people tended to think, hey, this is a pretty good 
idea. Let's put some of this money in the real estate market, because 
the real estate market started to boom. In fact, it was in a bubble.

When I came to Congress in 2001, real estate was starting to go up, 
and by the time 2004 or 2005 came, most of us around here that thought 
we knew a little bit about economics were kicking ourselves, how come 
we didn't buy the very biggest house we could possibly find and let the 
thing double and then quickly sell it.

Of course, there were a lot of people that were doing that. There was 
a lot of speculation going on. Speculators took advantage of the 
situation and real estate continued to expand and to expand. In the 
meantime, what was going on on Wall Street was the fact that because 
there really weren't any rules, Freddie and Fannie were quasi-
governmental, it was assumed that they were going to back people up and 
back up these loans, and so it became kind of a free ride.

You had all kinds of mortgage brokers traveling around the country 
saying to people, hey, you want to get a loan? Well, how much do you 
need? Half a million dollars? Fine. I don't really care whether you 
have got a job or whether you can pay it back, because I am going to 
turn the loan right on over. It is going to go over to Freddie or 
Fannie or to the Wall Street market. They are going to chop it up in 
pieces, repackage it and sell it all over the world.

So it was one of those situations where we made a very big mistake in 
terms of government regulation. And we allowed this process to continue 
to run for some number of years without the proper regulations and 
control on Freddie and Fannie. So most people have read and understand 
that what got us into this recession was the fact that we allowed a 
whole lot of mortgages being made by people who could not pay those 
mortgages back. So that is how things got started.

Now, you say, well, didn't somebody figure this out? Didn't somebody 
ring a warning bell or let us know that things weren't going the right 
way?

Well, in fact they did. What you have here, and this is an 
interesting day to remember, in The New York Times, not exactly a 
right-wing oracle, The New York Times, September 11th, 2003, you have 
reported there that the President, at the time President Bush, was 
asking for greater authority to regulate Freddie and Fannie because he 
believed that what was going on was going to cause a whole lot of 
trouble. There were all kinds of mortgages and loans being made where 
it was not at all clear that people would pay them back.

Of course, in the past years, many years before when somebody was 
going to get a home loan, you would go to your local bank and the 
banker would take a look and say, ''I am not going to loan him money if 
I don't think he can pay it back.'' But what we did was we separated 
the person that was taking that loan, we separated him from the person 
that was getting the money, and the end result was there wasn't any 
accountability anymore. So the President said, hey, this is a big 
problem.

So you have September 11th, 2003, The New York Times. The President 
is saying in there, hey, we need to get some controls on these crazy 
mortgages that are going on, and he asked Congress to take action to 
regulate Freddie and Fannie.

At that time, or a year or so later, Congress and the House passed a 
bill to do that. It went to the Senate and it was killed by the 
Democrats in the Senate. But in that same article, September 11th, 
2003, you have the words of the gentleman here in the House now who is 
in charge of rewriting the rules, and this is what he said about 
Freddie and Fannie. ''These two entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
are not facing any kind of financial crisis, said Representative Barney 
Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services 
Committee.'' So the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services 
Committee is saying Freddie and Fannie are doing just fine, September 
11, 2003. The President is saying we need more regulation, there are 
going to be problems. Then Congressman Frank goes on, ''The more people 
exaggerate these problems, the more pressure there is on these 
companies, the less we will see in terms of affordable housing.''

Well, this doesn't look like very good prophesy here. Certainly this 
problem was caused by a lack of regulation. It was caused by the 
Democrat Party, as is reported in this article in The New York Times.

Now, there are people today who want to say that this is a failure of 
free enterprise. This has nothing to do with free enterprise. This has 
to do with socialistic government meddling in the real estate market 
and an unwillingness of the government to be responsible in what the 
government says it is going to back.

What has happened here is you have got Freddie and Fannie that could 
do anything they wanted, and we are supposed to, the taxpayer, you and 
I, are supposed to back up Freddie and Fannie when people make all of 
these lousy loans. So that is the quick rundown on how we got to where 
we are with the recession.


Now, when you have a recession, there are a couple different ways to 
handle a recession, a couple of theories. One of the theories is what 
FDR did back in the 1930s. Their idea was that if the government spends 
enough money it stimulates demand. Of course, everybody has been taught 
this for years in college economic classes, that if the government 
stimulates the economy by spending enough money, why, then it will just 
make the recession go away.

That sounds like a pretty cool idea, doesn't it? The government just 
spends more and more and more money and the economy is going to get 
better. The only trouble with that is if that really worked, where we 
have the amount of debt that we have at this time, trillions of dollars 
of debt, don't you think we would have a great economy?

So we have to ask, what is this theory? It was called Keynesianism. 
Little Lord Keynes was proposing this idea about the same time Henry 
Morgenthau, who was the Secretary of Treasury under FDR, was making 
this proposal. So we have had in the laboratory of history this idea of 
the government spending a whole lot of money to make the economy 
better. So we had a chance to do that for 8 years, and Henry Morgenthau 
tried this whole thing out.

At the end of 8 years, he appears before the House Ways and Means 
Committee and in 1939, and this is his quotation before the House Ways 
and Means Committee. ''We have tried spending money. We are spending 
more than we have ever spent before, and it does not work. I say after 
8 years, the administration, we have just as much unemployment as when 
we started, and an enormous debt to boot.''

So this is the author, this is the first guy that tried this theory 
over in this country, just spend a whole lot of money to fix a 
recession, and he says it doesn't work. You take a look at the numbers 
and the tremendous amount of joblessness when they started, and when he 
got all done, they still had a whole lot of unemployment going on. And 
he said we have tried it and it doesn't work. Yet there are people who 
still want to hang onto this warmed-over Keynesian idea, and it doesn't 
work.

So, what does work? It is important for us to not be negative and 
just say what doesn't work, but what does work. And what does work is 
more of a supply side kind of model, and we are going to be talking 
about that in just a minute.

I am joined here on the floor by a very good friend and a gentleman 
who


has lived a number of careers in this world, one as a medical doctor, a 
guy with a very bright mind, but also a U.S. Congressman from the State 
of Georgia. I would yield to the gentleman from the State of Georgia, 
Congressman Broun.