---
---

# MEDAL OF HONOR SPECIAL PENSION INCREASE
## `29287e1a79d364b21098ad80758a4b7b`
`Mr. BROWN of South Carolina — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
6980, a bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase 
the amount of the Medal of Honor special pension provided under that 
title by up to $1,000.

I especially want to thank Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer 
for working with me on this legislation, and to thank Chairman Michaud 
for joining me in introducing the original version of this legislation, 
H.R. 1137.

Madam Speaker, the Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration 
awarded by the United States of America. It is awarded ''for 
conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of life, above and 
beyond the call of duty, in actual combat against an armed enemy 
force.''

Since its initial presentation in 1863 to Private Jacob Parrott, 
3,448 Americans have been awarded the Medal of Honor. Today's 
legislation is important, but I want to spend most of my time talking 
about the heroes who have received this honor.

Today there are 100 living recipients of the Medal of Honor. The 
average age of a living recipient is 74 years of age, and 47 percent of 
recipients earned their medals more than 50 years ago while serving in 
World War II and in Korea. The oldest living recipient, John W. Finn, 
is 99 years old. He received his medal for manning a 50-caliber gun in 
an exposed position, while wounded, during much of the attack on Pearl 
Harbor. In addition to Mr. Finn, 34 other recipients are veterans from 
World War II.

Sixty living recipients of the Medal of Honor earned their medals 
while serving in Vietnam, including a good friend of mine from my 
congressional district, General James Livingston. Another recipient of 
the Medal of Honor, Frank Curry, also lives in my district and is a 
veteran of World War II. The Congressional Medal of Honor Museum, 
located on the hangar deck of the USS Yorktown in Charleston, South 
Carolina, serves as both a memorial to the heroic acts of the Medal of 
Honor recipients and a way to educate the public on their extraordinary 
service to their country.

The most recent Medal of Honor was awarded posthumously on June 5, 
2008, to Private First Class Ross A. McGinnis, a member of the U.S. 
Army recognized for his service in Iraq. On December 4, 2006, Mr. 
McGinnis' platoon was on patrol when an insurgent threw a grenade into 
his HUMVEE. Although Private McGinnis could have escaped, he threw 
himself on top of the grenade, pinning it between himself and the radio 
mount and saving his fellow soldiers in the HUMVEE. Private McGinnis is 
the fourth Medal of Honor recipient from Operations Iraqi Freedom and 
Enduring Freedom. Navy SEAL Master-at-Arms Michael A. Monsoor and 
Lieutenant Michael P. Murphy, as well as Marine Corporal


Jason L. Dunham, were all posthumous recipients of the Medal of Honor 
for their incredible bravery in service to our country and their fellow 
men in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In recognition of their exceptional service, Medal of Honor 
recipients are entitled to a special pension, as first authorized by 
Congress in 1916. Currently, the 100 living recipients received an 
inflation-adjusted $1,000 per month. H.R. 6980 will increase the base 
payment to $2,000 per month, subject to appropriations. This benefit 
will act as the smallest token of appreciation to people who have shown 
the greatest possible devotion to their fellow soldiers and to their 
country.

Madam Speaker, this legislation would not have come to the floor 
today without the support of my good friends, Chairman Filner, Ranking 
Member Buyer and Chairman Michaud.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation.

I yield back the balance of my time.
















 General Leave
