---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2943026e7b33cda0bea6b0877cde2311`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan for 
yielding the time, as we come to the floor to debate this nonbinding, 
no confidence resolution that is going to serve to discourage our 
troops and embolden our enemies.

I have noted that this obviously is the best that the Democrats have 
to offer when it comes to national security and to their thoughts on 
how we deal with the situation in Iraq, and that is a disappointment to 
me.



I think that the question that we have to ask is, whose side are you 
on? Whose side are you on? Are you on the side of winning? Are you on 
the side of freedom? Or are you on the side of allowing the terrorists 
to get an upper hand?

And as I begin my remarks, I do want to thank the troops that live in 
my district, those of the 101st Airborne at Fort Campbell, members of 
the National Guard who have served with distinction, Reservists who 
have been deployed more than once. I want to thank their families, and 
I want to thank the veterans that served in an advisory capacity to me 
as we look at these issues and as we make decisions about how best to 
approach preserving freedom, preserving liberty, and preserving the 
sovereignty of this great Nation as we know it. I thank them. I am 
grateful for their sacrifice. I am grateful for their service to this 
Nation, and I want it to be noted on this day. They have a commitment 
and a perspective and a love of freedom that few Americans will ever 
know. I wish that we all did.

I am grateful also that they can articulate so fluently their mission 
and what they are called on to do every day in Iraq, in Afghanistan, 
and in the 30 countries around the globe where Americans fight to 
preserve freedom. They articulate this in e-mails and blogs, and even 
in notes and letters to their Member of Congress.

I also, Mr. Speaker, want to recognize the Kurdish community that 
calls Nashville, Tennessee home, and recognize their commitment and 
their appreciation to our U.S. troops. One of the points that many of 
them make to me regularly and also one of the points that our men and 
women in uniform make regularly is to remind us of why we are in this 
fight, why we are in this fight and providing the historical 
perspective that is so important. This didn't begin on September 11. It 
did indeed begin long, long, long ago.

Indeed, the radical Islamists have fought Judaism and Christianity 
not for decades but for centuries. This is something that we all know. 
The Islamic radicals did get a toe-hold in Iran in the late 1970s with 
the approach at that point by President Carter, then President Carter, 
and those around him. And now those radicals tell us, they tell us that 
Iraq is indeed the central front in the global war on terror. We know 
that they want to change the Middle East and then they want to change 
the world. And, Mr. Speaker, that is not the type change that we want. 
I want my children and grandchildren to live in freedom. I want them to 
know an America that is free and strong and independent.

Our soldiers are fighting. They are fighting every day. They are 
fighting the insurgents in the field, they are fighting the battle of 
ideas; and the battle of ideas is a very, very powerful fight in Iraq 
at this point in time.

Now, too many in this Chamber want to add another fight to our 
military men and women, to their agenda every day. They want them to 
have to fight the battle of public opinion here in the United States. I 
see that as a disservice to the men and women in uniform. This 
legislative body does have a role in oversight of the war, but I do 
believe, I personally believe it is inappropriate, Mr. Speaker, that we 
try to micromanage from the comforts of Washington. I do believe that 
we should be listening to our troops and our commanders in the field.

General David Petraeus, who has taken the command, accepted the 
coalition flag this Saturday, said it very well and I will enter his 
comments for the Record. He reminds us that progress is being made and 
lays that out, and I will enter that for the Record and have the 
opportunity to talk about it again later. I think that what we have to 
do is realize the resolution before us, Mr. Speaker, will not build 
morale with the troops on the ground, and it does give the terrorists 
just what they want. We have to fight back. We have to realize 
sacrifices do have to be made in order for us to further the cause of 
freedom and liberty in this great land.




 The situation in Iraq is exceedingly challenging. The 


 stakes are very high. The way ahead will be hard and there 


 undoubtedly will be many tough days . . . however, ''hard'' 


 is not ''hopeless''; indeed, together with our Iraqi 


 partners, we can and we must prevail. (General David 


 Petraeus, Commander MNF-I, 2/10/07.)







What They're Saying: General Petraeus Takes Command




 This Mission Is Doable: ''Our job in the months ahead, 


 supporting and working with Iraqi forces will improve our 


 security so tht the Iraqi government can resolve the tough 


 issues it faces and so that the economy and basic services 


 can be improved. These tasks are achievable, this mission is 


 doable.'' (General David Petraeus, Commander, MNF-I, 2/10/07)



 Enemies Who Brag of Inhuman Acts Against Fellow Human 


 Beings: ''Tragically, barbaric enemies have prevented Iraq 


 from making the most of the abundant blessings bestowed by 


 the Almighty on Mesopotamia. These are enemies who brag of 


 inhuman acts against fellow human beings, who invoke 


 religious justifications for actions that no God could 


 countenance, who try to drive wedges between religious and 


 ethnic groups that have lived together in harmony in the 


 past, and who in recent weeks have even targeted a girls' 


 school, innocent laborers, marketplaces and pet shops in 


 their efforts to spark sectarian violence.'' (General David 


 Petraeus, Commander, MNF-I, 2/10/07)



 Together We Can Defeat The Enemies of Iraq: ''Surely the 


 Iraqi people realize that these enemies do not want the best 


 for Iraqi's citizens, and surely now is the time for all 


 Iraqis to reject violence, crime and corruption and to rise 


 up against those who employ such methods to further their 


 agendas. It is against these enemies that all




 Iraqis must now fight. And I pledge the full support of the 


 Multinational Forces Iraq in this endeavor. Together we can 


 defeat the enemies of Iraq.'' (General David Petraeus, 


 Commander, MNF-I, 2/10/07)
