---
---

# GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
## `2945b8a88f78eb07e64775bfeff00b29`
`Mr. CORNYN — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I rise to speak, once again, on the 
nomination of Harold Koh, whom the President has nominated to be Legal 
Adviser for the State Department. To put this in context, as the 
Senator from Massachusetts has addressed, the Legal Adviser is a very 
important job at the State Department. He is responsible for providing 
guidance on important legal questions, including treaty interpretation 
and other international obligations of the United States. He gives the 
Secretary of State legal advice during negotiations with other nations. 
So the Legal Adviser can be a very influential voice in diplomatic 
circles, especially if he or she has particularly strong views on 
America's obligations to other nations and multilateral organizations.

Based on my review of Dean Koh's record, I don't believe he is the 
right man for this job. His views are in tension with what I believe 
are core Democratic values, in that he would subjugate America's 
sovereignty to the opinions of the so-called international common law, 
including treaty obligations that the Senate has never ratified. 
Indeed, they are not obligations,


but he nevertheless would impose them on the United States. When the 
Senator from Massachusetts says he believes the U.S. Constitution is 
primary, I would have felt much better if he had said it was the 
exclusive source of American law, together with the laws that we 
ourselves pass as representatives of the people; not just a 
consideration but the consideration when it comes to determining the 
obligations and rights of America's citizens, rather than subjecting 
those to international opinion and vague international norms which I 
heard the Senator refer to.

It is true Professor Koh is an advocate of what he calls 
transnational jurisprudence. He believes Federal judges--these are U.S. 
judges--should use their power to ''vertically enforce'' or 
''domesticate'' American law with international norms and foreign law. 
As I mentioned, this means judges using treaties and ''customary 
international law'' to override a wide variety of American laws, 
whether they be State or Federal. Of course, we understand treaties 
that have been ratified by the Senate are the law of the land, but 
Professor Koh believes that even treaties that the United States has 
not ratified can be evidence of customary international law and given 
legal effect as such.

The Legal Adviser to the State Department has an important role, as I 
mentioned, in drafting, negotiating, and enforcing treaties. That is 
why it is so crucial he understands that no treaty has the force of law 
in the United States until it has been ratified, pursuant to the 
Constitution, by the Senate. Do we want a top legal advisor at the 
State Department who believes that norms that he and other 
international scholars make should become the law, even if they are 
rejected or not otherwise embraced by the Congress? That can't be 
within the mainstream. That is outside the mainstream; indeed, I 
believe a radical view of our obligations in the international 
community.

In 2002, Professor Koh delivered a lecture on the matter of gun 
control. He argued for a ''global gun control regime.''

I don't know exactly what he means by that, but if he means that the 
second amendment rights under the U.S. Constitution of an individual 
American citizen to keep and bear arms are somehow affected by global 
gun control regimes, then I disagree with him very strongly. Our rights 
as Americans depend on the American Constitution and American law, not 
on some global gun control regime or unratified treaties because of 
some legal theory of customary international law.

On the matter of habeas corpus rights for terrorists, in 2007, 
Professor Koh argued that foreign detainees held by the U.S. Armed 
Forces anywhere in the world--not just enemy combatants at Guantanamo 
Bay--are entitled to habeas corpus review in U.S. Federal courts. Those 
are the rights reserved to American citizens under our Constitution and 
laws, not to foreign terrorists detained by our military in farflung 
battlefields around the world.

If Professor Koh were correct--and he is not--this would mean that 
even foreign enemy combatants captured on the battlefield fighting 
against our troops in Afghanistan and held at Bagram Air Force Base 
would be able to sue in the U.S. courts seeking their release.

On this issue, fortunately, Dean Koh's radical views are not shared 
by the Obama administration, which filed a brief recently arguing that 
habeas corpus relief doesn't extend to detainees held at Bagram Air 
Force base in Afghanistan.

Do we want a top legal adviser in the State Department working to 
grant terrorists and enemy combatants even more rights than they have 
now?

There is the issue of military commissions, something Congress has 
spoken on at some length after lengthy debate. Professor Koh's views of 
military commissions also deserve our attention.

Military commissions, it turns out, have been authorized since the 
beginning of this country--by George Washington during the 
Revolutionary War, by Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War, and by 
Franklin Roosevelt during World War II. Yes, military commissions have 
been authorized both by our 43rd and 44th President of the United 
States in the context of the war on terror.

President Obama has said that ''military commissions . . . are an 
appropriate venue for trying detainees for violations of the laws of 
war.'' I agree with him.

Of course, military commissions, as I alluded to a moment ago, have 
had bipartisan support and have been authorized by the Congress. But 
somehow Professor Koh takes a more radical view. He believes military 
commissions would ''create the impression of kangaroo courts.'' He said 
they ''provide ad hoc justice.'' He said they do not and cannot provide 
''credible justice.''

Do we want the top legal adviser at the State Department undermining 
both the will of Congress and the President regarding the time-tested 
practice of military commissions during wartime?

Again, here is another example of Professor Koh's views that are 
radical views--certainly outside of the legal mainstream. Senators 
should also take a look at Professor Koh's views on suing or 
prosecuting lawyers for providing professional legal advice in the 
service of their country.

My position is clear: Government lawyers--and I don't care whether 
they are working in a Democratic administration or a Republican one--
should not be prosecuted or sued for doing their jobs in good faith. 
They should not be punished for giving their best legal advice under 
difficult and novel situations, even if it turns out that some lawyer 
somewhere later disagrees with that advice.

As dean of the Yale Law School, Professor Koh has enabled and 
empowered the leftwing attempt to sue one of its own alumni, John Yoo, 
who worked at the Office of Legal Counsel in the Bush administration.

The Yale Law School's Lowenstein International Human Rights Law 
Clinic has filed suit against John Yoo for the legal advice he provided 
to policymakers during his service on behalf of the American people.

I wonder if Professor Koh is willing to hold himself to the same 
standard and agree that individuals can sue him for his official acts 
if he is confirmed as Legal Adviser to the State Department--if later 
on lawyers, and perhaps prosecutors, disagree with that legal advice 
and say it was wrong.

Suppose Professor Koh gives legal advice that certain GTMO detainees 
should be released. If they return to the battlefield, as many have, 
and end up killing Americans, or our allies, should the victims' 
families be allowed to hold Professor Koh legally responsible in a 
court of law? Or suppose Professor Koh gives legal advice that 
authorizes military actions in Afghanistan or Pakistan. If those 
operations result in collateral damage, or civilian casualties, would 
the victims have standing in Federal Court to sue Professor Koh?

Do we want a top Legal Adviser at the State Department who is so 
compromised by the fear of being sued or prosecuted that he could not 
be trusted to give honest, good-faith legal advice to the Secretary of 
State or the President of the United States?

Perhaps most timely, given the civil unrest in Iran--and the Senator 
from Massachusetts was critical of the fact that I quoted a 2007 
writing of Professor Koh, but it is true from this writing, and I will 
read it in a moment--Professor Koh appears to draw a moral equivalence 
between Iran's regime's political suppression and human rights abuses, 
on one hand, and America's counterterrorism policies on the other.

In 2007 he wrote:




 The United States cannot stand on strong footing attacking 


 Iran for ''illegal detention'' when similar charges can be 


 and have been lodged against our own government.


He goes on to say that U.S. Government criticism of Iranian 
''security forces who monitored the social activities of citizens, 
entered homes and offices, monitored telephone conversations, and 
opened mail without court authorization,'' was ''hard to square'' with 
our own National Security Agency's surveillance programs.

Do we want to confirm a top Legal Adviser at the State Department who 
can't see the difference between counterterrorism policies approved by 
the Federal courts and the Congress and the brutal repression practiced 
by a theocratic regime?

We have heard enough moral equivalence about Iran over the last week,


and we have heard enough apologies for the actions of the United 
States, and enough soft-peddling of the actions of the Iranian 
theocracy, which is a brutal police state. We don't need another voice 
in the administration whose first instinct is to blame America and 
whose long-term objective is to transform this country into something 
it is not.

For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose the nomination of 
Harold Koh as the top Legal Adviser to the State Department.

I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time.