# IRAQ DEBATE
## `294b786e35c363549ff72cc1afbe0876`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. I thank my friend from Illinois. Mr. President, this 
whole discussion can best be described as a bump in the road. The 
majority leader and I had a number of discussions last week about how 
to proceed with the Iraq debate. There is no reluctance on this side of 
the aisle to have that debate. In fact, we had a number of different 
Republicans who had different approaches to offer in anticipation of 
the Iraq debate this week. We hear there are different approaches on 
the Democratic side as well.


In an effort to reach a unanimous consent agreement, we pared down 
our requests to two resolutions, one by Senator McCain and Senator 
Lieberman that basically embodied benchmarks for the Iraqi Government 
and one by Senator Gregg, a very important resolution that should be 
voted on in the Senate that deals with the issue of whether the Senate 
believes we should cut off funds for the troops. This vote this 
afternoon should not be misunderstood. This is a fairness vote. This 
vote this afternoon is a vote to insist that the minority have a fair 
process in going forward to this very important debate. I think I am 
safe to say every single Republican shares the view it is not 
requesting too much of the majority to have a fair process. We could 
have asked for many more than two resolutions. There were several other 
Members of the Senate on this side of the aisle who had what they 
thought were good ideas that should have been put in the queue.

With regard to what the vote should be, this is the Senate. With the 
exception of the budget resolution, I can't think of anything in the 
Senate we have dealt with in my memory, except some kind of consent on 
a noncontroversial matter, that didn't require a 60-vote threshold. 
That is routine in the Senate. That is not extraordinary; that is 
ordinary. So what could be done and should be done--and I hope will be 
done sometime today--is the majority leader and myself will sit down 
and come up with a reasonable list of resolutions, all of them, as 
everything else in the Senate, subject to a 60-vote threshold. In fact, 
our good friends on the other side of the aisle in the previous 
Congress went to great lengths to establish that there even ought to be 
a 60-vote threshold for judges, something that had not been the norm in 
the Senate. So it looks to me like where we are today is that 
everything in the Senate requires 60 votes. Why would we not have a 60-
vote threshold for the most important issue in the country right now: 
The Iraq war? So, of course, we think it should be dealt with in the 
same way that other issues are dealt with in the Senate.

So make no mistake about it. This vote at 5 o'clock doesn't have 
anything whatsoever to do with scuttling the Iraq debate. We welcome 
the debate. We are happy to have it. But the minority will insist on 
fair treatment, and our definition of fair has been pared down to two 
resolutions. And all of the resolutions, as everything else we consider 
in the Senate, would be subject to a 60-vote threshold.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.