---
---

# None
## `29548294e1d054b33c64d0db73a1e3bd`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 9 March 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the greatest aspect of Greek influence on our country 
has its roots in the classical era of ancient Greece--that point in 
time when the Greek political philosophy of democracy was born. In our 
political debates today, we can easily see the continuing influence of 
that classical age in our lives.

How different would the world be today if the Greeks of that day had 
not stood up to the invading armies of the Persian Empire? 
Unfortunately, although the ancient Greek political philosophers first 
conceived of democratic self-government, after their time passed, the 
Greek nation, itself, in fact, became a part of larger empires.

It was ruled for centuries by men with unquestioned and arbitrary 
power over life and death--the antithesis of democracy. By the start of 
the 1800s, however, the signs were clear. The Greek people saw the 
opportunity and were determined to win back their independence and to 
live in liberty once again.

The most eloquent advocate for liberty in the nation of Greece in the 
early 19th century was a freedom fighter and a poet, who, before 
perishing in the struggle, penned the immortal line, ''Better 1 hour of 
free life than 40 years of slavery and prison.'' After the Greek 
Revolution was declared on March 25, 1821, this poem became a patriotic 
call for liberty and the motto for the freedom fighters of Greece.

Our Founding Fathers shared that same passion for liberty, as 
evidenced by Patrick Henry's famous statement just a few decades 
earlier, ''Give me liberty or give me death''--a brave statement which 
is so familiar and so similar to the rallying cry of the Greek people 
during their historic struggle.

Such are the shared ideals, the common values upon which the 
friendship between Greece and America was founded, and that friendship 
has, indeed, become a formal alliance.

During the 20th century, in every major international conflict, Greek 
soldiers stood beside American soldiers in the fight for freedom and 
liberty.

To this day, Greece supports our reconstruction and stabilization 
missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Greece has deployed an operational 
mentor and liaison team to assist NATO efforts to train the Afghan 
army. Further, the Souda Bay naval base on Crete has been a valuable 
support for the coalition forces in Iraq. During the brutal fighting in 
2005 alone, this Greek base supported over 11,000 U.S. military ships 
and planes on their way to Iraq.

Greece has also contributed significant financial and diplomatic 
support to continuing stabilization efforts in the Balkan region, and 
it has effectively promoted such efforts in that region during the 2009 
chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in 
Europe.

I was honored to have met with the Greek Prime Minister earlier today 
to discuss these issues and to discuss ways to continue strengthening 
our bilateral relationship.

Greece continues today as a valued partner and as a strong friend of 
the United States. It is my pleasure to offer this resolution which 
recognizes the 189th anniversary of the independence of that great 
nation.

With that, Madam Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.