---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `296e10d3b147f86e9d96a313923bdbee`
`Mr. CORNYN — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I commend the ranking member and 
chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence for the outstanding 
work they have done on this critical piece of legislation, passing it 
in the Intelligence Committee by a vote of 13 to 2, which was no easy 
feat. This passed in the Senate by a strong bipartisan vote of 68 to 
29, I believe. It is about as strong a bipartisan vote as you can 
possibly get. This is a well-thought-out piece of legislation that, 
once sent over to the House of Representatives, we were told the House 
of Representatives, rather than to deal with this legislation, would 
simply decide to fold their tent and go home. That is the height of 
irresponsibility.

The Senator from Missouri described why it is so important for us to 
be able to listen to our enemies: because, simply, it saves American 
lives. We learned a harsh lesson on September 11, 2001, which is that 
we are not safe even within our own shores.

There are those who believe in a radical ideology that celebrates the 
murder of innocent men, women, and children, and who are willing to use 
instruments of destruction, whether they be primitive tools such as 
flying an airplane into a building, or chemical, biological, or nuclear 
weapons--whatever they can get--to kill innocent civilians. We have to 
do everything in our power to protect ourselves. Thank goodness, due to 
the noble work of our men and women in uniform who are fighting in 
places such as Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere around the world, we 
are keeping the enemies of the United States on the run.

The best way we can deter these terrorist attacks is to listen in on 
conversations and communications. That is the only way we are going to 
be able to continue to do it. For the House of Representatives to know 
that they are causing our intelligence community to go deaf to the 
communications of terrorists who are plotting attacks against the 
United States is the height of irresponsibility. I hope it is not true 
and that they reconsider.

My hope is they will come back and they will pass this important 
legislation that will encourage our telecommunications industry to 
cooperate with the lawful requests of the Commander in Chief as 
certified by the chief law enforcement officer of the United States, 
and that is the Attorney General, so we can continue to listen to these 
communications in a lawful and legal way and protect the American 
people. For the House of Representatives to refuse to take up this 
matter and to vote on it is, again, I say, the height of 
irresponsibility, and it endangers American lives.

I yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 4036
