# INTRODUCTION OF IDENTIFICATION FRIEND OR FOE LEGISLATION
## `297e82dd6db2650216637ed6ffed8660`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce 
legislation that will stop the selling of our U.S. servicemembers' 
safety.

Between August and October of 2006, 4,800 used combat uniforms 
bearing ''glo-tape'' patches were inadvertently sold despite a 
determination by a Defense Department office in July of that year that 
the patches had to be removed and destroyed before such uniforms could 
be put on sale. A year later less than 350 of the uniforms and patches 
have been returned. The availability of these items on the black market 
has the potential to cost U.S. military lives.

Glo-tape patches and other military items designated as 
''Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)'' are specifically designed to 
allow members of our armed services to easily identify each other in 
poor lighting and certain other inclement conditions.

In the hands of the enemy, these patches could allow for infiltration 
into our ranks, as happened in January of this year when insurgents 
dressed in U.S. military uniforms in Karbala entered a secure compound 
killing one serviceman and abducting four others.

IFF items are listed by the military as items that are required to be 
completely demilitarized, and are not to be sold to the public. Yet, 
there is currently no enforcement procedure to ensure that persons 
illegally in possession of these items return them to the Department of 
Defense.

An investigation in July of 2007 by Newsweek magazine determined that 
IFF items were easily obtained at retailers in several areas of the 
United States without consequence (See article following).

I have introduced legislation that will protect our men and women 
from those whose reckless acts would cause them harm. First, the bill 
codifies into law that it is illegal to possess, purchase, or sell 
Identification Friend or Foe items. The bill further requires the 
Department to provide notice anywhere that the Department authorizes 
the private sale of surplus or used military items that the possession, 
purchase, or sale of IFF items, original or counterfeit, is punishable 
by law.

Secondly, the bill makes it a Class B Misdemeanor, punishable by up 
to six months in jail per incident, to possess these items or transact 
business related to the items. It would also be a crime to counterfeit 
these items for personal or retail use.

We can and should do everything in power to protect our men and women 
in uniform by removing any advantage the enemy might seek to gain. 
Please join me in making the selling of our servicemembers' safety a 
crime.











 [From Newsweek, July 16, 2007]











The Military: A Dangerous Patch




 The Pentagon prides itself on the ability of U.S. combat 


 units to operate under cover of darkness. But that advantage 


 could be eroded if a key item--infrared patches that troops 


 use to ID each other at night--were to fall into the wrong 


 hands.



 According to a Defense Department spokesman, 4,800 used 


 combat uniforms bearing ''glo-tape'' patches were 


 inadvertently sold to U.S. and Canadian clients of an 


 Arizona-based company between August and October 2006--


 despite a Defense Department determination in July of that 


 year that the patches had to be removed and destroyed before 


 such uniforms could be put on sale. When the oversight was 


 discovered, the Pentagon ordered the company, Government 


 Liquidation, to return 1,200 garments containing the infrared 


 patches that were still in its possession. (A company 


 spokeswoman says the Pentagon did not notify Government 


 Liquidation of any restrictions on the sale of the glo-tape 


 items prior to October of last year, and a senior Defense 


 Department official said the company did not violate any 


 existing clause of its contract with the Pentagon when it 


 was selling the glo-tape uniforms.)



 The Pentagon imposed a blanket ban on the sale of combat 


 fatigues this past February after Iraqi insurgents in U.S. 


 combat uniforms entered a government security compound and 


 killed five soldiers. But individual patches can still be 


 easily obtained--as Newsweek reporters learned last month 


 when they purchased several patches at military supply stores 


 in Jacksonville, N.C., and Oceanside, Calif., without being 


 asked to produce military ID. More than 4,000 of the 


 patchbearing used uniforms are still at large, according to 


 senior Pentagon official Paul Peters.



 The U.S. Army began issuing combat fatigues bearing the 


 glo-tape patches after a friendly-fire incident in the first 


 week of the Iraq invasion that may have contributed to the 


 deaths of 10 Marines. Known as IFF (Identification Friend or 


 Foe), they come in various shapes and sizes that include U.S. 


 flags; they can be detected at night by ground troops and 


 airborne combat pilots equipped with night-vision goggles. No 


 law forbids civilian surplus stores in the United States from 


 selling the items, a fact that one Marine corporal finds 


 alarming. ''If you're moving around in the dark and you see 


 someone with infrared patches, you won't be as on guard as 


 you would be with somebody without those patches;' says 


 Jeremy Terhune, 26, an infantry rifleman from Saugus, Calif., 


 who has served three tours in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. No 


 evidence has yet surfaced that insurgents in Iraq or 


 Afghanistan have acquired the patches.
