---
---

# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `2986e433108f2705026afdc0b68f07b1`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Ohio.

And I think you are right. I think it is important. I think that one 
of the things that we learn as citizens, we learn here in Congress, is 
your word. Your word is what matters, and if your word is good, then 
people trust you and people know they can count on you. And I think 
that is exactly your point. If we pull out in Iraq, our word to not 
only our enemy, our enemy knows that if we pull out that our word is no 
good to stay there and fight them, but our friends around the world are 
going to say you can't count on America. And I think that is an 
extremely important point, and that is maybe the core of this. We need 
to stay and make sure the Iraqi people have control of the security on 
the ground. And I think that while it is too early to tell if the new 
strategy in Iraq will succeed, there are tangible indications that it 
is working.

The joint U.S.-Iraqi security crackdown is fulfilling its primary 
objective to reduce violence in Baghdad. Bomb deaths have gone down 30 
percent. Execution-style deaths have decreased by nearly half in the 
last month. Iraqis are taking on an increased role in security of their 
country. Nine of the Iraqis' 10 army divisions are taking the lead in 
areas of operation. And today almost 329,000 Iraq security force 
members are working to secure their country. And the political 
benchmarks are being met. Last month the Iraqi Government approved a 
budget, approved a national hydrocarbon law, and just last week they 
convened a regional conference of 13 nations to discuss these concerns. 
So things are moving forward. There was a poll out, the largest poll 
done in Iraq in the last couple of years, the London polling firm 
Opinion Research Business found that in a survey of over 5,000 Iraqis 
that by a 2-1 margin, Iraqis prefer living under the current system 
than they did under Saddam. So there are positive signs there.

I yield to the gentleman.