# STATEMENT HONORING HOUSTON NEWSMAN MARVIN ZINDLER
## `299f13b55779b920c5f361f890f9982e`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a 
wonderful man and longtime Houston television legend, Marvin Zindler. 
Mr. Zindler passed away yesterday after a battle with inoperable 
pancreatic cancer and he will be sorely missed.

Marvin Zindler was born August 10, 1921, in Houston, where he went on 
to become an irreplaceable community figure. Marvin's father Abe, who 
openly opposed the Ku Klux Klan and was a card-carrying member of the 
NAACP, helped instill in Marvin the values that made him so valued in 
the community. As a newsman, Marvin became a pioneer in consumer 
reporting and a tireless advocate for those who, without his 
assistance, would be without a voice in having their needs addressed.

Mr. Zindler initially came to prominence through a week long special 
on the ''Chicken Ranch,'' an illegal brothel just outside of La Grange, 
TX, that local authorities tolerated for decades. This special report 
quickly forced the closure of the brothel, which had been open since 
1905. Subsequently, Mr. Zindler was known largely for his self-
described ''Rat and Roach Report,'' in which he read reports on health 
department restaurant inspections on news broadcasts on ABC affiliate 
KTRK. These reports consistently aided consumers looking for 
information on the safety of the food at local restaurants.

Mr. Zindler advocated aggressively for low-income individuals in 
desperate need of reconstructive surgery. Earlier this year, despite 
his illness, Mr. Zindler's advocacy played a major role in acquiring 
mechanical hands for seven Iraqi amputees. Because of his extensive 
advocacy, Mr. Zindler's Action 13 office received nearly 100,000 
letters annually asking for assistance on issues ranging from Social 
Security benefits to housing discrimination to immigration. He took 
pride in ensuring that his office responded to every single request 
that they received.

It is eminently clear that Marvin Zindler was no ordinary newsman. He 
used his influence to constantly stand up for the underprivileged who 
needed his assistance--and he made a difference. Mr. Zindler profoundly 
changed the city of Houston and the very concept of consumer reporting, 
and his contribution will never be forgotten.

I would like to send my condolences to Mr. Zindler's family, friends, 
and all those who will miss him dearly. I hope that, even in this sad 
time, Mr. Zindler's courage and fights for justice can serve as an 
example for us all.
