---
---

# DESIGNATING CERTAIN LAND AS COMPONENTS OF THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS
## `29a4663dfd31c20d52eee648dcdc26dc`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 13 January 2009`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Madam President, today it gives me great pleasure to 
pay tribute to an outstanding leader and tremendous public servant, 
Navy Secretary Donald C. Winter.

When Donald Winter was sworn in as Secretary of the Navy on January 
3, 2006, he was charged with training, equipping, and organizing our 
sailors and marines in a time of war. He assumed these responsibilities 
at a time when the U.S. Navy was in the midst of an ambitious 
modernization program across the board. A new class of destroyers, 
aircraft carriers, submarines, cruisers, and others was in the 
production pipeline. It would take an extraordinarily talented, 
knowledgeable, and energetic leader to navigate the Department of the 
Navy through these transitions. We were fortunate to find such a person 
in Donald Winter. He was that kind of a leader. He immediately outlined 
his priorities and then set to work on implementing them: Prosecute the 
global war on terror; build the future fleet; take care of our wounded 
and their families. Those were his priorities, and each day he drove 
the Department to focus on these areas.

With 25,000 marines and 36,000 sailors in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
elsewhere in the Central Command's area of responsibility, the Navy and 
Marine Corps have been playing a critical role in fighting this war. 
From providing maritime security in the Northern Arabian Gulf, to 
turning around a seemingly hopeless situation in al-Anbar Province, to 
providing individual augmentees on the ground in Iraq, our sailors and 
marines have been on the front lines and have been performing superbly. 
These sailors and marines have always been foremost in Secretary 
Winter's mind, and they are the ones he has worked tirelessly to 
support in every way possible on Capitol Hill, within the Pentagon, and 
throughout the Department of the Navy.

While supporting our brave warriors in harm's way, Secretary Winter 
also focused on building the future fleet by instituting the most far-
reaching acquisition reforms in decades.

I had the pleasure of traveling with Secretary Winter to Guantanamo 
Bay in Cuba in May 2007. It was my second time returning to this island 
since my arrival here in 1962. What I saw was the tremendous leadership 
ability he possesses and his firm commitment to the men and women of 
the U.S. Navy.



I would also commend Secretary Winter for his tireless efforts to 
ensure that our Nation is doing everything in our power to take care of 
our wounded. Secretary Winter has been an outspoken and relentless 
advocate for our wounded warriors, insisting on the highest possible 
standards for every sailor and every marine.

So on behalf of the men and women serving under him in my home State 
of Florida, I salute Secretary Winter for his superior performance in 
leading the Navy and Marine Corps over the past 3 years. We wish him 
Godspeed in his future endeavors, and we thank him for his service to 
our Nation.















situation in israel


Mr. President, the first and most sacred duty of any government is 
providing for the safety and security of its citizens.

Hamas's repeated rocket attacks on the Israeli people created a 
situation that required an Israeli response.

I was pleased to join my colleagues in cosponsoring S. Res. 10, which 
recognizes Israel's right to defend itself against attacks from Gaza.

While diplomacy is always a preferable alternative, at some point any 
legitimate government must take the necessary actions to safeguard its 
people from acts of terrorism against an unarmed civilian population.

With more than 6,000 rocket attacks launched into Israel from Gaza, 
the Israeli government acted reasonably in an effort to end the attacks 
against civilian targets.

These attacks are Hamas' latest attempts to advance their cruel and 
murderous agenda.

Hamas first began as an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood, a 
terrorist group responsible for the assassination of Egypt's President 
Anwar Sadat.

As you might recall, Sadat was the first Arab President willing to 
make peace with Israel.

Hamas has since claimed the lives of countless others throughout the 
region.

In 2002, a Hamas suicide bomber killed five Americans and four 
Israelis who were eating lunch in the cafeteria at Hebrew University in 
Jerusalem. The bomb was smuggled in a backpack loaded with shrapnel, 
which maximized damage to the cafeteria and inflicted severe injuries 
on more than 80 students.

Since coming to power politically in 2006, the terrorist organization 
has hijacked the Palestinian people's agenda.

They have cynically used their own people as civilian shields and 
brought harm to those who do not share their radical views. During the 
June 2007 coup in Gaza, Hamas operatives killed a cook of Palestinian 
National Authority President Mahmoud Abbas by throwing him from the 
roof of a 15-story building with his hands and feet tied. In the 
current conflict, they have fired rockets at their own people. On 
December 26, two Palestinian girls aged 5 and 13 were killed when a 
rocket fell short of reaching an Israeli target.

Hamas openly admits it uses women and children as human shields. One 
Hamas leader described this appalling practice by saying, ''For the 
Palestinian people, death has become an industry. . . . This is why 
they have formed human shields of the women, the children, [and] the 
elderly.''

Instead of investing in their own people's well-being, in roads, 
schools, and hospitals, they have instead invested in the cache of 
weapons they are using to cause death and destruction in Israel.

As a result, Palestinians are suffering. They have limited access to 
basic needs such as food and medicine. Their free speech has been 
suppressed through violence. And their right to freely practice 
religion has been replaced by a strong-armed enforcement of a radical 
brand of Islam.

The largest beneficiary of Hamas's weapons purchases has been Iran, 
which has aided Hamas by training terrorists and offering advice in 
making deadly explosives and long-range rockets. Throughout the 
conflict, Hamas has turned into a Hezbollah-like Iranian proxy by 
threatening Israel from the south. Iran's willingness to embolden 
terrorist organizations like Hamas poses a serious threat not only to 
Israel, but also the United States.

While Iran's influence has been plainly apparent across the Middle 
East, they have surreptitiously worked to advance their anti-American 
agenda in our own hemisphere. In recent years, Iran has aggressively 
increased its Latin American presence by working with the leaders who 
have found a commonality in the Iranian President's radical ways.

Iran and the regimes of nations like Venezuela and Cuba may not share 
a common border, but they share an anti-American agenda that poses a 
tremendous risk to our Nation's security.

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad first visited Venezuela in 2006 
and has since returned to visit the leaders of Cuba, Nicaragua, and 
Bolivia. He has also hosted Latin American leaders in Tehran.

As a result of these meetings, Iran has entered into several economic 
and political agreements, including plans to finance new progovernment 
television and radio stations in Bolivia and countries throughout the 
region. These agreements help to fan the flames of anti-Americanism, 
which persists throughout the region.

The government of Argentina recently revealed they received $1 
million from the Cuban regime to pay for anti-American protests during 
President Bush's visit there in 2005. Cuban families could have used 
that money for food, but instead it was wasted on furthering the 
regime's anti-American agenda.

What has been lost on these Latin American leaders is the larger 
conflict at hand.

Iran is heavily invested in a conflict that has claimed the lives of 
countless innocent civilians, and they will stop at no cost, continuing 
to aid in the destruction of American allies.

For our Nation, the next few weeks will be historic, but critical.

I am anxious to hear about President-elect Obama's plan to address 
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and I am hopeful his administration 
will continue to reaffirm the U.S.'s historic commitment to the people 
of Israel.

I am also hopeful the administration will continue efforts to 
persuade Syria to stop yielding to Iran's devious demands. Syria must 
understand that Iran's interests do not serve the interests of the 
people of the Middle East.

Egypt has taken significant measures in trying to stop Hamas's 
smuggling of weapons and militants from Egypt into Gaza, but they must 
do more.

One proposal I support deploys an international force of military 
engineers to monitor and destroy the tunnels along the Egyptian border 
near Gaza.

I would also encourage the new administration to continue working 
vigorously with the European Union, Russia, and the United Nations on 
the U.N.-sanctioned ''Annapolis Process'' to achieve a final status 
agreement between Arabs and Israelis that includes a viable, democratic 
Palestinian state living in peace with Israel and its neighbors.

And finally, I hope to see further progress in our efforts to train 
the Palestinian Presidential Guard led by U.S. General Keith Dayton.

Although the recent outbreak of violence in Israel is troubling, I am 
hopeful a new cease-fire agreement can be reached very soon.

A true cease-fire with Hamas should include a guarantee for no more 
rockets and safeguards against rearming.

Both sides will soon realize that further loss of innocent life is 
too great a cost, and peace and security is the only viable way 
forward.

I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Armed Services 
Committee and the new administration to find a way forward in Israel 
and ensure a plan for peace in the future.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.