# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `29a68ae0183027fd7877e34e10057b3f`
`Mr. BOND — 29 October 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, our intelligence community should never be 
forced to question whether our priority is protecting America's safety 
or protecting the privacy of terrorists. This bill makes clear to 
intelligence professionals that keeping our Nation safe is their 
highest responsibility and assures they have the tools needed to get 
the job done. That is why I am so pleased to join with my colleagues, 
Senators Lieberman and Sessions, in reauthorizing three FISA 
provisions--lone wolf, wiretap, and section 215--which would otherwise 
expire.

This legislation we have introduced today, without change, 
reauthorizes these three national vital security tools for 4 more 
years. While I believe each of these tools should be made permanent and 
Congress plays a dangerous game with national security every time we 
impose arbitrary sunsets, it is essential that the community's ability 
to collect lifesaving foreign intelligence should continue unimpeded.

Our bill also makes conforming changes to the disclosure requirements 
for national security letters in light of the Second Circuit's decision 
last year. These issues are so critical and so urgent to our well-being 
and security as a nation, nothing else will matter, even the current 
health care debate, if we fail in national security.

I have spoken before on this floor about the need for President Obama 
to make a decision about Afghanistan. I will not repeat those points 
today. But as our military, intelligence, and law enforcement 
professionals defend the United States and its allies in Washington, 
there is an effort afoot to make this fight much harder than it needs 
to be.

The U.S. PATRIOT Act and the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act were passed overwhelmingly in the aftermath of the 
September 11 terror attacks. For years, terrorism was treated as a law 
enforcement matter.

Our Nation responded to terrorist attack after terrorist attack, to 
the deaths of our servicemembers and embassy personnel, with 
indictments and arrest warrants. As Congress failed to give our 
intelligence operators the tools they needed to act quickly, our 
terrorist enemies became even more emboldened and determined to strike 
our homeland. September 11 was a wake-up call.

Our driving mission appropriately, after that, became prevention and 
disruption of terrorist attacks at home against our troops overseas and 
against


our allies. That is why the legislation we passed provided the 
necessary tools. In 2005, the PATRIOT Act was reauthorized with minor 
changes, but three FISA provisions remained subject to sunset. Here is 
an opportunity for us to reauthorize these three vital provisions. 
There is little disagreement among people who know that these 
provisions should and must be reauthorized.

FBI Director Mueller testified before the Judiciary Committee that 
each is important to the FBI's work in national security and criminal 
investigation. But because of the enhanced information sharing rules 
and procedures, other community entities, such as the Counterterrorism 
Center, are often dependent upon information collected under these 
authorities. Their loss would adversely impact their ability to analyze 
and share important national intelligence information. As an example, 
if the FBI obtains a court order under FISA for a roving wiretap 
targeting a terrorist subject in New York, foreign intelligence 
information obtained there may be shared with the CIA, enabling them in 
turn to target associates overseas.

Events over the past few months underscore the importance of giving 
the FBI and other agencies all the tools and authorities they need to 
stay ahead. From the disrupted terror plots in New York and Colorado to 
those in Illinois, Texas, and North Carolina, we have seen firsthand 
why the FBI must have the flexibility to get the information they need 
as quickly as possible to prevent these attacks.

The benefit of our intelligence collection authorities, however, does 
not just benefit our own citizens. Just as overseas terror threats may 
impact our safety, threats posed by some within our country do not 
always end here. We learned two men in Chicago were conspiring with 
associates to commit terrorist attacks in Denmark. This case is a good 
example of how FISA authorities can save lives in allied countries. 
There is a belief among some that as long as the intelligence community 
eventually gets the information it needs, time is not of the essence. 
That is not true. Timing was everything, whether it was introducing an 
undercover agent to a target at the right moment or conducting 
surveillance at the right time. No intelligence collector is going to 
say that getting the same information 3 weeks later is good enough.

I cannot comment on specific tools that were used in foiling all of 
these plots. We know both from public and classified testimony and 
information that the tools provided that we are authorizing today have 
been invaluable to our efforts to stay ahead of the terrorists. As I 
mentioned earlier, the FBI's ability to obtain a roving wiretap under 
FISA will end this year unless Congress acts.

According to Director Mueller, the FBI has used the authority 140 
times in the past 5 years. The ability to track terrorists even when 
they repeatedly use and dump their cell phones to avoid interception 
is, as Director Mueller testified, ''tremendously important.'' He also 
noted with all the new technology, it is nothing for a target to buy 
four or five cell phones and use them in quick succession. I couldn't 
agree more.

Our enemies know our laws better than some of us do. They understand 
the hoops and hurdles government must clear to catch up or stay ahead. 
Roving wiretap authority sends a clear message that the time-honored 
trick of frequently changing a cell phone will not work like it used 
to.

Obtaining a roving wiretap requires, first and foremost, that the FBI 
establish probable cause that the target is an agent of a foreign 
power. Some critics of this provision claim it allows the FBI to avoid 
meeting this standard as surveillance moves from phone to phone. That 
is not true. Each wiretap application is approved by a FISA Court 
judge. If a target changes his cell phone and the FBI moves to surveil 
the new phone, the court is notified. All of the protections for U.S. 
person information that apply to any other FISA wiretap also apply to 
roving wiretaps.

In short, while the authority is a tremendous asset for the FBI, it 
poses no additional civil liberties concerns. It should be renewed.

On business records, over the past 5 years, a rallying cry against 
these measures has centered on section 215, allowing the FBI to obtain 
business records such as hotel information or travel records upon a 
showing of the requisite burden of proof to a FISA Court judge. We have 
heard time and again the FBI is using this authority to spy on people's 
reading habits at the local library. This is simply highly charged 
rhetoric not supported by facts. While the FBI has used section 215 
more than 250 times in the past 5 years, no library records have been 
obtained. But we do know that terrorists and their associates have used 
library Internet access to communicate with each other and, in the 
appropriate case, the FBI must have the ability to obtain any relevant 
records relating to that usage.


Congress should not pass any legislation that would allow terrorists 
to use libraries or any other public facility as a safe haven for their 
illegal activities. If we did that, guess where all the terrorists 
would congregate. Do you want them all in your libraries? I don't think 
so.

The inspector general of the Department of Justice conducted several 
audits of the FBI's use of section 215 and found no abuse of authority. 
These audits also considered the time it takes for the FBI to obtain a 
215 order. The Director has testified that business records sought by 
terrorism investigations by the FBI are ''absolutely essential to 
identifying other persons who may be involved in terrorist 
activities.'' The records obtained under this authority are no 
different from what the FBI could obtain in a criminal investigation 
using grand jury subpoena authority. There is rarely any delay in 
obtaining a grand jury subpoena. DOJ should strive to ensure that 
section 215 court orders are obtained in a timely and expedient manner.

Given the vital information that can be obtained, I have asked the 
DOJ to take steps necessary to minimize future delays. As with roving 
wiretap authority, I believe section 215 has adequate measures already 
built in to ensure that the private interests of U.S. persons are 
protected. I have not heard any reasonable critique of this authority, 
and I believe it should be authorized without changes, without delay.

The sole expiring provision that has not been used by the FBI is the 
lone wolf definition of an agent of a foreign power, prompting some 
critics to demand its repeal. Under this definition, the FBI can obtain 
a FISA Act search or electronic surveillance against a non-U.S. person 
who is not readily identifiable with a particular foreign power.

We all should be familiar with the story of Zacarias Moussaoui, the 
9/11 coconspirator who was identified prior to the 9/11 attacks. But 
the FBI could not connect him with a particular terrorist organization 
and, therefore, did not submit a formal request for a FISA search 
order. We know Moussaoui was ultimately convicted in the Eastern 
District of Virginia and is now serving a life sentence for his part in 
the 9/11 conspiracy.

If FISA had included a lone wolf provision, the FBI could have 
searched his belongings and possibly gained advanced intelligence about 
the 9/11 plot. Once again, Director Mueller has emphasized in his 
recent testimony that the FBI must retain the ability to target an 
individual who cannot be specifically tied to a particular foreign 
power. The Director specifically cited the Moussaoui case as a prime 
example. We should never again take the risk that another Moussaoui 
will be identified by the FBI but escape scrutiny to prevent an attack 
because he could not be tied to a specific terrorist organization.


I see the ''lone wolf'' provision as a necessary tool that will only 
need to be used in limited circumstances. It is kind of like those ''in 
case of emergency, break glass'' boxes that cover certain fire alarms 
and equipment. We need to keep these tools available for the rare 
situations where they would be needed.

As I mentioned earlier, the Senate Judiciary Committee reported a 
PATRIOT Act reauthorization bill that makes a number of changes to 
section 215 authorities and other national security tools. I believe 
the Judiciary bill is deeply flawed, and I hope my colleagues will 
listen carefully and support our bill instead. There will be ample time 
down the road to lay out in


detail all my objections to the Judiciary bill, but let me just make a 
few key points.

I disagree strongly that there should be a first time ever sunset for 
national security letters. It is irresponsible to risk letting the law 
revert back to pre-9/11 status, where NSLs were largely underutilized 
because the burden of proof and approval levels were too high for an 
investigative tool.

The so-called abuses that are so often cited were actually related to 
something called exigent letters. Exigent letters are essentially a 
request to third parties, usually phone companies or Internet service 
providers, for immediate access to records, contingent upon a promise 
to provide a grand jury subpoena or a national security letter 
promptly.

It is important to understand that these exigent letters are not 
national security letters or grand jury subpoenas. While there is 
statutory authority for carriers to voluntarily provide the FBI with 
the contents of the communication if the carrier has a good-faith 
belief that an emergency involving death or serious physical injury 
requires disclosure of the communication without delay, the DOJ IG 
found that these exigent letter requests were issued on a routine, 
rather than an exigent, basis.

Interestingly, the people relying on the now corrected exigent letter 
problem to justify their proposed restrictions on NSLs are not calling 
for similar restrictions to be placed on grand jury subpoenas. They 
know better than to try that because there would be immediate and 
overwhelming objections from the Department of Justice and nearly every 
U.S. attorney in the country. We cannot go back to pre-9/11 days, when 
national security investigative techniques were significantly more 
difficult to use than ordinary criminal investigative techniques.

Setting aside the problems with the exigent letters, I have said, 
time and time again, that the errors identified by the DOJ IG were 
almost exclusively administrative. The FBI has acted quickly to correct 
these errors, and we should not respond by hamstringing their 
investigations.

I also disagree with requiring minimization procedures for both pen 
registers/trap-and-trace devices and NSLs. The FBI has been clear about 
the operational harm that will likely result if minimization procedures 
are required for the type of preliminary data, such as telephone toll 
records, obtained by these tools.

Aside from the basic problem of how the FBI would even go about 
minimizing this type of information, I do not see why it is necessary. 
We certainly would never impose these types of restrictions on grand 
jury subpoenas or other types of administrative subpoenas.

Supporters claim we need minimization procedures to protect U.S. 
persons, but they conveniently overlook the fact that the records we 
are talking about here are in the hands of third parties and are not 
entitled to the same type of protections that other information is 
subject to.

The constitutional protections were discussed in Smith v. Maryland, 
and the Supreme Court held we simply do not have a reasonable 
expectation of privacy with respect to these sorts of third-party 
records.

Ironically, because the FBI cannot tell from the type of information 
obtained by these tools if someone is a U.S. person, they would 
actually have to do more investigation and be more intrusive before 
figuring out whether the information should be minimized.

Finally, I have significant concerns about the change the Judiciary 
Committee bill makes to the notification period for sneak-and-peak 
search warrants--down from 30 to 7 days. These warrants, which are 
approved by a court upon a finding of probable cause, are an important 
tool in drug and certain terrorism cases. We know from the FBI--and I 
am sure if we asked the DEA, they would agree--that 7 days is not 
enough time before giving a target notice that a search was carried 
out. In a terrorism investigation, likely involving many overseas 
associates and evidence, it is unreasonable to have to disclose the 
investigation within a week, when other activities connected to that 
may be just beginning to be collected.

Depending on the type of information recovered from a search, testing 
and analysis may not even be done within 7 days. Are we going to risk 
blowing these investigations because of a random conclusion that 30 
days is too long? I understand the government can ask for more time 
after the 7 days, but we do not have unlimited resources. We should not 
make our law enforcement agencies jump through more hoops when a court 
has already found that a search is proper in the first place.

I have other concerns about this bill, including the wisdom of a 
separate standard for library records, which I view as an even greater 
invitation for terrorists to use libraries to communicate with each 
other, and new reporting and auditing requirements. I have to wonder 
what additional administrative burdens these requirements will put on 
the FBI at the same time they are trying to focus on preventing and 
disrupting further attacks on our Nation.

Because of the significant operational concerns raised by the 
Judiciary Committee's bill, I believe that it should not be considered 
by the full Senate until the Intelligence Committee--as a whole--has 
had the opportunity to consider its implications for our national 
security, after hearing from Director Mueller about the impact of this 
entire bill on FBI operations.

There are many issues about the Judiciary bill--both classified and 
unclassified--that need to be addressed. The best venue in which to do 
that is the Intelligence Committee. Don't forget that three of the five 
crossover members from the Intelligence Committee voted against the 
Judiciary Committee bill. I would hardly call that a ringing 
endorsement. I believe full consideration by the Intelligence Committee 
would greatly improve the measures we will be acting on, on the floor.

Unfortunately, my efforts to give the Intelligence Committee the 
opportunity to weigh in on the Judiciary bill have thus far been 
unsuccessful. But at the same time, we cannot risk letting these 
crucial authorities lapse. For that reason, I have decided to cosponsor 
the legislation we are introducing today because, under this bill, I 
can categorically state it will have no provision that will have an 
adverse impact on intelligence community activities or operations.

It is not insignificant, in my opinion, that the bill we are 
introducing today is cosponsored by the chairman of the Homeland 
Security Committee, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, and 
by me, as vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee.

Each of these committees has a role to play in safeguarding our 
domestic security. Chairman Lieberman, Ranking Member Sessions, and I 
all understand the stakes in failing to reauthorize these expiring 
provisions are high. The stakes in adding new and flawed provisions or 
creating unreasonable burdens are just as high. It serves no legitimate 
purpose to give the FBI or any other law enforcement or intelligence 
agency tools that are rendered ineffective because Congress imposes 
arbitrary conditions without fully appreciating their ramifications.

The sponsorship of this legislation is also noteworthy because it 
sends a clear and loud message that giving our law enforcement 
intelligence professionals the authorities and tools they need to keep 
the country safe is not and should not be a partisan issue.

In the last Congress, we saw firsthand the negative impact of 
partisanship and pandering to extreme special interests. The FISA 
Amendments Act was supported by a strong bipartisan margin out of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. Unfortunately, as the bill wound its way 
through the Senate and eventually the House, it became a political 
football. As a result, we came too close for comfort to losing the 
intelligence collection authorities we had worked hard to preserve.

I am hopeful we can avoid similar partisanship and political 
interests to take over what should be a straightforward legislative 
process. The surest way of doing that is to pass the bill we introduce 
today.

For years, we have hammered away at the notion that there should be 
walls between criminal and national security investigations. We have 
embraced the idea that the same tools that are used to capture drug 
dealers and child molesters should be available


to track terrorists and spies. While the idea has been generally 
accepted, the execution has been lacking. Our laws still impose 
unnecessary divisions between administrative and grand jury subpoena 
authority and national security letters. Those divisions are 
exacerbated by the Judiciary Committee bill, which imposes new unheard 
of requirements on national security letters and the FISA pen register/
trap-and-trace information.

Over the past 8 years, Congress has placed heavy demands on the FBI 
to be a full participant in the intelligence community. While the 
transportation has not been without some hiccups, they have come a long 
way since the days leading up to 9/11, when the word ''FISA'' was 
foreign to much of the rank and file FBI.

Now is not the time to saddle them with additional administrative 
burdens or to impose conditions on the use of certain tools so drastic 
they become useless. There are so many current and clear-cut examples 
of domestic terror threats before us. I have to wonder why anyone 
thinks this would be a good time to experiment with the vital 
authorities used to keep us safe.

The legislation we are introducing today will ensure our intelligence 
and law enforcement professionals can continue doing what they do best, 
without any additional restrictions. Our Nation has been fortunate not 
to have suffered a sequel to the 9/11 attacks. Some may call it luck, 
but much of the credit goes to the dedicated work of our intelligence 
and law enforcement professionals and the availability of these tools 
that we are reauthorizing in this bill.

We owe our thanks to the personnel who use them. We also owe them the 
recognition that their jobs are as difficult as they are, and we should 
not be taking any steps that will make their profound responsibility to 
protect this country any more difficult. That is why I urge my 
colleagues to support this measure.

I thank my cosponsor and our lead sponsor.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.