---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `29a77a18445782eecfecc88ae60dbdc4`
`Mr. COSTELLO — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. COSTELLO. I want to thank my friend from California for yielding 
time to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Skelton bipartisan 
resolution opposing President Bush's policy to send 21,500 additional 
troops to Iraq. I do so because I am strongly against escalating the 
war in Iraq.

This is not so much a policy as it is a hope that additional troops 
will somehow make right the long list of poor decisions by this 
administration regarding our involvement in Iraq. Putting 21,500 more 
soldiers on the


ground only gives President Bush little more time to resist the 
conclusion that the vast majority of Americans have already reached, 
and that is that the events in Iraq have moved beyond our ability to 
impact them in a meaningful way militarily.

It is important to note that we have reached this point not because 
of some failing of our men and women in uniform who continue to make 
sacrifices. Indeed, our respect and admiration for our troops is 
matched only by their bravery. Regrettably, but not unpredictably, the 
plan for postwar Iraq woefully was inadequate, and the Bush 
administration, instead of taking responsibility for its failings, 
continues to insist that victory is just around the corner. It is not. 
A civil war is raging in Iraq, and our troops are caught in the 
crossfire.

The grand designs of the Bush administration are not attainable now, 
if they ever were. It is time to admit it and move forward. This is not 
to say that we should abandon the region. Far from it. The United 
States must continue to work with countries of the Middle East and of 
the world to stabilize Iraq and its neighbors.

I have said for months that I believe the best way to get the rest of 
the world to take responsibility for what is happening on the ground in 
Iraq may be to remove our troops, and I am convinced that this is the 
necessary course of action now. We can maintain a strong presence in 
the region, but we cannot make the hard political decisions that the 
Sunnis, Shiites and others must make to save Iraq, and then they will 
not make them as long as our military is there.

Let me just reemphasize that. We cannot make the hard political 
decisions that the Sunnis and Shiites and others must make to save 
Iraq, and they will not make them as long as our military is there.

Mr. Speaker, the American people do not support sending more troops 
to Iraq. In fact, the American people want us out of Iraq, and the 
people of Iraq want us out as well

Mr. Speaker, I commend the sacrifices and service of our men and 
women in uniform, and I commend Chairman Skelton for bringing this 
bipartisan resolution to the floor of the House. I urge my colleagues 
to support the bipartisan resolution.