---
---

# HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `29b600fe0963f61494b9192ceec71522`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 27 October 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank you, and I thank my 
leadership on the Republican side for allowing me to control the time 
during this Special Order hour this evening. And surprise, surprise, 
we're going to be talking about health care reform.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, we all know that this is something 
that has been on the front burner for the entire 7, 8, 9 months of this 
111th Congress. It has certainly been a priority of the President; the 
President has said so on many occasions. In fact, President Obama 
indicated that reforming our health care system is the number one 
priority of his administration. First and foremost, it is the thing 
that he is willing to spend political capital, whatever it takes, to 
have comprehensive health care reform and to have it before the end of 
this first year of his first term.

I certainly can see that the President, Mr. Speaker, has followed 
through on that pledge. I personally feel that he has made a mistake on 
that. I don't think that the American people believe that fixing our 
health care system to the extent that we literally would throw out 
everything that we've got and let the Federal Government essentially 
take over lock, stock and barrel our health care system--which accounts 
for something like 16 percent of our total economy--at a time when our 
economy is literally, figuratively in the tank. We're sitting here with 
a 10.5 percent unemployment rate across the country and 15 million 
people out of work. It has even affected my own family very, very 
personally, one of my four children. They say, Mr. Speaker, that when 
your neighbors lose their job it's a recession, but when you lose your 
job all of a sudden it's a depression. I know that feeling right now, 
and a lot of people across this country know that feeling.

When we adjourned for the August recess, the District Work Period 
that's traditional in this Congress, all Members go back home, they may 
squeeze in a little family vacation, but you've got about a month, 
August, it has been traditional probably for 100 years that Congress 
has done that. And we got an earful, did we not, Mr. Speaker, during 
those 4 to 5 weeks of these town hall meetings that Members had all 
across the country? And by a factor of 10, the attendance had increased 
that much.

On a typical town hall meeting in my 11th District of Georgia in the 
nine counties I represent--and we would always try to have our town 
hall meetings at a time that was most convenient to our constituents, 
that would be easy for them to get to, maybe at a senior center, and 
try not to schedule it during suppertime or during prime time TV 
evenings--you might get 50 people on a good night, maybe 75 people when 
they were really ginned up about something.

Well, in my case, in the 11th of Georgia, we were getting 750 people, 
1,100, 1,500--in one instance 2,000 in some of the town hall meetings 
we had. And we were seeing the same thing all across the country, 
whether they were Republican districts or Democratic districts. Mr. 
Speaker, what these constituents were saying--many of them, of course, 
were seniors--they're most concerned about the economy, of course, 
because they're on a fixed income. My mom is one of those. God bless my 
mom, Helen Gannon Gingrey, originally from Manhattan, New York City, 
but lived in the South most of her life. She is 91 years old now on a 
fixed income, relies on Social Security and Medicare and Medicare part 
B and part D. She's a little disappointed she's not going to get a COLA 
this year. But these folks showed up at these town hall meetings 
telling us, We don't want to pay for some new government-run health 
care system from A to Z that's going to be paid for on our backs. And 
what they're referring to, of course, is mostly the cuts, the deep cuts 
that the bills in the House and the Senate propose to take out of the 
hide of the Medicare program.

I'm going to be joined, Mr. Speaker, by a number of my Republican 
colleagues. In fact, tonight the participants in our hour are going to 
be for the most part the doctors on the Republican side. We have a 
caucus, a group that we call the GOP Doctors Caucus; there are about 15 
of us in that group. We have a number of M.D. physicians. We have a 
doctor of psychology, we have a doctor of optometry, we have a couple 
of dental doctors, and people that have spent before coming to 
Congress--and some of us now have been here 8, 10, 15 years even, but 
before coming here our day job, if you will, our profession was 
delivering health care. We were health care providers.



We keep our licenses active, I think most of us do, and we keep up 
with medical issues, realizing, of course, that Congress is not 
necessarily forever, particularly young ones who may want to go back 
and go back into the practice of medicine. Those doctors will be with 
me tonight.

When I totaled up, I asked my colleagues, well, how long did you 
practice? Some of them are OB/GYN doctors, some of them are orthopedic 
surgeons. There is a gastroenterologist. There is a family practice, a 
couple of doctors do family practice, just all across the spectrum. In 
the aggregate, we probably have about 400 years of clinical experience. 
That says something about our age, Mr. Speaker.

But as an example, I spent 31 years, from the day I graduated from 
medical school, practicing medicine either as a family doctor in a 
small town or while I was in training during my internship and my 
residency and then 26 years of being a part of an OB/GYN group and 
delivering over 5,000 babies in my hometown, which became my adopted 
hometown. My hometown is Augusta, Georgia, but Marietta, Georgia, in 
Cobb County is where I now live and practiced for 26 years.

Mr. Speaker, we feel we have a lot to bring to the table. It's so 
disappointing we get to do these things at night--as I say, my 
colleagues will join me and I will yield to them when they arrive--
because this is our only opportunity. It's a shame we are in the 
minority. God forbid that it happens to the other side one of these 
days, and they will understand the feeling, but when you have got that 
knowledge of a particular profession, you would think, wouldn't you, 
that the Speaker of the House, the leadership, the minority side, both 
Chambers, they would open their arms and say, for goodness sakes, come 
on in here. Come on here behind this green door where we are trying to 
work out how we are going to do this health reform bill and tell us a 
little bit how it was when you were seeing patients and practicing and 
what were the things that would upset people about insurance, health 
insurance companies and denial of coverage or not being able to get 
insurance because of preexisting conditions. Also, Doctor, what do you 
think is causing the 10 percent, 12 percent rate of inflation in the 
cost of health insurance premiums year after year after year? Why is 
that?

Could it be this? I have heard some people say that maybe it's a 
medical malpractice issue and doctors ordering a lot of defensive 
unnecessary tests because they are afraid that if they are dragged into 
a court of law someone would say, well, you know, we have got, 
plaintiff's attorney, I have got this expert witness here from 
California. They will say, well, looking at the chart, I see where, 
Doc, you didn't order a fizzle phosphate level on this patient or some 
other esoteric test


that nobody has ever heard of and say, ah, you know, you are guilty of 
malpractice. Doctors order everything, almost to the point of the 
patient coming to the hospital, have blood drawn one day and becomes 
anemic the next morning for all the testing that's done.

Again, I bring up this point, Mr. Speaker, because we should be 
participating. We should be doing it on a bipartisan basis. If we 
would, if we had done it--and it's still not too late, my colleagues. 
It is still not too late. It's not soup yet. We have yet to vote on 
these bills that have come through committee on the House side or come 
through the committees on the Senate side. They haven't reached the 
floor of either Chamber. So there is plenty of time to amend, to start 
over. We don't need to rush it any more than we need to rush the 
decision to send the troops to Afghanistan.

The President, Mr. Speaker, made it very clear, as did his advisers 
and this administration, well, you know, you can't, you shouldn't knee-
jerk now. I know what the General said. I know he said what his needs 
are, but we need to think about this. We need to get it right. It's 
better to get it right than to do it quickly.

Well, I sure wish they would take the same attitude toward reforming 
one-sixth of our economy, and I think that we could do that. There is 
no rush.

I will tell you where there is a rush though, Mr. Speaker. There is a 
rush in putting people back to work and stemming this tide of 
unemployment and all these jobs just disappearing and now 15 million 
people in this country out of work. That should be the President's 
number one priority.

But, anyway, we are going to talk about these issues tonight, and 
there are a lot of thoughts that my colleagues have, as I see them 
begin to join me. I am going to try to go in order of those that walked 
on the floor.

The first person that I am going to call on is our former majority 
whip, minority whip, someone who has been a part of the leadership with 
distinction on the Republican side of the aisle, and I am speaking of 
the gentleman from Missouri, Roy Blunt.

I yield to Mr. Blunt.