# None
## `29dd3b66f0cc605318205f30104560ce`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the 
House once again.

As you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we work very hard to 
put forth the agenda of the American people. We have been consistent 
over a number of years in doing this. And I think that it's important 
for the forward progress of not only the House of Representatives but 
also for the American people.

The good thing about coming to the floor and sharing what's happening 
here in the Capitol Dome, or what's not happening, is its importance in 
strengthening our democracy and also strengthening our economy and 
strengthening the faith in government by the American people. And I 
think that some of the information, especially as it comes in a 
bipartisan fashion, that it allows our friends on the Republican side 
of the aisle to be able to take part in legislation that the American 
people support wholeheartedly.

Case in point: increasing the minimum wage, adopting all the 9/11 
recommendations, and also looking at the issue of the greening of 
America, putting forth incentives of saving our Earth as we move forth, 
fighting for community police officers for local law enforcement 
agencies, State law enforcement agencies, and also the Federal outlook 
of being able to deter crime in this country; also assisting children 
and getting a level of health care that they deserve in a universal 
sense as it relates to S-CHIP, or what we call CHAMP here on the floor; 
and to also have hearings, to open up this government to the American 
people, of transparency.

As we started talking about Member projects, Mr. Speaker, in the 
appropriations process, we brought about the transparency that the 
American people have been looking for, disclosure, to make sure that 
these projects are worthy projects, and also having what we call 
reform, and we have shown that.



I want to just talk about a few things, Mr. Speaker, if I can, before 
the rest of the 30-Something Group is recognized, of what is happening 
now, not only in America, but overseas. We know that a number of 
officials from the Bush administration have been asked to come to 
Capitol Hill to testify before various committees, be they House or 
Senate. Today's news is the economy. When we start looking at testimony 
that took place here today, where it was first mentioned, not that we 
were trying to make history, a Bush administration official saying that 
the country is in a small recession and that recovery will be soon, and 
very soon, well, it reminds me of the debate when we talked about what 
was going on in Darfur, in Africa, if we want to call it genocide or 
not. We already knew it was genocide so we didn't necessarily have to 
wait for the President or the Bush administration to say it was 
genocide. But it did help when they said that it was.

Well, since now the Bush administration has come around to find out 
that their policies of tax breaks for billionaires and millionaires did 
not help the economy, and now has testified that we are in a recession, 
or a small recession, using the R word, maybe we can start


dealing with the solution as a unified government.

One example of how we have worked together in unity has been what was 
shown when we passed the small stimulus bill that was passed, and I 
know that the Speaker and Democratic leaders are looking, and also 
hopefully Republican leaders, are working towards a stimulus package 
that will create jobs, U.S. jobs here, and would allow those from the 
GED education to the post-graduate education, doctoral, those that have 
gone beyond in their education to be able to take part in new job 
creation here in the United States. So we have these forward leaning 
initiatives that we are ready and willing to work on.

The second point, I think it's also important as we look at the 
housing crisis that we are in right now. Mr. Speaker, I am actually in 
the next couple of weeks holding a ''save your home'' or recovery 
effort in my district. I am asking my constituents to come forth, those 
that are trying to make their mortgages, and bringing lenders together, 
along with credit counselors, to be able to assist them to save the 
only thing that they have, and that is their home.

I think it's so very, very important that we continue to work very 
hard. I know that Chairman Frank, the Financial Services Committee, 
will be having a hearing in response to what has been happening in the 
housing crisis. I know that the Senate is working very hard to have 
some product come before this House soon, and very soon, to deal with 
this.

I think it's important that those of us in Congress not only support 
the public efforts that are going on, but also encourage the banking 
community and the lending community to step forward and try to assist 
as much as they can in saving the piece of the pie of the American 
dream. With so many Americans, that dream is now turning into a 
nightmare. It's our job to be able to stand up for those individuals.

I think that it's also important to know the chair of the Federal 
Reserve is continuing to warn us of a possible recession. I think that 
it's important for us to look at it as a reality where it is now.

Now for individuals that have substance abuse problems, or whatever 
the case may be, first you have to admit that you have a problem for us 
to get to the recovery, or to recover from that problem, to be able to 
receive the kind of treatment that is needed. As it relates to the 
decision makers in Washington and in the lending community, admitting 
that there is a problem is important. Many of us have, but we still 
have some holdouts for the sake of holding out. I think that as we move 
on, that we press on in a bipartisan way to make that happen. There 
will be efforts to make that happen. I ask my Republican friends on the 
other side of the aisle to be a part of the solution and not just the 
argument.

I think that when we also, Mr. Speaker, and I just want to share some 
of these thoughts because we have had 2 weeks off and I have had an 
opportunity to focus on some of the things that I wanted to share with 
the House of not only the observations, my personal observations, but 
what I have read of what others have written of their concerns about 
the lack of leadership on recovering or bringing about the kind of 
recovery we need on this economy. That there are certain things that 
have to be in place.

I know the first stimulus package we did gives some relief to 
homeowners through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and FHA loans and raising 
that ceiling so they can be able to assist individuals to save their 
homes. But we have got to go further than that. We have to be able to 
create the jobs that individuals need to be able to save their homes.

The second point I wanted to make, Mr. Speaker, that I think is 
vital, General Petraeus is going to be here on the Hill within a week. 
We know that we are starting to see violence again in Iraq. We know 
that we have put a large investment on the ground in Iraq, not only in 
our men and women that are over 140,000, that are there, but also we 
put a major cash investment on the streets of Iraq in hiring a number 
of Iraqis with U.S. dollars, cash dollars that they are paid in to help 
keep the peace in certain neighborhoods that have been a part of the 
uprising and the insurgency.

If I had the dollars that we have on the ground in Iraq in my 
district, there would be no crime. We would be able to hire those 
individuals that some may say are unemployable, that are out doing 
things that we don't necessarily agree with. Some justify their actions 
on the lack of being able to be employed, some justify their acts on 
the fact that they are not able to, even if they are employable, there 
are no jobs for them to get to be a productive member of society. Of 
course, there is a lack of job training dollars in our States and in 
our communities. There is a lack of bridge dollars to be able to 
introduce these individuals back into society, especially those that 
have made youthful indiscretions.

But as we start looking at General Petraeus' testimony when we come 
back before Congress, we have to look at it from the standpoint of 
where are we going from this point. I think that the American people 
are ready for the Iraq experience to be over as it relates to street-
to-street, neighborhood-to-neighborhood protection of the Iraqi people. 
I think that it's time for our government to be able at the highest 
levels, and I know many Members of the House, including myself, have 
personal editorials on this issue. But we are looking forward to 
General Petraeus' report. We are also looking forward to Ambassador 
Crocker's report.

We are also looking forward to hearing not only from other experts 
that are in the area of Iraq, and I know the Armed Services Committee 
is going to be dealing with that, but I ask the Members in a bipartisan 
way to look at it not with a partisan eye, but look at it from a 
standpoint of what is best for the United States of America. So when we 
deal with the economy and we deal with Iraq, I mean there are two major 
issues that are going on in the country. For those that write books and 
for those that are historians, they are paying very, very close 
attention to what is going on.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my colleagues. I am just going 
to do it in order of seniority and order of people that are next to me. 
Even though I am going to recognize Mr. Altmire, since he made it here 
first, we have Mr. Ryan from the great State of Ohio, and represents 
Niles, Ohio, Youngstown, and has been doing great work here when we 
first started the 30-Something Working Group. We do have what I 
mentioned at the beginning of my comments, Mr. Speaker, is what we look 
for is consistency and accuracy on what we share with the Members and 
also the American people.

I have my good friend Ms. Clarke, Yvette Clarke from the great State 
of New York, and representing Brooklyn in a very proud way. I have been 
to her district and seen her work, and she has worked on the local 
government level and brings a flavor to this body that all Members 
should appreciate, and I know that will continue to be a force here in 
Congress. And Mr. Jason Altmire, he and Mr. Ryan speak of very fondly, 
in the same television market, media market. Mr. Ryan actually 
participated in Mr. Altmire's election. I am glad that Mr. Altmire is 
here. He is a great voice here in Congress and has passed bills on this 
floor that are substantial to the very fiber of our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, with that, just these opening comments that I have made, 
I know that with us being off 2 weeks, many of these Members have a lot 
to share. But as we look at the next couple of weeks and beyond, there 
is going to be a lot going on here in the Capitol dome, and the 
American people are going to be paying very careful attention to it, 
and we need bipartisan support in making that happen.

Mr. Altmire.