---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `29ed46ebd7c2b7bf00ab843443aa83ae`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I stand before you in opposition to this resolution. 
It champions a dismally irresponsible and dangerous course of action. 
On its face, the resolution merely addresses the troop surge, ignoring 
the President's plan in its totality, as I said earlier.

I will now address our efforts to move forward on the diplomatic and 
economic front. With regard to the establishment of government 
capacities, the establishment of the rule of law is a necessity, for to 
have Iraq address the national plan of reconciliation, to have them 
pass enabling legislation for the Constitution and amendment process, 
and to set provincial elections, is extremely important.

With regard to the economic piece, the concession whereby the Iraqi 
government will seek to have a quasi-Alaskan model with regard to the 
revenue sharing of its precious assets is extremely important, because 
you do not want the distribution of the oil proceeds to go to regional 
leaders. It will only empower them and then weaken the unity Federal 
Government.

With regard to the debt relief agreements, much has been negotiated, 
but the neighboring Gulf States need to step forward, and upcoming 
meetings are at hand.

The debate seems to be on the security piece. There are those saying 
well, let's just back out completely. They use words such as ''withdraw 
to the United States'' and ''redeploy.'' But is that a plan? I haven't 
heard any form of military plan. They say what, we will just turn it 
over to them? Wow.

As we listen to the neighboring leaders, they express caution of 
cataclysmic consequences. I fear how America will be defined by our 
friends. Do you reach out to a child as you are teaching it how to 
walk, let go of the hand and let them fall and say it is up to you, and 
leave them alone? You are going to have to find your way to the 
kitchen. Or do you go back and help them walk?

I am concerned about how cold and callous the new majority is to this 
new infant democratic government. But I guess even more disconcerting 
to me is the politics behind this resolution. While the majority tells 
the American public that change must occur, that we are going on the 
wrong course, this amendment basically opts for the status quo, the 
same status quo for which they have attacked the administration, which 
they campaigned against last fall.

They offer no solution, only acting as the critic, and being a critic 
is the easiest role in the world.



Just sit back and just bark at someone, yet offer no plan of 
resolution for stability within the region. What is the plan of success 
for them? Silence.

Let us also address the undemocratic process under which their 
resolution was brought to the floor here. We stand here and debate how 
best to bring democratic government to Iraq, yet this majority in 
Congress shows the leaders in Iraq how to be undemocratic and deny a 
Republican minority a chance to bring a substitute resolution. I find 
that quite ironic that this Capitol that is supposed to be the most 
democratic process in the world is now undemocratic.

I beg of my colleagues not to play politics with the safety and 
security of this Nation. I must remind this body and the American 
people the threat we face.

Iraq is a critical front in the larger global war on terror. We are 
entrenched in a fight against masters of intimidation, bound together 
by an extreme, perverted ideology which they claim is a legitimate 
interpretation of Islam.

Our enemies seek to establish regimes that rule according to a 
violent and intolerant distortion of the Islamic faith, that is, to 
deny all political and religious freedoms and aim to establish 
sanctuaries for violence and additional attacks. They have no 
centralized command structure or place to call home. Instead, they 
exploit local conflicts to build a culture of victimization. They 
mobilize resentful, disillusioned, and underemployed young men and 
women and have mastered technology to aid them in their bidding.

Abu Masab al-Zarqawi, the former leader of al Qaeda in Iraq, 
explicitly warned that the establishment of a democratic Iraq is the 
death of al Qaeda there. Think about that. The leader of al Qaeda in 
Iraq says to establish a democratic Iraq is the death of al Qaeda. Yet, 
what does the new majority want? Pull-out of our troops, weaken the 
stability of that country, to be overtaken then by al Qaeda, instead of 
strengthening the democratic government, ensuring that they have an 
economy political apparatus and have the security to prevail, which is 
the death of al Qaeda.

Our resolve should be to succeed in this struggle, and we must be 
stronger in our resolve than their resolve to inflict terror. At every 
step they are watching our move, waiting for us to falter, fail, drop 
our guard, or just walk away.

General John Abizaid, the former commander of U.S. CENTCOM, described 
well the ramifications of letting Iraq fall to terrorism in his 
testimony before the United States Senate: ''The enemy's vision of the 
future would create a region-wide zone that would look like Afghanistan 
under the Taliban. Music would be banned, women ostracized, basic 
liberties banished, and soccer stadiums used for


public executions. The people of the region do not want the future 
these extremists desire. The more we talk about this enemy, the more 
its bankrupt ideology will become known.''

This enemy uses suicide bombings, beheadings and other atrocities 
against the innocent citizens of the world to pursue its objectives. 
They are the enemy of freedom and wanting nothing more than to disrupt 
peaceful, civilized people everywhere. No one is safe from this hatred, 
and it is not restricted to the Middle East. Just ask those in London 
and Italy and other places around the world. This is a global threat. 
Iraq is not the limit of this beast's haven.

It is the challenge of our generation to destroy this enemy wherever 
it lurks. We cannot do it without the resolve, cunning, and above all 
vigilance. The price that we pay for freedom is eternal vigilance from 
those who seek to steal it away.

While we have not been attacked on our homeland since September 11, 
2001, it is not for the lack of the terrorists' efforts. We have been 
fortunate to have spoiled and foiled several plots here in this country 
and around the globe. Yet, the fight is far from over. Chances are that 
today you feel safe in your neighborhood. You can walk to the store. 
You can play with your children at the local park or in your backyard 
without having the fear of being blown up by a roadside bomb or being 
shot by a sniper. You allow your children to go to the malls without 
fear of a suicide bomber.

It is that peace of mind, this feeling of safety that we are endowed 
as the elected leaders of this country to preserve at all costs.

I remind you that these extremists want to disrupt and destroy our 
every way of life. They are not equipped to do battle on a conventional 
battlefield. Instead, they look to disrupt our most basic freedoms, our 
securities and our institutions, public and private. The world is their 
battlefield. Their hope and their goal is to outlast our resolve.

It is our burden to bear, our generation's great challenge to defeat 
their hopes and objectives. We cannot cower and seek the sanctity of 
security in this challenge. You are not free when you cower. You have 
given in to the designs of the terrorists if you do.

This debate began with the Speaker asking whether or not this 
resolution will make our troops safer. The answer I believe is no. This 
resolution lacks courage. It lacks leadership and it lacks a forward 
way of thought. This resolution, to me, is pure political theater. The 
administration has given us a legitimate plan to work with, and the 
majority in this House has given us nothing but criticism and a path 
for an easy way out that virtually holds the door open for terrorists 
to destroy an infant democratic government and to open a way of access 
to the U.S. and our allies for terror.

I close with a thought from a past President who faced the trials of 
war in his lifetime. President Kennedy said, ''Let us resolve to be the 
masters, not the victims, of our history, controlling our own destiny 
without giving way to blind suspicions and emotions.''

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.