# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `29f8200fc897a430e5a7b4be34f87d69`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I thank my good friend, Senator Specter, 
for his very kind words, his generosity of spirit, and respond in kind 
that I have said many times to people that during the interregnum when 
the Republicans controlled the Senate--I say that jocularly--I was very 
fortunate and blessed to have Senator Specter as the chairman of this 
committee. He is right, we have worked together very closely over the 
years, and I thank him for that very close partnership and working 
relationship. He is a great leader in areas of health and education and 
medical research and so many other items. So I thank Senator Specter 
for that very close working relationship.

I am pleased to bring to the floor the fiscal year 2008 
appropriations bill for Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, 
and related agencies.

It has been said many times that the Defense appropriations bill is 
the bill that defends America. But this appropriations bill, the bill 
we have before us--the bill that funds Education and Health and Human 
Services and biomedical research and the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention--is the bill that defines America.

This bill funds the most basic, essential, life-sustaining, and 
lifesaving services for millions of people in this country, including 
the most needy among us. It provides for the education of our children. 
It provides health care for many of our poorest citizens. It helps 
students from low- and middle-income families afford college. It funds 
medical research to help ease human suffering. It gives displaced 
workers a chance to get back on their feet.

This bill does define us and says who we are as Americans. Despite 
extreme budget constraints, I believe we have produced a good bill. I 
wish we could have done more for these programs because we have some 
catching up to do. But we also have to be fiscally responsible. This 
bill fits within the budget resolution. It conforms to pay-go. It 
reflects the priorities of Senators on both sides of the aisle, and it 
reflects the values, ideals, and priorities of the American people.

Again, I commend our ranking member, Senator Specter, for his 
leadership in helping to craft this bill. As Senator Specter said, we 
have had an amazingly productive partnership for


the last, as I count it, about 17, almost 18 years. As control of the 
Senate has switched between the two parties, we have passed the gavel 
back and forth, but there has been one constant and that is our shared 
commitment to investing in job training, in essential human services, 
in education, and cutting-edge biomedical research.

One notable accomplishment of our bipartisan partnership was the 
doubling of funding at the National Institutes of Health over a 5-year 
period between 1998 and 2003. It started under a Democratic President, 
finished under a Republican President. But today, sadly, that 
achievement seems like ancient history. Today, it is an achievement in 
this bill simply to prevent a cut at the National Institutes of Health 
because that is what the President proposed in his budget. The 
President proposed a $279 million cut in funding for NIH, in things 
such as cancer research, Alzheimer's research, ALS research, and other 
lifesaving research being done through NIH.

The National Institutes of Health is just one of the critical 
programs in this bill that the President's budget underfunds. Head 
Start, special education, job training all would face cuts if the 
President had his way.

Overall, for all the programs in this appropriations bill, his budget 
request was $3.5 billion below last year's level. Let me repeat that. 
The President's budget was $3.5 billion below last year's level--not 
below an inflationary increase, below last year's level. So not only 
did his budget fail to keep up with inflation, it would take us back. 
That is unacceptable.


President John Kennedy once said that ''to govern is to choose''--a 
famous line. Well, I tend to agree. Governing is also about setting 
priorities. The President has set his priorities. He is just days away 
from sending up a supplemental budget request for the war in Iraq. We 
hear it to be as much as $190 billion, and he will insist that we 
appropriate every single penny. Meanwhile, 2 weeks ago, rejecting pleas 
from many members of his own party, he vetoed the SCHIP bill, which 
would preserve health coverage for 6 million children nationwide and 
cover millions more who are currently uninsured. Now, the President, 
with his statement of policy that he sent up yesterday, is threatening 
to veto this bill.

So think about it. The President is demanding that we continue to 
spend more than $12 billion a month in Iraq on the war, yet he is 
threatening to veto this appropriations bill because it spends $11 
billion a year more than what he wanted, for 1 year. The President says 
he wants $12 billion a month for the war in Iraq, but we shouldn't 
spend $11 billion over his budget for 1 full year for all of the other 
things we do in education and in health care and in human services.

Under the Constitution, we know that the President proposes, the 
Congress disposes. So we in Congress get to set our priorities too. We 
also get to choose about governing. Rather than cut the essential 
programs and services in this bill, we have chosen in a bipartisan 
fashion to provide a very modest increase. So we respectfully disagree 
with the President. We believe it is time to make investments in this 
country. It is time for the President to put our own needs here at home 
first. For 5 years we have poured untold billions of U.S. taxpayers' 
dollars into schools, job programs, hospitals, and human services in 
Iraq. It is time we looked after those same needs here in America. That 
is exactly what we propose to do in this bill.

This bill provides a modest increase of $1 billion for the National 
Institutes of Health. That is 3.5 percent. That is less than biomedical 
inflation. But the President's budget would slash investments in NIH, 
cutting 800 research grants that could lead to cures or treatments for 
heart disease, cancer, diabetes, or other diseases ravaging our people. 
This is a very exciting time in biomedical research. We are reaping the 
benefits of the Human Genome Project. It would be unconscionable and I 
think totally irresponsible to short-circuit this progress by cutting 
the funding for NIH. So we have, as I said, provided a modest increase 
of $1 billion for NIH in this bill.

In this bill, we increase funding for Head Start by $200 million. I 
wish it were more. It should be more. We are just beginning to make up 
for the tens of thousands of children who have been lost to the program 
because of stagnant funding over the last several years. The 
President's budget would cut Head Start funding by $100 million. So the 
President's budget cuts it by $100 million; we increase it by $200 
million. The President's budget would cut thousands more children from 
the rolls of Head Start; ours would add to it. That is the difference. 
We believe the President's approach is unacceptable.

In this bill, we provide an additional $457 million for special 
education. Again, it really ought to be more, and I will explain what I 
mean by that. If we accepted the President's budget, it would cut 
special education by $291 million.

When IDEA passed--the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act--
when it passed the Congress--I guess it was about 30 years ago; yes, it 
has been about 30 years--when we passed the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act, we committed ourselves, we committed the 
Federal Government to paying up to 40 percent of the additional cost of 
educating kids with disabilities in our schools. Now, consider this: 
Prior to that time, most kids with disabilities were shunned aside. 
They were sent to State institutions, warehoused, and many of them 
never even went to school. But because of a decision--and I say to the 
Senator sitting in the chair, it was a Pennsylvania case, PARC, 
Pennsylvania Association of Retarded Citizens v. Pennsylvania, a 
landmark case.

From that case, it was decided that if a State decided to provide a 
free public education for all its children, if it decided to do that, 
it could not then discriminate against kids with disabilities in 
providing that free, appropriate public education. Well, that then led, 
of course, to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act that 
passed the Congress. In that, we said: We are going to help. We think 
States should do this. States are mandated to do this under the 
Constitution, but we are going to help. So we are going to try over the 
years to build this up to where we provide at least 40 percent of the 
additional funding to mainstream kids with disabilities in our public 
schools.

Where are we? Under President Bush, we are going backward. Two years 
ago, the Federal Government got up to 18 percent of this additional 
funding for kids with disabilities. We got up to 18 percent 2 years 
ago. In the last fiscal year, the Federal share dropped to 17 percent. 
If the President gets his way with his budget in 2008, we will be down 
to 16 percent. We have had a number of amendments on this floor, sense-
of-the-Senate resolutions, to get this up to 40 percent. Republicans 
and Democrats have voted for this. Yet the President's budget is taking 
us in the opposite direction, and that, of course, again is 
unacceptable. When we don't pick up the tab, when we don't do our share 
and our part in providing for special education, who gets stuck with 
the bill? Local property taxpayers. The States have to increase and 
keep increasing the share of local property taxes to pay for this. 
Again, that is unacceptable.

Turning now to college education, we all know the cost of a college 
education is rising. It hits all of us pretty hard. It hits all middle-
class families and anyone who wants to get a college education. 
Obviously, it hits the poorest families the hardest. This bill provides 
an increase of more than $800 million for Pell grants over last year--
Pell grants, so that our poorest students have a chance to get a higher 
education. Building on that increase we put in the bill earlier, 
Senator Kennedy and Senator Enzi, the chair and ranking member of the 
authorizing committee on education, wrote a budget reconciliation 
bill that raises the maximum Pell grant award from $4,310 to $4,800. 
That is a boost of almost $500 a year for the neediest students--the 
largest increase in more than 30 years. But under the President's 
budget, the increase would be less than half that--about $230 a year. 
So again, our bill would increase that and provide for $800 million 
more for Pell grants over last year.


One other item which is something of importance to every Senator is 
this bill increases funding for administering Social Security by $125 
million above the President's request. Now, why is that important? I 
will bet my colleagues


every Senator here and their State offices have been getting all kinds 
of cases coming in from people who have disability claims, but they are 
backlogged, backlogged, backlogged. They wait months and months, 
sometimes years, to get their disability claims administered. Well, 
this increase would allow us to make a dent in that backlog of 
disability claims. Again, we ought to be even more aggressive in 
reducing the backlog. But make no mistake, if we accept the President's 
budget, the Social Security Administration would have to institute a 
hiring freeze and the backlog of claims would skyrocket. It is bad 
enough the way it is right now, but under the President's budget, it 
would be unacceptable. So our bill would provide $125 million more for 
Social Security to begin to reduce the disability claims backlog.

I think one of the most disturbing problems with the President's 
budget is it is kind of a total disregard, I would say, for the needs 
of our poorest people, the poorest citizens of our country. Just 
consider three programs that serve low-income children and families in 
this country. The three programs are the LIHEAP program, which is the 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, the Community Services Block 
Grant Program, and the Social Services Block Grant Program. Let's look 
at those three. These all serve the lowest income people in our 
country.

The President's budget would cut LIHEAP by $379 million despite 
predictions of record energy prices this winter. This cut would force 
States to lower their benefits or serve fewer low-income individuals, 
many of whom are elderly and poor, many who are going without medical 
care, some cutting down on their food and other necessities in order to 
pay their heating bills.

Then, the two block grants I mentioned, the community services block 
grant and the social services block grant, many of the States tie these 
together to provide essential services for our most disadvantaged 
people in this country.

The community services block grant is a key safety net, providing 
assistance in areas such as job training, housing, and emergency food 
aid. This bill increases funding for the community services block grant 
by just a modest $40 million. The President's budget eliminated--the 
President's budget didn't just cut community services block grants, 
they zeroed it out--all $630 million zeroed out.

The other block grant, the social services block grant, addresses 
some of our country's most vital human services needs, such as 
protecting children from abuse and neglect, caring for homeless 
seniors, providing services to children and families with severe 
disabilities, to mention just a few. The President's budget slashed the 
social services block grant by 30 percent. Our bill says no.

The President has already cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans. We 
are not going to decimate programs for the poor at the same time. 
Enough is enough.

So the bill we have before us invests in job training and employment 
services programs to help Americans develop the skills they need to 
find work. The President's budget cut job-training programs by $1 
billion; that is, from $3.6 billion last year, he would cut it to $2.6 
billion. This bill rejects that. This bill also provides $483 million 
for community services jobs for older Americans. The President's 
request was $350 million, which would have actually cut a lot of 
seniors from the program, seniors who are already working in that 
program.

America's working families also count on the Labor Department to 
ensure that their workplaces are safe and that employers comply with 
labor laws. Unfortunately, the President has consistently underfunded 
the agencies that enforce these laws. Since 2001, OSHA--that is the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration--has lost almost 10 
percent of its enforcement staff because of the President's budgets. 
This bill charts a new course. We invest $12 million over last year to 
rebuild OSHA staffing.

When I describe the funding choices in this bill as ''investments,'' 
I choose my word carefully. It is a simple fact that when we invest in 
these programs, we save money in the long run and our country saves 
money in the long run. When the Minneapolis bridge collapsed this 
summer, we all talked about the large costs of failing to invest in our 
infrastructure, our physical infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, 
our highways, our rails.

Well, what about failing to invest in our human infrastructure, our 
people? What can be more important than that investment? We know some 
things. We know that early childhood education pays many dividends 
later on in life and saves us money. We know that quality K-12 
education pays big dividends. We know that enabling kids to go to 
college and not be burdened with a lot of debt pays off with big 
dividends. We know that adding community health centers pays off, pays 
dividends by preventing emergency care and disability down the road. We 
know that job training pays big dividends by getting workers who are 
laid off of jobs--maybe they have gone overseas--retrained and equipped 
for new kinds of jobs so they can be productive, taxpaying citizens. 
All of what I mention pays huge future dividends.

I said earlier that this bill defines America. It is important that 
this bill defines America as a compassionate nation, a nation that 
invests in its future, a nation, as the late Senator Hubert Humphrey 
used to say, that meets the needs of those at the beginning of life, 
those in the twilight of life, and those in the shadows of life.

Again, I ask, how can we continue to pour endless billions of dollars 
into Iraq--more than $12 billion a month now, and counting--and yet we 
cut funding for the basic essential services here at home for our most 
needy citizens? This is a case of seriously misplaced priorities. We 
are doing our best to correct it in the bill before us today. 
Obviously, we have not been able to do everything we want or need to 
do, but this bill reflects the priorities of Senators on both sides of 
the aisle, and, as I said, we stayed within our budget allocation.

Again, given all of this, I am genuinely saddened that the President 
has already pledged to veto the bill. I really cannot believe the 
President wants us to cut funding for cancer research and other 
lifesaving research through the NIH. I cannot believe the President 
wants to cut children from the rolls of Head Start. I cannot believe 
the President wants to eliminate the community services block grant, 
which is a basic life support for many of our neediest citizens. I 
cannot believe the President wants to cut funding for home heating 
assistance for poor elderly. Yet the President's budget would require 
all of these cuts to essential programs and services. It would be 
unconscionable.

So all I can assume is that the President is getting very bad advice. 
Perhaps his advisers have told him to veto this bill to score some 
political points--whatever that might be. If so, it is bad advice 
because there is not an ounce of extravagance in the bill. It meets the 
essential needs of the American people in terms of education, health 
and human services, and job training. It passed out of committee 26 to 
3. You cannot get much more bipartisan than that.

I might again point out, as I did earlier, that over the last 5 
years, this appropriations bill--again, it was under the leadership of 
Senator Specter, and I was ranking member--every year was above the 
President's request. Not once did the President threaten to veto it. 
Well, this year, some games are being played. The President's budget 
slashes all these programs. We come in to replenish the money and put 
it in and to give modest increases, all within our budget allocation, 
but for the first time in 6 years the President says he is going to 
veto it. What is the difference? Is the only difference now that the 
Democrats are now in charge? Because, as I said, every year, Senator 
Specter's bill was higher than the President's request, but he never 
threatened to veto one of those bills and he never did. This year, he 
says he will. It sounds to me like the last Karl Rove tactic before he 
left town. This sounds like a Rove tactic.

I say to the President that he is gone, he is history--bad history, 
but he is history. Now, Mr. President, do the right thing. Do what we 
have for the last 5 years and work with Congress. We are willing to 
meet you halfway, as I said earlier.

One of the objections in the President's veto threat, which he sent 
down


here yesterday and I have here, was that he opposes overturning the 
President's policy regarding human embryonic stem cell research. All 
right. We took it out, even though Senator Specter and I and our 
committee feel very strongly about this. We have had hearings and 
hearings on this since 1998. Under Senator Specter's leadership, we 
have passed legislation to overturn the President's policy. I think we 
got, if I am not mistaken, about 66 votes in the Senate to do that. I 
think I am right on that. So, again, we feel strongly about that, as 
strongly as the President may feel about it, but in the spirit of 
compromise and getting our bill done and moving it ahead, we decided to 
take it out, and we did.

So I hope that in the next 24 hours the White House will listen to 
the debate and they know what is going on and they have their people up 
here; this is no secret--I hope the President will revisit this, and I 
would like to see a new Statement of Administration Policy coming down 
saying: You did, in good will, take out the stem cell thing, and that 
was half of our objection. We will meet you halfway and accept the bill 
as you have it.

Mr. President, that would be the good thing to do. I still am hopeful 
that the President will do that. There is really no justification now 
for vetoing this bill. If we are over what he wanted, we have been over 
what he wanted for the last 5 years and he never vetoed the bill. So I 
hope the President will send down a new statement of policy and that 
they will support this bill because I think the bill is going to have 
big support here. It passed committee 26 to 3. If I am not mistaken, 
those three votes were opposed to the stem cell provisions we had in 
the bill. Had they not been there, we would have had a unanimous vote 
in committee.

I think this bill will get a big vote here on the Senate floor. It 
would be helpful and would ease things and would, I believe, lift a lot 
of the contentiousness that goes on around town here if the President 
would come out and say: OK, we will meet you halfway; you took that 
out, so we will take the bill as it is. That would make things go very 
smoothly.

Again, we look forward to the consideration of the bill on the floor 
this week. We want to use our time productively. I encourage Senators, 
if they have amendments, to bring them to the floor in a timely fashion 
today so we can complete our work and get the bill to conference as 
soon as possible.

Senator Reid said on Monday that we would stay in this week--and 
Saturday, if necessary--to finish this important bill. Well, I have 
placed all my plans on hold. I intend to be here, if necessary, Friday 
and Saturday--or Sunday, if necessary--to finish this vitally important 
bill. I take the leader at his word that we will be here Friday and 
Saturday if we need to be. However, if Senators come over today and 
offer amendments today and tomorrow, hopefully, we can finish this bill 
in a timely manner. Again, Mr. President, we are on the bill, and I 
hope Senators will come over and offer their amendments.


Mr. President, on August 2, 2007, by a vote of 83 to 14 this Senate 
approved S. 1, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. 
The President signed the legislation on September 14, 2007. This ethics 
reform legislation will significantly improve the transparency and 
accountability of the legislative process.

Pursuant to the new rule XLIV, it is required that the chairman of 
the committee of jurisdiction certify that certain information related 
to congressionally directed spending be identified and that the 
required information be available on a publicly accessible 
congressional Web site in a searchable format at least 48 hours before 
a vote on the pending bill. In addition, Members who request such items 
are required to certify in writing that neither they nor their 
immediate family have a pecuniary interest in the items they requested, 
and the committee is required to make those certification letters 
available on the Internet. The information provided includes 
identification of the congressionally directed spending and the name of 
the Senator who requested such spending. This information is contained 
in the committee report numbered 110-107, dated June 29, 2007, and has 
been available on the Internet for 8 weeks. The Member letters 
concerning pecuniary interests are also available on the Internet.

I am submitting for the Record the certification by the chairman of 
the Committee on Appropriations, Senator Byrd. I ask unanimous consent 
to have it printed in the Record.