---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `29fe669032109ab6f593453b0f1d0eab`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I know the hour is late, but 
this is such an important issue. There are some good things in this 
bill, and my colleagues have rightly said this is the biggest 
expenditure we have ever seen in a very long time, as a matter of fact, 
ever, in our intelligence bill. But bigger isn't always better, because 
the priorities in the bill are what is important.

The folks who are on the front lines, our analysts, our case 
officers, our soldiers who are being protected by the feed of 
information that flows to them, are incredibly important. And make no 
doubt about it, my friends, this is a huge shift philosophically from 
where we have been in the past.

Nothing in here, nothing in here fixes the problem that we have today 
in not being able to listen to certain phone calls that might lead to 
an attack on the United States of America. Nothing. That lack of 
urgency should scare us all.

The fact that we cut human intelligence programs in this bill, they 
will get less money this year, some of them very sensitive, very 
classified, specifically cut out of this bill, jeopardizes soldiers in 
the field in not getting the proper assistance and information that 
they need.

We also take a political bent. There are also some disturbing things, 
things that we all sometimes don't like about the House that we serve 
in. Sometimes it was said because we did things that way for a long 
time, we should continue to do it. Those are the things that we can 
change tonight. Those are the things that we can at least tell the 
American people with this motion to recommit we believe in getting that 
information, we believe in human intelligence. Certainly the 9/11 
Commission did. We believe in regular order and the rules, so that when 
earmarks go into very sensitive bills like this, and we have seen what 
happens when we don't follow the rules, it can cause trouble.

Think about what we are talking about. Right before Afghanistan, we 
dropped seven CIA officers in very remote places in a very difficult 
neighborhood, and on their own they committed to get around with this 
Northern Alliance that was together, but not really. They had tribal 
problems. They had cultural problems among themselves. And their duty, 
these seven CIA officers, was to pull things together. Human 
intelligence got us where we needed to be.



Many would say it saved thousands and thousands of lives of U.S. 
soldiers because of their brave actions in the mountains of Afghanistan 
in very difficult territory because we had human-on-human contact that 
gave us the information and the operations that we needed to be 
successful.

And in this bill, in this bill, they take away precious resources for 
those kind of human collection activities. When we have soldiers in the 
field, that is a philosophical departure from where we have been in the 
past.

We can't stand for that. We can't stand for the fact that we may lose 
our ears on terrorist activities being planned today. And we also can't 
take wasteful programming in something that is this important.

You know, for a time of war, the priorities of this bill are 
completely misplaced in critical areas. The motion to recommit would 
readjust those priorities by increasing human intelligence funding for 
the Central Intelligence Agency by $23 million. That money would come 
from an earmark funding for the National Drug Intelligence Center which 
a formal oversight report of the House Committee said: ''An expensive 
and duplicative use of scarce Federal drug enforcement resources.'' And 
the U.S. News & World Report called it a ''boondoggle.''

The motion to recommit would also direct the Department of Justice 
Inspector General to conduct an audit of the National Drug Intelligence 
Center to determine if this center was wasteful and duplicative.

For all of the talk about reform, the majority has blocked an audit 
by a party-line vote in committee with no substantive explanation. My 
amendment requiring the audit also was blocked by the Rules Committee. 
It shouldn't be controversial that these funds could be put to far 
better use in human intelligence. In numerous important respects, this 
bill fails to provide adequate support to the Intelligence Community's 
activities on the forefront of its ability to protect our national 
security.

In a classified annex, the majority cuts human intelligence programs, 
counter to the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission; and 
significantly cuts certain specific initiatives related to American 
efforts to counter radical jihadists and to support our Nation's 
objectives in Iraq.

A review of just this center, and why this $23 million is so 
important, it is going to human collection. A review of the NDIC, U.S. 
News & World Report in 2005 concluded: ''It is a boondoggle,'' and 
''rocked by scandal and subject to persistent criticism that it should 
never have been created at all.''

You know, sometimes, and God love us all, we get pretty myopic on our 
districts. This is the time that we need to look outward to the rest of 
the country. We are United States Members of Congress. What is good for 
our backyard may not be good for the rest of the country.

There is a Marine right now that is counting on human intelligence to 
tell us if there is an IED on the road, if al Qaeda is around the 
corner. If we don't want to stand up for this motion to recommit, we 
will endorse the boondoggles of the past at the expense of our soldiers 
in the field. I would urge support of the motion to recommit.