---
---

# None
## `2a05535c4d1c1e660d131d00f864185e`
`Mr. SKELTON — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 3087, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on the status of planning 
for the redeployment of the Armed Forces from Iraq.

This bill is the rarest of creatures, a bipartisan compromise on one 
of the most significant issues facing our country today, the war in 
Iraq. This bill was marked up in the Armed Services Committee with the 
support of our ranking member, Duncan Hunter of California. The 
committee took the excellent work of Representative Neil Abercrombie 
and Representative John Tanner and built on it.

The committee adopted a comprehensive amendment developed by Mr. 
Abercrombie and Representative Mike Turner, two of our leaders on our 
committee on the advancement of national defense. The bill, as amended, 
passed our committee 55-2.

I am proud of the work of our committee. I am glad it has been 
brought to the floor. The bill seeks to accomplish two primary goals. 
First, it affirms the critical need for comprehensive, well-thought-out 
planning for a redeployment of troops from Iraq, the kind of planning 
that, frankly, was not done for the post-war period in Iraq, the so-
called phase 4 of the war before we invaded.

This will help Congress fulfill its duties to ensure that such a 
mistake is not repeated.

Second, it requires that the planning the Pentagon is doing for 
deployment from Iraq be shared with Congress, as it should. It lays out 
a clear statement on the need for appropriate, detailed contingency 
planning for our redeployment of troops from that country, including 
consideration of force protection for our military and civilian 
personnel, and the need to continue to protect our vital national 
security interests.

It requires by statute that the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff provide us with a report and briefing on 
redeployment planning from Iraq within 60 days of enactment, and that 
updated reports and briefings from senior Department of Defense 
officials continue to be provided on a quarterly basis thereafter. It 
will allow the Armed Services Committee to perform the oversight 
function, which is central to our purpose.

Time is not on our side. In my view, it's time to begin responsible 
redeployment of forces and a change of mission in Iraq. Members are on 
different places on Iraq, but we can agree that we must be engaged in 
serious planning for the redeployment of American forces.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.