# STAFF SERGEANT RICHARD ROSE, USAF
## `2a06cff8d83b9b92a097478df347009b`
`Mr. HAYES — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, there are many heroes fighting the global war 
against terrorists, and many from the Eighth District of North 
Carolina. But today I rise to pay tribute to one hero


in particular. Today I am proud to recognize Air Force Staff Sergeant 
Richard Rose, son of Robyn Rose of Laurinburg, North Carolina.

Staff Sergeant Rose, a member of the 1st Combat Camera Squadron at 
Charleston Air Force Base, served as a Joint Combat Camera photographer 
with the Multinational Division in Baghdad from May 18 to September 18 
of 2006.

During this time, Sergeant Rose was attached to several Army units, 
documenting their daily missions and contributing over 1,000 images of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Sergeant Rose primarily shoots with his camera lens, but that changed 
last summer. During a mission with the 101st Airborne Division Air 
Assault Unit, insurgents began firing at an Explosive Ordnance Disposal 
Team which was clearing roadside bombs nearby.

Richard quickly responded by returning fire with his M4 rifle, which 
allowed the Explosive Ordnance Team to move to safety. His efforts are 
credited with helping to save the lives of 56 servicemembers during the 
attack, and his bravery in this firefight earned him the Bronze Star.

I ask that you join me in congratulating Sergeant Richard Rose on 
being awarded the Bronze Star in defending our Nation in the war 
against terrorists. Pray for their safety, and pray for victory against 
these terrorists.
