# RECOGNIZING THE NAVY UDT-SEAL MUSEUM IN FORT PIERCE, FLORIDA, AS THE  OFFICIAL NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NAVY SEALS AND THEIR PREDECESSORS.
## `2a0ed4ac792a49b80175a71853073488`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. I would like to thank my good friend, the 
gentlewoman from Florida, and an original cosponsor of this bill for 
yielding time to me this afternoon. I would also like to recognize the 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. Reichert) for his support for this 
important bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2779, legislation that I 
introduced to recognize the Navy UDT-SEAL Museum in Fort Pierce, 
Florida, as the official national museum of the Navy SEALs and their 
predecessors.

Mr. Speaker, I am sure that there are many today watching and asking 
how important is it to create a national museum recognizing brave men 
and women who have served in underwater demolition teams as frogmen and 
today as SEALs. In my life, I have had the privilege and honor of 
knowing and learning about brave men who have served our Nation and 
have seen the hell of combat, people like Reggie White, my daughter 
Bailey's grandfather, who was a combat engineer and who, like the men 
of UDT, had the job of clearing Omaha Beach that fateful day of June 6, 
1944. My uncle, Bart Mahoney, a B-17 pilot, was one of the first to be 
shot down over Germany. Bart survived combat and then survived German 
concentration camps. Bobbie Maynard saw frontline action in Korea and 
survived some of the heaviest engagements in the Korean War. My friend, 
Pat Kelley, was a medic in Vietnam who had to endure the life-and-death 
realities of combat. These men are heroes. These men have seen the 
horrors of war and survived them. These men never bragged about their 
service. In fact, they rarely spoke of it, preferring to let the 
horrors of their experience rest. This bill is important because it 
gives voice to the heroes whose stories and honor need to be captured 
and passed down to future generations.

The ground upon which the Navy UDT-SEAL Museum rests was the 
birthplace of the Navy frogmen. Through World War II, thousands of 
brave soldiers were trained as members of naval combat demolition units 
and underwater demolition teams at the site. Since that time, the 
frogmen have evolved into one of the elite fighting forces in the 
world, the Navy SEALs.

The Navy UDT-SEAL Museum is the only museum dedicated solely to 
preserving the legacy of the honor, courage, patriotism, and sacrifices 
of those Navy SEALs and their predecessors, including the underwater 
demolition teams, naval combat demolition units, Office of Strategic 
Service maritime units, and Amphibious Scouts and Raiders.



I would like to personally thank Captain Mike Howard, a retired Navy 
SEAL; Ruth McSween; Rolf Snyder; and others, who have made the UDT-SEAL 
Museum possible. I would also like to thank all the men and women who 
worked to preserve the legacy of the Naval Special Warfare community. 
Since the museum was opened in 1985, thousands of visitors have learned 
of the accomplishments of the Navy SEALs through the museum's artifacts 
and photos tracing the history of Naval Special Warfare from its 
beginnings during World War II, through the Navy's SEALs current role 
in fighting the war on terror and in Iraq.

While we are here today to honor the Naval Special Warfare community, 
I would like to take a moment to remember Petty Officer First Class 
Robert Richard McRill and all of those who have paid the ultimate 
sacrifice while serving our Nation. Petty Officer McRill, from Lake 
Placid, Florida, was killed while serving in Iraq as part of SEALs 
Group Two when his team was hit by an IED.

By designating the Navy UDT-SEAL Museum as the official national 
museum of Navy SEALs and their predecessors, we are honoring Mr. McRill 
and all the warriors who have served in Naval Special Warfare. I ask 
all my colleagues to join me in recognizing the honor, courage, 
patriotism and sacrifices of the SEALs and their predecessors by 
supporting this legislation.