---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `2a2416e9052ad76e3e61cd761eec7e8f`
`Mr. BURR — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, a few minutes ago the chairman of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee came to the floor and talked about the 
history of a bill, S. 1315, the spirited debate we had in committee and 
the continued negotiations that have gone on since that markup. I am 
here to announce that today I introduced an alternative bill to S. 
1315. I know I am joined by millions in America who also salute our 
Nation's veterans. These brave men and women and their families have 
sacrificed so much to defend our country and to protect our freedoms.

As the ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I 
take very seriously my responsibilities to ensure that our veterans are 
getting the respect and benefits they deserve.

This appreciation is the very reason why I wish to talk about the 
substitute to S. 1315. My bill is a commonsense alternative to an 
omnibus veterans bill that was reported out of the Senate Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs last June contained over 35 provisions compiled from 
other bills.

Unlike in past Congresses, S. 1315 does not enjoy the kind of 
customary bipartisan support that such omnibus bills have received in 
the past. Why is this? In addition to all the good things it would do 
for the veterans, this bill also is a vehicle for a provision that 
would take money away from helping veterans of the war on terror and 
instead send the money overseas. I am talking about a provision that 
would establish a flat rate special pension for World War II Filipino 
veterans who did not suffer any wartime injuries, generally are not 
U.S. citizens, and who do not even live in the United States. In a few 
minutes, I will talk more about the Filipino provision benefits and why 
it is wrong and the wrong priority at the wrong time.

First, I wish to share some good provisions of S. 1315 which I have 
included in the alternative omnibus bill I have introduced today.

S. 1315 has some very important provisions to help our men and women 
who have fought in the war on terror and should be passed as soon as 
possible by this body.

It provides retroactive payments--between $25,000 and $100,000--to 
all disabled veterans who sustained severe injuries since the war on 
terror began. Currently, severely injured veterans can only receive 
this retroactive payment if they sustained their injuries in Iraq or 
Afghanistan. But if they were injured on the way to or returning from a 
combat zone, they are not eligible. This provision would correct that 
mistake.

It also increases the amount of insurance coverage available to 
severely disabled veterans under the Veterans' Mortgage Life Insurance 
Program.

Additionally, it provides adapted housing and auto grants to veterans 
with severe burn injuries who require modifications to their homes or 
their vehicles. And it provides severely injured service men and women 
with housing grant assistance who temporarily live with family members 
while still on Active Duty. My bill would keep these provisions and 
other good provisions from S. 1315.

So what would my bill do that differs from S. 1315?

First, it would eliminate the provision that creates a special 
pension for non-U.S. citizens, Filipino veterans who live in the 
Philippines and do not have wartime injuries. This would free up over 
$220 million to spend on benefits for veterans of Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.

It is important to note it would still provide over $100 million to 
grant full equity to Filipino veterans living in the United States and 
full disability compensation for those living abroad who have service-
related injuries.

Also, my bill would create savings by changing how S. 1315 would fund 
State approving agencies, the entities that accredit schools and 
training programs for VA education benefits. My bill would begin to 
transition these entities from entitlement funding to discretionary 
appropriations. Subjecting these agencies to the annual appropriations 
process would help make sure veterans are being well served by any 
funds spent on this bureaucratic function.

My bill then takes these savings, the savings we have gained from 
eliminating this pension fund for non-U.S. citizens and Filipinos not 
injured in the conflict and it would provide funding to increase the 
specially adapted housing grants for severely disabled veterans from 
$50,000 to $55,000 and for less severely disabled veterans from $10,000 
to $11,000. It would then annually adjust the amount of these grants 
for inflation.

My bill would also increase the auto grant assistance for 
traumatically injured veterans from $11,000 to $16,000, and then also 
index that grant for inflation.

This benefit provides mobility and freedom to people such as SGT Eric 
Edmundson--whom my colleague from North Carolina talks about 
frequently--a young veteran from my State of North Carolina who lost 
the use of his legs after being injured during combat. As a result, 
Eric now uses


a motorized wheelchair. The expense to get a van that is wheelchair 
accessible is enormous. This provision makes it financially possible 
for others, such as Eric, to afford what most of us take for granted: 
mobility.

My bill would also provide annual increases in the funeral assistance 
and plot assistance benefits to families of deceased veterans to keep 
up with inflation.

It would increase ''kickers'' for members of the Guard and Reserve 
from $350 to $425 per month, providing extra monthly education benefits 
that may be paid to members with certain critical skills.

It also allows Guard and Reserve personnel activated for a cumulative 
2 years after the war on terror began to receive maximum education 
benefits. The current requirement is either 3 cumulative years or 2 
continuous years of service. This change will make it easier for our 
men and women who have gone on multiple deployments, including many of 
the Guard and Reserve from my home State of North Carolina, to earn the 
highest level of education benefits.

With these changes to S. 1315, we have a well-balanced package of 
benefit enhancements for our Nation's veterans which could garner the 
support of the entire Senate.

Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about S. 1315 in its current 
form. The problem with S. 1315 is the provision that creates a special 
pension for World War II Filipino veterans. This is both wrong and it 
is costly. It is wrong because it takes money from American veterans 
and sends it to the Philippines to create a special pension for 
noncitizen, nonresident Filipino veterans with no service-connected 
disabilities.

Allow me to explain this provision in S. 1315 and what it would 
actually do.

It proposes to send $328 million over 10 years in benefits for 
Filipino veterans. Although I am supportive of the increased benefits 
for Filipino veterans residing in the United States and even increasing 
benefits for Filipinos with service-connected injuries residing 
elsewhere, I cannot support sending $221 million to the Philippines to 
create a special pension for noninjured Filipino veterans.

To some, this may sound like a nice thing to do, and I fully respect 
their desire to recognize the valued service made by Filipino veterans 
in defense of the Philippine islands. But I point out that our 
Government has already done a great deal to provide for Filipinos who 
fought in World War II.

For instance, after the war, the United States gave $620 million to 
the Philippines for repair of public property and war damage claims; 
provided partial-dollar VA disability compensation to Filipinos with 
service-related disabilities, and provided benefits to the survivors of 
Filipinos injured in the war.

The United States also provided $22.5 million for the construction 
and equipping of a hospital in the Philippines for the care of Filipino 
veterans and later donated that hospital to the Philippine Government. 
On top of that, the United States continues to provide annual grants to 
support the operation of that hospital in the Philippines.

For those Filipinos legally residing in the United States, the 
benefits are even more robust. They are eligible for full-dollar 
disability compensation, for cash burial benefits, access to our VA 
health delivery clinics and medical centers, and burial in our national 
cemeteries.

With these initiatives and others, our Government has taken a 
significant step to recognize the service of Filipino veterans. More 
importantly, the money that S. 1315 would send overseas to create a new 
special pension for Filipinos is money that is needed in the United 
States to support our men and women who have served our country, 
especially in Iraq and Afghanistan. Simply put, with our Nation now at 
war, this Filipino pension provision is the wrong priority at the wrong 
time.


Since the committee's markup, we have tried to refocus this bill and 
the priorities that so many of our colleagues share, such as enhancing 
benefits for men and women fighting in the war on terror. Because those 
efforts have not worked, I introduced today an alternative omnibus bill 
to 1315. I kept most of the provisions found in 1315 because it is 
generally a good bill. It would provide enhancements to a wide range of 
benefits for our Nation's veterans.

In short, my bill serves as a fair and just compromise. It improves 
benefits for Filipinos, but it also places the appropriate priority on 
our returning OIF and OEF veterans. I believe it is a reasonable 
alternative to S. 1315, and I believe it is one we can all embrace and 
pass quickly. I ask my colleagues for their support.

I am ready to debate the contents of this bill against S. 1315. I am 
sure, if the leadership sees fit, they will set the structure up to do 
that. But it is important that every Member of the Senate and every 
American understand we have done a tremendous job of supporting people 
who have fought with us in battle, and the Filipinos are no different. 
The reality is, at this time, we should focus on the needs of those who 
are U.S. citizens, the needs of those who were injured in battle, but 
not to create a special pension fund for individuals who had an 
affiliation, and I might say that exceeds the annual income of most 
Filipino residents.

I urge my colleagues to learn about this issue and to get ready to 
engage in debate.

I yield the floor, Mr. President, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.