# TAKE COMFORT, IN HONOR OF A REAL AMERICAN HERO, CPT KYLE A. COMFORT,  THE UNITED STATES ARMY 3RD BATTALION 75TH RANGER REGIMENT
## `2a2b6a0c3e6489f16f058779b3a8b3fa`
`Mr. ROGERS of Alabama — 20 May 2010`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor, and to 
mourn the death of a brilliant American hero, from my great state of 
Alabama, Ranger Captain Kyle A. Comfort. On May 8, 2010, Kyle gave that 
last full measure for God and country in Afghanistan. Our prayers are 
with him, his lovely wife Brooke Catherine, and their new daughter 
Kinleigh Ann. May our Lord hold them in his arms, I ask that this poem 
penned in honor of him, by Albert Caswell be placed in the Record.
















Take Comfort



 Take Comfort!


 As you lay your head down to sleep . . .


 All in your hearts of love, so very deep . . .


 Of all of those most precious memories, so to keep!


 Of all of those Magnificent Ones, who have so brought us 





 peace . . .


 But, with their fine lives . . . as it's but for them we now 





 so weep!


 Take Comfort!


 In such hearts of honor and love . . . so very deep!


 Who to all of ours so brilliantly do so speak!


 As a gentle rain, rolls across Alabama this night . . . All 





 in our sleep . . .


 Are but our Lord's tears, coming down from Heaven from his 





 heart so very deep . . .


 All because of you Kyle, and your most selfless sacrifice so 





 very sweet . . .


 And all of this pain, your family must now so ever keep!


 Take Comfort!


 In hearts, now so very deep . . .


 As this you must, believe!


 That a new Angel, our Lord God . . . up in Heaven, has so 





 received!


 To watch over us, indeed!


 To fight the darkness, you see!


 And on this day, as you hold your family so very tight!


 And all, seems so very right!


 All because of a Hero, who for us has so died this night!


 Because, Freedom is not Free!


 But, bought and paid for . . . by all of these, most selfless 





 souls . . . so indeed!


 By men like Kyle, our Most Brilliant of All Lights!


 And the families, who now so cry . . . all in their tears of 





 heartache, this night!


 So, hush little baby Kinleigh Ann . . . don't you cry!


 For one day, up in Heaven you will look into your fine 





 Father's eyes!


 And you, Brooke . . . his lovely wife . . .


 Your Hero Kyle, but wants you to have a happy life!


 For there will be an eternity together, up in Heaven so very 





 bright!


 So this night, as you lay your head down to rest . . . but 





 remember, all of our very best!


 Take Comfort, all in how . . . our world they bless!


 My Lord, Take Comfort . . . he's yours . . . as we lay his 





 body down to rest!


 Amen!
