# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `2a49fe14dd652a0af75ad09bca96da4b`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Absolutely. And the point that the gentleman 
from Iowa has brought up is exactly this: When you dig into this and 
you start peeling back the onion of what's happening here, you start to 
see a pattern. And the issue here is this administration, as much as 
they want to talk


about the rule of law, as much as they want to talk about giving people 
recourse on this, they have slammed the door into 17 brave warriors, 
slammed the door in their face, of saying they should have the ability 
to recoup some of what they gave up for this Nation. And it wasn't our 
Nation paying for it. It was the Iraqis who were responsible for that 
torture, for that mistreatment.

And I think many of us ask the question, what message does this send 
to the people who are fighting around the world? What message does this 
send to them? You can torture the Americans and if you cut a good 
enough deal, there will be no recourse. There will be no recourse 
against the people who carried it out. There will be no recourse to 
allow for those people to receive compensation. I think it sets an 
incredibly poor precedent. It disrespects the service of these brave 
warriors, and it sets us up for failure in the future of these things 
starting to happen. So when we see this and when the American people 
ask us, why didn't anything get done? I'll have to tell you today's a 
pretty sad day. The President did sign the DOD authorization when this 
provision was taken out. And I think many of us who voted on this in 
the first place put together a good compromise bill. We find out that 
when any legislation goes up the street to Pennsylvania Avenue, the 
people's will in this House matters nothing, the people's will to make 
sure that this was righted. The 17 families that have asked for 
recourse on the damages that were done in the name of this Nation were 
wiped away with a single signature by the President, and this House is 
left at the horrible choice of do we continue to hold up the research 
funding for warriors' injuries? Do we continue to hold up the funding 
for weapons systems to protect them? Do we continue to hold up the pay 
raise to these soldiers and to their families who are fighting, or do 
we make the compromise to move that forward and fight another day?


And I quite honestly have to commend my colleague from Iowa. He will 
fight every day for what's right. This is a question of justice. This 
goes at the heart and soul of our rule of law and our justice system 
and a citizen's right to recourse, to petition, to be able to go to a 
court of law to hear their discussion in a public court of law, to have 
their peers make a decision. But as we know, this administration, given 
the opportunity, would shut those same doors to justice to many of us 
here.

We hear about clever arguments on tort reform, and I know my 
colleague from Iowa is very familiar with this, but it's pretty much 
the same thing; that if you are injured in a reckless manner, if you're 
injured or something is done to you, your ability to go and tell your 
story in front of a jury of your peers and to trust in your peers to 
make the right decision, they want to limit that, and they say it's all 
in the name of frivolous lawsuits, as if we could trust the corporate 
entities over our neighbors, over our fellow citizens. And in this case 
we told our fellow citizens, 17 of them that are warriors, well, Iraq 
needs to rebuild and needs to keep that money, which, by the way, as I 
think the gentleman noted, upwards of several billion dollars that have 
gone missing.

I will note that payment to Iraqi legislators has come on time every 
single month. The lifestyle of Iraqi legislators as they took off a 
month in the heat of August during some of the most fierce fighting 
that our soldiers were fighting and dying for as they left to their 
villas is something that I think Americans should take great notice of. 
So, once again, I think that this was a huge mistake. I think the 
President put a very narrow special interest ahead of the needs of our 
fighting soldiers and has set a precedent that I'm afraid we're going 
to have to deal with in a much bigger manner down the road.

