---
---

# None
## `2a66454627bbda97b346fee49c1c79a1`
`Ms. CASTOR — 11 July 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. I thank my colleague, Ms. Sutton from Ohio, who is a true 
fighter for education reform for the working families of Ohio and all 
Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the College Cost Reduction Act under 
this rule, as we are charting an historic new investment in our 
students and our communities.

All Americans should salute the leadership of Chairman George Miller 
and Speaker
Nancy Pelosi for their leadership in education and this 
single largest investment in higher education since the 1944 GI Bill.

Chairman Miller, on behalf of the students, colleges and universities 
in the State of Florida, I thank you for your dedication. And we also 
thank you in the State of Florida because you worked tirelessly with me 
and my colleague from the Rules Committee, Mr. Hastings, to ensure that 
students from States like Florida that have low tuition and low State 
support have access to additional need-based aid.

Passage of this act will increase access to college by making it more 
affordable. The cost of higher education in this country has 
skyrocketed over recent years. Thousands of students are left with 
overwhelming debt after graduation due to higher student loan rates and 
declining financial aid. Some may not make it to the college classroom 
at all because it has become so cost prohibitive.

In Florida, the average debt after college is more than $18,000 per 
student. But in America, no young person with a desire to learn should 
be barred from moving on to college due to financial hurdles, and this 
act removes many of those hurdles today. The College Cost Reduction Act 
cuts student loan interest rates in half and increases Pell Grants by 
at least $500 per student over the next 5 years. In the State of 
Florida alone, Federal loan and Pell Grant aid will increase by $762 
million that will benefit over 340,000 students. In my home area, the 
Tampa Bay area, we have the ninth largest university in the country in 
the University of South Florida, over 40,000 students in that 
university. In addition, there is the University of Tampa, the 
Hillsborough Community College, Manatee Community College and St. 
Petersburg College. So let the message go forth to those students and 
those families that help is on the way, that they will not have to 
struggle with those higher student loan interest rates; they can depend 
on a little more help when it comes to the Pell Grant.

This bill also acknowledges that some high school students need a 
little extra help to be college ready, particularly students who may be 
the first in their family to attend college. We're going to keep these 
students on track to go to college and stand up for them and protect 
Federal dollars for their success.

We owe a debt of gratitude to the gentleman from Virginia, Mr. Bobby 
Scott, because he offered an amendment to this bill to maintain the 
Upward Bound program. I am proud to support his amendment which is 
contained in this bill that nationwide will protect the Upward Bound 
program.

In my hometown of Tampa, this means standing up for those students I 
met on Monday. I met with students at the great Middleton High School 
in Tampa. Jasmyn Hendricks and Clifton Tyson are students in the Upward 
Bound program at the University of South Florida.

Imagine a high school student that takes 20 Saturdays out of their 
life to learn about what it means to go to college, and then they spend 
their summers there, too. They are typically the first ones in their 
family to go to college. And we know that if they achieve their high 
school diploma, they will have a higher salary; but if they achieve 
their college degree, they are set up for success in life, and our 
communities benefit.

Jasmyn said to me, as her eyes welled up with tears, that before 
Upward Bound, I knew I wanted to pursue higher education, but there was 
no way. Jasmyn considers her Upward Bound program her second family. 
She said, There was no money. I just couldn't see a way for me to get 
to college after high school. Then Upward Bound comes along and 
introduces us to the fact there are college scholarships, grants and 
help.

Clifton, who is an athlete, said that he used to see sports as his 
only avenue to college; but since starting at Upward Bound, he now says 
sports is his second gateway. He wants to go to college for academics.

It was completely unfortunate that the White House targeted the 
Upward Bound program for budget cuts. In this day and age when we are 
spending so much money overseas, up to $10 billion in Iraq, they target 
monies for folks that need to go to college.

Mr. Speaker, the College Cost Reduction Act is a momentous and 
historic step in a new direction, the right direction for higher 
education in America. It opens the door to college to thousands of 
students where those doors were previously slammed shut.