---
---

# None
## `2a67cbbe239f386d7277f826eb11bdd9`
`Mr. SKELTON — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Some will knock, Mr. Speaker, the importance of this legislation. It 
is a bill to require the Secretary of Defense to submit to us here in 
Congress reports on the status of planning for the redeployment of the 
Armed Forces from Iraq. Further, it requires the Secretary to meet with 
Congress to brief us on the matters contained in those reports.

Under the Constitution, Mr. Speaker, we are charged here in Congress 
with raising and maintaining the military. It's important for us to be 
able to look


around the corner to unseen challenges that are out there. The last 30 
years we've had 12 military engagements, most of which were a surprise 
to us. So consequently, it's important for us in Congress to understand 
the progress and the status of planning for the redeployment of our 
Armed Forces from Iraq, because there may be those contingencies out 
there. We hope it doesn't come to pass, but if the future is anything 
like the past, our forces will be necessary.

So let us understand what this bill does. I think it's a step in the 
right direction. I am absolutely pleased with the bipartisanship we 
have had, both in the Armed Services Committee and here on the floor. 
And special thanks to my friend, my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Turner) 
for his work and his amendment on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.