---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `2a693af42c1bf8b38f506d7399f20c48`
`Mr. REED — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of this budget resolution. 
I particularly commend Senator Conrad for his extraordinary work.

Later, at the conclusion of my brief remarks, I will call up an 
amendment.

We have a situation that is unprecedented in the history of the 
country--extraordinary economic challenges, extraordinary international 
challenges. This budget resolution is designed to and will, I believe, 
help get our economy moving again and serve as a catalyst for job 
creation and for long-term growth. It will also put this Nation on a 
sustainable path in a fiscal dimension. The budget resolution reflects 
a commitment to transparency and restores honesty and integrity to the 
process. The budget incorporates the cost of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, which were notably neglected in past budgets. It enhances 
oversight of Government, including defense procurement spending, to 
root out waste, fraud, and abuse.

We are in very challenging circumstances, both domestically and 
internationally, and this budget reflects and faces up to those 
challenges.

Against these daunting challenges, the priorities reflected in the 
budget are clear: lower the tax burden on working men and women and 
small businesses, trim health care costs, invest in education, and 
reduce our dependency on foreign oil.

For too long, these challenges have undermined our economic vitality, 
and they will continue to drive down progress unless we take essential 
steps, as reflected in this budget, to deal with them. These are 
reasonable and necessary provisions. They represent a way to grow our 
economy and put more money in the pockets of middle-class Americans.

We are inheriting a weakened fiscal position based on the policies of 
the last 8 years, marked by an economic ideology that extended 
significant tax cuts to the very wealthiest, skewing these tax cuts so 
they benefitted a very few rather than ordinary Americans.

The Obama administration inherited an economic mess, a $1.3 trillion 
budget deficit and a near doubling of the public debt, rising from $3.3 
trillion in 2001 to $5.8 trillion in 2008. This doubling of our debt 
occurred at a time of


macroeconomic prosperity and strong productivity growth. Yet, for 
middle-class Americans who have been working harder and more 
innovatively, there is little or no job creation. In fact, family 
incomes fell $2,000 between 2000 and 2007. Simply put, most families 
saw their income fall by $2,000 in a period of economic boom and 
prosperity, and we have to reverse that. We have to make an economy 
that will provide the jobs and the growth of income that Americans 
depend upon to educate their children, provide for their health care 
needs, and to contribute to their community.

This budget will provide that path of sustainable economic growth. It 
will do so by making investments to counter some of the downward spiral 
we have seen over the last several years.

It will invest in tax reform. This budget provides tax cuts for 95 
percent of working Americans. It will close tax loopholes to ensure 
that we are all paying our fair share. It will eliminate some 
complicated, sophisticated tax shelters that benefit the wealthy but do 
not benefit working families.

In addition, it will focus on health care reform, which is necessary 
not only for our position as citizens but also for our economic future. 
Despite technological innovation, despite technological advances in 
medicine, far too many of these basic services are out of reach of 
Americans. They are simply not affordable or accessible. This budget 
will set the parameters for significant health care reform.

It will also begin to address the issue of global warming, which has 
huge implications internationally.