---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2a6bc891dfe7c1d879bbeea2100d1212`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, what this amendment does is eliminate all 
of the funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. I think that 
would be a very ill-advised thing to do. This Congress has spoken on 
funding for that organization many times. It has had strong support, 
often bipartisan support.

The gentleman complains about the fact that it is advance funded. It 
is advance funded for two reasons: number one, so that you can assure 
some kind of political independence from political pressure, and, 
secondly, because programmers need advance time in order to plan their 
programming.

The advance funding concept was begun 31 years ago by that notorious 
big spender Jerry Ford when he was President, my good friend, my good 
buddy.

If this amendment passes, 1,150 public radio and TV stations will be 
hurt. That will fall especially hard on rural stations. I don't think 
that's a good idea. I don't think we ought to do anything that would 
lead us 1 inch more toward a world in which the only kind of news we 
got was from the commercial stations feeding us the lately breathless 
news about Britney Spears, Donald Trump and Rosie O'Donnell. I would 
like to see a little bit better than that, and I think we get it from 
public broadcasting.

As far as the gentleman talking about taxes, we have seen Republican 
after Republican march down here like good little young Republicans in 
their college days repeating their mantra about taxes when this bill 
has nothing to do with taxes. They are all dutifully parroting their 
words like the Chinese used to do from Mao's Little Red Book. It's no 
more impressive now than it was then.

Let me just simply say that for someone to support spending $600 
billion on the war in Iraq and spend $57 billion in tax cuts for 
millionaires and then somehow to suggest that the 2 percent difference 
in this bill between the President and us somehow has something to do 
with fiscal irresponsibility is a joke. The American people know it, 
and so do the Members of this House.

I yield to the gentleman from Oregon.

