# None
## `2a72d22f31b84f840aa3246944edd4ac`
`Mr. SOUDER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York, as 
well as Chairman Lantos, for his leadership on this issue.

Fort Wayne, Indiana, my hometown, is estimated to have 2,000 or 3,000 
people from Burma, the greatest number of refugees from Burma in the 
United States. Many are coming in directly. Many are coming through 
Washington and Los Angeles and heading to Indiana because of our job 
situation. It is important to note because as Americans become more 
internationally aware, just like in Iraq there are different groups, 
and in Afghanistan there are different groups, it is important to say 
''people of Burma'' because the Mon and other subgroups were persecuted 
by the Burmese inside Burma.

What they all agree on is the current situation in Burma is 
intolerable. The violent suppression of Buddhist monks and the peaceful 
demonstrators in Burma, they want the immediate, unconditional release 
of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi who is their elected leader. They all know she 
is the elected leader. Regardless of the differences they have in their 
country, they elected a leadership and worked together, like what we 
are trying to do in Iraq and like what we are trying to do with the 
different tribes in Afghanistan. They chose a leader, and then the 
leader was locked up.

In 1990, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi was rightfully elected, and the junta 
placed her under arrest. This has been going on for 18 years. She has 
been locked up for 12 of the 18 years since the election.

In Fort Wayne, I hear many stories as I talk to individuals who have 
talked to their relatives who have lived in concentration camps, in 
effect, more refugee camps; but at times they felt both abused by the 
Thai Government that wants to move them back to Burma, by the Burmese 
Government that is trying to chase them out. They have been abused in 
the camps. They have been raped in the camps, and they have had their 
money stolen in the camps.

We have a huge challenge in America, and it is speaking to broader 
questions than just Burma, which is how to handle situations, because 
our area has also become in the top three of refugees from Darfur. One 
of the challenges we are having is Catholic Social Services has come to 
me and said we don't have the support system to handle, and the State 
Department has come back and said what do you want to do, leave the 
people in the refugee camps? They aren't doing well in the refugee 
camps.

We have to understand that we no longer live in an isolated world. 
What happens in Burma and the demonstrations you are seeing in Burma 
and the persecution of the people in Burma, the terrible tragedies in 
Darfur, what happens in Iraq and Afghanistan impacts all of us. It 
impacts us in our hometowns. If we are going to be the Nation that 
welcomes immigrants, there is only so much we can handle, and we need 
to put international pressure on some of these countries to handle 
their own regional problems. This resolution helps us move in that 
direction.

They have to have changes in Burma. It is not only unfair to the 
people who come to the United States; it is unfair to the people 
trapped in the camps. It is unfair to the monasteries being emptied out 
in Burma, and it is unfair to the people being persecuted throughout 
Burma. If we don't stand up and force some changes for human liberties 
in Burma, we are going to face another type of catastrophe like is 
happening in Darfur while the world watches.