# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `2a85343437719332bd800dd1549a8d5a`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I hope that we will have an 
opportunity to do something we have not been able to do, and that is to 
debate the Afghan war and the direction that this war is taking and the 
impact on our men and women on the front lines. I particularly want to 
say to the families how much we appreciate the sacrifice that you've 
made as these men and women stand on the front lines of Afghanistan. 
But I think we're long overdue for a major debate that has to do with 
that direction.

I support this underlying rule for the purpose of allowing us to have 
this debate, but also that it provides, on the domestic spending, 
crucial issues.

Pell Grants will be provided for in $4.95 billion; border security 
that impacts the northern and southern border so that we can stand as 
we do comprehensive immigration reform and assure the American people 
that we will secure our boarders.

In the most catastrophic oil spill from the region that I come, the 
tsunami of oil spills, we are taking care of the people by providing 
$304 million for the gulf coast oil spill, including moneys for 
unemployment assistance.

Then, coming from the region I belong to, as well, we had a tragedy 
at Fort Hood, and we are now rebuilding the Fort Hood processing center 
that saw a terrible loss of life because of terrorism.

FEMA disaster. This is the most vigorous season that you could have 
ever imagined that is to be expected in hurricanes, and we know, among 
other disasters, we'll have the money here.

But we're also going to say to the youth of America when we vote on 
this, we're providing money for summer youth jobs, $1 billion in youth 
jobs that we in the Congressional Black Caucus--and many Members joined 
us--are fighting for. This is a crucial step forward. We're providing 
for black farmers who have been discriminated against over the years.

And then, as I have indicated, we will have an opportunity to 
question not the men and women in Afghanistan or Iraq, but to question 
whether or not it is wise to focus on insurgents versus terrorists so 
that we send men and


women into harm's way without a discerning goal.