# None
## `2a8557e64bf8409f6be4d8af24c28cdb`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I just want to say how proud I am of my fellow 
Pennsylvanian and the second Murphy now to join the 30-Something 
Working Group, along with the gentleman from Connecticut. He is someone 
that we look to for his expertise, having been in the field of battle 
and having served in this conflict; and I really am excited to hear 
that he is going to be joining us now with the 30-something group to 
talk more about these issues. And he definitely has a unique 
perspective that he's adding. So I was excited to hear his voice, and I 
am very proud to hail from the same State.

I wanted to talk a little bit about one of the consequences of this 
action that we're talking about, as Mr. Meek brought up, is the fact 
that we are creating, through our actions in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
hundreds of thousands of new veterans are returning to this country, 
many of whom are returning seriously injured. We have over 25,000 that 
have been injured. We are approaching 4,000 killed now. And those


that are returning and are going to have to use the VA system are going 
to find, thankfully, that for the first time in the history of the 
program, 77 years of the Department of Veterans Affairs, we have 
increased funding at a rate that has never been seen in the history of 
the Department. We are up to approximately $15 billion in increased 
funding for the VA in this Congress.

And as every member of the 30-Something Working Group knows and 
certainly every Member of this House knows, this is a priority issue 
for me. Funding for Veterans Affairs has languished in the past several 
years, unfortunately, but this Congress has stepped up to the plate in 
a bipartisan way, I will say, to give the Veterans Affairs Department, 
especially the health accounts, the necessary funding to take care of 
these hundreds of thousands of veterans that we are creating in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

These are men and women who have fought bravely, people like Mr. 
Murphy from Pennsylvania who have put their lives on the line, who have 
left a family behind to do this and have made every possible sacrifice. 
They deserve to know that they can count on the United States to give 
them the health care that they deserve and that they have earned, that 
they've been promised when they entered the military.

So we voted in just the first 5 months here in this Congress to 
increase funding by $15 billion for the VA. And significantly, for the 
first time ever, we exceeded the recommended independent budget request 
of the service organizations, the American Legion, the VFW, and others.

I want to repeat that point for my colleagues. For the first time 
ever, Congress exceeded the request of the service organizations. I 
think that's something we can be proud of.

We talk about the enormous achievements we've had in the first 5 
months, the many bills and the different subjects that we have 
addressed. The fact that we have paid attention to and finally moved 
forward with our veterans health care facility in a way that is 
unprecedented in the history of this country is I think one of the 
things we can be most proud of in our first 5 months in office here.

Some of the things that this funding is going to allow us to do, we 
are going to be able to hire more doctors and nurses and improve 
medical services at the VA. As we saw with some of the Department of 
Defense facilities with regard to health care and Walter Reed, chronic 
underfunding can lead to some disastrous consequences. We need to make 
sure that we don't allow that to happen in our VA system. So this bill 
is going to improve the quality of care.

I have in my district a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital that 
is undergoing a $100 plus million expansion right now. Hopefully, when 
that is done, we are going to have in my district the preeminent health 
care facility in the entire VA network; and I want every VA facility to 
have that type of access across this country. Our veterans deserve 
nothing less than the highest quality health care this Nation can 
provide for them.

We are going to reduce waiting times. We have a backlog at the VA, 
unfortunately, of nearly 500,000 cases. And every Member of this House 
knows, you probably have the same experience that I am having in my 
office of people who are calling, frustrated veterans who want to 
access the VA health system but they have to wait, they have to get in 
line. And it is a very long line, weeks or months of waiting, because 
of that backlog, nearly 500,000 cases. The bill that we passed in this 
House, the legislation that we've passed is going to go a long way 
towards improving that situation.