# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2a8a84f91f9a6ed771d65a5e78e4537e`
`Mr. SKELTON — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I rise to engage the chairwoman of the 
State, Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee in a colloquy on 
oversight on Iraq funding.

Madam Chairwoman, I want to thank you for your hard work in ensuring 
that funds spent in Iraq are properly overseen. Your bill on the floor 
today contains a section concerning the Special Inspector General for 
Iraq Reconstruction that extends the authorities of that office.

The National Defense Authorization Act, which came out of the Armed 
Services Committee and passed the House on May 17, contained a 
provision with similar goals that I had worked out with Chairman Lantos 
of the Foreign Affairs Committee.

I want to thank, first, the chairwoman for pursuing this issue so 
strenuously. Also, I want to express my appreciation that we were able 
to work out a way forward so that our two committees worked together on 
the issue, rather than pursuing separate paths.

Rather than contesting it at this time, the inclusion of this 
authorization language in the State Department, Foreign Operations and 
Related Programs appropriations bill, I rise to assure you that you 
will be involved in the Defense authorization conference on the SIGIR 
issue. I am glad that in return you have offered to drop your provision 
in conference on your bill so that together we can ensure that there is 
only one version of the language instead of competing versions.

I yield to the chairwoman for a response.