---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `2a8f51ed776ba501441db1e8884a26c4`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Chairman, first, I wish to begin by commending the 
work of the chairman and the ranking member for bringing this bill to 
the floor.

Upon my first visit to Iraq in 2003, I was struck by the centralized 
reconstruction process. I believed it was a mistake, and I came back in 
November of that year and gave a speech on the floor of the House and I 
said that I thought that one of the things that we needed to do was to 
provide the Iraqi people a transactional benefit to undergird the 
transformational change to democracy. This lesson is equally applicable 
in Afghanistan, which is why this bill today is so welcomed, because it 
recognizes that the people of Afghanistan in the provinces, in the 
local levels are where the reconstruction money must really be 
targeted.

If you think about how the United States evolved into a democracy, we 
began with the family unit and went to the town halls and went to our 
county government level and eventually became States and eventually 
became a strong union. We can expect no more nor no less from the 
people of other nations who are yearning to breathe free and have been 
given the chance to seize the opportunity.

On a more personal note, having been on my first trip to Afghanistan 
with my colleagues, we had the opportunity to meet with some female 
parliamentarians, and I was struck by two things: The first, and I said 
this to them, was that I admired their courage and that there was a 
part of me that envied them. I envy them because here in the United 
States capital we see portraits and we see monuments and we continue to 
this day to hear testaments to the courage and perseverance of our 
Nation's founders.

And I said that I was so honored to be in the presence of these 
female parliamentarians for in Afghanistan, as they move towards 
democracy, one day there will be testaments and monuments and portraits 
of them hanging on the walls of their own chambers and in the homes of 
their fellow countrymen.

We promised that day not to forget or forsake them. And today, thanks 
to the leadership of the ranking member and the chairman, we can tell 
those female parliamentarians that we have not forgotten them and that 
we stand with them.

And, finally, let us not forget when we think about the role of the 
United States, which was conceived in liberty, those female 
parliamentarians were once considered property until they were 
emancipated by the United States of America and the coalition allies.