---
---

# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `2aa0a511446bdbfac25044e2247edb81`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from 
California for her leadership.

Mr. Speaker, before we can even consider sending more of our young 
men and women into harm's way, we must first determine what our mission 
is in Iraq. Only then will it be possible to intelligently discuss the 
number of troops necessary to meet that mission. But 4 years after 
going to war in Iraq, the administration has yet to clearly articulate 
a mission. Without a mission and a strategy with a credible chance of 
success, we should not even be discussing an increase in troop levels.

Mr. Speaker, before we respond to the President's call for an 
escalation of the war in Iraq, we must first put his speech in the 
context of the history of the war in Iraq. We need to begin with a 
discussion of what the current 130,000 troops are doing in Iraq now 
before we can discuss what 20,000 additional troops might do.

The original reasons which were provided as the rationale for going 
to war, Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, Iraqi leaders were 
connected with the 9/11 attacks, and that Iraq posed an imminent threat 
to the United States, all turned out not to be true.

We have found no weapons of mass destruction, and we know that Iraqi 
leaders were not connected with the 9/11 attacks. And we were told 
before the invasion into Iraq that, in the opinion of the CIA, Iraq 
posed no imminent terrorist threat to the United States. In fact, a 
letter from the Director of the CIA to the Chair of the Senate 
Intelligence Committee, dated October 7, 2002, specifically stated that 
the CIA believed that Iraq and Saddam Hussein did not pose a terrorist 
threat to the United States and would not be expected to pose such a 
threat unless we attacked Iraq.

Last night, the President once again attempted to associate our 
presence in Iraq with the so-called war on terrorism. The truth is that 
our presence in Iraq has actually increased our risk to terrorism. 
Furthermore, the term ''war on terrorism'' is a rhetorical term without 
any relationship to reality. ''Terrorism'' is not an enemy; it is a 
tactic. The enemy is al Qaeda. We attacked Afghanistan because al Qaeda 
was there.

But after the initial reasons turned out to be false, we have been 
subjected to a series of excuses for being in Iraq, such as the need to 
capture Saddam Hussein, the need to capture al-Zarqawi and the need to 
establish a democracy.

Well, Saddam Hussein was in jail for almost 2 years before he was 
recently hanged. Al-Zarqawi was killed over 6 months ago, and Iraq held 
Democratic elections over a year ago. Yet we remain in Iraq, with no 
apparent end in sight. And here we are talking about increasing, not 
decreasing, troop levels.

So what are we doing in Iraq? Why did we go in? What do we expect to 
accomplish? And what will our strategy be for getting out? After we 
receive truthful answers to these questions, we can intelligently 
discuss appropriate troop levels.

Last night, the President said he was laying out a new mission for 
Iraq, thereby clearly acknowledging that whatever the old mission was, 
it wasn't working. But there is still no clearly defined end goal and 
clearly defined explanation of how failure or success can be measured. 
So we remain where we were before the speech, which is on an unclear, 
undefined path, while continuing to put more troops in harm's way.

If our mission is to stabilize Baghdad, military experts have already 
said that an additional 20,000 troops is woefully insufficient, so 
sending these troops will not accomplish that goal. And what happens if 
Iraq fails to meet its responsibilities, or Baghdad remains unstable 
and the price is more American deaths? Will we send even more troops? 
Or will we just cut and run?

And how will we know the new initiative will work? Before our 
invasion into Iraq, Defense Secretary Rumsfeld predicted that the war 
would last, and I quote, ''six days, six weeks. I doubt 6 months.'' It 
has been almost 4 years, and we are still in Iraq with no end in sight.

At the outset of the war, the administration advised the House Budget 
Committee that it expected the cost of


the war to be so minuscule that it advised the committee not to include 
the cost of the war in the Federal budget, and the administration 
official who suggested that the cost of the war might exceed $100 
billion was fired.

To date, the cost of the war to the United States is over $375 
billion, with no end in sight. Over 3,000 courageous Americans have 
already lost their lives. How many more will die if this new strategy 
falls as far from the predicted result as the original time and cost 
estimates? We need to be honest in clearly stating the likelihood that 
this initiative might fail.

Furthermore, Mr. Speaker, as far as developing a new mission and 
strategy, it is imperative that we ask where these additional troops 
will come from. Many will have to come from the National Guard and 
Reserve, and the escalation will mean longer and multiple deployments. 
But our troops already in Iraq have served for above-average 
deployments, and many have already completed multiple tours. Other 
troops may be redeployed from other assignments. So we must ask what 
moving these troops will mean to our global national security. We 
cannot assess the wisdom of an escalation without first answering these 
critical questions.

We need to develop a coherent plan for Iraq, and that can only begin 
with truthfully acknowledging our situation there. Unfortunately, all 
we have gotten from this administration is essentially ''Don't worry, 
be happy. Success is around the corner. And if you don't believe that, 
then you are not patriotic.''

Last November, the American people sent a powerful message that they 
wanted a real change in Iraq, not more of the same. This Congress needs 
to hold substantive hearings on why we entered Iraq in the first place, 
what the present situation is, what we can now expect to accomplish and 
what the strategy is to accomplish it, and only then can we 
intelligently discuss the troop levels necessary to accomplish that 
goal.

It is absurd to discuss troop levels first before we have answers to 
these critical questions. The American people and our courageous men 
and women on the front lines deserve a clear, articulated and sensible 
approach to ending the war in Iraq. Starting with an escalation of 
military forces is a step in the wrong direction.