---
---

# None
## `2aa161403d43c65b3c7ebe47c3e6ed54`
`Mr. DURBIN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. My colleague and friend from New York has served in both 
the House and Senate, and he knows that often promises are made on 
important things we do. But we have kept our promise that we would have 
a pay-as-you-go plan. As we came up with new ideas for legislation, we 
paid for them--much different from what we saw around here as we were 
driven deeply into debt under the leadership of the other party.


The war in Iraq is a classic example. This President continues to 
wage this war and asks for money without any tax or cut in spending. He 
just adds to the deficit of this country--a deficit which, 
unfortunately, is out of control and makes us beholden, mortgaged, to 
some of the largest countries in the world.

So I would say we have kept our promise. It is a pay-as-you-go 
promise.















 Amendment No. 3035


I would like to make this point on the hate crime amendment, and then 
I will defer to my colleagues, who may be speaking on the same subject.

Mr. President, the Senate is about to consider a bipartisan amendment 
to the Defense Department authorization bill dealing with hate crimes 
which broadens the scope of the Federal hate crime law in significant 
ways. It is one of the most important pieces of civil rights 
legislation in our time, and I am proud to cosponsor it.

Some people might ask: Haven't we moved beyond the need for this in 
this modern age of the 21st century? Do we still really need a hate 
crime law? Unfortunately, the answer is yes.

As Senator Kennedy said on the Senate floor:




 At a time when our ideals are under attack by terrorists in 


 other lands, it is more important than ever to demonstrate 


 that we practice what we preach and that we are doing all we 


 can to root out bigotry and prejudice in our own country that 


 leads to violence here at home.


Sadly, there is no shortage of bigotry and violence here at home. In 
the past week, there has been a national spotlight on Jena, LA, where 
White high school students put up nooses in a tree to intimidate 
African-American students--nooses--the ancient symbol of hatred and 
lynching.

The problems with hate crimes and racial tension are not confined to 
the South. Take a look at today's Washington Post. An article entitled 
''Colleges See Flare in Racial Incidents'' said that a noose was found 
a few weeks ago at the University of Maryland outside the campus's 
African-American cultural center. This past weekend, a swastika was 
spray-painted onto a car parked on that same campus.

My home State of Illinois is not immune to this same problem. Last 
month, a judge in Chicago awarded $1.3 million to two victims of 
vicious hate crimes that were committed a few months after September 11 
in Chicago's West Loop. The victims--Amer Zaveri and Toby Paulose are 
American-born citizens of Indian descent. The perpetrators yelled, 
''Are you Taliban?'' and ''Go back to your country'' before punching 
them, assaulting them, kicking them, and smashing a beer bottle on one 
of their heads, causing facial fractures and lacerations.

Now, according to statistics compiled by the FBI, nearly 10,000 hate 
crimes are committed in America each year. Other estimates put the 
number closer to 50,000. An increasing number are committed against 
gays and lesbians, representing nearly 15 percent of all hate crimes.

The response from some Republicans, not from all--Senator Gordon 
Smith of Oregon is a prominent cosponsor of the Kennedy bill on hate 
crimes--but from some others, is that we need to study this issue. The 
studies have been done over and over again. Sad to report, hate crimes 
are a reality in America today.

The existing Federal hate crime law was enacted 40 years ago, in 
1968. It was passed at the time of Martin Luther King's assassination. 
It is an important law, but it is outdated. Its coverage is too narrow. 
Unless the hate crime falls within one of six very narrow areas, 
prosecutors can't use the law. For example, if it takes place in a 
public school, the Government can prosecute, but not in a private 
school.

This hate crime law we are considering would expand the categories of 
people who would be covered and the incidents covered as well. The 
current Federal law provides no coverage for hate crimes based on a 
victim's sexual orientation, gender or disability. Sadly, hate crimes 
data suggest that hate crimes based on sexual orientation are the third 
most prevalent, after race and religion. Our laws should not ignore 
reality.

Some people have suggested that banning hate crimes is a violation of 
the first amendment and the right to free speech. The Supreme Court has 
been very clear that is not the case. In 2003, in the case of Virginia 
v. Black, the Supreme Court upheld the validity of laws banning cross 
burning, one of the ultimate hate crimes. In her opinion, Justice 
Sandra Day O'Connor wrote:




 To this day, regardless of whether the message is a 


 political one or whether the message is also meant to 


 intimidate, the burning of a cross is a symbol of hate.


This week we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the integration of 
Little Rock Central High School. Arkansas at that time was the 
crucible, the laboratory for us to test whether America was an 
accepting, diverse nation. Those nine students and those who stood 
behind them had the courage to step through those classroom doors and 
face the intimidation on the way. It is important the Senate have the 
courage to confront the injustice of our time and pass the bipartisan 
Kennedy-Smith hate crime amendment.

I yield the floor.