---
---

# None
## `2aad3f48ea6dabba7bfa34e00b2fca04`
`Mr. CONAWAY â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. As we draw to the close of this hour, I want to talk 
briefly about something that also came up in today's conversation. 
General Petraeus, you went through his resume awhile ago, something 
that you didn't mention was that he has been deployed overseas, away 
from his family 4/1/2/ years since this fight began in 2001, a 
significant sacrifice for his family, and in order for him to do the 
job that we have asked him to do.

He said he is keenly aware, personally as well as for the men and 
women that he leads, that the impact that multiple deployments have 
had, the impact of the 15-month deployment instead of the 12-month 
deployment is having on these troops. He said that they have answered 
the call every single time and have not yet one time blinked in the 
face of some incredible sacrifices and commitments that we are asking 
them to take on.

One of the problems that we face here stateside is that a remarkably 
small percentage of Americans have been directly involved in this 
fight. We have a little more than 4,000 families now


whose lives are forever changed as a result of that knock on the door 
saying that their loved one has been killed in action or killed in one 
of these two fights in Afghanistan or Iraq. We have 25,000 or so others 
wounded in some level of severity, some who have returned to the fight, 
and many who have life-altering circumstances that happened in the 
blink of the eye. None of them joined our services to get hurt like 
that; but they have, and they are now facing a different life, a 
different style of doing things than they ever contemplated before.

They also talked about the men and women who continue to sign up to 
serve their country. Men and women who know if you join our Army or our 
Marine Corps today, given this persistent war that we are going to be 
in, they will fight. This isn't your granddad's army. This is an Army 
and a Marine Corps that will be asked to fight.


I marvel personally at the strength and resolve and resoluteness that 
these families exhibit. Individually they have made incredible 
sacrifices. I get a tiny, little glimpse of the anxiety when I go to 
Afghanistan and Iraq because of the concern and worry that Suzanne, my 
wife, has while I am away. You and I when we go are never in harm's 
way. So that helps me a little bit empathize with what the families 
back home go through 24 hours a day, 7 days a week when they have a 
loved one in harm's way. While the loved one in harm's way knows 
whether or not something scary is going on, the folks back home think 
it is happening all the time and they live in dread of something bad 
happening.

In the face of those sacrifices and commitments that we have asked 
them to make, they are standing tall and reenlisting in numbers that 
are appropriate, and new people are coming into the system in numbers 
that are sufficient to grow the Marine Corps as well as grow the Army 
which will help shift some of the burden, spread some of the burden out 
across a larger number of troops.

But I stand in awe of how magnificent these warrior families are, as 
well as their warriors, doing a job that their Commander-in-Chief has 
asked them to do and that their Nation has asked them to do, and a 
fight that I personally believe protects America's interests and also 
keeps us safer at home than we otherwise would have been.