# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `2abd9222a7f356caeb7427aa7e9916d2`
`Mr. AKAKA — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as chairman of the Senate Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, I had the honor of speaking at the World War II 
Memorial this past Veterans Day. As I stood there remembering my own 
comrades and their families, I thought of what the brave men and women 
in the service give up every day so we can enjoy the freedoms that come 
with American citizenship.

It is in that spirit that I urge this body to pass S. 1963, the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009 without 
further delay.

The Nation's young veterans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan 
have faced a new and terrifying kind of warfare, characterized by 
improvised explosive devices, sniper fire, and counterinsurgencies. 
Military medicine, fortunately, is saving more of these young 
servicemembers' lives than ever before.

In World War II, 30 percent of Americans injured in combat died. In 
Vietnam, 24 percent died. In the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, about 10 
percent of those injured have died.

As more of the catastrophically disabled are surviving to return 
home, more will require a lifetime of care. With our decision on S. 
1963, we decide whether that care will be in their homes with the help 
of their family members or in institutions. If we want that care to be 
in the home, we need to help the families shoulder the burden of 
providing it.

During the prior administration, the President's Commission on Care 
for America's Returning Wounded Warriors--known as the Dole-Shalala 
Commission--found that 21 percent of Active Duty, 15 percent of 
Reserves, and 24 percent of retired or separated servicemembers who 
served in the Iraq or Afghanistan conflicts said friends or family 
members gave up a job to be with them or to act as their caregiver. By 
giving up a job, caregivers often give up health insurance, when they 
need it the most.

Studies also show family caregivers experience an increased 
likelihood of stress, depression, and mortality, compared to their 
noncaregiving peers.

Without a job, without health insurance, and in very stressful 
situations, family caregivers have worked to fulfill the Nation's 
obligation to care for its wounded warriors.

S. 1963 would give these caregivers health care, counseling, support, 
and a living stipend. The bill would provide caregivers with a stipend 
equal to what a home health agency would pay an employee to provide 
similar services. It would give the caregivers health care and make 
mental health services available to them. The bill also provides for 
respite care so caregivers can return to care for these veterans with 
renewed vigor and energy. It lets these young veterans return to their 
families and not to a nursing home.

While the caregiver program in this legislation will be limited at 
first to the veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, other 
provisions of the bill improve health care for all veterans.

There are provisions which make health care quality a priority, 
strengthen the credentialing and privileging requirements of VA health 
care providers, and require the VA to better oversee the quality of 
care provided in individual VA hospitals and clinics.

The bill will also improve care for homeless veterans, women 
veterans, veterans who live in rural areas, and veterans who suffer 
from mental illness.

About 131,000 veterans are homeless. S. 1963 would help these 
veterans obtain housing, pension benefits, and other supportive 
services. It would provide financial assistance to organizations that 
help homeless veterans.

Seventeen percent of servicemembers are now women. This legislation 
contains a number of provisions which are designed to improve the care 
and services provided to women veterans.

It would provide for the training of mental health professionals in 
the treatment of military sexual trauma and provide care for the 
newborn children of servicewomen. It would give women veterans a 
quality of care they have earned through their service to this country.

The bill also provides new assistance to veterans who live in rural 
areas. According to the VA, of the 8 million veterans enrolled in VA 
health care, about 3 million live in rural areas. This legislation 
would bring more services into rural communities through telemedicine 
and increased recruitment and retention incentives for health care 
providers. It also would increase the VA's ability to use volunteers at 
vet centers and create centers of excellence for rural health.

Finally, S. 1963 addresses the signature injuries of this war--PTSD 
and traumatic brain injury. According to a recent RAND report, one-
third of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan will develop 
post-traumatic stress disorder. Countless others will suffer from 
traumatic brain injury and face


significant problems in readjusting to life at home. Many studies have 
shown the importance of early intervention to the effective treatment 
of these invisible wounds.

This legislation contains provisions that allow Active-Duty military 
to seek mental health services at vet centers and increase access to 
care for veterans with traumatic brain injury.

Before concluding, I wish to share one of the many stories I have 
heard as I have worked to move this legislation through the Senate.

SGT Ted Wade sustained a severe brain injury after his humvee was hit 
by an improvised explosive device in Iraq. His right arm was completely 
severed above the elbow, and he also suffered a fractured leg, broken 
right foot, and visual impairment, among other injuries.

His wife Sarah Wade became his caregiver and a dedicated advocate for 
her husband, as well as for others who are providing caregiver 
services.

In testimony before the House Veterans' Affairs Committee earlier 
this year, Ms. Wade made the point that:




 Young veterans with catastrophic injuries need support that 


 will be around as long as the injuries they sustained in 


 service to their country. Just like servicemembers need a 


 team in the military to accomplish the mission, they need a 


 team at home for the longer war.


I agree completely with that view. Veterans need all the support we 
can provide. We, as a country, can give them options that veterans of 
my generation never had. We can give them the option to really come 
home.

To those who are concerned about the cost of this legislation, I say 
we cannot now turn our back on the obligation to care for those who 
fought in the current wars. When we as a body vote to send American 
troops to war, we have promised to care for them when they return.

I firmly believe the cost of veterans benefits and services is a true 
cost of war and must be treated as such.

I ask that our colleagues accept no more delays and act on this 
important legislation.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time and yield the 
floor.