---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF
## `2ac20ab3b006d3a9a84bd8ff64104a0e`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 28 January 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Obviously, I will not be objecting. I just want to 
associate myself with the remarks of the Senator from Arizona and to 
thank him, as well as Senator Lieberman, for their involvement in this 
issue, as well as the majority leader, and just make one comment.

Frequently, these kinds of unilateral sanction measures make little 
or no difference. This measure, however, is crafted in such a way that 
it could actually become effective, with America alone not having to 
depend on the cooperation of the other countries that tend to be less 
concerned about whether Iran ultimately becomes armed with nuclear 
weapons.

So this is an important piece of legislation, as the majority leader 
said, as Senator McCain has said, and Senator Lieberman has said. It 
can actually make a difference.

The time to act on this measure is long overdue.

A year ago, the administration came into office with the idea it 
would try to engage Tehran diplomatically in order to get it to halt 
its uranium enrichment program. And yet the past year has shown us that 
the Iranian regime is intent on acquiring the ability to develop a 
nuclear weapon. This is now abundantly clear.

Our straightforward proposal to provide Iran with nuclear fuel for 
civilian purposes in exchange for its stockpile of low enriched uranium 
failed to produce any concessions.

The Iranian regime has shown no interest in limiting its nuclear 
ambitions. And an entire year was lost as Iran moved closer and closer 
to its goal.

Some recent highlights from that lost year:

In September, the world learned of Iran's covert uranium enrichment 
facility in Qom.

That same month, Iran test fired a series of medium and longer range 
missiles that put U.S. bases in the gulf and our ally, Israel, within 
range.

In October, the U.N. Security Council and Germany offered to enrich 
Iran's uranium abroad--an offer that was met by more delay and 
obfuscation by Tehran.

Deadlines came and went. And just a few days ago, the U.N. Security 
Council failed to agree on a new round of sanctions.

So here we are, a year later. And what has been the result of 
diplomatic engagement?

Iran is closer to realizing its nuclear aspirations, and the U.S. has 
nothing to show for the outreach.

And here is what is at stake:

Standing by and permitting Tehran to satisfy its nuclear ambitions 
would pose a grave threat to American interests in the Middle East and 
South Asia. The Iranian government is already a profoundly 
destabilizing influence in the region. It supports proxies in Iraq and 
Afghanistan that have killed U.S. and allied troops. It has threatened 
to wipe one of our closest allies, Israel, off the map. It supports 
terrorist organizations like Hezbollah and Hamas. It ruthlessly 
suppresses its own citizens for peaceful demonstrations.

If the Obama administration will not take action against this regime, 
then Congress must.

That is why we are proposing the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions 
Act.

This act would direct sanctions at one of Iran's biggest 
vulnerabilities: its low level refining capacity.

This is a point of leverage we must use sooner rather than later. 
Time is of the essence.

This legislation cleared the Republican side of the aisle several 
weeks ago.

We are eager for this measure to pass.

So I urge the Democratic leadership to call this legislation up 
immediately.

We have lost a year already. We can't afford any further delay.

I urge my colleagues to pass this bill.