---
---

# HONORING COAST GUARD AND MARINE CORPS AIRCRAFT PILOTS LOST IN  CALIFORNIA
## `2ad155c487c4b9f7d5c282383911a96e`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 17 November 2009`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H. Res. 891, as 
amended, a resolution expressing the gratitude of the House of 
Representatives for the service of the air crewmembers of Coast Guard 
aircraft 1705 and a Marine Corps AH-1 Super Cobra helicopter who were 
lost when these aircraft collided near San Clemente Island, California, 
on October 29 of this year.

On board the Coast Guard C-130 were seven Coast Guard members who 
were conducting a search-and-rescue mission at the time of the terrible 
accident. These crewmembers were Lieutenant Commander Che J. Barnes, a 
17-year Coast Guard veteran who commanded Coast Guard 1705 and is 
survived by his father and three brothers, including a twin brother; 
Lieutenant Adam W. Bryant, the copilot of CG-1705 and a 2003 graduate 
of the Coast Guard Academy who is survived by his parents and brother; 
Chief Petty Officer John F. Seidman, the flight engineer who had served 
more than 20 years in the Coast Guard and is survived by his wife, 
parents and brother; Petty Officer 2nd Class Carl P. Grigonis, the CG-
1705 navigator who was the father of a young son and whose wife is 
expecting a daughter; Petty Officer 2nd Class Monica L. Beacham, the 
flight's radio operator, who leaves a husband and a young daughter to 
mourn; Petty Officer 2nd Class Jason S. Moletzsky, an air crewmember 
survived by his fiance, parents and two sisters; and Petty Officer 3rd 
Class Danny R. Kreder, II, drop master, survived by his wife, parents 
and two brothers.



On board the Marine Corps AH-1 Super Cobra were two pilots: Major 
Samuel Leigh, who had served two tours in Iraq and whose service in the 
Marine Corps maintained his family's long tradition of military 
service; and First Lieutenant Thomas Claiborne, a magna cum laude 
graduate of the University of Colorado.

These individuals dedicated their lives to serving the United States 
of America. They protected our Nation from the many threats we face, 
and they selflessly placed their lives in harm's way to aid those in 
distress. Their terrible loss is a reminder of the risks that the 
members of our Armed Forces face while conducting their many missions.

Our thoughts and our prayers are with the families of each of these 
servicemembers and with all the colleagues they have left behind in the 
United States Coast Guard and the Marine Corps. Our thoughts and 
prayers are also with all of the members of our Armed Forces who are 
serving our Nation now on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
with the families of the thousands who have given their lives in 
defense of our great Nation's freedom on those two battlefields in each 
of our Nation's conflicts.

I commend Congresswoman Sanchez, the Chair of the Committee on 
Homeland Security's Subcommittee on Border, Maritime, and Global 
Counterterrorism, for her work on H. Res. 891. I urge its adoption by 
the House today, and I express my gratitude for the service of the 
members of the Coast Guard and Marine Corps recognized by this 
resolution.




















Committee on Armed Services,




















 House of Representatives,

















Washington, DC, November 13, 2009.


 Hon. James L. Oberstar,


 Chairman, House Committee on Transportation and 




 Infrastructure, Rayburn House Office Building, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Chairman: On November 5, 2009, the House 


 Resolution 891, ''Expressing the gratitude of the House of 


 Representatives for the service to our Nation of the Coast 


 Guard and Marine Corps aircraft pilots and crewmembers lost 


 off the coast of California on October 29, 2009, and for 


 other purposes,'' was introduced in the House. As you know, 


 this measure was referred to the Committee on Transportation 


 and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 


 Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 


 Speaker.



 Our Committee recognizes the importance of H. Res. 891 and 


 the need for the legislation to move expeditiously. 


 Therefore, while we have a valid claim to jurisdiction over 


 this legislation, the Committee on Armed Services will waive 


 further consideration of H. Res. 891. I do so with the 


 understanding that by waiving further consideration of the 


 resolution, the Committee does not waive any future 


 jurisdictional claims over similar measures.



 I would appreciate the inclusion of this letter and a copy 


 of your response in the Congressional Record during 


 consideration of the measure on the House floor.





 Very truly yours,



























Ike Skelton,


 Chairman.