# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3074, TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN  DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2ad8a080c1bae20e22a95970f85db655`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. I thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I was confused, Mr. Speaker, because I had to go up to the Rules 
Committee and I came back and I heard the gentleman from California 
saying stop throwing money at the problem, that's not the way to solve 
the problem. And when I think about what we're throwing money at, I 
assumed we were talking about the Defense bill and Iraq and 
reconstruction, because so much money has been thrown at that, none of 
us can keep track of it. Then it turns out he's talking about a 
relatively small increase in CDBG. I certainly agree we should not 
solve problems by throwing money at them. That, however, led me to 
think we must be talking about the bill that spends so much more money 
than anything else and that has had more documented waste and abuse and 
fraud, the Defense bill and the Iraq spending, than all the other 
appropriations bills put together.

As to this bill, now that I know what we're talking about, not to be 
taken for granted on the floor of this House, I want to be congratulate 
the gentleman from Massachusetts for doing an excellent job with the 
limited resources he was given, far too limited.

There is an increase in here for the Community Development Block 
Grant program. The President apparently wanted to continue his path of 
reducing Community Development Block Grants, having them be lower than 
they were years ago when he came into office. In fact, that is a very 
important program for our municipalities, and I am very pleased to see 
that it is not being reduced.

As to section 8, every year when the Republicans were in power, we 
would approach the point when we were running out of section 8s. And as 
a member of the committee that has the authorization role here, we 
would hear from Members, Democratic and Republican, about the 
importance of keeping this going. Now, I agree it should be improved. 
And what we have done here in this House, we began something last year 
but we finished it this year and sent it to the Senate. We passed a 
bill we called SEVRA, the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act. So, yes, we 
think there should be reform. This House has passed on a bipartisan 
basis, support from everybody in the authorizing committee, a bill to 
improve it. So we are trying to make things better. And I guarantee you 
that you will not find anywhere under HUD, and I know a lot about that 
department, anything like the wanton expenditure waste that we have 
seen in Iraq and elsewhere.

What the gentleman from Massachusetts has done in the housing area is 
sensibly to respond to important needs. I particularly want to say 
earlier this year, the Secretary of HUD, Secretary Jackson, asked me to 
meet with a group called ADAPT. These are people who represent people 
with disabilities. They were concerned about the availability of 
section 8 vouchers for people with disabilities, particularly those who 
may have been turned away from public housing projects. In response to 
that, in collaboration, the bill we have today increases that pool of 
vouchers. Now, they're not earmarked for that group, and we will have 
further conversations about how to deal with that, but there are 
additional vouchers here that the Secretary of HUD came to me and said, 
look, will you listen to this group and try to respond? And these are 
vouchers that respond to their needs.

I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts. I wish he was able to throw 
money at the problem. I wish we had a set of priorities in this country 
that were more respectful of genuine human needs. But given the limited 
resources he has, he and his subcommittee have done an excellent job.

