# SUPPORTING NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY
## `2ae008593bba84e885edc0f7e6fe5ff5`
`Mr. JONES — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 1630 to express 
support for National Prisoner of War/Missing in Action Recognition Day.

I would like to commend the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Lipinski) 
for introducing this resolution. At the heart of this resolution is the 
principle that the American military never leaves a fallen comrade 
behind. More than 84,000 members of the Armed Forces remain unaccounted 
for from World War II, the Korean war, Vietnam, the cold war, and the 
gulf war, and U.S. military personnel have been held in Afghanistan and 
Iraq.



Since the Vietnam war, achieving the fullest possible accounting of 
our POWs and MIAs has been a national priority. The Department of 
Defense organizations principally responsible for the accounting effort 
have made significant progress even at the cost of the lives of some 
involved in the physically demanding, dangerous fieldwork required. So 
I want to especially commend the efforts of the Defense POW/Missing 
Persons Office, the Joint POW-MIA Accounting Command, the Armed Forces 
Identification Laboratory, the Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory, and 
each of the military services. They make up the core of the Department 
of Defense's accounting community.

Yet with all the progress that has been made, more needs to be done. 
The House Armed Services Committee took the lead a year ago with the 
enactment, for the first time, of a statutory requirement that the POWs 
and missing from all America's prior wars be fully accounted for. In 
addition, the legislation mandated that by 2015, the Department of 
Defense achieve the fullest possible accounting of no less than 200 
persons a year. To achieve this requirement will require additional 
resources and an improved integration of effort among the DOD 
accounting community. We look forward to the Department of Defense plan 
to improve the way it has conducted the accounting mission.

It is also important for us to understand and commend the efforts of 
the families and loved ones of those who remain unaccounted for. Their 
unflagging grassroots efforts, as well as those of national POW/MIA 
organizations, have been essential to ensure that both the Congress and 
the executive branch remain committed to the accounting effort.

Finally, we must not forget those who died as POWs or survived 
captivity despite starvation, forced labor, and severe torture. For 
this reason, this resolution in support of National Prisoner of War/
Missing in Action Recognition Day is an important one, and I urge 
unanimous support for its adoption.

I yield back the balance of my time.