---
---

# None
## `2b0046d171fd75badc94269329f3c4f6`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I realize it is not possible, because 
agreement has not yet been reached, to set aside the pending 
legislation to bring up the Habeas Corpus Restoration Act as an 
amendment. As the managers of the bill are not on the floor, I 
certainly will not take advantage of that and do it. So let me speak 
about it.

I now am speaking on the National Defense Authorization Act. At an 
appropriate time, I will bring up amendment No. 2022. I will tell you 
why I will do this.

Last year, Congress committed an historic mistake by suspending the 
Great Writ of habeas corpus--not just for those confined at Guantanamo 
Bay but for millions of legal residents in the United States. The 
Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing in May on this bill illustrated 
the broad agreement among representatives from diverse political 
beliefs and backgrounds that the mistake committed in the Military 
Commissions Act of 2006 must be corrected. The Habeas Corpus 
Restoration Act of 2007, S.185, the bill on which this amendment is 
based, has 30 cosponsors. The Senate Judiciary Committee reported it on 
a bipartisan basis. I hope Senators will review the committee report on 
this measure.

Habeas corpus was recklessly undermined in last year's Military 
Commissions Act. Like the internment of Japanese Americans during World 
War II, the elimination of habeas rights was an action driven by fear, 
and it was a stain on America's reputation in the world. This is a time 
of testing. Future generations will look back to examine the choices we 
made during a time when security was too often invoked as a watchword 
to convince us to slacken our defense of liberty and the rule of law.

The Great Writ of habeas corpus is the legal process that guarantees 
an opportunity to go to court and challenge the abuse of power by the 
Government. The Military Commissions Act rolled back these protections 
by eliminating that right, permanently, for any noncitizen labeled an 
enemy combatant. In fact, a detainee does not have to be found to be an 
enemy combatant; it is enough for the Government to say someone is 
''awaiting'' determination of that status--something detainees cannot 
even contest when they are held in jail.

The sweep of this habeas provision goes far beyond the few hundred 
detainees currently held at Guantanamo Bay, and it includes an 
estimated 12 million lawful permanent residents in the United States 
today. These are people who work and pay taxes, people who abide by our 
laws and should be entitled to fair treatment. It is, after all, the 
American way. It is what we brag about when we go to their countries. 
But under this law, any of these people can be detained, forever, 
without any ability to challenge their detention in court.

This is wrong. It is unconstitutional. It is un-American.

Top conservative thinkers, evangelical activists, and prominent 
members of the Latino community have all spoken out on the need to 
restore these basic American rights. GEN Colin Powell, like many 
leading former military and diplomatic officials, has spoken of the 
importance of these habeas rights. He asked, ''Isn't that what our 
system's all about?''

Perhaps most powerful for me was the testimony of RADM Donald Guter, 
who was working in his office in the Pentagon as Judge Advocate General 
of the Navy on September 11, 2001, and saw firsthand the effects of 
terrorism. His credibility is unimpeachable when he says that denying 
habeas rights to detainees endangers our troops and undermines our 
military efforts.

Admiral Guter testified:




 As we limit the rights of human beings, even those of the 


 enemy, we become more like the enemy. That makes us weaker 


 and imperils our valiant troops, serving not just in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan, but around the globe.


He was right. Whether you are an individual soldier, or a great 
nation, it is difficult to defend the higher ground by taking the lower 
road. The world knows what our enemies stand for. The world also knows 
what this country has tried to stand for and live up to in--the best of 
times, and the worst of times.

Now, as we work to reauthorize the many programs that compose our 
valiant armed forces, it is the right time to heed the advice of so 
many of our top military lawyers who tell us that eliminating basic 
legal rights undermines our fighting men and women; it does not make 
them stronger.

I especially want to thank Senator Specter and acknowledge his strong 
and consistent leadership on this issue. Senator Specter and I came to 
this


floor to offer this amendment back on July 10, when this bill was 
initially being considered, and thereafter. I hope all Senators will 
now join with us in restoring basic American values and the rule of 
law, while making our Nation stronger.

It is from strength that America should defend our values and our way 
of life. It is from the strength of our freedoms, our Constitution, and 
the rule of law that we shall prevail. I hope all in the Senate, 
Republicans and Democrats, will join us in standing up for a stronger 
America, for the America we believe in, and support the Habeas Corpus 
Restoration Act of 2007.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.