# WELCOMING THE ROMANIAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
## `2b1ebde0813a0e3c513200979c5a6531`
`Mr. WEXLER — 7 May 2009`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today as Chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Europe in the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, to 
welcome Romanian Foreign Minister Cristian Diaconescu to the United 
States. It is an honor to meet with Foreign Minister Diaconescu and 
highlight his extraordinary role, and that of our North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) and European Union (EU) ally and partner Romania, 
in addressing pressing international challenges including NATO-Russian 
relations, the Balkans, Iraq, Afghanistan and Iran's developing nuclear 
program. It is clear to members of Congress and the Administration that 
Romania is integral to American, European Union and international 
efforts to promote democracy, rule of law and human rights.

As many of my colleagues know, Foreign Minister Diaconescu assumed 
his current role at the head of Romania's Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
in December 2008. He has repeatedly expressed a strong commitment to 
enhancing transatlantic relations and has been unwavering in 
championing the values our two nations share. To that end, the Foreign 
Minister has been vocal in promoting political and economic reform in 
Eastern Europe by strengthening democratic institutions and structures, 
and working to end conflict in Europe through the framework of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).

I also want to praise Romania's efforts in supporting the EU's 
Eastern Partnership efforts that will bolster democratic transformation 
in this region and hopefully lead to closer EU and Western relations 
with Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.

It is my understanding while in Washington, Foreign Minister 
Diaconescu will meet with Obama Administration officials and members of 
Congress to discuss issues of importance to both the United States and 
Romania, including economic, political and security conditions in 
Eastern Europe, the Balkans, the Caucasus and Black Sea regions. I 
welcome the discussion of these important and timely issues and the 
opportunity to highlight Romania's strong military and security 
commitments in Afghanistan and Iraq alongside U.S. and NATO forces. I 
know I share the sentiments of all Americans in expressing our 
gratitude for the sacrifice of brave Romanian troops, including those 
killed in the line of duty.

As a member of Congress who has strongly supported expansion of the 
Visa Waiver Program (VWP) to critical allies such as Romania, I look 
forward to discussing Bucharest's progress with the Foreign Minister 
and his nation's future participation in this program.

Madam Speaker, Romania is a strategic partner of the United States, 
and in its fifth year as a NATO member Romania has contributed at the 
highest levels in several missions worldwide. In April 2008, Bucharest 
hosted the largest NATO Summit in history and was recently praised by 
NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer for its commitment to NATO 
missions. I join all of my colleagues in applauding Romania's pledge to 
maintain its troops in Kosovo, as well as in Afghanistan, where it 
already has approximately 860 troops deployed. We are also grateful 
that the Romanian government has pledged to send additional trainers 
and medical personnel to the mission in Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, it is essential that Congress continue to support and 
enhance cooperation between the U.S. and our ally Romania. As a staunch 
supporter of American-Romanian relations, I urge my colleagues to join 
me in welcoming Foreign Minister Diaconescu and the Romanian delegation 
to the United States, and I thank the Foreign Minister for his efforts 
and unwavering commitment to this unbreakable bond between our two 
nations.
