# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2b232e7657b722fe5c6f5ddd8df31bcc`
`Mr. TANNER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. TANNER. Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to be here with the other 
Democratic Members who are veterans to talk about this resolution.

I want to start off by saying what Allen Boyd said. I was on active 
duty during the Vietnam years. The problem here is not the troops; the 
problem is the competency of the civilian leadership that has gotten us 
into this mess.

This resolution supports our troops and calls for a different 
strategy by our civilian leadership with respect to Iraq.

When I was on active duty when I was in the military, I followed 
orders. That was my job. My role here in Congress as I see it is to try 
to help formulate some sort of competent civilian leadership and 
strategy so the troops can be successful. We have not seen that in 4 
years. The war began in Iraq in March of 2003. Since then, we have lost 
3,124 people dead and over 23,000 wounded, and it is not a bit better 
today than it was the day we started.

The war has cost Americans almost $400 billion, with another request 
for $285 billion more, with no end in sight. Competent civilian 
leadership for our men and women in uniform on the diplomatic and 
political fronts must be demanded by Congress and the American people 
if we are to properly honor the sacrifice of the dead and the wounded 
and their families.

Instead, what do we have? We have unbelievable reports that the 
Pentagon can't identify 170,000 guns issued to the Iraqi forces in 
October of 2005; some of our soldiers buying their own body armor; up-
armored Humvees sitting in Bosnia or Herzegovina while we needed them 
in Iraq. And David Walker, the Comptroller General, says he believes 
that almost 30 percent of the money spent over there has been wasted, 
stolen, or otherwise unaccounted for.

I think any patriotic American ought to come to this floor if he or 
she has the opportunity and ask questions about the incompetency of the 
Pentagon and civilian leadership thus far.

I believe any viable Iraqi strategy to be successful must contain 
clearly defined goals to hold the Iraqi leaders accountable for their 
own security. Mr. Boswell, a helicopter pilot in Vietnam, said as much 
earlier.

Our men and women in uniform have performed magnificently. They have 
completed every task assigned to them. But impressive military might 
alone is not enough if the Iraqi people cannot or will not make 
progress in securing their own country and establishing a civil 
democracy.

Western-style democracy works because we have a theory called 
separation of church and state. When people don't go to the same 
church, they nonetheless can get together Monday through Friday and 
build a civil society and get along with each other. If these folks are 
unwilling or unable to do that for philosophical or psychological 
reasons, then we can only try to force a square peg into a round hole 
for so long. It has been going on for 4 years, and they are seemingly 
incapable. And I say that what we need to do is rethink our strategy 
and that a pullback to the perimeter is preferable to prolonging a 
costly and deadly military strategy toward a political goal that is out 
of reach.

Whether or not this new strategy works, I am glad to see that General 
David Petraeus will be commanding our men and women on the ground. He 
has proved himself a strong military commander, and I wish him well. It 
is not his strategy that I question.

Here is why this resolution is important to me: not only do the 
majority of the Iraqis in every poll that has been taken over there say 
they will be better off if we leave or get out or pull back, or however 
one wants to talk about it, but what it is doing in Iraq to our effort 
in Afghanistan. I am going to be leading a delegation to Brussels next 
Saturday to talk about Afghanistan. We are losing our momentum in 
Afghanistan because of the Iraqi whirlwind that is sucking everything 
into it in terms of our military supplies, our military approach, and 
so forth. Almost everyone who has looked at this situation agrees, from 
the Baker-Hamilton Report to everybody else, that we need to radically 
change our strategy.

Listen to these words from the Council of Foreign Relations. They 
say: ''The United States' interests in the Middle East and Persian Gulf 
region can be more effectively advanced if the United States disengages 
from Iraq. Indeed, the sooner Washington grasps this, the sooner it can 
begin to repair the damage that has been done to America's 
international position.''

Speaking of Afghanistan, they also say: ''Iraq is siphoning off so 
many resources that we could end up failing in Afghanistan as well.'' 
The report warns that Iraq is all consuming and makes it difficult for 
the United States to address other priorities.

That is exactly what we are talking about here, a different strategy 
for Iran, for our troops to be successful; an accountability from them 
as to their own security, so that we can concentrate with 26 other 
nations in NATO who are helping us fight the war in Afghanistan, a war 
that we can win, a war that we must win, and a war that is every bit as 
important if not more so in the war on terror than Iraq ever was.