# SERGEANT CHRISTOPHER R. HRBEK POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `2b26262754ee43679f9e406cad1646cc`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I do indeed rise today in 
honor of Sergeant Christopher Richard Hrbek, a recently fallen marine. 
It was on January 14, 2010, when Sergeant Hrbek gave his life in 
service of our country. And today, we have the opportunity to pay 
tribute to Sergeant Hrbek by considering H.R. 4628, this legislation 
that will rename the post office up in Westwood, New Jersey, in his 
honor.

In addition, though, to paying tribute to Sergeant Hrbek, I would 
like to pause for a moment to recognize his family as well, for the 
sacrifice that they now have endured on behalf of our Nation. Chris is 
survived by his wife, Jamie Lynn Wengerter, his mother and stepfather, 
Cheryl and James Hodges, his father and stepmother, Richard and Gail 
Hrbek, his two sisters, Amy Dellentash and Lori Hrbek, and his two 
stepbrothers, Jim and Beau Hodges, as well.

As was pointed out, Sergeant Hrbek was not only a hero in the armed 
services, he was a hero back in his hometown as well. Chris was born 
and raised up in Westwood, New Jersey, and as stated, at the age of 16, 
he, along with a couple of his friends, became cadets in the Westwood 
Fire Department.

And just as an aside, I remember going to the funeral and hearing the 
little stories that they told--even before they were 16 just pretending 
to be


firemen and the like, and always wanting to be a firemen when they grew 
up. But at age 16 they were able to actually put that into action and 
become cadets in the Westwood Fire Department.

Chris saw every opportunity to serve as a chance to shine. This is 
why it was no surprise when he enlisted in the U.S. Marines in 2003. 
And as a marine, Sergeant Hrbek served four tours of duty, which 
included two combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. But it was indeed on 
December 23, 2009, when they were under heavy enemy fire that he saved 
a life, and it was of his own Sergeant Major, Sergeant Major Raymond 
Mackey.

As it was recounted later on to his family, Chris had been out on a 
patrol at that time when he heard an explosion about 10 paces behind 
him. Chris turned to see what it was, and he saw Sergeant Major Mackey 
badly wounded by the explosion.

So what did he do?

Well, he immediately turned his attention to Mackey, applying seven 
tourniquets and saving the Sergeant Major's life, and he did this all 
while under attack at the time. This is truly a definition of grace 
under fire. And for his valiant efforts Chris earned a Bronze Star with 
a Combat V. However, Chris was not able to ever receive that medal in 
person.

For it was on January 14 that Sergeant Chris Hrbek was killed on 
patrol in Helmand Province in Afghanistan after he encountered an IED. 
Hrbek's family posthumously accepted the Bronze Star on behalf of his 
life at his funeral. A letter was issued to his parents from the Marine 
Corps, and I think it really captured the sentiment that I know all 
America shares. It said, ''by his zealous initiative, courageous 
actions, and exceptional dedication to duty, Sergeant Hrbek reflected 
great credit upon himself and were in keeping with the highest 
traditions of the Marine Corps and the United States Naval Service.''

After Chris died in combat he received a hero's welcome back in his 
hometown in Westwood, New Jersey. It was on January 20th, this year, 
that his flag-draped coffin passed through the streets of Westwood, 
which were lined as far as you could see with flags and residents and 
students all coming out who stood proudly, side by side, in a mass of 
people, to pay tribute to this young man.

Now, joining the procession were the Marines from Camp Lejeune who 
served alongside him. And one of the marines was Sergeant Ryan Harsman. 
Sergeant Harsman noted, When Chris walked into a room everyone knew 
that he was there. He just had that presence. He never ran out of fuel.

Now, the New York Fire Department also honored Chris and, this month, 
bestowed the title of honorary firefighter, because Sergeant Hrbek had 
been accepted to begin training with the fire department over in New 
York City, but he deferred his enrollment twice so that he could 
continue his service to the U.S. Marines.

Sergeant Hrbek set the highest example, someone who was willing to 
risk his life to save the lives of others. And so I am proud to be the 
sponsor of H.R. 4628 honoring the life of Sergeant Hrbek.

And I, with my colleague, join all my colleagues here to support this 
legislation memorializing Chris and his service to his hometown of 
Westwood, New Jersey, where Christopher Hrbek will forever be 
remembered as a hero, as a heroic marine, a loving husband, a son and a 
brother as well.