---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2b2ab952e8334261505133adfb23a800`
`Mr. BOND — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise today to honor U.S. Marine Cpl Todd 
Nicely, of Arnold, MO--a true American hero.

Corporal Nicely is greatly admired by his fellow marines--and when 
you hear his story you will admire him too.

As a marine, Corporal Nicely brought the fight to the terrorists in 
Afghanistan, so our families in Missouri and across the Nation could 
live in peace and security.

But what makes Corporal Nicely an American hero is not only his 
leadership on the battlefield but also his leadership here at home.

On March 26, 2010, Corporal Nicely and his fellow marines were on a 
foot patrol in Helmand province--one of the most dangerous regions in 
Afghanistan--when he stepped on an improvised explosive device, 
triggering a devastating explosion. When Corporal Nicely woke up, he 
realized that all four of his limbs were lost in the blast.

Instead of defeat, however, Corporal Nicely faced his injuries with 
the same warrior spirit he showed on the battlefield. This brave marine 
has astounded many with his swift progress--evidence of his unwavering 
spirit and courage


among overwhelming odds. Corporal Nicely remains one of the few 
surviving quadruple amputees from the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

At Bethesda Naval Hospital and Walter Reed Army Medical Center, 
Corporal Nicely has endured--and surpassed--these odds with the love 
and support of his lovely wife Crystal, who also served her country as 
a marine. His story, courage and unwavering service make me proud to be 
an American. Our prayers and thoughts are with Corporal Nicely and his 
family, and I ask unanimous consent that this poem--penned in honor of 
this great American, by Bert Caswell--be printed in the Record.