---
---

# HONORING STAFF SERGEANT MICHAEL BECHERT
## `2b2c000598fb6f98a457461e783c3ded`
`Mr. PENCE — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to one of 
Indiana's native sons who served his country honorably in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. I was deeply saddened to learn that Staff 
Sergeant Michael Bechert of New Castle had succumbed to wounds he 
suffered in Baghdad last month when his vehicle was hit by an 
improvised explosive device.

Staff Sergeant Bechert served in the 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry 
Division, 1st Infantry Division since 2001. He received numerous 
meritorious citations during 2 enlistments and 6 years in the Army, all 
stationed in Germany where he lived with his wife and young son. He was 
serving his second tour in Iraq.

The infantry is the oldest of the combat arms. From the dawn of time, 
wars have been predominantly fought by men on foot. Staff Sergeant 
Bechert continued that proud tradition as an expert soldier who had 
mastered the skills of an infantryman and served bravely in combat.

Staff Sergeant Bechert was the recipient of the Expert Infantryman 
Badge and Combat Infantryman Badge, highly regarded decorations in the 
U.S. Army that certify his elite skills and service to his country in 
combat. His other medals include an Army Commendation Medal for heroism 
and a Purple Heart for a previous injury. He will be awarded 
posthumously with a Bronze Star and a second Purple Heart because he 
died in the line of duty.

We all owe a debt that can never be repaid to Staff Sergeant 
Bechert's family and friends for the tragic loss of husband, father, 
son, friend, citizen, soldier and hero.

Madam Speaker, I wish to express my profound sadness to the community 
at the loss of this talented young Hoosier who made the ultimate 
sacrifice to preserve and protect these United States. Let us remember 
Staff Sergeant Bechert, his family and friends in our thoughts and 
prayers.
