# CORPORAL STEPHEN R. BIXLER POST OFFICE
## `2b432239fae6a5e2da15a365d6b77782`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, CPL Stephen Bixler was a proud and loyal American who 
served his country while fighting the war on terror. He made the 
ultimate sacrifice defending freedom when he lost his life on May 4, 
2006. Corporal Bixler was born in Hartford, Connecticut, on August 17, 
1985. As a student at Suffield High School, he was known as a ''shy, 
soft-spoken, very dedicated young man and very patriotic, in a quiet, 
determined way.'' During high school, he was involved in athletics and 
was a member of the indoor/outdoor track team as well as the cross 
country team. His love for the outdoors and helping others was 
exemplified during the time he was a Boy Scout and his hard work and 
dedication was shown when he became an Eagle Scout.



In July 2003, Corporal Bixler's sense of dedication to his community 
and country led him to enlist in the United States Marine Corps. He was 
an ambitious man who was able to accomplish much in his short, but 
meaningful, life.

As a result of his exceptional military skills, drive, courage and 
strength, Corporal Bixler applied for and was selected as a member of 
the 2nd Reconnaissance Battalion. He volunteered willingly for his 
second tour in Iraq because he knew his fellow marines needed his help. 
Tragically, during his second tour, on May 4, 2006, he was killed by 
enemy fire in Fallujah.

His decorations include the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, 
Humanitarian Service Medal, Armed Forces Terrorism Medal, National 
Defense Service Medal, Combat Action Ribbon, and Purple Heart Medal.

We can never show adequate appreciation in honoring the brave men and 
women who give their lives in service to our country. However, Corporal 
Bixler's name is etched on the Wall of Honor in the Rayburn House 
Office Building in Washington, DC.

In addition to the memorial wall, naming this post office in his 
honor is a fitting and meaningful tribute to a proud marine who served 
selflessly on behalf of his hometown and his Nation.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.