---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2b462cdf2f4cb4c46142b54be524a8de`
`Mr. LEVIN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I want to speak for a few minutes in 
support of the Webb-McCaskill amendment that would establish a 
contracting commission relative to contracting in Iraq, but it also 
does another very important thing, which is it broadens the 
jurisdiction of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, 
or SIGIR. Over the last 4 years, the United States has spent more than 
$20 billion on reconstruction contracting in Iraq. In report after 
report, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, SIGIR, 
has demonstrated that this effort was poorly planned, inadequately 
staffed, and poorly managed.

For example, the special inspector general has reported that plumbing 
was so poorly installed at the Baghdad Police College that dripping 
sewage not only threatened the health of students and inspectors but 
could have affected the structural integrity of the building.

The special inspector general reported that the security walls built 
for the Babylon Police Academy in Hilla were full of gaps and 
deficiencies, some of which were filled with sandbags; lighting systems 
and guard towers called for in the contract were never installed. As a 
result, the academy was vulnerable to attack.

The special inspector general reported that a prison in Nasiriyah was 
originally supposed to house 4,400 inmates, but the scope was reduced 
to the point where it would only house 800. After most of the available 
money had been spent, the contract was terminated due to schedule 
delays and cost overruns.

He reported that neither the government nor the contractor could 
verify the status of a new oil pipeline from Kirkuk to Baiji because 
project monitoring was very limited and sporadic. However, at least 25 
percent of the welds on the pipeline was defective, and one major canal 
crossing was only 10 percent complete. The failure to complete this 
project resulted in the loss of as much as $14.8 billion in oil 
revenues to the Iraqi Government.

He reported that after the Army Corps of Engineers spent $186 million 
on primary health care centers throughout Iraq, the contract was 
terminated with only 6 health care centers completed, 135 partially 
constructed, and the remainder ''descoped.'' The special inspector 
general determined that the contractor had lacked qualified engineering 
staff, failed to check the capacity of its subcontractors, failed to 
properly supervise the work, and failed to enforce quality control 
requirements.

The Department of Defense has spent even more money on logistical 
support contracts for U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. There have 
been numerous indications of fraud, waste, and abuse in these contracts 
as well. For example, recent press reports indicate that the Department 
of Defense contracting officials in Iraq and Kuwait received millions 
of dollars in kickbacks, tainting several billion dollars of DOD 
logistics support contracts. Similarly, the Armed Services Committee 
held a hearing in April on Halliburton's LOGCAP contract for logistics 
support in Iraq. Our committee learned that the company was given work 
that appears to have far exceeded the scope of the contract. All of 
this added work was provided to the contractor without competition. The 
contractor resisted providing us with information that we needed to 
monitor and control costs. There are almost $2 billion of overcharges 
on the contract, and the contractor received highly favorable 
settlements on these overcharges.

Unfortunately, the special inspector general does not have 
jurisdiction over Department of Defense logistic support contracts, and 
the Department of Defense inspector general who does have jurisdiction 
refused for several years to send auditors to Iraq and is now playing 
catchup. As a result, billions of dollars have been spent on these 
contracts without sufficient oversight.

In addition, there have been numerous reports of abuses by private 
security contractors operating in Iraq. More recently, the Iraqi 
Government has complained about an incident in which employees of 
Blackwater, Inc., allegedly opened fire on innocent Iraqis in Baghdad. 
This incident is apparently the latest in a long series of similar 
cases in which Blackwater employees were alleged to have used excessive 
force.

Unfortunately, the special inspector general does not have 
jurisdiction over private security contractors. The DOD inspector 
general does not have jurisdiction over State Department contractors 
like Blackwater either. Published reports in the last few weeks 
indicate that the State Department inspector general has systematically 
avoided looking into allegations of contract abuse in Iraq.

In short, despite almost 5 years of allegations of waste, fraud, and 
abuse in Iraq contracting, we continue to have huge gaps in our 
oversight of these activities. The Webb-McCaskill amendment will 
address these gaps by, first, establishing an independent commission to 
look into Federal agency contracting for reconstruction, logistical 
support, and the performance of private security and intelligence 
functions in Iraq and Afghanistan; and, second, expanding the 
jurisdiction of the special inspector general to logistical support 
contracts and contracts for the performance of private security and 
intelligence functions in Iraq and Afghanistan.


Under this provision, the special inspector general, in collaboration 
with other relevant inspectors general, would conduct a comprehensive 
series of audits of logistical support contracts and private security 
contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan comparable to the audits the special 
inspector general has already conducted for Iraq reconstruction 
contracts. The commission would review these materials, conduct 
hearings, and issue a report identifying lessons learned and making 
specific recommendations for improvements that should be made in future 
contracting.

So the Webb-McCaskill amendment would ensure that we finally have 
appropriate oversight over the full range of contracting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It will ensure that we are in a position to learn from the 
mistakes we have made, and we will be better positioned to avoid making 
similar mistakes in the future. I hope there will be a broad bipartisan 
vote for Webb-McCaskill, just the way there is already broad bipartisan 
sponsorship for their amendment.