# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2b4acbafb185dd6b04360a5535d7a5e1`
`Mr. REYNOLDS â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. REYNOLDS. I thank the gentlewoman from New Mexico.

Madam Speaker, we have heard many speeches this week talking about 
the honorable men and women of our Armed Forces. We all have 
constituents who have served bravely in Iraq and some have paid the 
ultimate price for this service, and we are forever grateful for that. 
We are grateful because these men and women put our freedoms and our 
country before themselves. It is this freedom that affords us the 
ability to undertake the debate on this shallow, shortsighted 
resolution.

If the purpose of this resolution is scoring political points and 
playing political games, then bravo to the Democratic majority, they 
have succeeded. But if the purpose of this resolution is for a new 
direction in Iraq that will secure victory and secure the second 
democracy in the Middle East, then this resolution comes up woefully 
short.

I am not prepared to look our soldiers and their families in their 
eyes and say I voted for this resolution, because while I support you, 
I do not support your mission.

We debate a resolution this week that represents a cavalier attitude 
about the mission our troops are carrying out, day in and day out, 
without fear, and without knowing whether some in the halls of this 
Congress still support them in this war on terror.

While we debate this resolution, let me be clear that, like my 
constituents, my patience is limited in Iraq. We must see more progress 
sooner rather than later. We must see the Iraqis play a larger role and 
take control of their country. The Iraqis need to recognize their 
failure to take control has consequences, the consequences of 
fulfilling bin Laden's wish to see Iraq become a new central base for 
terrorists, the consequences of destabilizing the Middle East and 
endangering Israel, our strongest democratic ally in the Middle East.

The consequence is of involving our enemies like Iran and other rogue 
states to develop weapons of mass destruction without the fear of 
repercussions. Ultimately in Iraq, it is Iraqis who will decide if 
democracy or tyranny rule the day, and whether they avoid the 
consequences of their failure.

But while my patience is limited, and I want to see progress, I will 
not play politics with our troops, which is what this resolution does.

Like Majority Leader Hoyer said yesterday, no one should hide behind 
the troops. I agree, but equally important, Members of this body should 
not be hiding behind this resolution if their true aim is to cut off 
funding for our troops. Because while this resolution will indeed score 
a few political points for some debating in this Chamber today, this 
resolution also sends a message far beyond this Chamber.

Indeed, Madam Speaker, this nonbinding resolution, while lacking any 
bite in terms of strategy, and not changing anything on the ground in 
Baghdad, will send a message loud and clear to our troops: We are 
consigning your mission to failure before you even have a chance to 
execute it.

As I listened to Sam Johnson today, as he recounted the unspeakable 
damage antiwar efforts back home did to our soldiers in Vietnam, I 
wondered whether our brave men and women are listening to the taunts of 
America's enemies at this very moment as we debate not just this 
resolution but their mission. Sam Johnson is not alone in questioning 
the damage to the morale we may be doing to those fighting forces.

One of my constituents, a highly decorated Iraq war veteran, David 
Bellavia wrote, ''Each day . . . move(s) us closer to losing a winnable 
war and abandoning a worthy ally.''

Madam Speaker, for Congress to support this resolution gives 
encouragement to the jihadists and cuts the morale of our troops. In 
our global war on terror, we cannot show a lack of resolve because, as 
we know, after decades of attacks by these jihadists on our citizens, 
the World Trade Center in 1993, our embassies and the USS Cole, we know 
what a lack of resolve has meant. That lack of resolve hit us all when 
the jihadists attacked us again on the morning of September 11, 2001. 
That fateful Tuesday brought devastation to this country not seen since 
Pearl Harbor and, God willing, that we will never experience again.

The skies were thick with smoke, debris piled so high it brought to a 
standstill the city that never sleeps. Just days after the attacks, I 
stood at Ground Zero amidst the rubble, in anguish. I knew this was 
bigger than any political party, bigger than any one country. It is a 
global war on Islamic jihadism, and that war, as the jihadists have 
said, is now set in Iraq.

The question raised by this resolution is, will we yield? As Winston 
Churchill said, reflecting on the darkest days of the global war of his 
time, one that pitted the hopes of freedom against the ideology of 
hatred, ''Never give in--never, never, never, never, in nothing great 
or small, large or petty;

''Never yield to force; never yield to the apparently overwhelming 
might of the enemy.''

Madam Speaker, in the daunting challenge of our time, we must not 
waver, and we must not yield.