---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2b68fb4bf8d5f59db9d5091e5238dc60`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise to praise the memory of Army COL 
Brian Dwayne Allgood of the 30th Medical Brigade, European Regional 
Medical Command. Colonel Allgood was taken from his family late last 
month in Iraq. He was only 46 years old, and the highest ranking 
medical officer in Iraq.

After graduating high school in Colorado Springs, Brian Allgood 
attended the U.S. Military Academy in West Point and medical school at 
the University of Oklahoma. He completed his residency at Brooke Army 
Medical Center in San Antonio and continued with his military career, 
rising to become one of the Army's top surgeons. Most recently, before 
being sent to Iraq, Colonel Allgood spent 2 years as the commanding 
officer of medical facilities in Korea.

It is no surprise that Brian Allgood rose to such great heights. 
Brian came from a medical family and a military family--Brian's father 
Jerry was an Army hospital administrator like his son, and Brian's 
mother Cleo was a nurse. One might say that service, both to his 
country and to those in need, was in his blood.

Brian Allgood was a healer, a quiet and humble man who knew the best 
way to lead was not through anger or boastfulness. Instead, he simply 
did what needed to be done, helping save and improve lives every day, 
and in doing so led by example.

Colonel Allgood acted not only with courage but with concern for the 
troops he led. He was renowned for his willingness to stick his neck 
out for his troops and for his unique bond with them. To better 
understand the risks posed to paratroopers, Colonel Allgood completed 
the grueling Ranger school and parachuted into Panama in 1989. He 
served as the commanding officer of the hospital at West Point. As a 
surgeon and later a commanding medical officer, he played a role in the 
saving of hundreds, if not thousands, of American lives.

And as the top Army surgeon in Iraq, Colonel Allgood also oversaw the 
system that tended Iraqis in need of urgent care. Every day we hear 
stories from Iraq of innocent bystanders facing brutality in their own 
streets. Who knows how many Iraqis are alive today because of the 
talent and wisdom of Colonel Allgood and those he led?

Colonel Allgood's parents, Jerry and Cleo, have been supportive of 
not only their son but all Colorado veterans, and I am privileged to 
have worked with them on veterans concerns in my State. Jerry and Cleo 
are good people and should take great pride in having raised their son 
from a young boy into an exemplary man: a fine doctor, a thoughtful son 
and brother, a loving husband, and a caring father.

To Brian's wife Jane and his son Wyatt, I cannot imagine the sorrow 
and loss you are feeling, and I hope that in time your grief can be 
salved by your pride in the way Brian lived his life. Brian served his 
Nation with honor and distinction and improved the lives of countless 
soldiers, families and those with whom he interacted every day.
