---
---

# None
## `2b6fd82fd937715b64fc04595def20a5`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, sir.

I mentioned earlier, I'm from Florida. June 1 is a very important 
date to those of us that are in Hurricane Alley. June 1 is the 
beginning of hurricane season. Hurricane season will be, this hurricane 
season has been predicted, Mr. Speaker, to be one of the most active 
seasons in recent time. And Florida is probably the most prepared State 
as it relates to response because we've gone through it so much. And 
the reason why we're able to respond to a number of natural disasters 
and hurricanes, which we have a number of wild fires that are going on 
right now in Florida, is that we have one of the best National Guard 
units on the face of the Earth, period. But 53 percent of the diesel or 
used equipment that they had to respond to storms, because they're the 
first responders, they're already staging outside of the hurricane zone 
to respond as first responders. They don't even have the equipment that 
they need to respond.

In Kansas, Mr. Ryan, the Governor of Kansas said, you know, our 
emergency management plan called for a response from the National 
Guard. Those that are still left in the State of Kansas, but, they're 
having to use their personal vehicles. They're having to do other 
things to make up for the equipment that's jammed with sand over in 
Iraq.

We must have accountability now. We must have benchmarks now. It's 
almost saying to school age children that it's okay, you can go to 
school, we won't grade you on anything. There'll never be a test. You 
just, you know, do your time and everything will work out.

Everything that we strive for to be successful in, even in business 
or in government, you have to have benchmarks. You have to have 
accountability. And what the President and some of the Members of the 
minority side of the aisle, some of them, not all of them, I must add 
because I know that there are a number of my Republican colleagues that 
are saying we're headed down the right track and they have voted in the 
affirmative, in a bipartisan vote to send that message to the White 
House.

And what the President hasn't come to grips with, including some 
members of his Cabinet, that this is a democracy, and guess what, the 
whole cake and ice cream thing, you write it, we just follow you kind 
of thing is over. It's over. The people of America voted for 
accountability. They voted for standards. They voted for transparency, 
and they're going to get it as long as we have the majority here in 
this Congress to give the American people what they ask for. That's 
what their vote is all about.

I think it's also important for us to realize that when you look at 
these States, and this is just Florida, the National Guard was down 500 
Humvees, 600 trucks, short 4,000 pair of night vision goggles, and 
needed 30 more wreckers. This is from Colonel Ron Title, who is brass 
in our Florida National Guard. He's not talking on behalf of the 
Democratic Party or Republican Party. Here's a man that said, I'm going 
to serve in the Florida National Guard, and I'm just talking about 
preparedness. I'm talking about our ability to be able to respond to a 
natural disaster.

What are we going to do, turn around and call Georgia? I'm pretty 
sure Georgia has some of the same issues.

Turn around and call Alabama? Alabama, last I checked, there are a 
lot of National Guard men and women there, and I guarantee you their 
equipment, if not more in Iraq, they don't have the ability to come to 
Florida.

And so when you look at these other States and the response of the 
National Guard, then you have to get active duty troops involved and 
you have to fly things in and carry on. If we had accountability in 
place, and we had proper planning in place, that's what this bill calls 
for.

Mr. Ryan, this is the last money for Iraq and Afghanistan that will 
not go through the regular budget process because, Mr. Speaker, when 
that happens, accountability is paramount. Transparency hearings, 
everything is accounted for. Not just giving a checkbook to someone in 
Iraq and say, well, in the early days, giving them cash and just say go 
to work. That's not good accounting practices and should not be 
encouraged.

And so the old saying, if we know better, we'll do better, well, you 
know, by now, 5 years in the war, we should all know better. And we're 
trying to do better.

We have a majority in place right now, Mr. Ryan and Members, that are 
willing to do better, have the will and the desire to do it. The good 
thing that I like about, I was listening to what you were saying before 
I was recognized. Mr. Ryan, I remember the days that we were on the 
floor and we used to talk about if we had the opportunity, this is what 
we'll do. We'll make sure that veterans have what they need to have 
when they return back, and those that have served in past wars, that we 
honor their commitment by honoring them, making sure that they have a 
VA health care system they can be proud of.

We said that we would work to make sure that children have health 
care in this country, and we've already taken action on that.

We said that we would implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations. 
We have already done that. Waiting on the President's signature.

We said that we would put rules in place within the House rules to 
bring about ethics and have an active ethics committee, which has 
already happened, Mr. Speaker. It's not something that we said, well, 
if we get around to it. It's already happened.

So when we talk about the functions of good government, those 
principles are already in place. And so now we just need the help of 
the President of the United States to work with the Congress and not 
dictate to the Congress about what we should be doing, how we should be 
doing it. He's had 5 years. He's had 5 years to say, this is the way 
it's going to be. So shall it be written, so shall it be done.

And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, and being a Member of the past two 
Congresses, serving, Mr. Ryan and I served on the Armed Services 
Committee. We don't want to leave our men and women without equipment 
and the things that they need. And supplementals in the past, I didn't 
like a lot of the language in it, but I voted for it for the greater 
good, for the greater good.

And we counted on the Defense Department to be accountable with the 
money. We counted on all of the things that we're being told about the 
equipment being on the ground when the men and women get there. Now we 
find out that some of that was not true, a lot of that was not true. 
And there's been so many things that have been told and so many 
apologies that have been sent out in press releases.

Those days are over. We must have accountability in place. So when 
the President, if the President follows through on his threat, Mr. 
Ryan, to veto it, I'm glad that you talked about the things that he 
will veto; that he's going to deny the men and women in harm's way. 
He's going to deny children to have health care. He's going to


deny veterans from getting the veterans services that they deserve, and 
he's going to deny us being able to hold our head up.


But I'm going to hold my head up because I'm doing my part and I'm 
doing my part right now on Memorial Day when we commemorate those that 
paid the ultimate sacrifice. And vetoing the largest increase in the VA 
history.

I'm just talking about a few things, leave alone the accountability 
measures at the Department of Defense. They already had the rules in 
place. They just weren't honoring those rules. We put it in the 
supplemental, this emergency supplemental. So now, within this law and 
within the dollars that will be flowing into the field and throughout 
America, they're going to have accountability measures in it.

So I'm not talking about what the Republican Congress did not do or 
what they call themselves doing, or what the President did not do or 
called himself doing. I'm just talking about what we're doing now and 
the opportunity that's presented before us. And I'm so happy, Mr. Ryan, 
that we are moving in that direction. I yield back to you, sir.