---
---

# ENHANCING SMALL BUSINESS RESEARCH AND INNOVATION ACT OF 2009
## `2b8410917f5fe80c4d82b6ba12d33677`
`Ms. CLARKE — 8 July 2009`

---


Ms. CLARKE. I rise today to take a strong stand for small business by 
supporting H.R. 2965, the Enhancing Small Business Research and 
Innovation Act of 2009, which reauthorizes the Small Business 
Innovation Research and the Small Business Technology Transfer grant 
programs. This very important piece of legislation will strengthen and 
solidify the foundation for the growth and ultimate success of our 
Nation's small businesses and determine the subsequent success of our 
country's economy.

The SBIR program is one of the most successful Federal programs for 
research and technology innovations. It has been central in the process 
of maintaining the U.S. as a leader in technological innovation, 
delivering over 60,000 patents and several hundred valuable innovations 
in all commercial areas, including defense and homeland security.

This 111th Congress, I have the honor of sitting on the Committee on 
Homeland Security and chairing the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, 
Cybersecurity, and Science and Technology. And as the Representative of 
the 11th Congressional District located in central Brooklyn and a 
native New Yorker, I have witnessed firsthand the need for advanced 
technology to keep America and its citizens safe.

The events of 9/11 and subsequent war in Afghanistan and Iraq have 
catalyzed the need to develop both antiterrorism technology and defense 
systems that will defend our Nation and save precious American lives 
from terrorist action.

Moreover, this funding is integral in providing funding for women and 
minority-owned research firms that have historically been marginalized 
and locked out of the system and have had more difficulty navigating 
through the technology and innovation research arena.

There is no better time than now to encourage technological 
innovation, to meet the Federal research and development needs of our 
country, and to increase the quality and quantity of products in our 
market. And there is no other group better equipped to handle such a 
task than the small business community.



Currently, small businesses are responsible for creating roughly 70 
percent of new jobs and employ half of the private sector workforce. 
They are truly the backbone of our economy and the conduit through 
which we will emerge from this recession. I have had a very 
longstanding commitment to the support of the technological 
entrepreneurship and the jobs it creates. In my district in Brooklyn, 
our State University Medical Center is home to Brooklyn's first 
biotechnology incubator where small emerging entrepreneurs are 
developing the cures for our Nation's illnesses and diseases. This 
legislation enables the vital support these entrepreneurs are 
desperately seeking. This is why I strongly support H.R. 2965, the 
Enhancing Small Business Research and Innovation Act of 2009.

I thank Chairwoman Velazquez, Ranking Member Graves, Subcommittee 
Chairman Nye and Congressman Altmire for taking charge on this bill.