---
---

# IRAQ
## `2b89fecc5c406be41328154e22202714`
`Mr. COLEMAN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, I intend to speak in morning business and 
to talk about an issue of great importance in Minnesota, access to 
health care in rural communities, but I have to make one comment in 
response to my colleague from New Jersey.

Iraq is the most important issue facing America today. There is no 
question about it. I want to raise some concerns about the surge in 
Baghdad. I understand we are fighting a war against insurgency and 
foreign fighters in Anbar Province. If those commanders on the ground 
need more, I am going to give it to them. I have great concerns about 
the surge. We need to debate this. It is absolutely mind boggling to 
watch what is going on with this playing around with rules. The bottom 
line is Senators should have the right to debate. Senators should have 
the right to offer amendments and we should be voting on whether you 
support a surge, we should be voting on whether you support continued 
funding, we should be voting on whether there should be benchmarks. We 
should do what the Senate does, which is debate, have discussion, and 
then vote. What the majority is attempting to do is to forestall that, 
offering something that they know is something the Senate does not do, 
offering something they know the American public--the public wants us 
to debate this and vote on it. So instead they offer a resolution 
which, they know, will gather objection, a resolution on which they 
will allow no amendments, no discussion about other things other than a 
proposal that comes out from them. That is absurd. That is not the 
Senate. It is not the greatest deliberative body in the world. We 
should do better. The American public deserves better, and I hope our 
leaders can come together and figure out a way to structure a debate so 
opinions can be laid out and they can be discussed and then we can 
vote--not on one thing that a 51-person majority says, but the way the 
Senate does it: We put it on the table and vote.

I may disagree with some of my colleagues on this side of the aisle 
on some of that, but everyone has a right to lay out their amendments 
and their proposal, and we should do so on Iraq.
