# None
## `2b96403bd8b8bcfdb7ef6b7cc9c16723`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, under cloture, what it means of course 
is we are doing nothing--good speeches on important topics, but we are 
not considering legislation. We are not debating a bill. We are killing 
time, which turns out to be the major occupation of the Senate for the 
last year and a half. Why? Because the minority party, the Republican 
Party, has a strategy. It is a strategy of using filibusters to slow 
down or stop any bill from passing in the Senate. Today we are seeing 
that strategy in the extreme.

The bill pending before the Senate is H.R. 1195. In the annals of 
legislative history in the Senate, this will not go down as a great 
piece of legislation. This is not a bill that was worked on for years 
by Senators and their staffs, conceived with grand ideas to change this 
great country. This is a bill which by and large changes punctuation in 
the Federal highway bill, a bill we passed several years ago. Then when 
we carefully read it afterwards, we said: We got some of this wrong. 
This should not have been ''trail.'' It should have read ''road.'' This 
section you referred to wasn't exactly accurate. It is another section.

So we created a technical corrections bill, a bill that cleaned up 
the Federal highway bill. This technical corrections bill is now being 
filibustered by the Republican side of the aisle. They want to stop us 
from voting on a technical corrections bill. They want to delay our 
consideration of even this housekeeping bill. You ask yourself why. 
Frankly, because they don't want us to take up legislation of even 
greater importance. This is an important bill. Don't get me wrong. By 
cleaning up the old Federal highway bill, we can move forward on 
highway projects. We can spend a billion dollars creating good-paying 
jobs right here in the United States, 4 to 500 different projects 
across our country, 40,000 new jobs. That is good. But these were all 
destined to occur. We are just making sure the language is clear enough 
to move forward.


We are really not generating a lot of controversy and debate, are we, 
about this bill? Two or three little amendments we could take care of 
in a matter of an hour, that is about it. But what has happened is that 
the Republican minority is trying to stop the majority party--the 
Democratic Party--from considering and passing important legislation.

In the history of the U.S. Senate--this grand body, this deliberative 
body--in the history of this institution, the record number of 
filibusters in any 2-year period of time was 57, until the Republican 
minority decided to take on this strategy. So far, last year and the 
first few months of this year, there have been 65 Republican 
filibusters this Congress, and still counting. They have broken a 
record. Who cares? Well, I think a lot of people should care.

We heard the Senator from Vermont a few minutes ago. He talked about 
his genuine concern about working people in his State. He talked about 
the impact of this economy on average working families. He talked about 
the impact of gasoline prices, $3.50 a gallon and higher. He talked 
about the impact of food costs going up on families all across America, 
the cost of health insurance, the cost of college education, the cost 
of daycare for kids. He talked about the fact that the majority of 
families have not seen an increase in real income over the last 7 years 
of this administration. He feels, as I do, that this Senate should be 
dealing with that issue. What is keeping us from doing so? The 
filibusters from the Republican side of the aisle: 65 and still 
counting, a record number of filibusters.

So Senator McConnell, who is the Republican minority leader in the 
Senate, was asked a question at a press conference today. The reporter 
said to Senator McConnell about his Republican caucus:




 Are you and the caucus prepared now to start slowing down 


 work on the floor and legislation in response?


He answers:




 Well, we are on the highway technical corrections bill. It 


 is open for amendments. We were discussing various amendments 


 at our lunch earlier and I assume amendments are going to be 


 offered and dealt with.


That was his answer, and unfortunately it is wrong. We are not 
considering amendments to this bill because we are still under cloture 
on the motion to proceed that doesn't expire until 11:30 p.m. tonight.

So if Senator McConnell really wants us to consider amendments to 
this bill and get it finished, he needs to walk out on the floor and 
agree to a unanimous consent to move to this bill immediately and 
consider it. Then his statement to the press this afternoon will be 
accurate. But until he does, it is not accurate. We are stuck, stuck on 
cloture, stuck, as we have been time and again by this Republican 
minority. I, for one, believe they have pushed it to the extreme--a 
filibuster on a technical corrections bill.



Can you think of anything else, Madam President, we might be 
considering? Well, how about the policy on the war in Iraq, a war that 
claimed 2 American lives yesterday, a war that has taken over 4,025 of 
our best and bravest, that has injured more than 30,000, that has cost 
this country over $700 billion, that continues to cost us $10 billion 
to $15 billion a month; a war that claims the lives of our soldiers, 
ruins the morale of many troops who refuse to reenlist; a war that has 
stretched our military to a breaking point. Is that worth a few minutes 
of debate here on the floor of the Senate, the policy of this country 
toward the war in Iraq?

How about the war in Afghanistan? A war that was designed to go after 
those responsible for 9/11, to capture Osama bin Laden; a war which is 
stalled because we have dedicated so many resources to Iraq; a war 
which we must win so that al-Qaida and the Taliban do not resume their 
control over this poor country; a war which sadly has not resulted in 
the capture of Osama bin Laden more than 6 years after the terrible 
tragedies of 9/11. Is that worth a few hours on the floor, maybe a 
resolution, maybe a discussion about policy? I think it is, but we 
can't get to it because Republican filibusters are stopping us.

Maybe we should spend a few moments talking about our dependence on 
foreign oil and what we can do to bring down gasoline prices across 
America; how we can work on a bipartisan basis to find renewable, 
sustainable sources of energy that fuel our economy without killing our 
environment. Is that worth a little debate here on the floor of the 
Senate? Most Americans think it is an important issue but, sadly, we 
are stuck with a Republican filibuster again. Maybe we could spend some 
time bringing the bill out of the Committee on the Environment, the cap 
and trade bill, a bipartisan bill by Senator Warner, a Republican of 
Virginia, Senator Lieberman, an independent Democrat of Connecticut. 
Maybe we could bring that to the floor and talk about a way to clean up 
this world's environment so our kids have a fighting chance to have a 
planet they can live on, so that we can devise with American ingenuity 
a system using our free market to make this a cleaner planet. Is that 
worth a few hours of debate on the floor?


Debate on the Children's Health Insurance Program that the President 
has vetoed not once but twice, a program to extend health insurance 
coverage to some children in America who are not poor enough to qualify 
for Medicaid and not lucky enough to have parents with health 
insurance, is that worth a few hours of debate on the floor? I think it 
is.

Those issues and so many others are the ones the American people 
expect us to be talking about right here in Washington. But instead we 
have a bill, with grammar and punctuation, trying to clean up a Federal 
highway bill of several years ago, that is being filibustered by the 
Republican side of the aisle. This is shameful. It is such a waste of 
time in this great institution, but it is a specifically designed 
strategy by the Republicans to slow down the business of the Senate and 
to stop us from considering critically important legislation for 
America.

I would say to Senator McConnell, who said that we are on the highway 
technical corrections bill and it is open for amendments, it will be 
open for amendments when Senator McConnell comes to the floor and gives 
us his consent to stop the filibuster and to give us a chance to pass 
this bill, as we should have last week, and move on to more important 
legislation--legislation the American people ask us to consider. Sixty-
five Republican filibusters this Congress and still counting. The Grand 
Old Party, the Republican Party, the GOP now has a new name. It is no 
longer the GOP, Grand Old Party. From the Republicans in the Senate, we 
have learned that it is the Graveyard of Progress. That is their idea 
of their role in the Senate. Any proposal for change, any proposal for 
progress, they want to kill. This graveyard is going to speak back to 
them in November.

I think the American people have had it with the obstructionism, the 
slowdowns, and the obstacles we are seeing here in Washington. The 
voters get their chance in November. I hope they will join us. I hope 
they will send more Senators to Washington who are prepared to not only 
debate but vote for change, Senators who are willing to say: Put an end 
to these mind-numbing filibusters and get down to work. Roll up your 
sleeves and do something to make life better for working families. Do 
something about this energy crisis. Make this planet a safer place for 
our kids to live on. Be responsible when it comes to spending, and 
start bringing the American soldiers home. That is what we should be 
doing. Instead, we are stuck in another Republican filibuster.

I yield the floor.