---
---

# LOBBYING TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2007
## `2b9c6b58284c1d69010a991c014b930c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I will take my time now to 
applaud and thank both the chairman of the full committee Mr. Conyers, 
and the ranking member of the full committee, my colleague from Texas, 
Mr. Smith, and our former colleague Mr. Van Hollen for having a 
partnership between H.R. 2317 and H.R. 2316.

I think the first point I'd like to make is that as I have spent a 
lot of time in this first session, first couple of months, with a lot 
of visitors who have come to this Capitol, I've watched them look in 
awe, visit with their Member of Congress, and appreciate this most 
powerful law-making body that cherishes democracy and values integrity.



I know that visitors have a great sense of respect for their 
individual Members of Congress. I want you to know that that respect is 
well deserved. Your Member is hard-working. They cherish not only the 
democratic values of this Nation, but they pride themselves in 
promoting integrity and promoting your interests over their interests.

But sometimes we need a little cleanup. It does not mean that the 
whole body has disregarded the question of integrity and the question 
of ensuring your interests be put forth. But we have had some bumps in 
the road.

So we have projected two legislative initiatives that will separate 
out the interests at work of lobbyists. That is part of the Democratic 
process, but it will also provide an opportunity for voices to be 
heard, the right of the protections of the first amendment.

As it relates to the concept of bundling, which sounds like a very 
interesting and difficult word, that is the course of putting a number 
of financial contributions together. We will have a system that will 
work, that everyone who is here to put forward the interests of the 
American people, will, in fact, know that that is the first priority.

But we have a system that does not promote public finance. I would 
like to see us have a complete system of public financing. That means 
the taxpayers will contribute toward the presidential candidates, and 
they would not be able to opt out Federal congressional candidates, 
Senate and House. That will be a system dominated by the people.

But we don't have that system. So we have good-thinking people who 
want to contribute, and we have good people, good-thinking people who 
would receive. Let us not taint all of them.

But I rise to support these two initiatives, because they provide the 
open-door transparency that we need. I want to thank Chairman Conyers, 
first of all, for accepting my amendment that clearly stated that those 
advocacy groups that wanted to be heard, the right of the protections 
of the First Amendment.

Nothing in this bill denies any first amendment protection for 
expression or association. I know the leadership of Chairman Conyers on 
the issue of civil liberties, in complete, but I wanted to reaffirm 
this fact so that we know for sure, any Member coming to the floor to 
vote for this, they know their university or they know their place of 
faith, or they know the Boy Scouts or the Girl Scouts, or they know 
their various civil rights organizations will still have the 
opportunity to convey their voice with the assurance of first amendment 
protection.

I also want to thank Mr. Van Hollen for working with me to include 
language that I hope all Members will appreciate, and that is, as I 
stated earlier, that Members come here with the greatest sense of 
integrity and respect for their duty to the American people. So we 
provided a provision that instructs lobbyists to give notice to the 
Member of the list of items that they are going to file. That Member 
cannot, if you will, stop the list from being filed, but the Member 
will have the opportunity, the Member of Congress, to be able to read 
the list and make sure that it is accurate as it is being filed.

We will not stop the time from ticking, if you will, for the filing 
process, but we will make the system work better and provide for the 
participation by all of the impacted parties. The congressional Member 
will be allowed to receive the notice of this filing and have the 
opportunity to correct it, to make sure it is consistent with his or 
her files.

These are difficult times, because we all realize our ultimate 
responsibility is to the American people. We must put them over self. 
But my amendment in this bill, I believe, will help the open-door 
transparency proceed, family and I ask my colleagues to support it.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2317, the ''Lobbying 
Transparency Act of 2007.'' I rise in support of legislation that will 
help bring about the most open government and the most honest 
leadership in the history of the Congress. Most of the credit for this 
achievement goes to my very good friend, the gentleman from Maryland, 
Mr. Van Hollen, for his tenacity in shepherding this legislation 
through the gamut that is the House legislative process.

In particular, Madam Speaker, I wish to commend Mr. Van Hollen and 
the Rules Committee for agreeing to incorporate my friendly amendment 
to H.R. 2316. Let me describe the bill and explain why I believe the 
incorporation of the Jackson-Lee amendment improves the bill to the 
point where it warrants the support of the members of this body.

H.R. 2316 requires registered lobbyists to provide quarterly reports 
to the House clerk and secretary of the Senate regarding the 
''bundled'' contributions totaling more than $5,000 in a quarter that 
they provide to a covered recipient.

''Bundled contributions'' are contributions that are received by a 
registered lobbyist and forwarded to a covered recipient, or 
contributions that are otherwise credited or attributed to a lobbyist 
through records, designations or other means of tracking, such as 
placing the lobbyist's name on a check's memo line or using another 
symbol. The bill's definition of ''covered recipients'' applies to 
federal candidates, federal officeholders, leadership political action 
committees or political party committees.

The required reports would disclose the name of the lobbyist, the 
name of his or her


employer, and the name of the covered recipient to whom the 
contributions were given, as well as the amount of the contributions 
made or a good-faith estimate thereof. The report would be due within 
45 days of the end of the quarterly period. These reports would not 
include certain information that is included in other required 
disclosure reports. Within 25 days of the end of a quarterly reporting 
period, the registered lobbyist is to send a notification by certified 
mail to a covered recipient outlining the information that will be 
included in the lobbyists' report, and the source of each contribution.

For all its good intentions, for many members these provisions are 
problematic. There is a legitimate concern that the information the 
lobbyist might report to the Clerk or Secretary of the Senate may be 
inaccurate or incomplete which may later be disclosed to the public 
causing untold problems or embarrassment to the covered recipient. The 
amendment that I offered, and which has been incorporated into the 
bill, assuages that concern.

The Jackson-Lee amendment requires that the statement which a covered 
registered lobbyist must provide to the recipient also shall include a 
notification that the recipient has the right to respond to the 
statement to challenge and correct any information included before the 
registered lobbyist files the report with the Clerk of the House or 
Secretary of the Senate.

The inclusion of this provision will reduce the likelihood that the 
recipient will be unduly prejudiced by the disclosure of inaccurate 
information by giving the recipient notice and opportunity to identify, 
and the lobbyist the opportunity to correct, inaccurate information 
regarding bundled contributions.

In sum, H.R. 2317 now will help ensure that the salutary objectives 
of the legislation are achieved without reaping the unintended 
consequence of prejudicing a recipient--whether he or she be an office 
holder or candidate for federal office--by the disclosure of inaccurate 
or incomplete information.

Madam Speaker, all of us favor open government. All of us favor 
honest leadership. And all of us are in favor of transparency of 
process. But we also believe in fundamental fairness. And that includes 
fairness to those who seek to exercise their First Amendment rights to 
freedom of speech and of association, and to petition their government 
for a redress of grievances.

That is why I offered, and the Judiciary Committee, approved my 
amendment during markup that provides a rule of construction that 
nothing in H.R. 2316 is intended or is to be construed to prohibit any 
expressive conduct protected from legal prohibition by, or any 
activities protected by the free speech, free exercise, or free 
association clauses of, the First Amendment to the Constitution.

The Jackson-Lee amendment incorporated in H.R. 2317 is intended to 
ensure fair treatment to elected office holders and candidates for 
federal office.

Again, let me thank Mr. Van Hollen for his fine work in crafting this 
legislation. Let me also thank the members of the Rules Committee 
incorporating my amendment into H.R. 2317. I urge all members to 
support this legislation. It will be another step in the right 
direction toward fulfilling our promise to the American people to drain 
the swamp and return open government, honest leadership, and 
transparency to the legislative process.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2316, the ''Honest 
Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007.'' With the adoption of this 
legislation, we begin to make good on our pledge to ''drain the swamp'' 
and end the ''culture of corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress.

It is critically important that we adopt the reforms contained in 
H.R. 2316 because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in 
Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, 
and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq 
for administration cronies.

The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw 
during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those 
involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, a 
former congressman pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--
accepting all-expense-paid trips to play golf in Scotland and accepting 
meals, sports and concert tickets, while providing legislative favors 
for Abramoff's clients.

But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the 
House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes 
were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into 
signed conference reports in the dead of night.

The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of 
running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats 
picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exit polls indicated that 74 
percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very 
important issue in their choice at the polls.

Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one 
of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is 
why as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate given the new 
majority by the voters, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics 
reform package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the 
Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress 
of the United States.

Madam Speaker, federal lobbying is a multi-billion dollar industry, 
and spending to influence members of Congress and executive branch 
officials has increased greatly in the last decade. While the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act of 1995 (LDA) is one of the main laws to promote 
transparency and accountability in the federal lobbying industry and 
represents the most comprehensive overhaul of the laws regulating 
lobbying practices in 50 years prior to 1995, it falls far short of a 
complete solution, as even recognized by its staunchest supporters, 
during congressional hearings on the issue.

The need for further reform was highlighted by a major study of the 
federal lobbying industry published in April 2006 by the Center for 
Public Integrity, which found that since 1998, lobbyists have spent 
nearly $13 billion to influence members of Congress and other 
federal officials on legislation and regulations. The same study found 
that in 2003 alone, lobbyists spent $2.4 billion, with expenditures for 
2004 estimated to grow to at least $3 billion. This is roughly twice as 
much as the already vast amount that was spent on federal political 
campaigns in the same time period.


The LDA contains a number of measures to help prevent inappropriate 
influence in the lobbying arena and promote sunshine on lobbying 
activities. However, according to the Center's study, compliance with 
these requirements has been less than exemplary. For example, the 
report found: during the last 6 years, 49 out of the top 50 lobbying 
firms have failed to file one or more of the required forms; nearly 
14,000 documents that should have been filed are missing; almost 300 
individuals, companies, or associates have lobbied without ng 
registered; more than 2,000 initial registrations were filed after the 
legal deadline; and in more than 2,000 instances, lobbyists never filed 
the required termination documents at all.

Under the LDA, the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House 
must notify in writing any lobbyist or lobbying firm of noncompliance 
with registration and reporting requirements, and they must also notify 
the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia of the noncompliance if 
the lobbyist or lobbying firm fails to respond within 60 days of its 
notification. It appears that until very recently, however, these cases 
of noncompliance were not being referred to the Department of Justice 
for enforcement. It is also clear that the infractions that are 
actually being investigated by the Secretary or the Clerk do not 
coincide with the extent of noncompliance, and it is entirely unknown 
whether enforcement actions are being effectively pursued by the 
Department of Justice. Clearly, further reform is needed.

Madam Speaker, I commend Chairman Conyers and the members of the 
Judiciary Committee for their excellent work in preparing this lobbying 
reform package. The reforms contained in the package are tough but not 
nearly too tough for persons elected to represent the interests of the 
600,000 constituents in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar 
bipartisan lobbying and government reform proposals were debated and 
passed by the House and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to 
reconcile the two versions.

Madam Speaker, I support H.R. 2316 because it closes the ''Revolving 
Door,'' requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities, 
provides tougher enforcement of lobbying restrictions, and requires 
increased disclosure.

H.R. 2316 closes the ''Revolving Door'' by retaining the current 1-
year ban on lobbying by former members and senior staff and requires 
them to notify the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct within 3 
days of engaging in any negotiations or reaching any agreements 
regarding future employment or salary. The members' notification will 
be publicly disclosed.

The bill also requires members and senior staff to recuse themselves 
during negotiations regarding future employment from any matter in 
which there is a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict.

Madam Speaker, this legislation also ends the ''K Street Project,'' 
made notorious during the 12 years of Republican control of Congress. 
Members and senior staff are prohibited from influencing employment 
decisions or practices of private entities for partisan political gain. 
Violators of this provision will be fined or imprisoned for a term of 
up to 15 years.

Second, H.R. 2316 requires full public disclosure of lobbying 
activities by strengthening lobbying disclosure requirements. It does 
this by mandating quarterly, rather than semiannual, disclosure of 
lobbying reports. It covers more lobbyists by reducing the contribution 
thresholds from $5,000 to $2,500 in income


from lobbying activities and from $20,000 to $10,000 in total lobbying 
expenses. It also reduces the contribution threshold of any 
organization other than client that contributes to lobbying activities 
to $5,000 ($10,000 under current law).

Third, the legislation increases disclosure of lobbyists' 
contributions to lawmakers and entities controlled by lawmakers, 
including contributions to members' charities, to pay the cost of 
events or entities honoring members, contributions intended to pay the 
cost of a meeting or a retreat, and contributions disclosed under FECA 
relating to reports by conduits.

Fourth, the bill requires the House Clerk to provide public Internet 
access to lobbying reports within 48 hours of electronic filing and 
requires that the lobbyist/employing firm provide a certification or 
disclosure report attesting that it did not violate House/Senate gift 
ban rules. And it makes it a violation of the LDA for a lobbyist to 
provide a gift or travel to a member/officer or employee of Congress 
with knowledge that the gift or travel is in violation of House/Senate 
rules.

Transparency is increased by the requirements in the bill that 
lobbyists disclose past Executive and Congressional employment and that 
lobbying reports be filed electronically and maintained in a 
searchable, downloadable database. For good reason, the bill also 
requires disclosure of lobbying activities by certain coalitions but 
expressly exempts 501(c) and 527 organizations.

Finally, Madam Speaker, H.R. 2316 increases civil penalties for 
violation of the Lobby Disclosure Act from $50,000 to $100,000 and adds 
a criminal penalty of up to 5 years for knowing and corrupt failure to 
comply. Finally, the bill requires members to prohibit their staff from 
having any official contact with the member's spouse who is a 
registered lobbyist or is employed or retained by such an individual 
and establishes a public database of member Travel and Personal 
Financial Disclosure Forms.

Madam Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that at the beginning 
of this new 110th Congress, the Members of this House, along with all 
of the American people, paid fitting tribute to the late President 
Gerald R. ''Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this House, who did so 
much to heal our Nation in the aftermath of Watergate. Upon assuming 
the presidency, President Ford assured the Nation: ''My fellow 
Americans, our long national nightmare is over.'' By his words and 
deeds, President Ford helped turn the country back on the right track. 
He will be forever remembered for his integrity, good character, and 
commitment to the national interest.

This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public 
confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the 
most honest, most ethical, most responsive, most transparent Congress 
in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the 
needs of the American people before those of the lobbyists and special 
interests. To do that, we can start by adopting H.R. 2316.