---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2bae6763acc120f3f36a299b0caa868a`
`Mr. BAYH — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of SPC Chad 
Derek Clements of the U.S. Army and Huntington, IN.

Specialist Clements was assigned to F Company, 4th Brigade Support 
Battalion, 4th Infantry Division. He was only 26 years old when he lost 
his life on August 30th while serving bravely in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom in the Arghandab River Valley in Afghanistan. He was 
only 3 weeks into his first deployment.

A Huntington, IN, native, Chad graduated from Huntington North High 
School in 2002. He enlisted in the Army in February 2009 and arrived in 
Afghanistan the second week of August. He followed in the proud 
military tradition of his father, Daniel, a Navy veteran who passed 
away in 2001.

Those closest to him described Chad as having a big heart. He deeply 
valued his family and his friends. Chad was an avid fan of the local 
Fort Wayne Komets and the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey teams, and he 
enjoyed collecting memorabilia of NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt.

Today, I join Chad's family and friends in mourning his death. He is 
survived by his mother, Anne Beady Tarter; his stepfather, Ed Tarter; 
his sister, Danielle Clements; his grandmother, Betty Beady; his 
grandfather and step-grandmother, Marvin and Carol Beady; his 
grandfather, Everett Clements; his stepbrother, Corey Tarter; and his 
stepsister, Heather Tarter.

We take pride in the example of this American hero, even as we 
struggle to express our sorrow over this loss. We cherish the legacy of 
his service and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of SPC Chad Derek Clements in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace.












Sergeant christopher Neal Karch


Mr. President, I also rise today to honor the life of SGT Christopher 
Neal Karch of the U.S. Army and Indianapolis, IN.

Sergeant Karch was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division. He 
was only 23 years old when he lost his life on August 11 while serving 
bravely in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. He was 
20 days from completing his second tour of duty.

Sergeant Karch graduated from Lawrence Central High School in 2005 
and was pursuing a degree from the University of Maryland with plans to 
graduate in 2012. He joined the Army 2 months after his high school 
graduation, where he served in the same division and lived in the same 
barracks as his father Pat--also a veteran. A decorated soldier, 
Sergeant Karch earned the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart and the 
Army Good Conduct Medal. His platoon leader described him as the 
''epitome of an airborne paratrooper.''

Today, I join Sergeant Karch's family and friends in mourning his 
death. He is survived by his father, Pat Karch; his mother Lynn Kersey; 
his grandparents, Nick and Dian Nicholson, Bill and Joyce Seal, Norman 
and Denise Karch, and Jerry Hallgarth; and his uncle, Vince Karch.

As we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we take pride in 
the example of this American hero and cherish the legacy of his service 
and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

I pray that Christopher's family finds comfort in the words of the 
prophet Isaiah, who said: ''He will swallow up death in victory; and 
the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Sergeant Christopher Neal 
Karch in the Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country 
and for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace.












 Specialist Justin B. Shoecraft


Mr. President, today I also wish to honor the life of SPC Justin B. 
Shoecraft of the U.S. Army and Elkhart, IN.

Specialist Shoecraft was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 2nd Stryker 
Calvary Regiment and was only 28 years old when he lost his life while 
serving bravely in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Kakarak, 
Afghanistan. He had been in Afghanistan for 5 weeks.

An Elkhart native, Justin graduated from Elkhart Memorial High School 
in 2000. He shared a passion for working on old bicycles and cars with 
his father, Blue, who described his son as hardworking and dependable.

Today, I join Justin's family and friends in mourning his death. He 
is survived by his wife, Jessica; his mother and father, Donna and 
Carroll ''Blue'' Shoecraft; his sister, Sherry Schoonover; and his 
half-brother, Michael Garver, Jr.

We take pride in the example of this American hero, even as we 
struggle to express our sorrow over this loss. We cherish the legacy of 
his service and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Army SPC Justin B. Shoecraft 
in the Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and for 
his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace.











Specialist Christopher Shane Wright


Mr. President, today I also honor the life of U.S. Army SPC 
Christopher Shane Wright.

Specialist Wright was assigned to C Company, 1st Battalion, 75th 
Ranger Regiment. He was only 23 years old when he lost his life on 
August 19 while serving bravely in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Pech, Afghanistan.

Chris grew up near Jeffersonville, IN, where he attended Sacred Heart 
School. He later moved to Tollesboro, KY, and graduated in 2005 from 
Lewis County High School. Chris enlisted in the Army shortly after his 
18th birthday and went on to serve in both Iraq and Afghanistan.

Specialist Wright was highly regarded among his fellow servicemen. 
His regiment commander, COL Michael E. Kurilla, described Specialist 
Wright as ''the epitome of a Ranger'' and called him ''a hero to our 
Nation, the Army and his family.'' Specialist Wright received the Army 
Good Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Iraq 
Campaign Medal. He was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star, the Army 
Commendation Medal, and the Purple Heart.

Today, I join Specialist Wright's family and friends in mourning his 
death. He is survived by his mother, Linda Wright-Dennis; his father 
and stepmother, James Cochran and Michele Cochran; his grandmothers, 
Carol Cochran and JoAnn Stockton; his brothers, Zachary Pope, Zane 
Pope, and Andrew Dennis; and his sisters, Marianne Dennis and Katie 
Dorman.

We take pride in the example of this American hero, even as we 
struggle to


express our sorrow over this loss. We cherish the legacy of his service 
and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of SPC Christopher Shane Wright 
in the Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and for 
his profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace.















 PFC Bryn T. Raver
