# None
## `2bb0cf680337aa98577acbdceca97e9d`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate it, and you're absolutely right.

And we have got an obligation to do that, and the ramifications of 
this war are being felt all over. And one of the regrets that we have 
had is that we continue to run up this huge budget deficit in order to 
pay for the war. And it's time for us to start challenging those people 
who have been doing well, those people that this primarily has been the 
burden of this war, has primarily been the responsibility of those 
families and those soldiers who have been fighting in it, and the 
burden that they have faced has been much greater than anyone had 
anticipated. And so I think it's important for us to also recognize in 
our supplemental bill what we have been able to do and what we have 
tried to do with some of this additional money.

Almost $2 billion for defense health care for those soldiers who are 
serving their country currently, that we put an extra couple billion 
dollars in there above the President's request to deal with the health 
care issue for those who are serving their country right now in this 
most dangerous time.

We also added an almost additional $2 billion for veterans health 
care and made sure that we are taking care of our veterans when they 
come back. We are going to see a tremendous surge in veterans health 
care when these soldiers get back home, and we want to make sure that 
they have the resources necessary to do that.

We don't want this to be a country that promises you before you go to 
war all kinds of Cadillac coverage and then when you get back you're 
left on your own. The Democratic Party had attempted to fix that 
through the supplemental process, and again, that bill was vetoed.

$500 million in there for post-traumatic stress disorder, which is 
going to be a huge problem given the kind of environment that these 
kids are fighting in.

$500 million in there for brain injuries, again a major problem with 
those soldiers who are coming back injured.

We're trying to take care of our veterans, and we're doing a good 
job, but we keep getting this process and these bills vetoed by the 
President of the United States, and it is very important that we begin 
to recognize that this can no longer be a stumbling block.

In addition to that, Mr. Speaker, the Democratic-led Congress, in our 
budget authorization bill several weeks ago, put in there the largest 
increase for veterans spending in the history of the veterans 
administration. We are trying to take care of our veterans, and we are 
doing it in spite of what the President is trying to do by consistently 
vetoing our bills.



We are putting the money forward, we are asking for some 
accountability, we are taking care of our veterans, we are taking care 
of our soldiers, we are making sure that they don't leave to go over to 
Iraq without the proper body armor, the proper Humvee, up-armored 
Humvees, and the proper amount of rest.

Our soldiers are getting worn out by continuously extending their 
tours, by sending them back second, third, fourth tours, their families 
are having problems, high divorce rates. We are seeing it all over. 
It's time for us to refocus.

Then, when you look at who else is being affected by this situation 
that we have in Iraq, you are also seeing the issue with the National 
Guard readiness. We have seen, unfortunately, over the last couple of 
weeks, because of the natural disasters and the tornados, especially in 
places like Kansas, where the National Guard does not have the 
equipment, in many instances they don't have the manpower to try to 
deal with the issues that they are facing in their own State. There are 
so many issues that are being affected.

Let me just share with you some of these problems that we have and 
what we are trying to do to address that. We put in, in the last 
supplemental bill, $2 billion not requested by the President for a new 
strategic reserve readiness fund, of which $1 billion is for Army 
National Guard equipment shortfalls. We are trying to address it.

The President vetoed that too. So bad enough you are vetoing health 
care for our soldiers, you are vetoing health care for our veterans to 
the tune of $2 billion; you are vetoing veterans health care for post-
traumatic stress disorder; you are vetoing health care for those 
soldiers who come back with brain injuries. You are also vetoing an 
extra $1 billion for Army National Guard equipment.

I mean, come on. We are trying to move this process forward. You 
know, it's a typical D.C. move, that if it's not your idea, we are 
against it. You know, if I didn't come up with it, I'm against it. That 
has been the President's attitude. We can't have it, because it's not 
us that is suffering; we are in air conditioned quarters. We got 
offices, cars, nice meals, you know. Our families are here with us.

It's the soldiers who are suffering, and their families who are 
suffering, bearing the brunt of this war.

This is Lieutenant General Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard 
Bureau: ''The Governors are rightly concerned that while the personnel 
part of the Guard has never been better, never been more ready, the 
equipment piece to the National Guard back here at home has never been 
less ready, and they are trying to resolve that obvious disconnect. The 
message is clear what we have, and the budget does not produce the 
level of readiness that they feel comfortable with.''

Just being admitted. That's being admitted by the chief of the 
National Guard Bureau. This is the Government Accountability Office 
report from 2007, just a couple of months ago in January. This is a 
nonpartisan bureau that we have here: ''The high use of the National 
Guard for Federal overseas missions has reduced equipment available for 
its State-led domestic missions. At the same time it faces an expanded 
array of threats at home.''

Reduced equipment available for our National Guard; our soldiers, not 
having the proper body armor; our Humvees not properly up-armored; our 
soldiers not getting the proper rest; our veterans not getting the kind 
of health care that they deserve; our defense, our soldiers in the 
Defense Department, not getting the level of health care and attention 
that they need and that they deserve; and an American public that wants 
this war to be over. Sixty percent say that it was a mistake to go in 
the first place.

We have an obligation to respectfully and orderly wind this war down 
and begin a surge of diplomacy in the Middle East, asking our neighbors 
in the Middle East, asking the United Nations to take part in a peace-
keeping effort in Iraq, making sure that our soldiers are there and the 
periphery, a certain number, to make sure that we are still in the 
region to a certain extent to protect against some kind of Iranian 
influence.

I yield to my good friend, who I know has been very busy tonight. 
Thank you for taking time out of your schedule to honor your 
commitments.

I yield to my good friend from Florida.