---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2bbc4330d8027f9fe1e8b23891536066`
`Mr. CORNYN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have a lot of respect for the Senator 
from California, but I couldn't disagree with her more on this topic, 
and I will explain why.

This resolution that is currently before the Senate calls for the 
President to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq within 120 days. It 
calls for withdrawing all combat forces from Iraq--all combat forces 
from Iraq--by March 31, 2008, and it calls for limiting the flexibility 
of our military commanders to go after the enemy.

None of these provisions strikes me as wise or a good idea. And it is 
not just me. Let me quote from January 31, 2005, a speech made by one 
of our distinguished Members at the National Press Club. This 
distinguished Senator said: ''As far as setting a timeline, that is not 
a wise decision, because it only empowers those who don't want us 
there.'' Who was that speaker? Well, none other than our majority 
leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat from Nevada, who said, ''It is not 
a wise decision to set a timeline, because it only empowers those who 
don't want us there.''

Senator Reid was not the only one. Senator Clinton said, ''I don't 
believe it's smart to set a date for withdrawal. I don't think you 
should ever telegraph your intentions to the enemy so they can await 
you.'' That was a comment she made on February 13, 2007.

Senator Joe Biden, Democrat from Delaware, said: ''A deadline for 
pulling out will only encourage our enemies to wait us out.'' He said 
that on June 21, 2005, in a speech at the Brookings Institution in 
Washington, DC.

I think we find ourselves in a time warp, but it is hard to know 
whether the distinguished majority leader's position is what he says 
today, when he says we ought to set a timeline for the withdrawal of 
troops, or whether we ought to credit his remarks made in 2005, when he 
said it is not a wise decision because it only empowers the enemy.

I think we know where the differences come down. There are those, as 
the distinguished Senator from California said a few moments, who 
regard what we are doing in Iraq, and she used these words, as 
''mission impossible.'' In other words, there are those who simply have 
given up, who believe all is lost and there is nothing we can possibly 
do to reverse the tide in Iraq and in the global war on terror, what 
Zarqawi, the former head of al-Qaida in Iraq, called the central front 
in al-Qaida's war against the rest of the civilized world.

What I would suggest is that this resolution, which calls for 
withdrawing troops beginning in the next 120 days, sets a hard deadline 
of March 31, 2008, to withdraw all troops and which limits the 
flexibility of our military commanders to go after the enemy. This is 
not a plan to succeed. This is a plan destined to fail. Because, in 
fact, to give the critics some credit, they have given up, so they 
believe all that is left is retreat, to admit defeat. But this Senator 
is not prepared to give up on either the mission or the members of our 
military who are carrying out that mission in Iraq.

Arbitrary deadlines for withdrawal and micromanaging our military 
commanders on the ground is not a military strategy, it is a recipe for 
defeat. The problem is the new majority and the Democrat strategy can 
best be characterized as one of slow bleed, micromanage, and say nice 
things about supporting the troops but don't support the mission we 
sent them on. I have said before, and I will say it again, if you 
believe all is lost and there is no possibility of success in the war 
in Iraq, to me, the logical conclusion is you would defund the effort 
to support that mission there. In other words, you would use the tool 
that is available to Members of Congress, the power of the purse, to 
cut off the funds.

I disagree with that. I don't think we should. But Senator Dodd and 
Senator Feingold have been the ones who have said, you know what, 
passing nonbinding resolutions is simply not worthy of the Senate. 
Nowhere else in life can you pass a nonbinding resolution, make a 
''no'' decision and be credited for doing anything. Only here in 
Washington, only in the Senate can you pass a nonbinding resolution and 
somebody says, you know what, we have done something. Well, the fact 
is, the only thing we would have done is to lend encouragement to those 
who want to see us fail in Iraq and to possibly undermine the morale 
and support given for our troops who are in harm's way.

Giving the enemy a timetable when American troops should withdraw 
from Iraq only helps the enemy plan on how to accomplish their goals, 
not ours. 


Our focus should be, how can we succeed in Iraq. The irony of this 
proposal--the best I can tell, the 17th proposal that has come from the 
majority since we began talking about Iraq resolutions--is it comes at 
a time when the new Baghdad security plan appears to be making some 
hopeful signs toward success. One of those signs is Muqtada al-Sadr, 
the radical Shiite cleric who is in charge of the Shiite militias in 
Iraq, has fled the country because he knows the American military and 
our Iraqi allies are beginning to enter areas such as Sadr City, which 
have been in his sole province and domain. He has left to go to Tehran, 
to Iran. Similarly, he has instructed the Mahdi armies, the Shiite 
militias, not to confront the American soldiers or Iraqi allies as they 
go in to clear, hold, and build in some of the previously most 
dangerous areas of Iraq, that of Sadr City.


Democrats have offered 17 proposals on how to lose in Iraq but not a 
single proposal on how to succeed. The chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, Senator Levin, recently conceded that there are 
between 5,000 and 6,000 members of al-Qaida in Iraq--specifically in Al 
Anbar Province. To pass legislation that sets an arbitrary deadline for 
withdrawing our combat forces without defeating al-Qaida in Iraq makes 
no sense. Rather, it would provide potentially a safe haven, a power 
vacuum into which al-Qaida could reestablish itself, gain a foothold, 
and use that platform as a place to launch terrorist attacks against 
the United States and other countries.

The Iraqis know our commitment to Iraq is not open-ended, so it is 
simply not accurate to say that is the position of either the 
administration or anyone in this body. No one has made an open-ended 
commitment to Iraq. The Iraqis understand that the future of Iraq is in 
the hands of Iraqis, and that is exactly where it should be.

But to pass legislation that micromanages how our troops should fight 
and to try to make tactical decisions on how to handle those 130,000 or 
so troops on the ground from Washington, DC, is simply crazy. We 
unanimously confirmed GEN David Petraeus, who essentially is the 
architect of the counterinsurgency plan now being carried out in 
Baghdad. General Petraeus will lead our operations in Iraq and, 
frankly, he doesn't need armchair generals here in Washington, DC, 
trying to tell him what to do. General Petraeus knows what to do, and 
that is the reason the Senate unanimously confirmed him to carry out 
this new Baghdad security plan.

If Members of this body really support our troops, then they will 
provide our troops with the resources they need to accomplish their 
mission and not engage in a slow-bleed strategy of cutting off 
resources or reinforcements. We all want our troops to come home as 
soon as possible. But any decision to withdraw from Iraq should be 
based strictly upon national security considerations and not on 
political expediency.

We find that even our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are 
conflicted internally about the best strategy as reflected by this now 
17th iteration of their resolution strategy. A Washington Post 
editorial dated March 13 labels the restrictions on Iraq war funding 
drawn up by House Democrats--and the 17th proposal on Iraq, by the 
way--this is the Washington Post. They called it ''something of a 
trick,'' and is merely ''an inflexible timetable, conforming to the 
need to capture votes in Congress or at the 2008 polls.''

Then an article in the Wall Street Journal yesterday quotes House 
Appropriations Committee chairman, Democrat of Wisconsin, David Obey, 
saying this about the language contained in the wartime spending bill 
passed or being considered in the House--specifically regarding the 
benchmarks laid out for Iraq. Mr. Obey is quoted as saying:




 I don't know if these are the right benchmarks or right 


 conditions or right timetable.


Mr. Obey said:




 It's a huge mistake for people to look at this word and 


 that word. . . . This language will change 10 minutes after 


 it passes the House.


The Vice President was quoted as saying this on March 12, and I 
couldn't agree with him more in this regard. He said:




 The second myth is the most transparent. And that is the 


 notion that one can support the troops without giving them 


 the tools and reinforcements necessary to carry out their 


 mission. . . . When members of Congress pursue an anti-war 


 strategy that's been called slow bleed, they're not 


 supporting the troops, they are undermining them. And when 


 members of Congress speak not of victory, but of time 


 limits--when members speak not of victory but of time limits, 


 deadlines or other arbitrary measures, they're telling the 


 enemy simply to watch the clock and wait us out. . . . Anyone 


 can say they support the troops and we should take them at 


 their word. But the proof will come when it's time to provide 


 the money. We expect the House and Senate to meet the needs 


 of our military and the generals leading the troops in battle 


 on time and in full measure.


I couldn't agree with the Vice President any more than in those 
quoted remarks. We have now had 17 different proposals from Democrats 
in the Senate to date. Maybe there are more to come but 17 so far. For 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to propose this ever-
shifting plan of how to deal with Iraq is simply not constructive.

I must say that it is simply absurd that we would tell our enemy when 
we plan to leave Iraq. I am joined in that belief by Senator Clinton 
and Senator Reid, from the statements I quoted earlier.

This Senator is not prepared to give up on our men and women in 
uniform, and I am not prepared to agree to arbitrary timetables or 
strings on the money that we appropriate that will limit their ability 
to be successful. I hope all of us, Republican or Democrat alike--all 
Americans would hope that our American soldiers, sailors, marines, and 
airmen will come back home safely but after they have accomplished the 
mission we have asked them to take on, and that is to leave Iraq in a 
condition where it is stabilized, where it is able to govern itself and 
defend itself. Only then will we have eliminated another safe haven for 
al-Qaida and terrorist activities. Only then will we have reduced to 
the barest possible minimum the likelihood that we will have to return 
following a regional conflagration, following a vast humanitarian 
crisis and ethnic cleansing that is likely to occur if we do not take 
every possible step to see this Baghdad security plan succeed.

Yes, we all want our troops to come home as soon as possible. Some of 
us are not willing to set arbitrary deadlines or to bring our troops 
back home based on some calendar that bears no relationship to 
conditions on the ground. We want them to come home as soon as 
possible, but after they have accomplished the mission that they so 
bravely have taken on and in which they are so nobly led by GEN David 
Petraeus.

I believe S. Res. 9 is misguided. It should be defeated, and I will 
do everything within my power to urge my colleagues to so vote.

I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.