---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `2bcc1379941bdc840385e335f066fed4`
`Mr. AKIN — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have to say in terms of sympathy, I 
understand the motivation I believe and the interest in our troops that 
this legislation is designed to deal with. I have two marines that are 
my sons. I have visited the one when he was in Fallujah. I talked to a 
number of their troops. I think I understand the stresses that are 
involved in warfare, also as somebody who served as an officer myself.

That said, however, I think there is a danger when we take a look at 
a specific problem and we try to micromanage a solution from the 
position of Congress. It didn't work during the War of Independence. 
And the trade-offs as to whether or not you are going to leave somebody 
in theater longer, there are a lot of different factors that you have 
to balance and a lot of special situations.

To give you one that seems a little bit obvious, I suspect that 
General Petraeus and other generals have been in theater a pretty long 
time. They probably would have to get a special waiver from the 
President to do their jobs.

We understand it would be better if they could take a break and see 
their families more, but the specific situation in their situation 
calls for the fact that this sort of blanket rule we are going to top-
down impose as Congressmen or Congresswomen doesn't make a whole lot of 
sense.



To try to set up a policy now and to hamstring all the military 
planners and to apply it just specifically to the situation in Iraq 
effectively reduces our options, makes it more complicated for us to 
get our job done, and effectively makes it so that we have less 
practical combat strength.

I think all of us have agreed that we've seen that we need more 
troops, and that's something that we need to deal with and have the 
courage to put that into the budgets in the future. But I think this is 
a micromanagement. While it may be inspired by good intentions, and I 
do know that there is a lot of stress on Marine families and Army 
families as well, I think this is the wrong to go, and I would urge my 
colleagues to vote ''no.''