---
---

# None
## `2be1b62705183b131a24b430e5035ecd`
`Mr. BURGESS — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I want to come to the floor of the House 
today to talk and honor the legacy that is that of Dr. Michael DeBakey, 
the father of cardiovascular surgery, and to encourage my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of H.R. 1154, the bill to 
designate a Congressional Gold Medal for the famed Houston heart 
surgeon.

This bill was introduced by my good friend from Texas, Representative 
Al Green. And Mr. Speaker, we've heard in great detail the number of 
accomplishments of this singular individual. But, Mr. Speaker, I felt 
it was incumbent upon me, as one of the very few physicians in the 
House of Representatives, to come to the floor and talk just a little 
bit about how Dr. DeBakey forever changed the face of the practice of 
medicine in this country.

As a fellow physician, Dr. DeBakey's work and medical advancements 
are indeed legendary. His dedication to healing those around him came 
not only from his talent as a physician, but his ongoing commitment to 
medical education, the larger medical community, and indeed, the entire 
profession, the practice of medicine.

His motto, as always, was ''Strive for nothing less than 
excellence.'' This motto should be adopted by every one of us in this 
House and indeed across the country.

His education and his entrepreneurial spirit made him worthy of the 
Nation's highest expression of appreciation for distinguished 
achievements and contributions.

Dr. DeBakey received his bachelor's and M.D. degree from Tulane 
University down in New Orleans. While in medical school, Dr. DeBakey 
invented what became known as the roller pump, later to become a major 
component in the heart-lung machine used in open heart surgery. Think 
of that, Mr. Speaker. He was in medical school. He was not yet an M.D. 
and he devised a revolutionary concept for the engineering of a pump 
that dealt with a roller mechanism, as opposed to the piston mechanism 
that resulted in the destruction of red blood cells by the very 
mechanism that was intended to pump those red blood cells. He had an 
unusual knack for looking at things in a new light and developing new 
ideas.

He completed his internship at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. 
Charity Hospital. Think of that, Mr. Speaker. One of the venerable 
institutions of medical education in this country; an institution that 
was unfortunately lost to us just two short years ago to the ravages of 
Hurricane Katrina. Charity Hospital has turned out a number of medical 
icons of my generation and the generation before, now lost to us 
forever.

But it was Dr. DeBakey at his residency in surgery or doing his 
internship at Charity Hospital to then go on to his residency in 
surgery at the University of Strasbourg, France and the University of 
Heidelberg in Germany.

He volunteered for service in World War II and was subsequently named 
director of the surgical consultants division of the United States 
Surgeon General's Office. His work during that war led that office to 
the development of the mobile army surgical hospital, which we now know 
as a MASH unit. These units were the forerunners of our forward 
surgical combat teams that have saved so many lives in the present 
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Previous conflicts in Korea and 
Vietnam certainly benefited from the mobile army surgical hospitals, 
but those forward surgical teams, to be able to deliver the type of 
care in the battlefield that those critically injured patients need, 
many of us have traveled to Iraq and seen those hospitals at Ballad and 
Imbue Sinai in Baghdad, the Baghdad ER. And it's the principles put 
forward by Dr. DeBakey that are at work at this hour in those centers 
where our men and women are fighting today.

He helped establish the specialized medical and surgical center 
system for treating military personnel returning home from war, 
subsequently known as the Veterans Administration medical center 
system.

But it was at Methodist Hospital in Houston in the Texas Medical 
Center represented so capably by my friends from Texas Mr. Culberson 
and Mr. Green where Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking 
surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage. 
Mr. Speaker, the year was 1950. That's the year I was born. The first 
coronary artery bypass graft in 1964, the first use of a ventricular 
assist device to pump blood and to support a failing heart in 1966, and 
then some of the first heart transplants performed in this country in 
1968 and '69.

He developed a self-contained miniaturized left ventricular assist 
device pump, again, to assist the diseased left ventricle and allow it 
an opportunity to either heal, get the patient to surgery, or perhaps 
provide stabilization leading up to a transplant. This is something 
that is in use today, and indeed I saw it used on one of my family 
members a number of years ago.

The techniques used to miniaturize the device's inner workings were 
developed with engineers working with engineers right next door at the 
nearby NASA program.

He served as an advisor to nearly every United States President for 
the last 50 years. He traveled, in 1966 very famously to Russia to 
consult on the surgery for Russian President Boris Yeltsin. And knowing 
Dr. DeBakey, I have to suspect he did a good deal more than consult on 
that surgery.

During his professional surgical career, he performed more than 
60,000 cardiovascular procedures, trained thousands of surgeons who 
practice around the world. His name is affixed to a number of 
organizations, centers for learning, and projects devoted to medical 
education and health education for the general public.

But think of this, Mr. Speaker. Dr. DeBakey also underwent an 
operation that was named for him. Reading in the New York Times on the 
way up here to Washington last December, I read a story about how Dr. 
DeBakey had undergone the surgery that he himself had described many 
years before. In fact, Dr. DeBakey admitted at the time, although he 
knew he was quite ill, he never called his own doctor and he never 
called 911.

Now, I'm quoting here. He said, ''if it becomes intense enough, 
you're perfectly willing to accept cardiac arrest as a possible way of 
getting rid of the pain.'' That's what he told the New York Times. You 
just have to marvel at the pragmatism of that individual.

As previously noted by the other two speakers, he did help establish 
the National Library of Medicine, which is now the world's largest and 
most prestigious repository for medical archives. Indeed, I will 
probably use the medline in the National Library of Medicine this 
evening as I prepare for hearings on the Energy and Commerce Committee 
tomorrow.

Mr. Speaker, as we talk in Congress about the need for improving the 
practice of medicine, Dr. DeBakey was on the forefront of that, while 
most of us in this body hadn't even started school yet. In fact, many 
in this body were not even born yet.

These accomplishments have been honored before. In 1969, he received 
the highest honor a United States citizen can receive, the Presidential 
Medal of Freedom with Distinction. In 1976, his students founded the 
Michael E. DeBakey International Surgical Society.

His contributions to medicine and his breakthrough surgeries and 
innovative devices have completely transformed our view of the human 
body and of our longevity and, indeed, of the planet.



He has been designated a living legend by the Library of Congress, 
and today we take another opportunity to honor a full and important 
life by conferring on Dr. DeBakey the Congressional Gold Medal.

I want to thank my colleagues who joined me in cosponsoring H.R. 
1154, introduced by Congressman Green and cosponsored by Congressman 
Culberson.



Mr. Speaker, imagine a simple country doctor from Louisville, Texas. 
I got to sit on the phone last Friday with Al Green and sing Happy 
Birthday to Dr. DeBakey on his 99th birthday. What an honor for me, 
what an honor for America to be able to afford this individual the 
rightful accolades that he so richly deserves.