---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `2be66a1bed334f8911c44c960c719053`
`Mr. BERMAN — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

My amendment makes a number of changes. Many of these are minor or 
technical amendments. Others address issues raised by other committees 
that have a jurisdictional interest in the bill. However, there are a 
number of other changes in my bill that are more substantive. For 
example, the amendment takes care of requests by Members that are 
generally unobjectionable even though substantive.

For example, the bill adds a provision that would allow the State 
Department's growing Civilian Response Corps to enhance its capability 
by drawing on locally employed staff who have significant expertise in 
unstable environments.

It includes provisions to assist in the compensation for victims of 
terrorism from the 1998 Nairobi bombing, drawing from a bill that we 
passed last year on a bipartisan basis and supported by Mr. Jesse 
Jackson, Mr. Roy Blunt, and our ranking member, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.

The amendment also updates language currently in the bill, welcoming 
the end of Sri Lanka's 26-year civil war between the government and the 
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Ealam. These are provisions pushed 
particularly by the gentleman from New York (Mr. McMahon), a member of 
the committee. The United States, standing with the international 
community, eagerly looks forward to the government of Sri Lanka's 
putting forward a timely and credible proposal to engage its Tamil 
community and address the legitimate grievances of its Tamil citizens 
so that peace and reconciliation can be achieved and sustained. It also 
includes two requests by Republican members of the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs, including an amendment by Mr. Wilson from South Carolina, who 
I agreed to work with during the markup at the committee. It also 
increases the amount of funds for the State Department Inspector 
General and the National Endowment For Democracy, as suggested by the 
minority in their views on the bill.

This continues my efforts to include sensible Republican ideas into 
H.R. 2410, even though I recognize that very few Republicans appear to 
be prepared to support the legislation at this time.

In addition, my amendment would also begin the process of modernizing 
our foreign assistance program by establishing a rigorous system to 
monitor and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of U.S. foreign 
assistance.

One of the greatest weaknesses of the current U.S. foreign aid 
program is that it lacks a clear set of goals and objectives, and 
there's no systematic plan for measuring results. Under my amendment, 
the Secretary of State would coordinate the monitoring and evaluation 
activities of the various agencies carrying out foreign aid activities, 
and would report to the Congress on the findings and lessons learned 
from such evaluations.

Finally, in recent days--and this is important--there has been 
significant concern expressed that a provision in the bill authorizing 
the Office of Global Women's Issues, an existing office at the State 
Department that focuses on issues like education for women and girls, 
political empowerment, and violence against women, somehow is a basis 
for promoting or lobbying for abortion. That is simply not true. The 
bill as reported out by the committee does not refer to abortion in any 
way, nor does the office work on abortion issues. That office is 
focused particularly on women in Iraq and in Afghanistan on the issues 
of education and political empowerment that I just mentioned.

To reassure my colleagues, however, I have included in my amendment 
the following new subsection:

''Nothing in this section, and in particular the duties of the office 
described in subsection (c)''--that is the Office of Global Women's 
Issues--''shall be construed as affecting in any way existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or existing statutory prohibitions on the 
use of funds to engage in any activity or effort to alter the laws or 
policies in effect in any foreign country concerning the circumstances 
under which abortion is permitted, regulated, or prohibited.''

This language makes it very clear that existing prohibitions on 
lobbying for or using funds to promote abortion--including the Helms 
amendment, the Leahy amendment and the Siljander amendment--remain in 
effect and will continue to apply to the actions of the office. I 
believe this confirms that the bill does not undermine current law in 
any way and will reassure my colleagues on this issue.

I think this manager's amendment is a good amendment. I urge all my 
colleagues to support it.

I reserve the balance of my time.