---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `2bf1253fa25efa16570a2e4f151ad78f`
`Mr. ARCURI — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairwoman of the 
Rules Committee and fellow New Yorker for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, for months I have said that our country needs a plan to 
ensure the timely redeployment of our troops out of Iraq. The previous 
Congress failed in their duty to provide oversight and refused to ask 
the tough questions regarding the management of this poorly planned and 
ill-conceived war. To say, as some of my Republican colleagues have, 
that passage of this legislation would somehow embolden our enemies or 
send the wrong message to our allies is just a blatant distortion of 
the truth.

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability 
Act lays out for the first time a responsible and realistic strategy 
for completing our mission in Iraq and bringing our brave troops home 
as soon as possible. This is a responsible and deliberate plan to 
change the direction in Iraq without jeopardizing the safety and well-
being of our soldiers. The legislation sets a responsible timeline for 
the phased redeployment of U.S. troops in Iraq with a date certain by 
August 2008 at the latest.

The war in Iraq increasingly strains our military, creating a crisis 
in the U.S. troop readiness and decreasing our ability to respond to 
new threats. With more than 3,200 troops dead, more than 24,000 troops 
wounded, and more than $400 billion of taxpayer dollars spent, we have 
paid too high a price.

We have a choice: We can continue the administration's open-ended 
commitment to a civil war in Iraq, or we can finish the job and begin a 
responsible redeployment of U.S. forces.

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability 
Act goes beyond a new direction for Iraq. It begins a new direction for 
our country, one in which veterans are taken care of, families provided 
for, and brave men and women in harm's way have the resources they need 
to get the job done.

The legislation provides $1 billion to fight the global war on terror 
by putting the focus back where it should have been all along, 
Afghanistan and Osama bin Laden. The legislation would also provide 
$2.5 billion in additional funding to ensure our troops are properly 
equipped.

I would recommend a ''yes'' vote.

The legislation would also provide $2.5 billion in additional funding 
to ensure that our troops are properly equipped and trained; $2.8 
billion for Defense Health Care; and $1.7 Billion for veterans' health 
care--including millions to address the maintenance backlog at VA 
health care facilities like Walter Reed--ensuring our veterans and 
troops get the care they need and deserve.

I am proud to associate myself with this legislation because it will 
change our direction in Iraq, and provides the new direction for our 
country that the American people demanded last November.

My constituents did not send me to Washington to serve as a rubber 
stamp for the Administration. I was sent to Washington to stand up 
against the mismanagement of this war and misplaced priorities of the 
Administration.

True victory will be achieved when we bring all of our brave troops 
home--alive and uninjured. I would ask that if my children were serving 
in Iraq, and we as a nation should ask nothing less for our brave 
troops.