---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `2bf9243b691ebeff929ab65e4e9f8369`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the distinguished chairwoman, my extraordinary 
colleague from New York.

Mr. Chairman, I am so pleased to rise in support of this bill. This 
is one of the finest State-Foreign Operations bills we have had in many 
years.

I am especially indebted to the chairwoman for allowing me to include 
two provisions in this bill. One is language that I have been 
interested in for several years since visiting India on an energy 
congressional delegation, learning what India is doing with respect to 
renewable energy and learning that there were six women in the 
Sunderbonds, a remote Delta region, who were lighting their entire 
village with a solar panel.

If you ask the Department of Defense what we need in order to promote 
stability and security and affluence and prosperity, they will tell you 
we need a robust defense budget, something I agree with. But in the 
Sunderbonds, they are doing it with a solar panel which charges solar 
lanterns, which these six women rent to other villagers. And so you 
have all the elements that you need for stability and security; you 
have the empowerment of women, you have a sustainable small business 
model, and you have light.

As a result of the chairwoman's support and the support of the 
ranking member, we have included $10 million to establish the Solar 
Villages Initiative in the State Department to replicate this project.

I further want to thank the chairwoman and the ranking member for 
their support of the National Solidarity Program in Afghanistan. The 
essential lesson that Afghanistan teaches us is that order cannot be 
imposed from above--Alexander the Great tried it, Genghis Khan tried 
it, the British tried it, the Soviets tried it. We can try it, but it 
does not succeed.

Afghanistan is stable when order comes from the Afghan people, when


they are empowered to achieve their own solutions. And as a result of 
the chairwoman's support and the support from the minority, we have 
included $175 million for the multidonor National Solidarity Program, 
which is the leading program rebuilding Afghanistan. That allows local 
villages to secure some funding to plan their own projects, to plan 
their own future, to bring women into governing councils, to establish 
those projects which will secure those villages and promote long-term 
security and stability.

These are two programs, among many, which make this a product that 
both sides of the aisle can be very proud of. It is the best investment 
that we can make. And I again thank the chairwoman for her support.