---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2c00c043a2ad3ac5cb3f911c0d4d90dc`
`Mr. DURBIN — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. The Senator from Virginia served on the Intelligence 
Committee, as I did for 4 years. I think he served longer. He will 
recall we were told by our intelligence agencies that our invasion of 
Iraq has led to an emergence of al-Qaida terrorism in that country. 
Sadly, these terrorists are taking their training by trying to kill 
American soldiers and those who support us.

So my feeling is that the current strategy we have been using, 
unfortunately, is fueling this growth in terrorism, growth in al-Qaida, 
the presence of all these combat troops.

I sincerely believe we have to understand that fighting al-Qaida, 
fighting terrorism is still a high priority. This administration was 
diverted from our first priority.

The Senator from Virginia may remember that after 9/11, within days, 
the President came to the Senate and asked us to declare war on al-
Qaida and those responsible for 9/11. The vote was unanimous. Every 
Senator voted in favor of that request, both political parties. Those 
were sworn enemies of the United States who had killed 3,000 innocent 
people. But we lost sight of that goal. Instead of focusing on 
Afghanistan, the Taliban, and al-Qaida, we were diverted into Iraq.

I say to the Senator from Virginia, as we start bringing combat 
soldiers out of Iraq, I don't believe we should walk away from our 
responsibility in Afghanistan, fighting the Taliban, working on the 
border with Pakistan to try to make sure the growth of al-Qaida is 
stopped.