---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2c0d8feb511734e2b46a5841dfc64bb7`
`Mr. INOUYE — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss H.R. 3222, a bill 
making appropriations for the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 
2008. The bill that I present on behalf of the Appropriations Committee 
was approved unanimously by the Committee on September 12. Senator 
Stevens and I crafted this bill together in a bipartisan fashion. It 
appropriates $459.6 billion in new budget authority which is equal to 
the subcommittee's 302b allocation. This amount is $3.5 billion less 
than the funding requested by the administration, not including 
supplemental spending for the cost of war. It is the same level as 
recommended by the House.

I say to my colleagues this is a good bill, one that is critical for 
our Nation's defense. We believe it meets the Senate's priorities: 
ensuring readiness, protecting our forces, and acquiring the critical 
equipment that our service men and women need and deserve.

The bill fully funds a 3.5 percent military and civilian pay raise, a 
half percent more than requested.

It recommends adding nearly $950 million for the Defense Health 
Program to ensure that the health of our military families is 
protected. This includes $486 million above the budget request to 
support our military hospitals which suffer from significant shortfalls 
and are stressed by our wounded heroes returning from war.

The Appropriations Committee included $1 billion above the 
President's request to purchase equipment for our National Guard and 
Reserves recognizing the serious shortfalls that exist in our reserve 
components.

It fully funds the Army's highest priority, the Future Combat System.

It supports the purchase of 20 F-22s and 12 Joint Strike Fighters as 
requested.

The bill includes $470 million to support a multi-year purchase of 
the Virginia class submarine, and provides full funding for the V-22 
for the Marines.

It would fund the authorized level for the Missile Defense Program, 
about $300 million below the request.

As my colleagues all know, this is a massive bill, with thousands of 
programs. While most of the administration's proposal is funded as 
requested, the bill is not a rubberstamp. Senator Stevens and I have 
recommended reductions in many programs because of schedule delays, 
cost increases, or other similar problems. In each case it is our 
judgment that the funds should be reapplied to other areas to address 
other urgent needs. In doing so, we have been able to increase funding 
for health care, National Guard equipment, a higher pay raise, and many 
other worthy initiatives.

We should also raise the subject of earmarks in this measure. As you 
know, the Congress passed new legislation which requires that the 
committee identify each congressionally directed spending item, which 
we commonly refer to as earmarks. I want to point out that this bill 
includes more than $4 billion in adds which were not requested by the 
President. However, under the definition in S. 1 very few of these 
items are earmarks. For example, in many cases, the committee chose to 
provide funding for items not because they were requested by a Member 
of the Senate, but because of the national merits of the program. Under 
the definition in S. 1, these are not earmarks. None the less we have 
included in the report the name of all Members who requested such 
increases. In fact, to ensure full transparency the committee report 
not only lists the few earmarks that are required by law, but includes 
any item funded by the committee for which a Member sought an increase 
above the President's request. We have gone way beyond the legal 
requirement to increase transparency. We have nothing to hide in the 
funding that we are recommending in this measure. I am confident the 
Members who requested these funds have no reason not to have their 
names listed.

Today is October 2. We have already started a new fiscal year. Our 
Defense Department is operating on scaled back funding under a short 
term continuing resolution. That is no way to provide for our common 
defense. It is critical that we expedite the consideration of this 
measure to ensure that our men and women in uniform and their families 
have the funding they need for their pay, their hospitals, their 
housing, and their schools. The funding that we recommend in this 
measure to equip our forces is critically needed as soon as possible.

We understand the desire of many Members to address policies which 
relate to the war in Iraq. The war is extremely controversial; our 
Nation is divided. This matter is so serious it deserves the Senate's 
full attention and thoughtful debate, but that will take time. While we 
don't all agree on the proper course in Iraq, there remains one thing 
in which there is universal agreement. We must support those who are 
willing to wear our Nation's uniform and make the sacrifices to protect 
the rest of us. That is a huge sacrifice.

We hope that in the coming weeks the Senate will consider a 
supplemental spending measure to address funding for the wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and the global war on terrorism. We would urge our 
colleagues to hold off on supplemental related issues until that bill 
is considered.

To this end, I have resolved to oppose any amendment which could 
jeopardize quick enactment of this bill. We can best show our support 
to the military by completing action on the fiscal year 2008 Defense 
appropriations bill as quickly as possible. I hope all of my colleagues 
will be able to endorse these recommendations and work with us to pass 
this legislation. Our men and women in uniform deserve no less.

I yield the floor. I hope the Chair will recognize the vice chairman 
of the committee.