# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `2c15e8142bab8178f3b8ed5f2d7edae0`
`Mr. BIDEN — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, I thank the chairman of the Budget 
Committee. It is a job I don't envy.

Let me say at the outset, I have two purposes in rising today. One 
is, I am going to, at the end of my comments, introduce an amendment 
that restores full funding for the 150 function, the State Department 
budget, cosponsored by Senators Feinstein, Smith, Durbin, Sununu, Dodd, 
Martinez, Menendez, Snowe, Kerry, Collins, Levin, Voinovich, Obama, 
Corker, Leahy, and Hagel. 

What I rise to speak to now is an amendment already at the desk, 
amendment No. 4164. That amendment will add $551 million to the $599 
million already provided in the budget resolution for the COPS Program 
for a total funding of $1.15 billion. I thank the Budget Committee for 
allocating the $599 million to the COPS Program in this resolution. 
That is a significant increase from the President's priorities. In 
fact, for the first time since its inception in 1994, the President's 
budget proposes to eliminate the COPS Program entirely. I am offering 
my amendment to get us closer to full funding of the level of $1.15 
billion that proved successful in driving down crime in the 1990s.

I realize I am a broken record on this issue. Each year my colleagues 
hear me come down and talk about the COPS Program, the fact that we 
have to fully fund the program. Why am I such an advocate for the COPS 
Program? Mostly because I wrote the original legislation. There is a 
tendency around here, if you write something, you hang onto it, even if 
it no longer functions. But that is not the reason. It is not pride of 
authorship. I support it because it works. It worked. It continues to 
work. And it will work even better if we fund it.



In the 8 years following the creation of the COPS Program, we have 
driven down violent crime by 30 percent in the United States. Cops and 
sheriffs themselves have told us the COPS Program works and is critical 
to their ability to keep communities safe. In addition, we have one 
dozen academic studies showing that COPS grants help reduce crimes in 
cities of all sizes.

If it ain't broke, as Ronald Reagan used to say, why fix it? I have 
never heard the other side argue that this program does not work. They 
all agree it works. But they choose not to fund it because they think 
funding of local law enforcement is not a Federal responsibility or 
that we need to defund the program to be fiscally responsible. The 
truth is, this devolution of Government argument I find not very 
compelling. The argument that the Federal Government has no 
responsibility for local crime would be true if the Federal Government 
had no responsibility, if the States were able to do something about 
the drugs pouring across our international borders, if, in fact, States 
were able to affect crime coming across their borders from some other 
States, if, in fact, they had jurisdiction to reach out and deal with 
60 percent of the crime that occurs in their communities because of 
drug abuse and drug trafficking. So there is an overwhelming Federal 
responsibility here.

My view is that allowing crime rates to grow and not doing everything 
in our power to protect our constituents is irresponsible. It is not 
that we are being fiscally responsible, we are being irresponsible by 
not funding programs we know work.

I should point out, the COPS Program actually saves money in the long 
run. I hear from some of my neoconservative friends, who are big on the 
devolution of Government and fiscal responsibility, as they talk about 
it. I also hear them use phrases as businesspeople: You have to spend 
money to make money. Well, we should, as I say, change the paradigm 
here.

Last March, the Brookings Institute issued a study showing that the 
COPS Program greatly benefits society as a whole. The study found that 
every $1.4 billion invested in COPS generates a benefit to society of 
between $6 billion and $12 billion by reducing crime. According to 
Brookings scholars:




 COPS appears to be one of the most cost-effective options 


 available for fighting crime.


That is because when you prevent a crime or you fight crime, you do 
not pay for the cost of the injury, you do not pay for the cost of the 
physical damage done to the community, you do not pay for all the 
ancillary costs that are associated with high crime rates. You actually 
save money by spending money on COPS.

The Bush administration argues that because crime is lower than it 
was in the early 1990s, we can afford to slash crime-fighting 
assistance. Well, I find that striking. I start with the basic premise 
that if we do not see a drop in crime rates each year, then we failed. 
The fact is, we talk about the number of crimes, violent crimes being 
committed in America. If you take the total number of crimes being 
committed, even though they have leveled out or are only slightly 
increasing, they are down from the high points in the mid 1980s and the 
early 1990s. The fact is, there are still over 1,400,000 of those 
crimes being committed. Is that OK? Should we not spend money to deal 
with what is still an incredible number of crimes committed in 
America--17,000-plus murders this year? We need to get back on track 
now.

Our law enforcement agencies are facing a perfect storm. Let me 
explain why I mean by that.

Since he took office, the President has cut annual funding to COPS 
and Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Programs by $1.7 billion. The 
President's budget proposes now to eliminate these programs entirely. 
At the same time, he asks State and local law enforcement to take on 
new responsibilities--new responsibilities--relating to 
counterterrorism, homeland security, and immigration duties. The 
President is asking cops to do much more and giving them considerably 
less.

The FBI agents reassigned away from fighting crime to terrorism--and 
they must do that--have not been replaced. One investigative report 
last year stated that the number of criminal cases investigated by the 
FBI has dropped by 34 percent. I am not being critical of the FBI, nor 
critical of the commitment to counterterrorism. But in our effort to 
protect America from terrorism, we cannot leave them vulnerable to 
violent crime on their streets. It does not matter if you get blown up 
by a terrorist or shot by a drug thug on the street, you are dead. You 
are dead. Family members do not make a distinction between how you die. 
We have to protect them from both the crime on the street and from 
terrorism. That takes a commitment of resources that has been lacking 
in recent years.


Finally, the economy has slowed down. The Washington Post reported 
recently that next year 20 States expect their budgets to be in the 
red. As State governments are forced to tighten their belts and cut 
back on critical law enforcement funding, as they do that, Federal 
assistance is going to become even more important.

Many of you have heard me say this before: Fighting crime is like 
cutting grass. This spring, when the grass begins to grow, you go out 
and cut it. For 1 week, it is going to look great. Don't cut it for 2 
weeks, it looks a little ragged. Don't cut it for a month, it is really 
ragged. Don't cut it for the summer, and you have a jungle in your 
front yard.

Ralph Waldo Emerson once said in another context: Society is like a 
wave. The wave moves on, but the particles remain the same.

God hasn't made a new brand of man in a millennia. As long as there 
are people and the population is increasing, there is going to be 
continued crime. The idea that we can spend less money one year than 
the year before in fighting crime I find preposterous because you do 
not change human nature.

Many of you have, as I have said, heard me say this for a long, long 
time. But the fact is, we have neglected State and local law 
enforcement for much too long, and we have an increasing problem on our 
hands.

A recent poll published by the nonpartisan Third Way indicates that 
94 percent of Americans view crime as a ''very serious'' or ''fairly 
serious'' problem. Sixty-nine percent of Americans think violent crime 
is a bigger threat to them than the possibility of terrorist attacks. 
It is sort of a self-evident proposition, but it is interesting to know 
they feel that way.

The concerns of these Americans are serious, and they are real. Last 
year, 1.4 million Americans were victims of violent crime. Now, if 
crime is down from what it was a decade ago, is that an acceptable 
rate? Is it acceptable to say we do not have to spend any more money, 
we can level off violent crime at 1.4 million violent crimes a year? 
Are we doing our job? Are we winning the war? Are we protecting 
Americans? How can we justify spending less money when there are still 
1.4 million violent crimes in America? More than 445,000 Americans were 
robbed. More than 17,000 were murdered. Is there anyone in this body 
who does not think these numbers are unacceptably high for a civilized 
nation? We know what the solution is. We know how to make American 
communities safer. But we know it takes a commitment, and it takes a 
financial commitment.

In all my years dealing with this issue of crime and the criminal 
justice system, there are only a few things we know for sure. One is, 
the older you get, the less violent crimes you commit because it is 
harder to run down the street being chased by a cop and to jump a 
chain-link fence when you are 50 years old. So violent crime decreases 
as you get older. The other thing we know for sure is that cops matter. 
If there is going to be a crime committed at an intersection and there 
are three cops at that intersection, the crime is going to be committed 
on the corner of the intersection where the cops are not standing. Cops 
matter.


So I find it preposterous that no one has argued against the merits--
the merits--of the COPS Program and the crime bill originally written. 
No one argues that it does not work, but they argue we fiscally cannot 
afford it. Can we afford 17,000 murders in this civilized country? Can 
we afford 1.4 million violent acts against our fellow citizens? Can we 
afford 445,000 robberies, for which we know if we commit these 
resources of $1.15 billion a year we can significantly reduce the 
number


of people being victims of violent crime?

My amendment will add $551 million for the COPS Program to support 
the local law enforcement officials on the front lines, and it is fully 
offset by an across-the-board cut to nondefense, discretionary 
spending.

So when the appropriate time comes, I will urge my colleagues to vote 
for this amendment. I might add, it passed last year. It passed, and it 
passed the appropriations process until we ended up with a continuing 
resolution. So there has been overwhelming support for this, and I 
think it is needed.

Now, Madam President, I would like to turn, in the moments I have 
left, to an amendment I would like to offer at this time for myself and 
Senator Lugar. We are joined by a number of our colleagues whom I 
mentioned earlier. Our amendment builds on similar work done by Senator 
Feinstein. We all share the same goal.

My amendment restores the full amount of the President's requested 
$39.5 billion to the international affairs budget. To put this in 
perspective, for every $19 we spend on the military, we spend $1--$1--
on diplomacy and development.

Last week, two distinguished former senior military officers, GEN 
Anthony Zinni and Admiral Smith, came before the Foreign Relations 
Committee to tell us that we must reorder our Nation's priorities in 
order to protect our national security. With more than 50 of their 
fellow former flag officers behind them, they are calling for a new 
emphasis on smart power--using our Nation's diplomatic and economic 
resources to protect our interests.

Secretary of Defense Gates has made the same point absolutely clear. 
He said:




 Having robust civilian capabilities could make it less 


 likely that military force will have to be used in the first 


 place.


We can all see the results in both Iraq and Afghanistan of not having 
those capabilities, the resources, or the plan to turn military action 
into a sustainable peace.

But Secretary Gates was also perfectly clear about the real issue. In 
his words:




 Sometimes there is no substitute for money.


He was talking about the need for an international affairs budget 
that can do the jobs that are now increasingly shifted onto our 
overburdened military or simply are not being done at all. The way we 
do things now, we have, in his words, ''field artillerymen and tankers 
building schools and mentoring city councils--usually in a language 
they don't speak.''

We have to do better. We face many challenges around the world in the 
rise of religious fundamentalism, the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction, the spread of disease, and failed states. They are all 
vectors that, in fact, intersect and cause great threats to us. Not one 
of them can be met solely or even primarily with military force. No one 
knows that better than our men and women in uniform.

The message we heard in our committee last week was: ''We cannot rely 
on military power alone to make our nation secure.'' Yet, as I said, 
for every $19 we spend on military resources, barely $1 goes toward 
civilian programs that can prevent military action, support a balanced 
response to security threats, or secure the peace once the shooting 
stops. We spend more in 3 weeks on military operations in Iraq, for 
example, than we have spent since 9/11 to rebuild and secure 
Afghanistan--the total amount of money spent in Afghanistan, which is 
one end of the superhighway of terrorism between Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. We have spent less money, since 9/11, in Afghanistan 
defeating the Taliban and dealing with its civilian as well as military 
needs than we spend for 3 weeks in Iraq. This amendment will not fix 
that problem, but it will keep us from making it worse.

Last month, I wrote to my colleagues on the Budget Committee asking 
them to treat the President's budget for international operations ''as 
a floor, not a ceiling.'' I ask unanimous consent, Madam President, to 
have a copy of my views printed in the Record.