# HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA
## `2c18896572cdc5baa97655c89731798c`
`Mr. KAGEN — 3 June 2009`

---


Mr. KAGEN. You have got me all excited now. It has taken so long to 
get to this point. It is very frustrating. Back when we first got here, 
the class of '06, we got to initiate bills in '07 in the first few 
months. And as they say here, I dropped a bill called ''no 
discrimination'' to apply our constitutional rights to prevent us from 
being discriminated against, to prevent the insurance companies from 
cherry-picking people out.

I don't know how it is in Pennsylvania, but in Wisconsin, in my 
neighborhood, I grew up in a neighborhood. But that neighborhood has 
been chopped apart by the insurance industry. The insurance industry 
was allowed to separate Mrs. Koss or Mr. Romer out of the risk pool 
because they had some condition they didn't want to touch or insure. 
And it has gotten to the point now where even some mothers may be split 
from their family because they have a condition, and their children can 
be insured but they can't. So I like the idea that we are going to get 
primary care and access to primary care. But as you know, we don't have 
enough doctors and nurses right now. So we have to invest in a 
possibility to make sure that our students can go to school and perhaps 
have their funding paid for through medical school and in return give 
us those years back in terms of service in primary care where that need 
most exists. My district is a rural district. I would point you to the 
rural district of northern Wisconsin.

As Mr. Courtney has brought out so elegantly about the VA system, I 
would ask this question not only to him but to everybody in the 
country: Is there any reason why a soldier served only for himself or 
herself to get that benefit at the VA at the pharmacy? If a soldier has 
a VA benefit and has a discount, a medication available at a lower 
price, is there any reason not to provide his or her entire family with 
that same medication at that price? And what about his neighborhood? 
What about his community? In fact, what about the whole United States?

No soldier today is serving in Iraq and Afghanistan for him or 
herself. They are there for our Nation. And if the VA was successful in 
negotiating a steep discount for a given medication, I think that price 
ought to be available to anyone who is willing and in need of that 
medication. And Mr. Klein from Florida mentioned that he might be 
taking a medication. Is there any reason that it continues to exist 
today that if I go into a pharmacy anywhere in the country, if all four 
of us are in line to get the same exact prescription, the same number 
of pills, we are going to pay four'' different prices for the same 
thing? I think not. I think we have to have complete transparency, and 
the price that one should pay for medication is the lowest price 
available within that community, and that price should be openly 
disclosed.

And no one put it better than one of my constituents. Kaukauna is 
another city that Barack Obama has visited in my district. I tell you, 
this guy, Obama, is everywhere. Sally from Kaukauna said, ''Our 
prescriptions cost $1,000 a month. This is a very big issue for us.'' 
Well, heck, yeah. If you don't have the money, you're not going to get 
the medication you require just to survive. So I would submit to you 
that it is time to end discrimination in health care. And when we do, 
that form of discrimination that takes place at the pharmacy where Mr. 
Klein might get charged three times what the person in line next to him 
is charged for the same medication, to me that is a form of 
discrimination. I think it is time that that form of discrimination 
came to an end. We have to have openness and transparency for 
prescription drugs and be allowed to negotiate for a lower price.

