---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5959, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `2c1aa310a69baf2a32e1815bbac7a732`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1343 provides for consideration of H.R. 
5959, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, under a 
structured rule. The rule provides 1 hour of debate controlled by the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and makes in order seven 
amendments.

Three amendments are to be offered by my colleagues in the minority, 
including one by the Republican whip and one by the ranking Republican 
of the Intelligence Committee. Three are to be offered by Democrats, 
and the last one by two bipartisan sponsors. This is a fair rule, and I 
urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, today, more than ever, strengthening our intelligence 
apparatus and giving it the flexibility it needs to meet continuing 
threats should be one of this body's highest priorities. The resurgence 
of al Qaeda and increasing global threats underscore the importance of 
the authorization bill before us today.

The Intelligence Authorization Act authorizes funding for 16 United 
States intelligence agencies and intelligence-related activities of the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2009.

Due to the classified nature of this bill, I wish to point out that 
Members can view the classified portions of the bill by making an 
appointment with the Intelligence Committee in H-405 of the Capitol.

Despite the House's best efforts, for the past 3 years an 
intelligence authorization bill has not become law. Therefore, I am 
very pleased today with this well-balanced, bipartisan bill. I am 
hopeful that this great work will continue, concluding with the 
President's signature of the underlying legislation into law.

This year's intelligence authorization bill adds crucial funding to 
enhance human intelligence collection, as well as for other enduring 
and emerging global security challenges we face in Asia, Africa, and 
Latin America. The bill also provides funding to address the impact of 
climate change on our national and energy security.

Mr. Speaker, in recent years, we have seen the devastating costs that 
flawed intelligence and a misinformed Congress can have on national 
security. This bill enhances accountability and transparency through 
long overdue oversight and monitoring.

The underlying bill increases reporting requirements to the House and 
Senate Intelligence Committees on the nuclear capabilities of North 
Korea, Iran, and Syria.

The bill also amends the National Security Act to require the 
executive branch to provide Congress with the necessary information 
about our intelligence operations to ensure proper oversight.

As someone who sat through countless hours of Intelligence Committee 
hearings and briefings, I have been appalled by the unwillingness and 
outright stonewalling of the Bush administration when Members have 
asked even the most basic of questions about our intelligence community 
policies and practices.

Additionally, the underlying legislation helps restore our Nation's 
global credibility by ensuring that we meet our international 
obligations. The reporting requirements on compliance with the Detainee 
Treatment Act and the Military Commissions Act regarding detentions and 
interrogations bring credibility and security to our Nation for future 
generations.

The bill also furthers our commitment to improving the intelligence 
community's security and clearance process. It increases pay for 
intelligence officers--and I would underscore much-needed increases--
and enhances oversight and accountability through the creation of an 
intelligence community Inspector General.

Moreover, the underlying legislation includes a provision that would 
require reporting on plans to enhance diversity within the intelligence 
community, and a lot of effort has gone into this particular measure, 
beginning with our former colleague, Louis Stokes, and our departed 
colleague, Julian Dixon, and the work of my colleague, Sanford Bishop, 
and myself, as well as the Chair and countless members of the committee 
in trying to ensure that we have appropriate diversity in the 
intelligence community.

The diversity of our Nation should be directly reflected in our 
intelligence community's workforce. We cannot, and will not, 
appropriately meet our security challenges without ensuring this. I 
appreciate and support these efforts, as the issue, as I expressed, was 
one of my top concerns when I served on the Intelligence Committee.

Finally, I would like to thank Chairman Reyes for including in his 
amendment a provision written by my colleague on the Rules Committee, 
Representative Peter Welch, that addresses the employment needs of 
resettled Iraqi and Afghani interpreters.

Our government has a moral responsibility to provide proper resources 
for these allies who risked their lives to assist our efforts to fight 
global terrorist threats. This measure will help fill gaps in our 
intelligence-gathering activities and is a start toward fulfilling our 
obligations to our Iraqi and Afghani allies.

Mr. Speaker, the threats posed to our Nation are only intensifying. 
To keep pace, America's intelligence community requires the most robust 
and modern tools to identify and disrupt such attacks. This 
Intelligence Authorization Act does just that.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying 
legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.