---
---

# TRIBUTE TO BRITISH PRIME MINISTER TONY BLAIR
## `2c1bfc46359650d3e6c9a7cb38f3ce02`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Madam Speaker, people throughout Western 
Civilization owe a debt of gratitude to British Prime Minister Tony 
Blair, a courageous statesman and world leader, who resigned his office 
today.

Oftentimes, leaders of courage fare much more favorably in the eyes 
of history than they do in the opinion polls of their day. Like 
President Harry Truman and Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Prime 
Minister Blair will be remembered for his wisdom, his forbearance and 
his foresight.

The United States and free peoples throughout the world have had no 
truer friend than Tony Blair. Since he won the keys to No. 10 Downing 
Street in May 1997, he has steadfastly fought to promote human rights 
and to battle the scourge of terrorism. He has strived for peace in the 
Middle East, promoted Western aid to battle the AIDS epidemic and 
poverty throughout Africa and successfully argued for intervention 
against mass killings in the Balkans in the late 1990s.

After the horrors of Sept. 11, Blair recognized more quickly than 
most world leaders that the global fight against terrorism was not a 
battle for the United States to wage alone. Blair knew that all 
civilized nations had to stand together as one to battle the 
medievalism, violence and hate preached by al-Qaida and other Islamist 
groups.

Blair stood with the forces of freedom not just in word, but in deed. 
He committed British forces to serve with the U.S. military and other 
coalition forces in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and he bravely stood his 
ground against a rising tide of opposition among the British people.

I am proud to be a part of this body which several years ago bestowed 
Blair with the Congressional Gold Medal. I can think of no one more 
deserving.

Prime Minister Blair's visionary leadership will be missed on the 
world stage, but I trust that his vast talents will be put to good use 
in the pursuit of peace, justice and human rights for many years to 
come.

Madam Speaker, I want to personally thank the Prime Minister and let 
him know how much I respect the tremendous work he has done over the 
past 10 years. He has had a positive impact on his nation and on the 
world. May God continue to bless him in all his endeavors.
