---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `2c204311e09e2693186b402fac228e67`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 8 June 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Chair. I rise in support of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. As a member of 
both the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security Committees, I support 
Chairman Ike Skelton and the Democratic leadership's investment in our 
military to increase our national security. I support our men and women 
in the armed forces and our need to ensure our national security.

This defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men and 
women who fight to secure not only our citizen's freedom, but the 
freedom of others. This bill will provide the necessary resources to 
protect the American people and our national interests at home and 
abroad. The Armed Services committee has provided for military 
readiness; taking care of our troops and their families; increasing 
focus on the war in Afghanistan; and improving


interagency cooperation, oversight, and accountability in this year's 
defense authorization bill.

I thank the Chair for this opportunity to explain the amendments I 
propose to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. 
My first amendment would require the Secretary of Defense to provide a 
report, not later than December 1, 2010 to the Congressional Black 
Caucus, that includes a list of minority-owned, women-owned, and 
disadvantaged small businesses, who receive contracts resulting from 
authorized funding to the Department of Defense. The list shall cover 
the 10 calendar years preceding this Act and shall include for each 
listed business, the name of the business, the business owner and the 
amount of the contract award.

Mr. Chair, I have long supported efforts to increase opportunities 
for small businesses, especially those that are minority-owned, women-
owned and disadvantaged. We know that small businesses are the engine 
to our economy and that they provide much needed support for 
communities across the country. Small businesses employ 57.4 million 
Americans. Many Americans seek to fulfill the American dream by 
becoming small business owners and everyone in the United States should 
be given the same opportunity to fulfill that dream.

Women and minorities have long been disadvantaged when it comes to 
getting business opportunities and it is important to provide 
educational resources that will enable women, minorities and other 
disadvantaged business owners to arm themselves with the necessary 
tools they need to operate viable and thriving businesses. This will 
only improve communities throughout the United States.

My second amendment would make available post-traumatic stress 
counseling for civilians affected by the Fort Hood shooting, and 
shootings at other domestic military bases.

Many of those who passed in the November shooting were at Fort Hood 
preparing to risk their lives for our country. I would like to express 
my deepest sympathies for the loss of these 13 soldiers. My thoughts 
and prayers go out to their families during their time of bereavement. 
It is unacceptable that soldiers should fear attacks on American soil. 
I want the military and their families to always be protected as they 
are the backbone of American society. It is not only our soldiers who 
make sacrifices to protect our great nation, but their families and 
civilians as well. I am deeply saddened and troubled by the shootings 
at Fort Hood, especially because soldiers and their families from my 
own district are there.

I want to commend the soldiers at Fort Hood for their valiant and 
selfless acts of bravery. Soldiers rushed to treat their injured 
colleagues by ripping their uniforms into makeshift bandages. The top 
commander at Fort Hood is crediting a civilian police officer, Sgt. 
Kimberly Munley, for stopping the shooting. Fort Hood police Sgt. 
Kimberly Munley and her partner responded within three minutes of 
reported gunfire, and Munley shot the gunman four times despite being 
shot herself.

Another story of heroism is that of 19 year old Amber Bahr. The 
nutritionist put a tourniquet on a wounded soldier and carried him out 
to medical care. And only after she had taken care of others did she 
realize she had been shot. Both women heroically intervened despite 
being shot.

Incidents like this bring light to the types of issues our military 
service men and women face on a daily basis. When I visited Fort Hood, 
and spoke with the victims of the shooting, I was reminded that we can 
not ignore the side effects of military service, and we must ensure 
that both the physical and mental health of those who serve our country 
is carefully attended.

Although the shootings all took place on one day, they will leave a 
legacy on each soldier, contractor, and civilian on the base. Many base 
personnel, like Sergeant Munley and Ms. Bahr witnessed events as 
horrific as those on any battlefield. Similar to returning from the 
battlefield, soldiers and contractors who were at Fort Hood must go 
through a painful rehabilitation process to come to terms with the 
events they witnessed and experienced.

There have been numerous reports of Enlisted Personnel, National 
Guards, Reservists and Veterans suffering from PTSD-like symptoms for 
well over 100 years. Some examples are veterans of U.S. Civil War who 
suffered emotional problems and were said to be afflicted with 
''soldier's heart'' or ''Da Costa's Syndrome'', veterans of World War I 
was diagnosed as ''shell shocked'', veterans of World War II were 
classified with ''battle fatigue'' or ''combat fatigue''. Other terms 
used to describe military-related mood disturbances include 
''nostalgia'', ''not yet diagnosed nervousness'', irritable heart'', 
effort syndrome'', ''war neurosis'' and ''operational exhaustion''. War 
veterans are the most publicly-recognized victims of PTSD; long-term 
psychiatric illness was formally observed in World War I and the 
syndrome entered public consciousness after the Vietnam War.


Enlisted Personnel, National Guards, Reservists and Veterans with 
PTSD have lived through traumatic events that caused them to fear for 
their lives, bear witness to horrible things, and feel helpless and 
hopeless. PTSD symptoms usually start soon after the traumatic event, 
but they may not manifest until months or years later. If provided 
proper medical care, about half, 40 percent to 60 percent, of people 
who develop PTSD get better at some time.

Although veterans who served in combat are most frequently afflicted 
by PTSD, events such as the Fort Hood shooting highlight the physical 
and psychological dangers facing military personnel in all roles. 
Consequently, it is extremely vital to extend to our civilian personnel 
the same benefits and support that we give to our active duty military. 
Civilians and military members on Fort Hood have equal responsibility 
to protect our nation and, as such, it is morally imperative that we 
honor these civilians by providing then with equal support in the 
aftermath of such traumatic incidents.

I have worked with my colleagues to secure $1 million in Federal 
funding in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill for 
Riverside General Hospital in Houston, Texas. Riverside General 
Hospital was founded due to the heroic efforts of veterans in the First 
World War. Riverside General Hospital, formerly the Houston Negro 
Hospital was erected in 1926 in memory of Lieutenant John Halm 
Cullinan, 344th FA, and 90th Division AEP. Today, Riverside General 
Hospital is the only private African-American-owned hospital in the 
state of Texas that is contracted to provide inpatient psychiatric and 
inpatient detoxification services to TRICARE Beneficiaries. These funds 
will provide trained experienced physicians, nurses, therapists and 
other healthcare professionals the necessary services to treat post 
traumatic stress disorders for enlisted personnel, National Guards, 
Reservists and veterans discharged and/or on leave of duty. In 
addition, Riverside will provide psychiatric, medical emergency medical 
inpatient, and outpatient services.

It is time to end this distinct method of discrimination and we 
should not rest until this message is clear. Every American has the 
right to stand among their peers to undertake the noble task of 
defending this great nation. The U.S. military loses patriotic and 
talented men and women every day due to the discriminatory ''Don't Ask 
Don't Tell'' policy. Since 1993, DADT has forced over 13,000 qualified 
and patriotic men and women to leave the service. It has made many 
thousands more decide not to re-enlist. There is empirical data 
existing in the Armed Services of our allies as we stand with them in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. The militaries of the United Kingdom, Canada, 
Australia, Israel and the Netherlands are clear examples that, in spite 
of concerns before the change, it became a nonissue once gays and 
lesbians were allowed to serve. Now we must do right by all of our 
American warriors and move forward together on repealing DADT.

In 1965 as the commencement speaker at Howard University, President 
Johnson stated, ''We seek not just equality as a right and a theory but 
equality as a fact and equality as a result.'' Do we deny the freedom 
of an openly gay man or woman who serves in our military? The ''Don't 
Tell, Don't Ask,'' policy violates both openly gay men and women 
constitutional rights to privacy and their right to be treated equally 
with heterosexuals. I support the ''Don't Tell, Don't Ask Repeal,'' 
policy.

We must maintain our efforts to restore military readiness in order 
to meet current military challenges and prepare for the future, and 
civilians area a major part of the military readiness equation. 
Importantly, this defense bill:

Establishes a $500 million DOD Rapid Innovation Program to help DOD 
quickly transition innovative, life-saving equipment from small 
businesses and other innovative firms into the hands of our men and 
women in combat.

Authorizes $2.6 billion for Homeland Defense and counter 
proliferation activities, including $1 billion for the Defense Threat 
Reduction Agency and $1.6 billion for the Chemical Biological Defense 
Program.

Fully funds the $20 million budget request for two cyber security new 
start programs.

Expands ''1206 funding'' authority to build the capacity of foreign 
military forces to participate in military and stability operations to 
support efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, including $75 million to build 
the capacity of counterterrorism forces of the Yemeni Ministry of the 
Interior.

Extends DOD's Pakistan Counterinsurgency Fund through FY11.

Provides $200 million to address urgent force protection needs in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Authorizes $9.7 billion for unclassified National Security Space 
programs, including $40 million for additional ORS satellites to meet 
commanders' urgent needs.

Provides a 1.9 percent pay raise to troops.

Expands TRICARE health coverage to include adult dependent children 
up to age 26.



Increases family separation allowance for troops who are deployed 
away from their families.

Increases hostile fire and imminent danger pay for the first time 
since 2004.

Expands college loan repayment benefits.

Includes the most comprehensive legislative package to ever address 
sexual assault in the military, including 28 provisions to implement 
into law many of the recommendations of the Defense Task Force on 
Sexual Assault.

Establishes a pilot program to offer an alternative career path to 
military officers, providing a broader range of experiences over a 
longer career.

Establishes a pilot program to help military spouses take advantage 
of their personal skill sets to identify and obtain desirable and 
portable careers.

Authorizes an additional special one-time payment to seriously 
wounded servicemembers to pay for the relocation costs of their 
caregivers;

Provides $1.2 billion with broad authorities for projects in 
Afghanistan to allow our commanders on the ground to immediately 
respond to military construction needs in theater.

In closing, I hope my colleagues will join me in support of H.R. 
5136. I believe we are all on one accord that without reservation we 
support our men and women of the United States military. I support this 
bill and I ask my colleagues to support my proposed amendments and H.R. 
5136.
