---
---

# COMMENDING DICK ARMEY'S OP-ED ON THE MEK
## `2c257c7370a84123229479ed9b5dc446`
`Mr. TANCREDO — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. TANCREDO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend the following 
op-ed about the MEK to the body. This is an important topic and I hope 
Members will have an opportunity to review it.

Thank you, Madam Speaker.















[July 24, 2007]








Empowering the Democratic Opposition in Iran















(By Dick Armey)




 During the Cold War, the free world was threatened by a 


 nuclear-armed state based on a radical, all-encompassing and 


 discredited ideology, a regime that projected an aggressive 


 agenda of global domination even as it struggled to keep its 


 own dissatisfied citizens in line back home. While America 


 and her allies maintained a resolute posture of military 


 strength to keep Soviet expansionism in check, ultimately it 


 was our example of freedom that inspired the restive peoples 


 living under the Evil Empire to tear down the wall.



 Taking a leaf out of history's notebook, there are striking 


 similarities between the




 dangers now emanating from tehran and those fueled by Moscow 


 during the Soviet era. Iran's regime is also based on a 


 radical, all-encompassing and discredited ideology, and 


 projects an aggressive, destabilizing international posture 


 while suppressing the will of its own citizens. The good news 


 may be that, like the totalitarian ideology before it, the 


 extremist fundamentalism of the Iranian mullahs could best be 


 attacked by the power of an idea called freedom.



 There is currently no shortage of high-level American 


 attention to Iran. My former colleagues in Congress are 


 working to impose tougher economic pressure and bans on 


 investment in iran, while the Bush administration is working 


 to marshal stronger international will to enforce the 


 sanctions.



 But the other part of the Iran equation must be to 


 encourage the kind of peaceful revolution inside Iran that 


 not only Americans desire, but that a majority of the iranian 


 people themselves want.



 Military intervention is not a viable option. 


 ''Engagement'' may seem like an appealing alternative. But 


 the diplomatic history of the past 30 years provides a 


 chronicle of successive setbacks suffered by the West while 


 the regime continued its relentless march toward 


 nuclearization while bankrolling terrorists and expanding its 


 power and reach.



 Current efforts at ''engagement'' have done nothing to 


 advance the cause of freedom inside Iran. The regime has 


 recently resorted to a crackdown on internal dissent and 


 personal freedom, targeting everything from community 


 organizations to the nation's burgeoning private banking 


 system--pillars of civil society and a free market economy. 


 Visiting Iranian-American scholars are detained on absurd, 


 trumped-up charges and made to ''confess'' their ''crimes'' 


 on television.



 Like the captive peoples of the Soviet empire a generation 


 ago, today's Iranians are receptive to ideas that challenge 


 the ruling orthodoxy. Indeed, the popularity of America in 


 Iran seems to rise the more the regime demonizes us.



 One of the best assets working for reform is demographics--


 nearly 70 percent of Iran's 68 million citizens are under the 


 age of 30. They are impatient for change, and they are the 


 future.



 America and our partners should work with and empower 


 freedom-loving elements within Iran and among the Iranian 


 Diaspora, broadcasting messages of democracy and providing 


 support, moral and otherwise, to the brave dissidents. While 


 we must avoid doing this with a heavy hand, lest our efforts 


 backfire, there are ways we can help level the playing field 


 and give the opposition a fighting chance.



 Supporting the democratic opposition holds great promise 


 for promoting the cause of freedom and democracy in iran, 


 particularly the group feared most by the regime: the 


 Mujahedin-e Khalq (MEK), for decades demonized by the regime 


 for its efforts to encourage ''soft'' revolution.



 Never has the old adage, ''the enemy of my enemy is my 


 friend,'' been more true than in the case of the MEK, whose 


 members residing in Ashraf City, Iraq, are protected persons 


 under the Geneva Convention. But, in a stark example of 


 failed ''engagement,'' the organization was placed on the 


 list of foreign terrorist organizations by the Clinton 


 administration as a way of placating the so-called 


 ''moderates'' in Iran.



 Attracting world attention in 2002, the MEK first revealed 


 the existence of Iran's secret nuclear facility at Natanz. 


 Today it is providing useful intelligence that is saving the 


 lives of Coalition soldiers in Iraq. Thus, it comes as no 


 surprise that the regime is eager to use the next round of 


 ''engagement'' with American officials to further isolate the 


 MEK, as part of iran's certain-to-be-unfulfilled pledge to 


 reduce its influence in Iraq.



 Two of my former congressional colleagues, Reps. Tom 


 Tancredo (R-Colo.) and Bob Filner (D-Calif.), are leading a 


 bipartisan effort to urge the State Department to remove the 


 MEK from the terrorist list, where it was wrongly included in 


 the first place.



 Removing the MEK from the list represents one concrete step 


 we could take to help the Iranian people forward on the long 


 road to achieving freedom and real democracy in their 


 country.
