# MARKING THE END OF THE 4TH YEAR OF THE OCCUPATION OF IRAQ
## `2c2a993dbaca9431de6de70215fbd315`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 19 March 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Hinchey) for his superb remarks and for his organizing this Special 
Order in order to express our opinions on behalf of our troops and for 
a course correction in Iraq and the Middle East in general.

When you think about it, we are being asked this week to vote an 
additional $100 billion in what is called a supplemental, mainly to 
escalate the war in Iraq, and the money we are voting on will be just 
for today until the end of September of this year. This $100 billion is 
put on top of what has already been appropriated to be spent on


the war, and it is typical of this administration's mishandling the war 
and its accounting, always underestimating every year what it will 
really cost to carry out the activities.

If you look at the chart that shows what we are spending in Iraq, it 
is absolutely escalating every single year.

The best advice we were given on a recent trip to Iraq, Afghanistan 
and the region was from our generals, who said: What does victory mean? 
Victory means one-third military, two-thirds diplomacy and good 
governance. The two-thirds is missing. So, therefore, we are asking our 
soldiers to bear all of the burden of a flawed strategy for Iraq and 
the surrounding regions that is ripening terrorism in every single 
country, and we are losing respect. The coalition of the willing has 
dried up. The neighbors of Iraq have not been convened in a 
constructive way, and we watch other nations in the region border on 
destabilization because of what we are doing in Iraq.


My deep concern is that the violence could spill over into Jordan, 
Turkey, Bahrain, Kuwait, Pakistan, Lebanon, even Saudi Arabia. And so 
America has to face a strategic challenge much larger than Iraq, and 
the administration is not leading us there.

This evening I wanted to say a word about the theater in which Iraq 
is operating. She is not alone. So many of our soldiers, our patriotic 
brave soldiers, are in Iraq, and they are the finest military in the 
world, but they exist in a sea of discontent. And I would like to say 
that the face of terrorism that we see springs from a view, fair or 
not, that the United States allies with the rich but not the poor 
across the undemocratic Islamic world. And how can America stand for 
democracy in Iraq, but not in all of the oil kingdoms and theocracies 
to which our Nation has been tethered for most of the last century and 
now into this century?

Why would I say that? I would say that because recent polls in the 
region show exactly that. It shows that America is viewed as not on the 
side of rising popular expectations for a more democratic way of life. 
Rather, we are seen as tethered to an old power structure where the 
poor remain poor, and the rich, outlandishly rich, and becoming more 
so; and where religion has become the metaphor for political change of 
those excluded economically and politically.

Unfortunately, the Gallup poll shows how harshly the United States is 
viewed across the region. Right or not, the people there view us as a 
promiscuous culture in moral decay, and Abu Ghraib affirmed their 
views.

If we look at our closest ally, Turkey, a valued ally of ours for 
over 50 years in NATO, the disapproval rating of our country has risen 
from 48 percent in 2000, and we weren't doing so well back then, to 88 
percent this year. So 88 percent of the citizens of Turkey disagree and 
disapprove of what we are doing.

The ruling secular party of Turkey has lost control of its 
Parliament, and now at the local level who is winning elections in 
Turkey? Parties that are tending more and more religious. And I am not 
saying that the religious parties of Turkey are like those of Pakistan 
or Saudi Arabia, but we have to recognize what is happening across the 
region as America falls into disrepute.

In Pakistan, home to tens of thousands of madrassas, schools funded 
by Wahabi donors from Saudi Arabia, young boys are being turned out by 
the thousands to revenge against America.

America's favorability ratings in Pakistan have fallen to 27 percent. 
When we were visiting Pakistan a few weeks ago, a female 
Parliamentarian was assassinated on the western side of the country, 
people who are trying to relate to the broader world outside of 
Pakistan.

In Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with Israel three decades ago, 
70 percent of the public unfavorably views the United States. And more 
than 90 members of the anti-American Muslim Brotherhood were elected to 
Parliament recently, and that Parliament has about as many members as 
we do. So 90-plus members is a significant number in the Egyptian 
Parliament.

I could go down the list. King Abdullah of Jordan was here a couple 
of weeks ago. What did he ask us for? Peace now, time is short; peace 
now, time is short. The U.S. favorability rating in Jordan dropped to 
15 percent. Are we paying attention to what is going on?

My dear colleague Mr. Hinchey talked about Saudi Arabia, where the 
majority of 9/11 terrorists had come from. The United States is 
disliked by three-quarters of the people in Saudi Arabia. So we look at 
our troops inside of Iraq because the Commander in Chief of this 
country sent them there, but if we look at what is happening in the 
region, America is not winning.

One of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle just said, just 
measure the body count. Measure the American losses as a sign of how 
well we are doing.

It is taking us twice as much money every year just to keep the body 
count where it is now. Look at the casualties. Look at the Iraqi 
casualties that no one wants to talk about. Look at what is happening 
in the region. We are not being successful in the war on terrorism, as 
hard as our soldiers try, because they cannot do it alone.



Why are we asking the military to bear the full burden when the 
diplomatic channels of this government have crashed?

Can you believe that the neighbors of Iraq have not been assembled by 
our Secretary of State in any constructive way now going on 4 years? 
Unbelievable.

Can you believe that we have allowed nations with which we have been 
friends for 50 years just to fester at the end of a failed diplomatic 
pipeline?

The President's job is not just to be Commander in Chief. It is to be 
Diplomat in Chief for this country, and yet across that region we see 
ties that have been forged by this country for generations just ripped 
into shreds. What a tragedy.

I was thinking yesterday, I grew up in an era when John Kennedy 
talked about the Peace Corps and the great alliance for progress across 
Latin America. Look at the Latin Americans demonstrating against the 
United States.

We cannot ask our soldiers to fill a gap, a failed diplomacy and 
failed politics across the region. The world wants change. The world is 
begging us for change. The world is demonstrating for change. It just 
is not America that is demonstrating for change.

So this evening, Mr. Speaker, I would thank my colleague so very much 
for allowing me some time to talk about regaining America's standing in 
the world by correcting what has gone wrong in Iraq.

I just might end by saying today in USA Today there was a major story 
of Poland, people risking their lives going to Iraq, asking the Iraqi 
people what they think. What it shows is compared to 2005, just a 
couple years ago, when 71 percent of people in Iraq said their life was 
fairly good, today it has dropped to 39 percent.

In Baghdad, where so many of our soldiers are being sent, what 
percentage of the people rate their basic household needs as being 
served by the current regime? You know what the number is? Zero. Zero. 
Fallen in the last 2 years from 78 percent of their basic household 
needs. That is like food, water, down to zero.

Electricity, you know what percent of the people in Baghdad say their 
service is good? Zero. Zero, down from only half in 2005.

What about clean water? In 2005, 68 percent said they could get clean 
water. You know what the number is? Zero.

How can this be good? How can America win this? How can we ask our 
soldiers to fill a failed policy? Our soldiers will do anything we ask 
them to do. We have the best military in the world. We have the most 
committed generals, the most committed soldiers. We love every single 
one of them, but we do not want to give them a mission impossible in a 
sea of discontent where the Diplomat in Chief has abdicated his 
responsibility to them and to the kind of strategy that can win America 
friends again.

I thank the gentleman for yielding to me, and it is a real privilege 
to be able to participate in this Special Order this evening.