---
---

# CONGRATULATING THE 2009 MILITARY SPOUSE OF THE YEAR: TANYA QUEIRO
## `2c380168c8dd6f8f202189f55fe7af30`
`Mr. JONES — 3 June 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Tanya Queiro, 
who was named the 2009 Military Spouse of the Year.

The honor is presented by USAA to an individual who embodies the best 
qualities of today's military spouse. USAA is a diversified financial 
services group of companies that serves the members of the United 
States military and their families. The award honors the sacrifices and 
selfless service of the more than 1 million military spouses who 
provide unwavering support to our Armed Services today and to those who 
have served in previous generations.

Tanya Queiro was chosen from more than 650 nominations submitted to 
''Military Spouse'' magazine. The criteria used to select the winner 
include one's impact on community change, one's volunteerism, personal 
sacrifice, education, career pursuits, and other spouse-related 
efforts. During an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., Mrs. Queiro was 
honored for her commitment to the troops, for the ongoing support of 
her active duty husband, Gunnery Sergeant Jose Queiro, for her 
volunteer work, and for the many contributions to her community.

Mrs. Queiro, herself, served as an active duty marine for more than 
12 years. It was during this time that she met and married her husband, 
that she began raising her three children and that she began earning 
her bachelor's degree and also her master's degree. Now, in addition to 
raising her children--Jose, Marcus and Adrianna--and managing the house 
while her husband deploys, she works full time as a human resources 
specialist and is pursuing a doctorate degree in organization and 
management.

Mrs. Queiro has also managed to find the time to be extremely active 
in her community. She is a USDA New Leader Program graduate, an active 
Civilian Career Leadership Development participant and mentor, an 
American Military University Career mentor, and an Operation Noble 
Heart volunteer. She has volunteered as a Life Style, Insight, 
Networking, Knowledge, and Skills mentor, Onslow County Women's Shelter 
Victim Advocate, and Key Volunteer. As a lifetime member of the Women's 
Marine Association, Mrs. Queiro is dedicated to cementing the bond and 
comradery shared by those who have gone through the training to become 
United States Marines.

Mr. Speaker, I had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Queiro last week in 
my district office in Greenville, North Carolina. She is a resident of 
Jacksonville, North Carolina, which is part of my congressional 
district. Her outstanding record of achievement and of continued 
commitment to her husband, to her children, to the United States Marine 
Corps family, and to her community are truly inspiring. Once again, I 
extend my sincere congratulations to Mrs. Queiro for a well-deserved 
honor.

Mr. Speaker, before closing, as I do frequently on the floor of the 
House, I ask God to please bless our men and women in uniform. I ask 
God to please bless the families of our men and women in uniform, and I 
ask God, in his loving arms, to hold the families who have given a 
child dying for freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq, and I ask God three 
times: Please God, please God, please God, continue to bless America.
