---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `2c3d8453ce4298527c32278a244dcc60`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. I thank my friend so much for those eloquent 
words. It's amazing how much we can learn from our former enemies, the 
words you shared. Why do you care so much for those you lost long ago? 
I am just going to close with two examples from my district.

While I was home over the holiday recess, the remains were brought 
back from North Korea of an Iowan from Buchanan County who had been 
lost long before I was born, and to see the touching way that his 
family and his friends placed those remains in the frozen Iowa soil is 
a poignant reminder of exactly why this country cares and won't forget.

The other example, which is an actual positive benefit from this 
defense authorization bill is that when I was a college student during 
the Iranian hostage crisis, one of the best-known hostages was a woman 
who grew up in my district in Bremer County, Kathryn Koob. For people 
like Kathryn Koob and other Iranian hostages, there will be an 
opportunity to get the compensation they deserve for what they went 
through that no American should have to put up with.

But it's also a reflection of this administration's foreign policy 
that we allow those claims to be pursued against a state-sponsored 
terrorism act that occurred in Iran, but we have taken away the rights 
of U.S. prisoners of war to recover compensation from state-sponsored 
terror in Iraq. Maybe that makes sense to some people, but it just 
doesn't pass the smell test in Iowa.

With that, I would like to thank all of my colleagues, and I would 
also like to recognize my friend and roommate from Colorado, who I 
wasn't aware was with us. Mr. Perlmutter, we would like to have you 
close us out for the remaining time with your thoughts on this topic.