---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `2c45be14eadc9ef34aa7a2250d557355`
`Mr. BYRD — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, today we take up a supplemental bill to 
fund our troops in the field, to send a strong message about the 
direction of the war in Iraq, to improve the veterans and defense 
health care system, to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina rebuild, 
to secure the homeland, and to provide emergency relief to farmers 
impacted by major drought and freezes. We are now in the fifth year--
the fifth year--of the war, this terrible war.

I was against it. I voted against it. We are there. We are now in the 
fifth year of the war in Iraq. The debate about the war has 
deteriorated into a series of buzz words--preemptive war, mission 
accomplished, exaggerated intelligence, inadequate body armor, and 
surges--and on and on. Our job in the Senate is not to look backward 
but to look forward.

The Constitution clearly gives the Congress the power--yes, it does; 
it clearly gives the Congress, us, the power--to decide when this 
Nation should go to war, and it gives Congress the power of the purse, 
money. Money talks. Funding such conflicts is the responsibility of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee, the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
The buck stops here, and don't you ever forget it, the


Senate Appropriations Committee. Because of that power over the purse, 
it is certainly our duty to debate the future of the war in Iraq.

The bill before the Senate includes a provision that would give the 
war a new direction, and it points the way out--out, out--of the civil 
war in Iraq. There is no restriction on funding for the troops--no 
restriction on funding for the troops. We fully fund the needs of the 
troops. We do that, yes. In fact, the bill provides more funds than the 
President requested for the Department of Defense, with an increase of 
$1.3 billion for the defense health care system, $1 billion for 
equipping the Guard and Reserve, and $1.1 billion for military housing.

The language in the bill narrows the mission of our troops in Iraq, 
keeps pressure on the Iraqi Government to meet benchmarks on national 
reconciliation, requires the President--yes, hear me now; requires the 
President--to send Congress a phased redeployment plan. It sets a goal 
for the redeployment of most of the U.S. troops from Iraq by March 31, 
2008.

This country was not attacked by Iraq on 9/11. There was not a single 
Iraqi, not one, involved in the devastation in New York, Washington, 
and Pennsylvania on that fateful day. According to our own Government, 
the perpetrators of 9/11, Osama bin Laden and his organization, are 
alive today and rebuilding in Afghanistan and Pakistan at this moment, 
as I speak, so help me God. Language in this bill would allow the 
President to refocus our military and our intelligence on the 
terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11.

During the debate on this bill, assertions will be made, yes, that it 
is inappropriate to add to this bill funding to meet domestic needs. In 
fact, the White House has claimed that efforts to add funding for our 
veterans, for Katrina victims, and for homeland security will hold 
hostage the funds for the troops. What nonsense--hear me--nonsense. 
Just more buzzwords.

In fact, funding for the war is not the only critical need worthy of 
supplemental funding this year. The war must not obliterate every other 
concern. Last week, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, Rob Portman, said the President would veto the bill if the Iraq 
language and additional spending remain in the bill. He said:




 We're disappointed the Senate is allowing politics--


humbug--



 to interfere with getting needed resources to our troops.


Politics? Politics? I ask the Senate, is it politics to ensure that 
the VA has a health care system that can provide first-rate care for 
the wounded? Is it? No. It is a moral imperative--yes, a moral 
imperative.

Is it politics to provide critical resources to help the gulf region 
rebuild after Hurricane Katrina? Is it? Is it politics? No, it is not 
politics. It is compassion--compassion.

Is it politics to help rural America recover from drought and freeze? 
Is it? No. It is common sense, do you hear me, common sense and good 
economics.

This bill meets some of the most urgent needs of our country. It 
includes $1.7 billion to ensure that the VA has the resources it needs 
to help the brave men and women wounded in the war. The VA needs 
resources in order to provide first-rate care to profoundly wounded, 
terribly wounded, horribly wounded soldiers. We are morally bound--hear 
me; yes, we are morally bound, aren't we, to care for our wounded 
troops. This is not politics. No. Shame. This is not politics; it is 
common decency.

This bill also includes $3.3 billion above the administration's 
request for the victims of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. The 
President proposes to pay for the increased costs of repairing the 
existing levees in Louisiana by cutting the funding that Congress 
provided to improve the capacity of the levees to protect New Orleans 
from future hurricanes. Shame. That makes no sense.

The bill provides new resources to repair the levees. We will not 
follow a nonsensical strategy of repairing the existing levee system 
that failed during Katrina by cutting funding already appropriated for 
actual improvements to the levee system. We will not. We also include 
funding for health and education, for law enforcement, and for transit 
systems in the gulf region to help rebuild, to bring people back to 
work, and to bring the region back to life. Not politics, just plain 
old common sense.

The bill includes $4.2 billion for agricultural disaster relief. The 
agricultural economy has been hit with drought and freezes. In 2006, 69 
percent of all counties in the United States were declared primary or 
contiguous disaster areas. Fourteen States had 100 percent of their 
counties declared disaster areas by the Department of Agriculture.

I commend Senator Dorgan and Senator Feinstein and Senator Bond for 
their hard work on this disaster package.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that a letter from 
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger requesting agricultural 
disaster assistance be printed in the Record.