# None
## `2c46950e6d43557cabff9f3f9652a13e`
`Mr. HOLT — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill.

Every year, this bill provides us with an opportunity to make sure we 
are doing right by the men and women who serve our Nation in uniform. 
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (H.R. 2647) 
would provide a 3.4-percent pay raise for our troops. It also would 
expand TRICARE health coverage for reserve component members and their 
families for 180 days prior to mobilization and prohibit fee increases 
on TRICARE inpatient care for one year. To help our wounded warriors 
with their recovery, the bill authorizes funding for travel and 
transportation for three designated persons, including non-family 
members, to visit hospitalized service members. It also authorizes 
funding to allow seriously injured service members to use a non-medical 
attendant for help with daily living or during travel for medical 
treatment.

H.R. 2647 also contains provisions designed to improve and 
rationalize our policy on detainees. I am especially pleased that the 
bill contains a provision I wrote that requires the videorecording of 
interrogations of detainees held at theater-level detention facilities 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. For the first time, the Defense Department 
will have a uniform standard for collecting videorecorded intelligence 
from detainees through this mandatory program. Law enforcement 
organizations across our country use this technique routinely in 
interrogations, and it is past time the Defense Department adopted a 
common standard for videorecording interrogations to maximize 
intelligence collection and protect both the interrogators and the 
detainees.

I'm pleased that this bill contains strong hate crimes prevention 
provisions that I have supported for years. The Local Law Enforcement 
Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which is included in this bill, would 
provide technical and financial support to local law enforcement and 
prosecutors so that they can more aggressively try violent crimes which 
are motivated by a victim's race, color, religion, national origin, 
gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability and expands 
Federal jurisdiction to cover such crimes. Additionally, the bill would 
make it a Federal crime to attack U.S. servicemembers or their property 
on account of their service to country. The bill also includes stronger 
protections for freedom of speech and association, including religious 
speech and association, than the House passed version of this 
legislation. These changes will ensure that religious leaders will not 
have to change the expression of their beliefs or how they serve their 
congregations, as a result of the enactment of hate crimes legislation.

I am also pleased to see that the Conference Report includes most of 
Senator Schumer's Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act, which 
had been attached to the Senate-passed bill. That bill would facilitate 
the ability of military and overseas voters to request voter 
registration and absentee ballot applications by mail and 
electronically, the ability of election officials to transmit blank 
absentee ballots to military and overseas voters, and the ability of 
military voters to return their completed paper ballots safely, 
securely and free of charge by express mail, with generous pick-up and 
delivery time-frames. The latter provisions are similar to my own 
legislation on that topic, the Military and Overseas Voting Enhancement 
Act, which was the very first election reform bill I introduced in the 
House this session.

I would also like to commend my colleague Ms. Maloney, who I was 
pleased to collaborate with on her Overseas Voting Practical Amendments 
Act, which included provisions to facilitate the use of electronic 
transmission for outgoing applications and ballots similar to those in 
the Schumer bill that were not covered by my bill. I agree with Senator 
Schumer that facilitating the ability of our service men and women to 
vote conveniently, expeditiously, securely, and--to say the least--for 
free--should be our top priority. They put their lives on the line for 
us every day, and the electoral process should recognize their 
sacrifice accordingly.


However, whatever we do to facilitate the ability of our military 
personnel to vote, we must never do it at the expense of the security 
or privacy of their votes. The strong language included in the 
conference report requires that the privacy of our military and 
overseas voters be protected. And in providing only for the express 
mail return of completed hard copy ballots, it also recognizes that 
return of completed ballots by electronic means presents security 
risks. However, the bill calls for the study of ''new election 
technology'' to facilitate the ability of our military and overseas 
voters to vote. We must remember that ''new'' does not necessarily mean 
better, and that too often technology has been adopted before being


properly evaluated for the potential unintended consequences it may 
cause.

Chlorofluorocarbons were hailed as an innovation in refrigeration; 
we've since discovered that they damaged the ozone layer, so they are 
now banned. Asbestos was hailed for its insulation properties; we've 
since discovered that it causes lung disease, so it is now banned. DDT 
was hailed as a disease-fighting pesticide and its inventor was awarded 
the Nobel Prize; we've since discovered it causes serious harm to 
living organisms, so it is now banned. Electronic voting machines were 
hailed as making voting easier and more accessible; we've since learned 
that in most cases their results cannot be reliably and consistently 
verified. Whatever we do to enhance the ability of our military and 
overseas voters to vote, we must never implement anything that could 
compromise the accuracy, integrity, and security of the vote count.

One key provision in the House version of the bill that is not in 
this conference report is a requirement that the Secretary of Defense 
conduct suicide prevention outreach to every Individual Ready Reserve 
member who has done at least one tour in Iraq or Afghanistan. I was 
astonished to learn that some in the Senate objected to this provision 
on the grounds of costs. How much would it cost the Defense Department 
to task the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs to have 
his staff make phone calls to check up on IRR members who might be at 
risk of taking their own lives? If we can find tens of millions of 
dollars to buy extra engines for the F-35 fighter that the Pentagon 
doesn't want, there is no excuse for the Congress not to find the money 
to help prevent combat veterans from killing themselves.

Finally, this bill requires the Government Accountability Office 
(GAO) to ''submit to the congressional defense committees separate 
reports containing assessments of the extent to which the campaign plan 
for Iraq and the campaign plan for Afghanistan (including the 
supporting and implementing documents for each such plan) each adhere 
to military doctrine.'' Unfortunately, we need far more than a simple 
assessment as to whether our armed forces are fighting according to 
established doctrine. What we need is a critical examination of whether 
they should be fighting in Afghanistan at all. Some of us have asked 
for a plan of success or a plan of withdrawal before sending another 
wave of soldiers. We have received no such plan.

As I've stated previously, I will not support an endless military 
commitment in this region. If a year from now I do not see unambiguous 
indicators of success--fewer civilian casualties, Afghan and Pakistani 
security forces in the lead on the security mission, genuine progress 
in rebuilding Afghanistan's devastated infrastructure and civil 
institutions--I will not support further funding for operations and 
will support only measures that will bring our forces home, and 
quickly.

On balance, this is a good bill and I urge my colleagues to join me 
in supporting it.