---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `2c50d4570f70cc69b1c276fd956ba9ae`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 29 October 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I sent to the desk earlier legislation 
that is cosponsored by myself and Senator Joe Lieberman and Senator Kit 
Bond. In essence, it reauthorizes certain provisions of the PATRIOT Act 
which expire, if we do not act, on December 31 of this year. It is an 
important matter and I am proud to be working with the distinguished 
chairman of the committee that has oversight over homeland security, 
and Senator Bond, who is the ranking Republican on the Intelligence 
Committee and has worked on these issues for quite a long time.

I wish to be notified after 10 minutes, if you would, please.

In recent years, Federal agents have exposed a series of potentially 
devastating terrorist plots across our country. If successful, these 
planned attacks would have caused unthinkable harm and claimed the 
lives of countless Americans. In the years following 9/11, there have 
been constant attempts to strike again on American soil. There could 
have been a dozen 9/11's, perhaps, were it not for the skill and 
courage of those who labor in defense of our country and our 
countrymen, and were it not for the measures passed by this Congress 
that have finally given them the support and the legal and financial 
resources they need to combat the terrorist threat.

But unless Congress acts, these very measures will soon expire. 
Unless Congress acts, our agents will be stripped of some of the legal 
tools they have used to foil attack after attack on our homeland and to 
avert catastrophe time and again.

Three of the most critical national security provisions passed by 
this body must be renewed by December 31 of


this year. Those provisions are found in the USA PATRIOT Act, which has 
played an essential part keeping our families and communities safe for 
these last 9 years. It at last gave the intelligence community the 
capabilities it needed to detect and deter terrorism inside our 
borders.

These capabilities have long been used in routine law enforcement, 
but could not be used in national security matters. Why would we not 
pursue terrorists with the same tools we can use to pursue drug dealers 
and mobsters?

Anyone who has followed the news in recent weeks knows just how vital 
these tools are. Four major terrorist plots have been foiled in the 
last 6 weeks--four in the last 6 weeks.

Just yesterday, we learned that two Chicago men were charged with 
plotting to attack the facilities and employees of a Danish newspaper 
that printed cartoons depicting the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The 
planned attack included weapons and explosives. According to reports, 
one of the men admitted working with a Pakistani group which has been 
designated by our government as a foreign terrorist organization.

The government recently charged Najibullah Zazi with conspiring to 
use one or more weapons of mass destruction--specifically, explosive 
devices--against persons or property within the United States. The New 
York Times described the government's case against Mr. Zazi as ''a set 
of damning accusations'' that begin ''with explosives training in 
Pakistan followed by purchases of bomb-making materials in Colorado, 
experiments in a hotel room, and a cross-country trip to New York, 
which the authorities feared might have been the target of his 
attack.''

According to reports, Mr. Zazi was in contact with senior al-Qaida 
operatives, including the leader of al-Qaida in Afghanistan. Attorney 
General Holder has described Zazi's plot as one of the worst since 9/
11.

In another case, Hosam Maher Husein Smadi stands accused of 
conspiring to set off an explosive attached to a vehicle at the base of 
the 60-story Fountain Place office tower in Dallas, TX. In yet another 
case, Tarek Mehanna was charged with material support of terrorism 
related to a plot to kill U.S. troops in Iraq, assassinate top 
politicians, and gun down shoppers in U.S. malls.

But these attacks never occurred. They never occurred because we had 
the tools in place to prevent them and because of the untiring agents 
who carry out their noble, often thankless mission day after day. But 
out of an abundance of caution, Congress created a time limit on some 
of these investigative procedures and tools, and in 2006 those 
authorities were renewed because it was clear they were working and 
were needed.

It is worth noting that even though these authorities had not been 
abused by our hard-working terrorism officials, numerous revisions to 
them were made in 2006. Then, we reauthorized the provisions, while 
also strengthening civil liberties protections. That 2006 legislation 
was passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. It passed with 89 
votes, among them our current President, who was a Member of the 
Senate; the Vice President, who was then a Member of the Senate; and 
the Secretary of State, who was then a Member of the Senate.

The PATRIOT Act is again up for renewal with three critical 
authorities set to expire. While we in the Judiciary Committee have 
been debating whether these expiring PATRIOT Act authorities should be 
approved for another 4 years, our agents are actively working hard to 
protect this country and its people from the constant threat of 
terrorism. Is there anyone in this Chamber who thinks that we should 
make it harder for our national security investigators to catch 
terrorists? Is there anyone here who believes the American people want 
us to make it harder for our investigators to catch terrorists?

I know Chairman Leahy has worked hard, as we all did, to try to come 
up with a PATRIOT Act reauthorization bill in the Judiciary Committee 
that could attract strong bipartisan support. I commend him for that 
effort. He really worked at that. We worked together at that. However, 
the bill that eventually emerged from the Judiciary Committee does not 
meet the key test for any national security legislation: first, do no 
harm. The bill reported by the committee would make the jobs of our 
national security officials more difficult. The Obama administration 
has raised serious misgivings about the legislation that passed out of 
the committee.

So, I think we need to make a fresh start. Let's go back and take the 
bill we voted so strongly for before, add the minor things that need to 
be added to it to make it better--to deal with recent court of appeals 
rulings--and then let's move that forward to make sure we get that done 
before the legislation expires on December 31.

The bill we introduced today represents the best parts of the 
legislation that emerged from the Judiciary Committee, the parts almost 
everyone agreed upon. I will go into some of these details later but 
would just say that I am honored to be able to participate in the 
filing of this legislation with two fine cosponsors, Senators Lieberman 
and Kit Bond.

I yield the floor.