---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `2c5c7cefeadb6419bfa7a680ea094ad1`
`Mr. ROSKAM â€” 25 February 2009`

---


Mr. ROSKAM. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican standards 
on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for publication 
in the Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of 
H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2009.

As I have stated on the floor previously, I am a true believer in the 
need for increased transparency through the earmark process--whether in 
appropriations, authorizing or tax-writing legislation. It is important 
that the Illinois taxpayer can judge for themselves the funds that we 
spend at the federal level.

I appreciate this opportunity to discuss how taxpayer funds are spent 
in my congressional district. As a Member of Congress I was elected to 
this body to fight for the needs of my constituents.

My constituents elected me to Congress because I am serious about 
accountability and transparency in the budget process. I take a 
deliberative approach to project requests to ensure that any request 
with my name on it is worthy of federal funding. The key ingredients I 
look for in any project are job creation, opportunities to support 
Illinois' efforts in keeping us globally competitive, a guarantee that 
the project will not rely solely on federal funding and can instead 
become viable in the private sector.

Most important to me is to ensure taxpayer dollars are returned back 
to my constituents, who pay more to the federal government than they 
get back in government funded projects. Illinois taxpayers receive less 
federal funding per dollar of federal taxes paid compared to almost any 
state in the country. In 2005, Illinois citizens received only $.75 in 
the way of federal spending per dollar of federal taxes paid. This 
ranks the state 45th nationally and highlights the importance of my 
work to advocate for the priorities of my constituents on the federal 
level.

This is why I stand here today to advocate for the following projects 
I have secured in H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of FY09:








 FY09 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations


Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Justice, OJP Byrne Discretional Grants--$50,000 for 
Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital's Preventing and Addressing Domestic 
Violence Program (3815 Highland Avenue, Downers Grove, IL 60515)

With the growing numbers of reported domestic violence in DuPage 
County and throughout Illinois' 6th Congressional District, Advocate 
Good Samaritan seeks to strengthen and expand its current domestic 
violence program to ensure that both current and expected needs are 
met.

One in three American women is abused at some point in her life by an 
intimate partner. Domestic violence creates multiple health problems 
among victims and causes 100,000 days of hospitalization and 30,000 
Emergency Room visits annually. With such startling statistics, 
Advocate Good Samaritan has teamed up with the Downers Grove Police 
Department to move forward on a comprehensive approach to addressing 
domestic violence in the community.

The federal funds I have obtained will be utilized to expand the 
successful partnership by providing internal education and debriefing/
consultation on domestic violence cases in order to increase awareness. 
This funding will allow Advocate Good Samaritan to provide customized 
trainings internally within Advocate (including parish nurses) and to 
local agencies which serve as strategic points of entry (emergency 
departments, local police departments, and faith-based organizations). 
This will increase its outreach efforts to community organizations, 
including a major focus on large corporations in the community and the 
training employers to recognize and work with employees who may be 
victims of domestic violence. Other plans of expansion include an 
expanding website, a regional domestic violence awareness program, and 
purchase and distribution of educational materials to increase 
awareness among and educate the public about domestic violence. Along 
with matching funds from the hospital of $25,000, Advocate will also be 
able to leverage its involvement in the Corporate Alliance to End 
Partner Violence for additional funds.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Justice, COPS Law Enforcement Technology--$200,000 for 
the DuPage County Sheriff's Department (501 N. County Farm Road, 
Wheaton, IL 60187)

One of the lessons learned from the tragedy of September 11th was the 
inability of first responders and public safety agencies to 
communicate. To meet the requirements of the National 
Telecommunications & Information Administration, the State of Illinois 
is in the process of implementing a statewide interoperable radio 
system (STARCOM21). Subsequently, the DuPage County Emergency Telephone 
System Board (ETSB) awarded a contract based on the state bid to 
purchase the interoperable radio equipment for public safety agencies 
in DuPage County.

In recent years, DuPage County has experienced a number of natural 
disasters including tornados, floods and last August, a major storm 
that cut a swath across the entire county impairing first responder 
communication among municipal police, fire agencies and other public 
safety agencies and hampering rescue efforts. Over 8,000 9-1-1 calls 
were received during the storm.

Chicago and O'Hare International Airport are located at the northeast 
border of DuPage County and it is vital for DuPage County police and 
fire agencies to communicate via radio with Cook County and Chicago in 
the event of a major urban or terrorists' threat at O'Hare or in 
Chicago. A radio system connected to STARCOM21 will enable regional 
communication.

The objective of the ETSB project is to provide 6,000 users (first 
responders, police, fire, homeland security & public works) with a 
seamless 700-800MHz interoperable radio platform throughout the county 
and the state via STARCOM21. Each participant in the ETSB (which 
includes DuPage and portions of Cook, Kane & Will Counties) is required 
to purchase their own radios (6,000 countywide) under this new system 
at a cost of $5,213 per radio.

To Federal funds obtained for this entity will be used to purchase 40 
radios for municipalities in DuPage County that will be compatible with 
the new statewide interoperable radio system (STARCOM21). This funding 
will be leveraged with a state grant DuPage County obtained of $430,000 
that will cover the purchase of 83 of the required 411 radios needed. 
The Sheriff's Office will assume all operations costs of the new radio 
system and the cost of purchasing the remaining radios.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Justice, COPS Law Enforcement Technology--$75,000 for 
the Northern Illinois Police Alarm System (675 Village Court, Glencoe, 
IL 60022)

The Northern Illinois Police Alarm System (NIPAS) Emergency Services 
Team (EST) is responsible for law enforcement coverage of 68 member 
towns with a total population of approximately 1.8 million residents. 
In 1982, severe flooding nearly devastated several small communities 
along the shores of Lake Michigan north of Chicago. Public safety 
resources, especially those of law enforcement agencies, became 
stretched to the limit. Although neighboring communities responded with 
assistance, police leaders realized they needed an organized system 
with pre-planned deployment procedures. The following year, fifteen 
police agencies in Illinois' northern Cook and southern Lake Counties 
established NIPAS through an intergovernmental mutual aid agreement. 
This authorized neighboring agencies to work together in times of need.

Whether faced with a natural disaster, or the unexpected results of a 
special event, NIPAS member Police Departments may request assistance 
that is needed when the individual Police Department cannot respond 
accordingly on its own to an event. They can use NIPAS in three key 
areas: call for additional patrol cars, call for the NIPAS Mobile Field 
Force, and call for the NIPAS Emergency Service Team.

Federal funds I have obtained in this bill, along with Representative 
Schakowsky (IL-9), will be used for the purchase of atmospheric 
detection equipment for the NIPAS Emergency Services Team--needed 
equipment sorely lacking at NIPAS member Police Departments. 
Atmospheric detection equipment is needed to allow NIPAS law 
enforcement officers the ability to respond to crimes or other 
incidents involving hazardous environments, explosive devices, arson 
materials, and narcotics. Communities in my district whom have 
advocated a great need for such equipment included Bartlett, Elk Grove 
Village, Elmhurst, Hanover Park, Mount Prospect, Roselle,


Streamwood, and Villa Park. Funding this one Regional Law Enforcement 
project will allow 8 Police Departments in IL-6 Police by equipping and 
training 10 police officers with one Congressional appropriation 
project. The project will also train and equip additional 71 Police 
officers outside of my district to respond to mutual aid request for 
emergency services related to HAZMAT incidents within my district. This 
mutual aid format response mechanism will save millions of dollars 
compared to each Police Department trying to deploy its own duplicative 
and smaller/ineffective (due to the cost of equipment) HAZMAT emergency 
services team. NIPAS is matching this federal funding with $150,000 of 
their own money.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Justice, DJP--Juvenile Justice--$175,000 for the DuPage 
County Area Project (DuCAP) (2037 Bloomingdale Road, Suite 206, 
Glendale Heights, IL 60139)

Federal funds I have obtained will be used for DuCAP's Providing 
Positive Choices for Youth program. This will improve the futures of 
at-risk youth impacted by gangs and youth violence. Funding will 
strengthen four existing community-based youth organizations and will 
create additional community organizations focused on underserved 
communities in the western suburbs of northern DuPage County. DuCAP has 
historically been successful in addressing the issues of at-risk youth 
and their families. DuCAP's track record and experience over the past 
18 years has demonstrated that developing and nurturing grassroots, 
community-based organizations creates stronger, more responsive 
communities. The residents of these communities can mobilize resources 
to fill voids in services, and create opportunities for youth 
engagement, that serve to limit involvement in gangs, youth violence, 
and substance abuse.




FY09, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Appropriations


Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Education, Elementary & Secondary Education (Includes 
FIE)--$238,000 for the Streamwood High School--School District U-46 
(355 East Chicago Street, Elgin, IL 60120)

Federal funding will be utilized for School District U-46 execution 
and implementation of the Manufacturing Career Exploration project. A 
12-week pilot program will be implemented at Streamwood High School and 
then be expanded to the additional five high schools in the school 
district.

Manufacturers in the western suburbs of Chicago share a widespread 
and common need for a skilled workforce, especially for those who want 
to build careers in manufacturing. Many manufacturers are employing 
advanced technologists that require a workforce with skills and the 
ongoing learning and skills upgrades. Firms report that many good 
potential entry level workers need basic math and English skills. 
Manufacturers report existing workers and skilled workers shortages. 
The forecasts indicate that many more jobs will go unfilled in America 
unless we train our young students now. Good jobs in manufacturing 
exist but we need a pipeline of students trained to fill these jobs.

The Manufacturing Career Exploration project offers a comprehensive 
solution in this manufacturing facility heavy area of the country. The 
skills taught through this program will allow the future U.S. workforce 
gain the appropriate knowledge required to succeed in the growing 
advanced manufacturing sector, and more broadly, in the increasingly 
competitive global economy.

The precision metalworking industry offers a variety of jobs from 
basic parts layout to computer numerical controlled programmers, from 
machinist to mangers, from mold makers to engineers, from salesperson 
to human resource directors, each with its own educational 
requirements. Regardless of what position it is looking to fill, 
industry looks for qualified applicants who have a first-hand knowledge 
of machine tooling. It is for this reason that the need for this task-
oriented, problem solving, knowledgeable, worker be developed within a 
high school curriculum.

The Streamwood Manufacturing Career Exploration has three major 
objectives:

1. To demonstrate the inter-relatedness of precision metal working, 
math and communication.

2. To ensure that all students in the Streamwood High School Plan are 
oriented toward the world of work and higher education.

3. To ensure that all students in The Manufacturing Career 
Exploration are oriented toward the world of work and higher education.

With no consistent funding available at the Department of Education, 
these federal funds obtained will be useful in kick starting the 
program off the ground and allow for continued growth as the program in 
the future seeks to leverage funds with private industry in the area to 
keep the program on track.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Education, Higher Education (Includes FIPSE)--$381,000 
for the College of DuPage (425 Fawell Boulevard, Glen Ellyn, IL 60137)

The College of DuPage is looking to be a lead institution in becoming 
more veteran friendly; working to identify issues and seeking the means 
to aid veterans in their transition to civilian life. Therefore, the 
federal funding I have obtained, along with Senator Durbin (IL), will 
be utilized to implement curriculum, clinical training and on-going 
professional development coursework to prepare professionals to counsel 
returning veterans. This curriculum will include:

Phase I--A certificate for Master's prepared clinicians offered 
through the College of DuPage Human Services Department.

Phase II--Training of College counseling staff that could assist in 
the development of a Counseling Center.

Phase III--Faculty conversion of curriculum for online delivery in 
accordance with accreditation stands of the Human Services Department.

Phase IV--Implementation of the Associate in Applied Science Degree 
option, which will train students to assist graduate clinicians in the 
field of Veteran Counseling.

As our military personnel return home, one of the biggest challenges 
will be to transition the veteran into family life, education, and the 
workforce. In addition, significant numbers of veterans are returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering brain trauma injury and delayed 
stress syndrome. This program is designed to get ahead of the curve in 
training professionals who can help the men and women address these 
needs. The funding will allow a variety of government initiatives to 
improve, including but not limited to:

Enhance services to ease transition of returning veterans into 
civilian life

Increase access to education and academic success

Partner with entities for on-going support

Proactively address employment and workforce development needs.

This project supports current federal initiatives specifically 
addressing the concept of supporting community colleges at a local 
level to focus on education, job retraining, and helping those who have 
given so much for our country. The federal funds obtained will allow 
the College of DuPage to respond to the needs of returning service men 
and women and the acknowledged shortage of health care workers.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention--$95,000 for Access Community Health Network's Martin 
Russo Health Center (245 South Gary Avenue, Suite 200, Bloomingdale, IL 
60108)

I have obtained federal funding for the Martin Russo Health Center in 
my congressional district will be utilized to implement a model 
community-based heart health program for low income women. This program 
will offer a continuum of care to address heart disease, including 
preventative interventions, risk screenings, care management for women 
with identified risk factors, and cardiology consultation. The specific 
model to be implemented includes:

Prevention--provide education and address risk through smoking 
cessation, maintaining a healthy weight and being physically active.

Risk reduction--help women lower their blood pressure and reduce 
their cholesterol levels.

Care management--provide medical care management for women at risk 
for a heart attack due to underlying conditions such as congenital 
heart disease, heart attack and stroke history, diabetes, and 
hypertension.

Bio-psychosocial approach--screen for and attend to behavioral health 
conditions, including substance abuse and depression.

Pharmaceutical advocacy--help women develop strategies for obtaining 
affordable medications, through benefits counseling and leveraging 340B 
pricing.

Cardiology consultation--offer an integrated continuum of primary 
medical care and cardiology consultation as needed.

Nowhere in the greater Chicago area is there a one-stop resource that 
truly welcomes low income women to obtain, under one roof, the full 
range of education, prevention, risk assessment, medical management and 
specialty care services. This program has the ability to reduce 
emergency room abuse by addressing issues early--before they lead to 
complicated, expensive and permanent debilitation. Access Community 
Health Network will be matching this project by at least 50%, with the 
costs that include $110,000 for the cardiologist, $290,000 for 
behavioral health services (other medical providers), $140,000 for 
medical care management, and $460,000 for community education and 
outreach campaign.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and 
Services Administration (HRSA) Health Facilities and Services--$143,000 
for Adventist GlenOaks Hospital (701 Winthrop Avenue, Glendale Heights, 
IL 60139)

I obtained federal funding for Adventist GlenOaks Hospital in 
Glendale Heights, IL to


be used for the purchase of new and updated surgical equipment, 
including minimally invasive technology. The current equipment is 25 
years old and the demands of technology in the treatment of their 
patients has increased drastically. This equipment will provide the 
medical technology necessary in treating the patients at the hospital 
with the best possible outcomes, as well as becoming an important 
component of their key involvement in disaster preparedness for their 
service areas.

The need for these funds by the hospital are great, as Adventist 
GlenOaks Hospital is the only Medicaid Disproportionate Share hospital 
in DuPage County--with a steady increase in Medicaid patients each 
year. The hospital serves a disproportionate number of state and 
federally funded patients as well as a significant number of uninsured 
patients in comparison to other facilities in DuPage County. In 2007, 
the hospital provided over $6.3 million in community benefits and 
charity care. The total cost of the purchase of the equipment is $3 
million. The GlenOaks Foundation has taken on the Surgical Services 
Department as their targeted fundraising project for the coming year 
and the $143,000 in federal funding going to this project will further 
help leverage their fundraising efforts in the private sector.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and 
Services Administration (HRSA) Health Facilities and Services--$190,000 
for the DuPage Convalescent Center (400 N. County Farm Road, Wheaton, 
IL 60187)

As the senior population in our communities continues to increase, it 
is ever more important to ensure these seniors have access to programs 
that will allow them to continue a healthy lifestyle that implements 
numerous preventative health measures. A particular focus on strength 
training has the added benefits of bone strengthening, improved balance 
and stability, greater endurance and energy, sleep improvement, 
prevention of falls and subsequent disability, improved neuromuscular 
coordination, enhanced cognitive functioning, improved energy 
metabolism, improved weight management, and improved ADL (activities of 
daily living) ability.

As such, I obtained $190,000 for the DuPage Convalescent Center's 
(DPCC) Wellness Center in this appropriations bill. The federal funds 
will establish dual Wellness/Fitness Centers inside the Convalescent 
Center (1920 square feet). One will be adjacent to the Physical 
Therapy/Rehab Department that will serve the long and short term 
population at DPCC. The second area will be located on the Ground floor 
with direct access to an entrance and parking accommodations so that 
seniors from the community will have easy access. The Wellness Center 
would serve approximately 430 short-term residents during their stay on 
the sub-acute unit with an anticipated enrollment of approximately 80% 
of this population once they return to the community. In addition, 
about 65%-70% of residents enrolled in current Physical Rehab 
programming will be able to participate in the Wellness center and this 
roughly translates to about 120 long-term convalescent center 
residents.

The federal funding will go specifically for the purchase of 
equipment and upgrades to the Wellness Center. DuPage County will 
provide the funds for staffing the center with a full-time Fitness 
Specialist and a part-time Case Manager. The County will also 
collaborate with local townships and municipalities and senior agencies 
to help provide transportation services for eligible seniors. This 
comprehensive Wellness Center will enable seniors to live in the 
community for as long as they can, which coincides with current federal 
initiatives that have dollars focused on successful aging in place, 
decreasing healthcare costs and helping improve quality of life.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Education, National Projects, Innovation and 
Improvement Teach for America as authorized under the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act--$4,965,000 for the Reach Out and Read National 
Center (56 Roland Street, Suite 100-D, Boston, MA 02129)

Too many children today arrive on their first day of kindergarten 
unprepared to learn, which places them at a disadvantage before even 
starting school. An extensive body of research now clearly documents 
the importance of early language and literacy skills in preparing 
children for later success in reading and in school. Yet today, a large 
number of children and their families do not receive the support and 
assistance they need to develop these essential skills and prepare to 
start kindergarten ready to learn. This is why I was supportive of 
federal funding for this important national program.

Through Reach Out and Read, nearly 50,000 doctors and nurses have 
been trained nationwide in ROR's proven strategies of early language 
and literacy development. Pediatricians and other healthcare providers 
guide and encourage parents at every pediatric check-up to read aloud 
to their children from the earliest months of life. Currently, more 
than 3,500 clinics and hospitals are implementing the program, reaching 
more than 25% of America's at-risk children.

Specifically, Reach Out and Read:

Makes literacy promotion a standard part of pediatric primary care, 
so that children grow up with books, language skills, and the ability 
to read;

Trains doctors and nurses to advise parents about the importance of 
reading aloud, and gives books to children at pediatric check-ups, with 
a special focus on disadvantaged children and those growing up in 
poverty; and

Helps families and communities encourage early literacy skills by 
building on the unique relationships between parents and their 
children's pediatricians.

ROR is nationally and internationally respected, with proven results, 
deserves Congressional support. In 2007, Reach Out and Read received 
one of the five prestigious United Nations' Confucius Prizes for 
Literacy, the only American program to be so honored. In 2006, the 
White House Conference on Global Literacy, hosted by First Lady Laura 
Bush, highlighted nine successful literacy-promotion models, of which 
Reach Out and Read was again the only American program showcased.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Education, National Projects, Innovation and 
Improvement Reading is Fundamental as authorized under the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act--$24,803,000 for Reading is Fundamental 
(1825 Connecticut Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20009)

Reading is Fundamental (authorized under Title V, Part D, Subpart 5) 
prepares children to read by delivering free books and resources to 
those children who need them most. RIF's book distribution program 
hands out 16 million books annually to the nation's youngest and most 
at-risk children.

In the President's proposed fiscal year 2009 budget, funding for this 
integral program was eliminated. This successful program directly 
benefited over 146,000 children in the State of Illinois in 2007, which 
is why I advocated that instead of eliminating funded in the FY09 
budget, to allow federal funds to flow so that we can continue to reach 
underserved children from birth to age 8 and better prepare them for 
their educational future.

All RIF programs combine three essential elements to foster 
children's literacy: reading motivation, family and community 
involvement, and the excitement of choosing free books to keep. 
Therefore, I am proud to stand up in support of this most important 
national project.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Education, National Projects, Safe Schools and 
Citizenship Education, Civic Education Program for activities 
authorized under the Education for Democracy Act--$25,095,000 for the 
Center for Civic Education (5145 Douglas Fir Road, Calabasas, CA 91302)

I rise in strong support of the federal funding I played a role in 
obtaining for this most important national program. The Education for 
Democracy Act's domestic and international civic education programs--
which reach approximately 5 million students each year--has been 
demonstrated by independent research and evaluation. In addition, 
economic education exchange programs supported by the Act reached 2.9 
million students in 2006-2007. These programs make a significant 
contribution to our country's commitment to strengthening freedom and 
democracy in the United States in emerging democracies throughout the 
world.

Over the course of my first term in Congress, I visited classrooms in 
my district on a weekly basis. Every teacher I met during the course of 
my visits touted the success of the civic education programs, the 
benefits to their students, and the need for Congress to continue 
supporting such a successful program. As such I supported federally 
funding this project in the FY09 Appropriations Bill.

The Education for Democracy Act funds valuable initiatives that have 
been proven to increase students' fundamental understanding of 
democracy, improve the school environment, and increase academic 
achievement. Independent evaluations testify to these initiatives' 
success in promoting civic and economic knowledge; intellectual and 
participatory skills; and civic dispositions such as civility, 
tolerance, respect for the rule of law, and a reasoned commitment to 
the fundamental values and principles of constitutional democracy.








FY09 Energy and Water Development Appropriations


Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Department of Energy, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy/Vehicle 
Technologies: $209,330 for Storage Tanks & Dispensers for E85 and Bio-
Diesel for the Forest Preserve District of DuPage County (3S580 
Naperville Road, Wheaton, IL 60187)

In 2001, the Forest Preserve District of DuPage County embarked on a 
10-year initiative to convert its entire fleet of vehicles from 
standard gasoline or diesel-powered engines to vehicles that run on 
alternative fuels such


as compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied propane (LP), ethanol (E85), 
and soy bio-diesel. I am proud to partner with the DuPage Forest 
Preserve District in this important initiative. This effort represents 
the sort of good-government work that the American people expect. In 
the long-term, this full-fleet conversion will save the District 
hundreds of thousands of dollars on future fuel purchases, in addition 
to greatly reducing tailpipe emissions and ozone pollution. 
Furthermore, continued application of this technology will serve as a 
catalyst for even wider usage and availability to the general public. 
Previously, the District used $612,000 to fund the CNG and LP portions 
of this alternative fueling station. I secured this funding for the 
District to complete these other phases of the project and advance the 
transition to an all alternative-fuel fleet by adding E85 and bio-
diesel fuel dispensers, and to allow other governmental agencies in the 
region to fuel their alternative fuel vehicles at the site.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Army Corps of Engineers/Construction: $7,500,000 for the Des Plaines 
River, through the City of Des Plaines, Illinois (1420 Miner Street, 
Des Plaines, IL 60016)

In the past couple of years we have seen severe flooding in the 
Chicagoland area. This past September we were inundated with one of the 
worst rainstorms in our history, prompting the President to declare our 
area a federal disaster area. That is why I have secured this important 
funding for the expansion of Big Bend Lake and for lowering the normal 
lake level. These changes will provide an additional 587 acre-feet of 
storage for enhanced flood mitigation. The overall project helps 33 
municipalities in Cook and Lake Counties in Illinois. The Des Plaines 
River has a long history of flooding that has caused significant 
economic losses. Recurrent flooding along the Des Plaines River causes 
estimated average annual damage in the amount of $25,228,500 (69% 
traffic damages, 20% residential damages, 8% commercial/industrial/
public damages, 3% emergency services costs). Statutory authorization 
for this project is provided in the Water Resources Development Act of 
1999 (Public Law 106-53), and a Project Cooperation Agreement has been 
signed by Army Corps and Illinois Department of Natural Resources. I am 
grateful that the American people have entrusted us with these precious 
resources to advance this project and enhance our region's flood 
mitigation and Great Lakes water quality initiatives.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Army Corps of Engineers/Construction: $28,709,000 for the McCook and 
Thornton Reservoirs, through the Metropolitan Water Reclamation 
District of Greater Chicago (100 East Erie Street, Chicago, IL 60611)

The recurrence of major flooding in the Chicago area, particularly in 
recent years, has demonstrated the great need for the advancement of 
the Chicago Underflow Plan (CUP), the regional flood control element of 
the Tunnel and Reservoir Plan (TARP) of the Metropolitan Water 
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. This funding will be used to 
continue on-going design and construction of the McCook Reservoir, a 
key component of the TARP, a long-term comprehensive flood pollution 
control solution for Chicago and its 51 surrounding communities. The 
McCook Reservoir is currently under construction, and when completed 
will have a total water capacity of 7 billion gallons, provide more 
than $90 million per year in benefits to 3.1 million people in 37 
communities, and protect more than 1 million structures. Completing the 
McCook and Thornton Reservoirs and bringing them fully on-line is 
crucial to local communities, the health of Lake Michigan and its 
tributaries, and to the economic development of the region. I am 
pleased to support this project, and to have secured funds for it. The 
larger effort will provide a series of underground tunnels and storage 
reservoirs designed to address combined sewer overflow discharges. 
Without timely completion of the project, communities will face 
decreased drinking water allocations, significant decreases in water 
quality and thousands of homes will be vulnerable to flooding. This 
system has been enormously effective in achieving its goal as evidenced 
by the elimination of 85% of the combined sewage pollution in a 325 
square mile area. Statutory authorization for this request is provided 
in Public Law 100-676, and the project was included in the President's 
FY2009 budget request in the amount of $34,000,000. This is clearly the 
sort of good and necessary infrastructure project that the American 
people need and desire, which is why I am pleased to have served a role 
in securing these funds.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

Army Corps of Engineers/Construction: $5,750,000 for the Chicago 
Sanitary & Ship Canal Dispersal Barriers, through the U.S. Army 
Engineer District, Chicago (111 North Canal Street, Suite 600, Chicago, 
IL 60606)

Our Great Lakes are an environmental treasure for our region, and it 
is incumbent upon us to provide for their healthy preservation for 
future generations. Accordingly, I worked with a bipartisan group of my 
colleagues to secure funding for this important initiative. 
Historically, the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River were separated 
naturally by a landmass, but since the completion of the Chicago 
Sanitary and Ship Canal, aquatic species can move freely between the 
two water systems. A temporary dispersal barrier (Barrier I) has been 
operating for nearly six years, and construction of a permanent barrier 
(Barrier II) will be completed this year. Without these barriers, Lake 
Michigan, and the rest of the Great Lakes, would be vulnerable to 
aquatic invasive species like the Asian Carp. Funding is needed for the 
operations of both barriers and to begin construction of the conversion 
of Barrier I into a permanent barrier. This project is authorized by 
the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-114, 
Section 3061), and the President's budget recommended $6.25 million. 
Providing these funds serves my constituents who enjoy the Great Lakes, 
and every American who travels to the Great Lakes region to enjoy these 
national treasures.









FY09 Interior and Environment Appropriations


Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

EPA/STAG Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Project: $500,000 for a 
Public Well in the Village of Bartlett, Illinois (228 S. Main Street, 
Bartlett, IL 60103)

I am pleased to have secured funds for the people of Bartlett, 
Illinois. These much-needed funds will expand the availability of clean 
water for my constituents. Due to new industrial and residential 
development, the Village must install a new well to meet the maximum 
daily demands of residents and businesses on the west side of town. The 
addition of a new well in Bartlett is essential to expanding the 
Village's ability to efficiently provide potable water to residents 
living in current and future residential developments as well as the 
surrounding industrial and commercial business parks. The new well will 
also increase the availability of water for the local fire protection 
district responding to fires on the west side of Bartlett. The well 
would require a radium and barium removal system to be installed in 
order for the well water to meet the current federal standards of the 
Environmental Protection Agency. Because the project is a public well, 
it is eligible for funding under the Drinking Water State Revolving 
Fund (from the STAG Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Project 
account), authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act. The Village of 
Bartlett demonstrated an ability to commit more than $1,000,000 to the 
project, far in excess of the 45% commitment required for federal 
funds. It is my honor to have secured federal funds for a worthy 
project such as this, and I believe that this project serves as a good 
example of how federal funds can leverage local dollars to serve the 
American people with tangible quality of life enhancements.










 FY09 Transportation-HUD Appropriations


Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

HUD/EDI: $142,500 for Marklund Philip Center for Children in 
Bloomingdale, Illinois (164 S. Prairie Avenue, Bloomingdale, IL 60108)

I am honored to partner with the Marklund Philip Center for Children, 
and humbled to be a part of their work through this funding. This 
educational facility in Bloomingdale, Illinois, houses a pediatric 
nursing facility for infants, children and medically fragile adults, an 
education program for children ages 3 to 21, and a respite care 
program. Serving among others infants and children with severe and 
profound developmental disabilities who are Medicaid-eligible, this 
facility provides a tremendous service and benefit to the surrounding 
community. In such a time of upheaval in our public life, the people at 
Marklund serve as shining example of service for those in need.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

FHWA/Transportation and Community and System Preservation: $475,000 
for the Busse Woods Trail and Illinois Route 72 Bicycle Overpass in Elk 
Grove Village, Illinois (901 Wellington Avenue, Elk Grove Village, IL 
60007)

I am pleased to be able to stand alongside Elk Grove Village having 
secured these funds to provide a greater measure of safety for our 
friends and family, and enhance the regional trail system that benefits 
our area. Federal funding provided for this project will be used for 
the construction of a bicycle overpass to replace the existing at-grade 
path crossing the six lane arterial roadway at the signalized 
intersection of Illinois Route 72 and the Interstate 290 ramps. The 
roadway carries in excess of 40,000 vehicles per day and the ramps 
carry nearly 15,000 vehicles per day. These heavy traffic volumes 
coupled with the high vehicular speeds from vehicles exiting the 
interstate create a hazardous crossing for bicyclists and pedestrians. 
The proposed overpass would link the trail systems of the Illinois 
Prairie Path and the Fox River Trail systems and would remove vehicular 
conflict with bicyclist and pedestrian traffic on this regional trail 
system. Part of the State's transportation improvement plan, these 
safety enhancements


will improve the regional trail system, and represent a commonsense 
solution to which our public resources can be applied with great 
benefit.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

FTA/New Starts-Fixed Guideway: $4,800,000 for the Metra Union Pacific 
West Line through Metra (547 W. Jackson Boulevard, 13th Floor, Chicago, 
IL 60661)

In a regional area plagued with congestion, and a nation struggling 
with dependence on foreign energy, projects like these are needed 
catalysts for growth in transportation options for the American people. 
I was glad to have worked in a bipartisan fashion to secure these 
funds. Metra's Union Pacific West (UP-W) Line project will build upon 
the recent extension to Elburn and create needed capacity while 
continuing to deliver safe, reliable and affordable service to Metra 
riders. This funding will provide new corridor improvements key to 
addressing freight congestion. The UP-W Line extends nearly 44 miles 
west from Ogilvie Transportation Center in downtown Chicago. Along that 
corridor, it serves 18 outlying stations within Kane, DuPage and Cook 
Counties. The line currently offers 59 commuter trains per weekday, 29 
inbound and 30 outbound, with passengers making approximately 30,000 
daily trips. The substantial residential growth in this region is 
fueling a corresponding demand for increased service; employment in the 
UP-W corridor is expected to increase more than 100 percent by 2030. 
SAFETEA-LU authorized the UP-W Line improvements, and this federal 
funding will allow Metra to offer UP-W Line commuters more express 
trains and more reverse commuter trains. I was pleased to work on 
securing these funds because I believe these increased services and 
options will add to our region's economic potential and serve as an 
example for how efficient public transportation can serve the public 
interest so well.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

FTA/New Starts-Fixed Guideway: $4,800,000 for the Metra STAR Line 
through Metra (547 W. Jackson Boulevard, 13th Floor, Chicago, IL 60661)

I have been so pleased to be a part of this STAR Line project because 
it truly represents a foundational effort to provide new and creative 
forms of transportation. This funding is needed for preliminary 
engineering of the STAR Line. There is considerable support among my 
colleagues and myself in the Illinois Delegation for this bold, new 
initiative that will link more than 100 communities in the Chicagoland 
region with new service and provide new connections between existing 
commuter rail lines, as well as a potential new station at O'Hare 
International Airport. Metra's proposed STAR Line goes beyond providing 
a service to a single corridor or portion of the suburban areas. 
Rather, the STAR Line establishes key rail connections throughout the 
northwest, west, and southwest suburbs, and also offers the basis for 
expanded suburban rail service in the future. The STAR Line holds the 
potential to provide a long-needed alternative to the automobile for 
nearly 1.2 million employees who commute to work at businesses located 
along the proposed alignment. It also provides an effective and proven 
transportation option to nearly 1.6 million residents who today live in 
an area chronically plagued by highway congestion. By linking nearly 
100 suburban communities around Chicago, the STAR Line would fill a 
critical void in inter-suburban travel with this revolutionary system. 
This project is vital to the region in terms of alleviating traffic 
congestion, providing new commuting opportunities, and linking 
communities and places of business with new service. This project was 
authorized in SAFETEA-LU. I am glad these funds have been made 
available because this project demonstrates the sort of growth-oriented 
effort that my constituents and the American people expect when 
investing public resources.

Congressman Peter J. Roskam (IL-6)

FTA/Alternatives Analysis Program: $237,500 for Alternatives Analysis 
for Pace Suburban Bus Service in Arlington Heights, Illinois (550 W. 
Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, IL 60005)

This effort is a worthy one, and one for which I was glad to advocate 
and secure funding. Pace will use these federal funds to perform the 
federally required Alternatives Analysis study on the proposed ''J-
Route'' Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project. This project will create a 
high-speed transit option for commuters in the western suburbs of 
Chicago between Schaumburg, O'Hare Airport, Oakbrook and Naperville. 
BRT is based on signal priority for buses at traffic signals along 
arterial routes, roadway improvements, real-time travel information 
signs at significant stops along the route using the Intelligent Bus 
System already installed on all Pace buses, and dissemination of real-
time travel information to passengers, dispatchers, planners, and 
customer relations staff using a variety of electronic media. The 
federal government has supported the capital costs of public transit 
improvements for decades, and this project would enhance Illinois' 
transportation infrastructure while promoting economic growth. I am 
pleased to have secured funding for such a project that will do much to 
add to the service Pace offers and the opportunity it provides to its 
users.
