---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2c61e358f32caa2a34049fd728a67522`
`Mr. DOOLITTLE — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DOOLITTLE. Madam Speaker, five and a half years ago, our Nation 
was attacked by terrorists opposed to freedom and individual liberty. 
Our President vowed to keep Americans safe by taking the fight to the 
terrorists, and holding the regimes that support them accountable. We 
are currently engaged in that fight. Like any war this size, mistakes 
have been made, but we must continue to progress.



The consequences of failure in Iraq would be dire. Allowing al-Qaeda 
the opportunity to gain a safe hold would be dangerous to Americans. 
Leaving before the Iraqi government can defend itself would only lead 
to further destabilization, and open the door to outside influence from 
countries such as Iran, which has called for the downfall of our 
society and for the destruction of Israel, our ally in the Middle East.

With violence headlining the nation's nightly news, at times we 
forget that successes have been achieved. Through successful elections 
which achieved a 70 percent turnout, we know that the citizens of Iraq 
have rejected the brutal rule of Saddam Hussein, and strive for peace 
and prosperity. But violence supported by al-Qaeda, the remnants of 
Saddam Hussein's government, and armed militias, have created difficult 
conditions for diplomacy.

Our President, working with a wide range of involved professionals, 
has created a new strategy to ensure progress in Iraq. James Baker and 
Lee Hamilton, the leaders of the Iraq Study Group, have called for 
support of the President's plan. General Petraeus supports the 
President's plan. But Democrat leaders are bringing a non-binding 
resolution to the floor, denouncing the President's objectives.

This resolution, without any power of law or policy objective, is 
merely political gamesmanship, and it is dangerous to Americans and our 
troops in harm's way. We are in the midst of an ongoing military 
operation; our soldiers are engaging al-Qaeda and violent insurgents. 
We have set objectives, but Democrat leaders want us to vote on a 
resolution that sets us up for failure and attempts to retroactively 
impede a military operation that is currently underway. General 
Petraeus has stated this will only embolden the enemy, and I agree.

Many Democrats have stated this is only the first step toward cutting 
the funding for our troops in Iraq, and forcing a withdrawal before 
stability has been achieved. But the majority offers no plan to achieve 
stability. Without any other alternative, withdrawal can only lead to 
defeat.

Our troops should have every confidence their government will ensure 
they have the necessary supplies and funding to achieve their mission. 
Military leaders should be able to move forward with their directives 
without fear that Congress is working to tie their hands. Yet this 
objective has been the stated one of the majority: to precipitate a 
withdrawal by slowly cutting off funding to our soldiers. I believe 
this is the wrong approach to supporting our troops currently involved 
in the military operation.

This resolution does nothing to win the war, and by not allowing 
amendments or other measures to be considered, true debate is being 
restricted. It is my hope, for the safety of our troops and for the 
good of the Nation, that all members of the House may reject this 
political maneuver and truly stand behind those men and women called to 
duty by our Commander in Chief.