# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `2c62c225087e70788d3120d8223b59f7`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I thank Senator Levin of Michigan and 
Senator Warner of Virginia. This is a big piece of work and it took 
them a long time and a lot of patience and a lot of skill. It is 
voluminous and contains so much of importance for our national security 
defense, and I thank them and their staffs for the extraordinary job 
they did.

A word of disappointment before I go into more praise. Troops to 
Nurse Teachers is a program Senator Warner and I talked about 2 years 
ago. We had hoped to include it in this bill. We passed it in the 
Senate, and we lost it in conference. The idea, of course, is to take 
retired military nurses and move them into nursing faculty positions, 
because we have such a shortage in our Nation of nurses. For reasons I 
can't explain, our good idea turned into a study. Let's hope the study 
turns into a program that brings us more nurses, whom we desperately 
need.



Let me say a word about my vote on this bill. Everyone will have 
their own reason for supporting this bill. My reason is a young soldier 
named Eric Edmundson. Eric Edmundson, from North Carolina, had been in 
the Army about 6 or 7 years, was a victim of a traumatic brain injury 
in Iraq, brought out to Walter Reed, went through numerous surgeries, 
suffered some very debilitating and tough injuries. The VA system tried 
their best, sent him to Richmond without the kind of results that the 
family or Eric wanted to see. They told the family his only recourse 
was to go to a nursing home--a nursing home--at the age of 26. His 
father said: No way. My son is not going to a nursing home. His father, 
Ed Edmundson, quit his job. He and his wife started this crusade to get 
Eric into the best hospital they could find in America. He ended up in 
the Rehab Institute in Chicago, paid for by the Federal Government 
after a long battle. Then, after months of heroic rehabilitation, on 
the day of his discharge Eric Edmundson walked out of that hospital. I 
was there that day. I looked at the tears in the eyes of his family, 
his wife, saw his little baby girl, and realized that we cannot give up 
on these wounded warriors.

I introduced a bill and commended it to Senators Levin and Warner and 
thanked them personally for including it in this legislation. This bill 
is going to mean that we make extraordinary efforts, as we should, to 
stand behind these veterans and give them the very best care they can 
possibly receive. With that kind of care, many of them can be restored 
to the life they deserve.

We also need to start monitoring those who come into the military 
service on the issue of traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress disorder to establish cognitive tests as baselines so some of 
the subtleties of their injuries that aren't discovered for years can 
be discovered. To go to Walter Reed now to the amputation unit and find 
the average soldier telling you that he in Iraq has experienced at 
least 60 concussions that they felt--even if they didn't personally 
harm them; they walked away from them thinking nothing of it, it is 
cumulative. It can come back to haunt them. I went to barracks with 
Senator McCaskill and we visited units and soldiers who went through 
this. We know this is an ongoing concern and an ongoing obligation, and 
this bill recognizes it.

I salute all of those who made this possible for the passage of this 
bill; the inclusion of the Wounded Warriors Act, the traumatic brain 
injury bill I worked on. They say you get a lot done around Congress if 
you don't care who takes the credit. I am glad this bill passes. Even 
though the one I introduced with my name didn't, the major parts of it 
are included. My vote on behalf of this is for Ed and Beth Edmundson, 
who did everything in their power for their son, and to Eric Edmundson, 
his wife Stephanie, and his little daughter Gracie.

They are the ones who brought this to my attention and the ones I 
will be thinking of when I vote today.

I yield the floor.