# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2c6440b7459b3eb678bd8ac434e0d12c`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, both opinion pieces go on at some 
length about the importance of new legislation on foreign surveillance 
activities. They devote paragraph after paragraph to this issue. But 
the two leaders of America's law enforcement and intelligence 
communities completely ignore, never once mention, the issue that is 
actually in dispute; that is, on what terms will we allow this 
administration to spy on Americans?

We all agree to unleash our intelligence agencies on foreign targets 
of foreign surveillance. There is no question there. The heart of the 
debate is the question of spying on Americans, one, when they are 
outside the country, or, two, when they are incidentally intercepted by 
surveillance targeted at someone else.

This, the wiretapping of Americans, has been the entire subject of 
our work on surveillance. And yet Judge Mukasey and Admiral McConnell 
never once mentioned the topic. There are only two possibilities and 
each is regrettable. One is that these two gentlemen simply don't know 
what is going on, which seems unlikely since Director McConnell has 
participated in hearings on the subject, and we discussed in detail our 
concern about wiretapping Americans, and members of my staff are 
working through the details of the issue on a nearly daily basis with 
lawyers at the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of 
Justice.

So that leaves only one alternative that these two gentlemen do know 
what is going on and just chose to talk past the issue, ignore its very 
existence. That is a shame, and I hope it is not the early propaganda 
phase of a Bush administration effort to replicate the August stampede 
that got us into this pickle in the first place.

Since they have not mentioned it, let me tell you what the problem 
is. The Protect America Act passed in the August stampede contains no 
statutory limitation on this administration's ability to spy on 
Americans traveling abroad whenever it wants, for whatever purpose. Let 
me repeat that. The Protect America Act contains no statutory 
restriction on this administration's ability to spy on Americans 
traveling abroad whenever it wants, for whatever purpose.

The only limitation that now exists on that power is section 2.5 of 
Executive order No. 12333, which says the administration will not 
wiretap Americans overseas unless the Attorney General determines that 
person is an agent of a foreign power.

The problem, as I noted in a speech in this Chamber recently, is a 
secret Bush administration Office of Legal Counsel memo related to 
surveillance activities which says this:




 An Executive order cannot limit a President. There is no 


 constitutional requirement for a President to issue a new 


 Executive order whenever he wishes to depart from the terms 


 of a previous Executive order. Rather than violate an 


 Executive order, the President has instead modified or waived 


 it.

In other words, the only thing standing between Americans traveling 
overseas and a Government wiretap is an Executive order that this 
President believes he is under no obligation to obey and may secretly 
disregard. The only thing standing between Americans traveling overseas 
and a Government wiretap is an Executive order this President believes 
he has no obligation to obey and may secretly disregard.

So for months we have worked to repair the flawed bill of August, and 
the question of spying on Americans has been the issue--the issue--of 
concern. I and my staff, many of my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle and their staffs have been working diligently and in good faith 
to solve this problem. What I have seen in these negotiations has been 
a thoughtful exchange by well-intentioned people who are committed to 
keeping America safe without trampling on the rights of Americans.

We have talked not only with each other on both sides of the aisle 
but also


with people in this administration, including staff attorneys at the 
DOJ and DNI. We have worked almost all the way toward making sure 
Americans who are incidentally intercepted enjoy full, meaningful 
minimization protections. I think we have worked all the way toward 
making sure a court order is required to wiretap an American who 
happens to be overseas.

For both Director of National Intelligence McConnell and Attorney 
General Mukasey to write an op-ed as if the issue of spying on 
Americans abroad has no role in this debate, when it has been the key 
and central issue in this debate, is, frankly, disappointing. One 
wonders how big the elephant in the room has to be before they are 
willing to acknowledge it. Ignoring this problem may serve the Bush-
Cheney interest in unaccountable executive power, but it does not 
protect Americans' privacy and it does not make Americans safer.

I urge my colleagues to remember that the issue we have been 
grappling with is a simple one: On what terms will we allow this 
administration to spy on Americans? It is a question with real 
implications for our democracy, for our civil liberties, and ultimately 
for the security of this Nation.

Unless we really believe that when Americans leave our country we 
leave our civil rights behind, unless we really believe this Government 
should have unfettered power to eavesdrop on conversations of families 
vacationing in Europe or soldiers serving in Iraq, then the authority 
to spy on Americans abroad cannot be left under the exclusive control 
of this administration. It is a matter that must be solved in this 
legislation that Congress must pass to restore the Protect America Act 
to a fair appreciation of civil liberties.

That is why we have been working on this question so hard. It is a 
serious question. I wish the two gentlemen leading the key Departments 
of Government involved had recognized that it exists, and I urge my 
colleagues to insist on the protections we have worked so hard for--to 
protect Americans from surveillance in a way the intelligence community 
has come to support.

We have come a long way. Chairman Rockefeller is owed our gratitude, 
as is Chairman Leahy. Their leadership in this has been spectacular. I 
also wish to express appreciation for the efforts of the distinguished 
ranking members, Senators Kit Bond and Arlen Specter. We are on the 
verge of a historic moment in the rights of Americans and in making 
sure that when they travel abroad it is clear that they take their 
rights with them. Let us not let this moment slip away.

Madam President, how much time remains of my 15 minutes?