---
---

# None
## `2c65f97375eb0d6ed6f986c2d468e630`
`Mr. WELDON of Florida — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. WELDON of Florida. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

I rise to say while I am pleased with many of the provisions in this 
bill, and I certainly want to commend the chairman particularly for a 
hard-fought negotiation with the other body on the issue of getting a 
toxic substance, mercury, out of the injections that we give little 
babies, I have to vote ''no'' on this conference report. I want to make 
very clear that there is an important, I think, distinction. There has 
been a lot of discussion back and forth about how we had combined 
appropriations bills in the past as the majority is doing today. At 
least my recollection of the facts in the past, we were forced to 
combine appropriations bills typically because there was a problem 
getting these bills through the other body because they wanted more 
spending and we wanted less spending.

The purpose of the combination here tonight is to achieve more 
spending. Now, I saw a poll recently, and it truly amazed me, if you 
asked the American people a question, do you think the Federal 
Government taxes and spends too much, you get about 85 percent of 
Americans agree with that statement. Indeed, a majority of Democrats 
feel that we tax and spend too much. This bill increases spending $21.2 
billion over last year.

Now, the majority has been very quick to point out this is less than 
what we will spend in 2 months in Iraq and Afghanistan as if we can't 
deal with those problems and we can walk away from them. I think we 
have all agreed in this body, we have to try to see the war on terror 
and the challenges we have there through. But the important point with 
those conflicts is they will some day end; whereas, the money that is 
going in this bill will be incorporated in the baseline, and next year, 
all of these dollars will be increased another, I don't know, what, 3, 
4, 5 percent. Depending on how you do the calculations, this $21 
billion of increased spending could be $200 billion


in 7 years, 10 years, and in my opinion, we have a responsibility to 
make tough decisions. And this bill is an attempt to achieve additional 
spending over and above the President's request. In my opinion, it just 
goes too far.

I also want to just mention one other item. There are a lot of items 
in this bill. We cut the Department of Labor 20 percent that oversees 
our unions. When I first got on this committee, I have to say, I was 
shocked to see the loose degree of regulation and oversight that we 
have. The unions have to file a document called an LM-2, which details 
all their spending. And I saw a document from one union. It was a big 
union. They had taken in about $78 million. It was one page on one 
side. The reason it had gotten so bad is because, under the previous 
administration, oversight had been very, very lax. And this 
administration, because it is the union workers' money, and how it gets 
spent needs to be monitored because sometimes it is abused, and it is 
funneled into political operations inappropriately, this bill reduces 
that level of oversight. Now, I think that is taking us in a wrong 
direction.

While there are a lot of features in this bill I think are good, I am 
forced to vote ''no'' on the conference report.