# IN HONOR OF THE ARMY RESERVE'S 100TH ANNIVERSARY
## `2c6d7f461af61a8f0865288c82b2c55a`
`Ms. PELOSI — 26 April 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I want to acknowledge the beginning of a 
year-long centennial celebration for the United States Army Reserve and 
to pay homage to all Army Reserve soldiers who, in the past 100 years, 
have answered the call to defend our Nation and to protect the freedoms 
and liberties we cherish.

The legacy of volunteer ''Warrior Citizens'' is rooted in colonial 
America with the soldiers of the revolutionary militia who fought for 
our freedom. At the birth of our Nation, President George Washington 
relied on the militia to build up his Continental forces for major 
campaigns. Later, Washington and Alexander Hamilton proposed a 
contingency force to support the Army that would be centrally 
controlled by the Federal Government.

On April 23, 1908, Congress established the Medical Reserve Corps to 
provide a reservoir of trained officers in time of war. The Secretary 
of War could order these officers to active duty during time of 
emergency. Four years later, a provision of the Army Appropriations Act 
of 1912 created the regular Army Reserve, a Federal Reserve force 
outside the Medical Reserve Corps. This new component of the United 
States Army, the first Federal Reserve force was expanded into a 
Federal operational force in 1916 and again in 1920.

Army Reserve soldiers have trained and served with excellence--
through World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the cold war, 
Panama, the Persian Gulf, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, and in 
support of the global war on terror during Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
Operation Enduring Freedom.

Today, this reserve force has grown from its beginning strength of 
approximately 360 medical professionals in 1908--to a community based, 
Federal operational force with an end-strength of 205,000 Warrior 
Citizens providing complementary capabilities for joint expeditionary 
and domestic operations in support of the United States Army.

As we begin this year-long celebration of the Army Reserve's 100th 
anniversary, the men and women who serve with the Army Reserve continue 
to play a vital role in our county's homeland security and our national 
security affairs abroad.

Since 1990, Army Reserve soldiers have been deployed to support every 
American military operation, as well as peacekeeping and humanitarian 
missions. In 1997, when the Red River crested 26 feet above flood 
stage, and more than 60,000 residents of Grand Forks, North Dakota, and 
East Grand Forks, Minnesota, had to be evacuated, Army Reserve water 
purification units responded with purified water for flood victims. 
Army Reserve soldiers answered the call for recovery efforts after 
Hurricane Katrina slammed into Louisiana and other gulf coast States in 
2005, by providing vehicles to supply fuel, Chinook helicopters for 
lift operations and cargo trailers for hauling debris.

Army Reserve units and individual soldiers immediately responded to 
the attacks of September 11 and carried out a host of missions to 
support rescue and recovery operations and to secure Federal facilities 
nationwide.

The Army Reserve has mobilized more than 166,000 troops in support of 
the global war on terror. These brave men and women are providing key 
support for combat operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and 18 other 
nations.

The centennial observance began on April 23, and it began 
appropriately with a reenlistment ceremony on the west front steps of 
the United States Capitol for 38 Army Reserve Soldiers from across the 
country.

Beginning with this inspiring ceremony, Army Reservists in thousands 
of communities throughout our Nation will join their neighbors in 
celebrating the contributions of this exceptional Federal force, an 
American institution.

Let us express our appreciation to the United States Army Reserve and 
the Warrior Citizens who serve with dedication and distinction as they 
begin their year-long centennial celebration.
