# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2c7d641eccb179b0be0d0e3e27c47a5c`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Chairman, I rise to offer an amendment to provide 
an additional $1,274,000 for programs making up the Traumatic Brain 
Injury Act, a modest increase for a vital public health program.

Traumatic brain injury is the signature injury of the war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The Congressional Brain Injury Task Force is extremely 
grateful for the increased funding for both the Department of Defense 
and the Department of Veterans Affairs to address these needs of our 
injured servicemembers.

TBI is a civilian epidemic as well. 5.3 million Americans currently 
living with a long-term disability as a result of TBI and the 1.4 
million new TBI cases occurring each year at an annual cost of $60 
billion clearly illustrate Congress' responsibility to provide adequate 
funding for the TBI Act.

The TBI Act is the only Federal law that specifically addresses this 
major public health problem, provides a foundation for State health 
departments and Federal agencies to combat the Nation's leading cause 
of disability for children and adults. Without adequate funding, the 
program and the progress made to date will be jeopardized, thereby 
diminishing the Federal investment during the last 10 years and 
severely limiting the Nation's ability to address the complex needs of 
individuals with traumatic brain injury.

This funding for the Traumatic Brain Injury Act will help strengthen 
and improve State systems, preserve and strengthen families, foster 
community living, and assist States in preventing traumatic brain 
injury.

Madam Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin.