# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2c89187f7af62fdd05ec971a8df6c204`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to respond to my good 
colleague from California.

First, I would say to my colleague, we are winning in Iraq. We are 
winning. We are going to leave Iraq in victory.

Maybe my friend heard a different briefing than the one that I heard 
when General Petraeus came back and laid out the most recent figures 
with respect to attacks, but that very dangerous part of Anbar province 
that we have both visited has seen a drop in attacks of 80 percent. In 
fact, we have seen a drop in attacks and a drop in American casualties 
and civilian casualties across Iraq. And we have also seen new 
capabilities in the 131 Iraqi battalions that we have built from 
scratch.

I would just say to my friend, I have seen all the old smooth-path 
books and reports and recommendations that said somehow there was a 
smooth path to victory in Iraq, and I have always said there is no 
smooth path.

To those who say we should have kept Saddam Hussein's army in place, 
I am reminded that Saddam Hussein's army had 11,000 Sunni generals, 
which would have been exactly the wrong formula for a military which is 
supposed to take on a role of stabilization and honest brokerage in 
Iraq.

The reports that we are now seeing from the battlefield are that the 
Iraqi forces, while some of them have had limited battlefield 
experience, some have had extensive battlefield experience, that 
military is maturing; that the military that broke and ran in the first 
battle of Fallujah, the Iraqi military, now stands and fights; that in 
fact that government is moving forward, and although it is moving 
forward in a stumbling, bumbling, sometimes inept fashion, that is the 
nature of new governments. That is also the nature of governments that 
solve their problems with ballots and not bullets, because it is not 
always easy to get the other guy to agree with you on a particular 
function.



With respect to oil distribution, there is an ad hoc oil distribution 
that is taking place right now, or de facto oil distribution. It is not 
a function of legislation. Right now the Kurds get, for example, 18 
percent of the oil revenues. So there is an oil distribution. And I 
think if there wasn't an oil distribution, you would have more 
conflict. Instead of seeing a waning conflict between the various 
sectors in Iraq, you would see an increasing conflict.

So I would just say to my friends and to the gentlewoman and to 
everyone who cares about an American victory in Iraq, we will have 
victory in Iraq if we maintain our strength. And maintaining our 
strength includes continuing to fund this operation.

It is our committee, the Armed Services Committee, that came up 
initially with the so-called bridge fund appropriation, because we said 
it is only proper that the Armed Services Committee authorizes an 
appropriation that will go through the winter months of the year so 
that the services do not have to reach into the cash register and take 
money out of valuable training exercises, take money out of our 
military equipment accounts and take money out of our ammunition 
accounts.

So I think we have exactly what we need in this motion to recommit. 
It is a motion that says it is the commitment of the United States 
Congress that we don't have a failed state in Iraq, and it also 
emphasizes again that we have to have these supplemental funds to 
ensure that the war fighters in both of these theaters, in Afghanistan 
and in Iraq, are able to move forward.

Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Gingrey).