# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-62)
## `2c95b17ea0688277feb777c26181bf13`
`Mr. HOYER — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, earlier today, the President of the United 
States, in defiance of bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate, 
and in defiance of the will of a great majority of Americans, vetoed 
fiscally responsible legislation that would ensure that 10 million 
children in our Nation receive health insurance coverage. That's 
approximately 4 million more children than are covered under the highly 
successful Children's Health Insurance Program today.

I remind the Members of the House that that program was adopted in 
1997 by a Republican-controlled Congress with strong Democratic 
support, a bipartisan program. Let us be clear, this is a defining 
moment for this Congress and for a President who has labeled himself a 
compassionate conservative.

The President's veto, my colleagues, must not stand. The President 
wrongly claims that this bipartisan legislation is fiscally 
irresponsible. But the truth is the Children's Health Insurance Program 
legislation, forged by Members on both sides of this aisle, is paid 
for. It does not add to the deficit or to the debt. Moreover, President 
Bush, whose policies over the last 6 years have instigated record 
budget deficits and spiraling debt, should not be lecturing anyone on 
the issue of fiscal discipline. This administration, I suggest to all 
of us, has pursued and enacted the most fiscally irresponsible policies 
perhaps in American history. In fact, even as the President vetoed this 
CHIP legislation, all of it paid for, he has asked Congress to approve 
another $190 billion to protect Baghdad and its environs. Mr. 
President, we need to protect the children of Bowie, of New York, of 
Peoria, of Miami, of California.

In fact, even as the President vetoed, as I said, this legislation, 
he sent to us a $190 billion request for more money for the war in 
Iraq, the civil war in Iraq, a place where, very frankly, it is far 
past time where the people of Iraq took the responsibility to defend 
and secure their country.

This legislation that the President has vetoed is about securing the 
health of America's children. With this veto, the President is playing 
politics, pure and simple.

After running up record deficits in debt, he is now trying to 
establish his fiscal bona fides with his conservative political base by 
denying health services to children.

Mr. President, it won't work. Mr. President, it shouldn't work. Mr. 
President, it is not compassionate, nor is it common sense.

Senator Hatch, no one's idea of a liberal or of a Democratic 
spinmeister, said on the Senate floor last week, and I quote, ''It is 
unfortunate that the President has chosen to be on what, to me, is 
clearly the wrong side of the issue.'' That was Senator Hatch.

I hope all of us in this body, Republican and Democrat, decide, when 
this vote comes up, to determine whether or not the Congress should 
make policy or whether we will be subservient to the President's veto 
in protecting children.

I hope all of us, Republican and Democrat, liberal, moderate and 
conservative, will join together to respond to the children of this 
country and their families who agonize about not having the health 
insurance they need so that their children can be kept healthy.

Senator Roberts of Kansas remarked, another leader in the Republican 
Party, ''I am not for excessive spending and strongly oppose the 
federalization of health care. And if the administration's concern with 
this bill were accurate, I would support a veto, but bluntly put,'' 
said Senator Roberts from Kansas, who served in this body, ''the 
assertions of the President,'' he said, ''are wrong.'' Technically, he 
said that the premises were inaccurate.

Madam Speaker, this legislation is not only supported by majorities 
in the House and Senate, it is supported by doctors, nurses, private 
insurers, children's advocates, 43 Governors. The list goes on and on 
and on. But most importantly, most importantly, it's supported by the 
parents of children who are working, working hard every day, playing by 
the rules. Perhaps both are working, if they're fortunate to have two 
parents in the home, or a single parent, mom or dad, working hard, but 
making too little to afford insurance and working for an employer who 
can't give them insurance. Most of all, that is the constituency, that 
is the voice we ought to hear, that is why we ought to override this 
veto.

According to an ABC News-Washington Post poll released just this 
week, 72 percent of Americans, including 61 percent of Republicans, 
support this legislation, 69 percent of independents. What is perhaps 
most stunning of all is that, with this veto, the President has 
violated his own pledge at the Republican National Convention in 2004. 
You've heard me say this before, but let me say it again: ''In a new 
term we will lead an aggressive effort to enroll millions of children 
who are eligible but not signed up for government programs.'' ''We will 
not allow,'' said the President, ''a lack of attention or information 
to stand between these children and the health care they need.'' Mr. 
President, that is what you have done by this veto, stood between those 
children and the insurance they need.

I urge my colleagues, override this veto, support this motion, and on 
October 18 let us vote for the children.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.