---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2c959eb115c07753d3bb7f63ce080972`
`Mr. FILNER — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the committee for doing so much for 
veterans in this bill. And I want to add my thanks to Congressman Young 
from Florida. He and his wife, Beverly, have been an incredible 
inspiration. So we want to say on the record from our side of the aisle 
how much we appreciate you and your wife's efforts on behalf of our 
veterans. Thank you.

Mr. Chairman, what this bill does and what our previous bills that we 
have passed here, the continuing resolution that we've had for this 
year, the supplemental for the war, added more than 30 percent to the 
health care budget from last year for the health care of our veterans. 
That's an unprecedented increase, and it comes at a time when we have 
unprecedented needs. So your work, Mr. Chairman, has been incredible 
for all of the veterans and their families in this Nation.

No matter where we stand on the war, and there's a lot of 
divisiveness in this House about the war, we are united in saying, 
through this bill, that when every young man and woman comes back from 
Iraq or Afghanistan, they are going to get all the love, the care, the 
attention, the dignity, the honor that a Nation can bestow; and we are 
committed to that.

And we are committed, not only to those veterans who are just coming 
back, but to those who are with us from World War II, from Korea, from 
Vietnam, from the first Persian Gulf war. We're going to take care of 
them all.

We do not think that the problem with the Veterans' Administration is 
that there are too many veterans. We think we have to get the resources 
into the VA, and then have the accountability that it's spent wisely.

We have an administration that says, support the troops, support the 
troops, support the troops; but when they come home, as we have seen in 
Walter Reed and other places, too many times they're on their own. They 
slip through the cracks.

Virtually everyone who comes back from this war has evidence of 
either brain injury or PTSD, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and we 
simply don't have the resources to treat them. There are waiting lists. 
There are people told to call back, go home.

We had a young Marine in Minnesota who went to his hospital because 
he thought he had PTSD because he was thinking of suicide. What 
happened? He was told he was 28th on the waiting list, to go home. And 
he went home and committed suicide. That is a crime and we are not 
going to commit those crimes on our returning heroes. We are going to 
look at not only the brain injuries, not only the PTSD, but to make 
sure the backlog of pension disability claims is taken down to zero, 
where it's now at 600,000.

We've got a lot of work to do. We've got a lot of work to handle all 
these heroes from World War II to the present,


and with your budget, Mr. Chairman, we're going to be able to do this. 
We thank you. And we're going to work to get the accountability and the 
work done that lets these heroes know that their Nation is worthy of 
their sacrifice.