# PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5658, DUNCAN HUNTER  NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `2c9c0a64efbffeae36957432ecdbae48`
`Mr. CARDOZA â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1218 provides for the further 
consideration of H.R. 5658, the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, under a structured rule, 
without further general debate.

The rule makes in order 58 amendments submitted to the Rules 
Committee for consideration under this rule. The rule waives all points 
of order against the amendments printed in the committee report and 
amendments en bloc except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule 
XXI. The rule provides for one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. The rule also provides that in the engrossment of H.R. 
5658, the text of H.R. 6048, as passed by the House, shall be added at 
the end of H.R. 5658.

Finally, the rule allows the Speaker to entertain motions to suspend 
the rules through the legislative day of Thursday, May 22, 2008, 
relating to any measure pertaining to agricultural programs.

Mr. Speaker, this rule will allow the House to finish consideration 
of H.R. 5658, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009. General debate on this measure concluded last night. 
This two-part process has been used over the years to ensure that the 
Rules Committee has ample time to consider amendments submitted to the 
committee. This year, 121 amendments were submitted for consideration.

As my friend from Florida (Mr. Hastings) said on the floor yesterday, 
the defense authorization bill is one of the most comprehensive and 
important pieces of legislation this House considers each year.

I salute the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, 
and Ranking Member Hunter for their hard work and cooperative effort in 
bringing this piece of legislation to the floor. Their bill passed the 
Armed Services Committee by a vote of 61-0, a testament to their 
bipartisan efforts and desire to ensure our Armed Forces have all the 
tools they need to maintain our national security and to provide our 
servicemembers in harm's way with the best gear and force protection 
possible.

America has the finest military in the world, Mr. Speaker. 
Unfortunately, the Bush administration's policies in Iraq have depleted 
our great military, put a tremendous strain on our troops, and dropped 
the Army's readiness to unprecedented levels.

H.R. 5658 takes us in a new direction. It will help restore our 
Nation's military readiness and protect our troops in harm's way. This 
bill supports our troops and their families by giving the military a 
pay raise larger than was requested by the President and prohibiting 
TRICARE fee increases. It focuses on the war in Afghanistan. It also 
includes Iraq policy provisions that ban permanent bases in Iraq and 
require the Iraqi Government to pay its fair share of reconstruction 
costs.

In the spirit of maintaining the committee agreement and the 
overwhelming bipartisan support for this bill and to further ensure 
that our military is fully prepared and our troops get the benefits 
they deserve, the Rules Committee has made in order 58 amendments for 
consideration on the floor today. These are amendments that the Rules 
Committee and the Armed Services Committee determined would not disrupt 
the bill's carefully negotiated content and warranted further 
consideration.

In addition, this rule also allows the Speaker to bring up under 
suspension of the rules any measure pertaining to agricultural 
programs.

As we all know and we heard on the floor yesterday, an unintentional 
clerical error occurred prior to the enrollment of the farm bill. As a 
result, the President did not receive the full bill. The distinguished 
majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, has been working to remedy this situation 
so the President may receive the full bill for his consideration.

As a result, if a resolution is reached, and I do not know the status 
of the negotiations between Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Boehner, the resulting 
end product will be brought to the floor without further delay so that 
we may complete nearly 2 years of effort and deliver once and for all 
on the promises we made long ago to America's farmers and ranchers.

In the meantime I must remind our colleagues that the current farm 
bill extension is set to expire unless we act today. Whether a 
resolution is reached in the coming days or how we resolve this 
clerical error, we must, Mr. Speaker, extend the current farm bill and 
this rule will simply allow that to occur.



Much will be made of this rule by my friends on the other side of the 
aisle, but I will remind them that any farm bill measure that may come 
before the House today will come up under suspension of the rules. That 
means that two-thirds of the House must support any suspension bill in 
order for it to pass the House. That further means that there will be 
no political gamesmanship and we must have a strong bipartisan vote in 
order to pass any bill that reaches the floor.

The farm bill conference report has overwhelming bipartisan support. 
It passed this House with 318 votes. It passed the Senate with 81 
votes. It represents the tireless effort of many Members, including 
myself, and is far too important to fail, Mr. Speaker, especially in 
light of what was an unintended clerical error.

This rule ensures swift passage of a bipartisan defense bill and a 
remedy to our already passed bipartisan farm bill, and I demand that my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle support the rule.

I reserve the balance of my time.