---
---

# UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
## `2c9e48a0d9355dee469f0f9872657090`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 3 December 2010`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise as well to speak about the single 
most important issue facing the American people today, and that is the 
state of the economy.

Let's consider three facts and lay them side by side. First, over the 
last decade, even though the economy was growing modestly, middle-class 
incomes declined for the first time since World War II. The average 
middle-class family, which had always seen things get better and 
better, did not from 2001 to 2010.

By the way, this did not just occur during the recession which began 
in 2008. It was constant throughout this decade. The great American 
dream, what is it? I submit it is very simple. Not everyone wants to 
try to become rich, and everyone knows they are not going to become 
rich, but they certainly know one thing: In America, the odds are very 
high you will be doing better 10 years from now than you are doing 
today. And the odds are even higher your kids will do even better than 
you. When incomes decline over a decade, that American dream burns a 
little less brightly for people and the whole tenor of America changes 
and we see the kind of anger we have seen, which is not typical of this 
great land of ours with its amazing people. That is unusual.

So, first of all, middle-class incomes have gone down.

Secondly, in the last decade, one group did very, very well--the 
highest in income among us, the millionaires and billionaires. God 
bless them. Their taxes went down, down, down over the last decade 
because of the Bush era tax cuts, but their incomes went up, up, up. 
They did great.

Thirdly, over the last decade, while all of this was happening, our 
deficit got out of control. When we began this decade in 2001 there was 
a $250 billion surplus. We hadn't had that in decades. It was wonderful 
and it helped fuel the economy because small businesspeople and large 
businesspeople would borrow knowing that interest rates would stay low. 
Interest rates are often a greater cost to them than taxes. But when 
President Bush departed 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue at the end of 2008, he 
left behind a deficit of $1 trillion. Some of that was due to the war 
in Iraq, where our brave soldiers defended us, and Afghanistan as well, 
and a little more of it was due to new programs the President authored, 
including a prescription drug benefit for senior citizens. But most of 
it was due to the fact that he cut taxes on the wealthy.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle say we have to keep the 
Bush tax cuts, particularly those for the wealthy. Well, was the last 
decade a great success? Not for the middle class. No. Their incomes 
went down. Not for job growth because that was smaller than before. So 
when we had the Clinton era level of taxes in the 1990s, all of America 
and job creation and the middle class, in terms of income, did better 
than with these tax cuts which began in 2001. So this cry that we need 
these tax cuts for prosperity doesn't fit with history. It may fit with 
a particular ideology, but it doesn't fit with history.

Who on Earth would want to extend a failed economic program that 
didn't help the middle class--the backbone of America, the place I come 
from and always fight for? Who would want to extend this failed 
economic program? I will tell you who. Every single 1 of my 42 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle is marching in lockstep 
saying please extend this failed economic program. Why? It seems to me 
what they hold out for is tax cuts for the millionaires. In fact, they 
are so committed to extending the failed economic program of the Bush 
years, they are willing to hold hostage the middle-class tax cuts, 
which we all agree we should have, until they can give a giant tax 
break to millionaires and billionaires.

That defies economic logic. The well-off--the people for whom my 
colleagues in the minority are fighting--aren't going to spend their 
tax break and get the economy moving. They are not going to rush to 
JCPenney and buy that warm winter coat they have been waiting to buy. 
They are not going to go out to the Barnside Diner and buy a nice prime 
rib dinner. They can afford all that already. They can afford it 7 days 
a week, 52 weeks a year.

I want to say something about these millionaires and billionaires. 
God bless them. We are not mad at them for having done well. We admire 
them. We all wish we were like them, as successful as they were. God 
bless them. All we are saying is they do not need another $400,000 or 
$4 million at this time when there are so many other more important 
needs.

I want to reiterate that. I have nothing against the wealthy. I don't 
like it when we knock them. I think they are great. I respect them. I 
admire their achievements. There are lots of them in New York who 
started with nothing and worked their way up. I think it is great. Some 
of them inherited their wealth, that is true, and they seem to have 
even more a sense of entitlement than the ones who made it themselves, 
oftentimes, but many more live the American Dream through their own 
great ingenuity. They pulled themselves up the economic ladder by their 
bootstraps. But I have to tell you something. When I talk to them, at 
least those who are wealthy in my home State of New York--even many 
Republicans--they say: You know what. For the good of the country, I 
don't need this kind of tax break. If we put it to deficit reduction, 
most of them say: I would be for it. Not all of them say that. 
Certainly not the hard right people who seem to have the party on the 
other side in the palm of their hands, who say: I made my $10 million 
and don't you dare touch a nickel of it. But most--most--say: Chuck, I 
can afford to pay a bit more. I have nothing against returning to the 
Clinton rates, as long as, they say--and this is a reasonable caveat--
the money goes to a good purpose: making our schools better, improving 
our infrastructure and, above all, they say, decreasing the deficit.

That is what the amendment I will offer tomorrow would do. The other


side of the aisle wants you to believe the average American 
overwhelmingly supports tax breaks for millionaires. I have heard it. 
They say: The election--haven't you Democrats heard about the election? 
Well, I was running this year. I happened to get 65, 66 percent of the 
vote. I got a lot of votes from Republicans, a lot of votes from 
Independents, and I talked to a lot of angry people. I saw a lot of tea 
party people. None of them said to me: Make sure you keep tax breaks 
for the millionaires. They may have said shrink the government; they 
may have said repeal health care. That is true. But none, none said: 
Keep the tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires.

Here is a poll that reflects that, and it is not by some Democratic 
Party organization or some Republican Party organization but by CBS, a 
nonpartisan poll. The poll yesterday said only 26 percent of Americans 
support millionaire tax breaks--26 percent. Now you may say: Well, that 
is just the Democrats. Oh, no. Only 25 percent of Independents say keep 
the tax breaks for millionaires--those swing voters who are the ones 
who created a lot of new Republican seats and caused us to lose a lot 
of Democratic seats. Even on the Republican side, 46 percent--only 46 
percent--supported millionaire tax breaks.

So this idea that the election was a mandate to cut taxes on 
millionaires and billionaires--you know, I didn't only run in New York, 
but I worked closely with many of my colleagues in many parts of the 
country--the Northeast, Midwest, Southwest--and none of them reported 
any hue and cry to keep tax breaks for millionaires--none. That is not 
what the election said.

Now maybe the money of some of those millionaires helped create ads 
on other issues that helped win the election for these folks but not 
the issue itself. So we need to get our economy humming on all 
cylinders again, and it is true we need to stimulate demand.

Mark Zandi, an economist who is as well-respected on the right, as 
well as the left--I believe he was Senator McCain's chief economic 
adviser when he ran his campaign--said every dollar spent on tax breaks 
for the millionaires generates 32 cents of economic activity. Those of 
us who believe in economic efficiency, which I do, know that doesn't 
work. Let me give a contrast. Every dollar spent on unemployment 
benefits generates $1.61 in economic activity.


So if you care about getting the economy going, you are going to be 
for increasing unemployment benefits quicker than tax breaks for 
millionaires. According to Mark Zandi, most every economist--even those 
on the right--doesn't believe that is false. UI benefits are 400 
percent more stimulative than tax breaks for the wealthy according to 
Mr. Zandi.

Yet on Wednesday, when my esteemed and effective colleague from Ohio, 
Senator Sherrod Brown, came to the floor and asked unanimous consent 
for just a 1-year reauthorization for unemployment benefits, the other 
side objected. As the Senator from Minnesota said when he was speaking 
on the Senate floor a few minutes ago, the anomaly is that the 
Republican Party is saying we don't have to pay for tax breaks for the 
millionaires but we have to pay for an increase in unemployment 
benefits. What kind of logic is that?

The middle class is worried. They are worried about how they are 
going to stretch that paycheck. They are worried about how they are 
going to make that mortgage payment. They are worried about how they 
are going to keep that job. In this recession, middle-class people are 
more unemployed than ever before. Most recessions in the past had two 
differences: One, they mainly affected the poorest people and the 
working-class people who made the lowest salaries. This one has gone 
way up into the middle class and the upper middle class. I have met 
hundreds of these people as I have traveled through my State, and they 
are out of work for a lot longer. It is no longer 3 weeks or even 3 
months but 6 months, 9 months, a year. We just heard the unemployment 
rate went up, under these Bush tax cuts, to 9.8 percent.

We are trying to offer solutions that bring the unemployment rate 
down. We are trying to offer solutions that focus on the middle class, 
while our Republican colleagues are busy defending the wonderful people 
who made a lot of money but don't need the help.

After Senator Brown offered his bill to reauthorize unemployment 
insurance, Senator Udall of New Mexico asked for consent to take up and 
pass a bill to extend the highly successful Building Start Program. 
That gave tax incentives so construction workers could build buildings 
that were energy efficient--150,000 good-paying jobs. They objected.

Next came Senator Stabenow from Michigan, a real leader in the fight 
for job creation. She came to the floor with a bill to give tax breaks 
to manufacturers. We need manufacturing, not only in her State of 
Michigan but in my State of New York--particularly upstate. 
Conservative estimates said the bill would create 40,000 private sector 
jobs. Again, the Republicans objected.

Then I offered a bill myself--and I am glad my colleague from Utah is 
here because this was a bipartisan bill. It was a tax cut for business 
called the HIRE Act. It said if you hire somebody who is unemployed 60 
days, you don't have to pay the payroll tax for this year. It is 
expiring. I wanted to extend it. Objection.

The bill had passed with bipartisan support. But the point is to get 
tax breaks for the millionaires they would even object to a bipartisan 
bill that gave a tax break to businesses that would employ people. What 
kind of logic is that?

One final point as I conclude, and that is about the deficit. The 
deficit, as I mentioned, is huge. But let me just say the Bush tax cuts 
and particularly those for the millionaires and billionaires add a huge 
amount to the deficit, and we do not hear a peep about it from the 
other side. They care about the deficit, but $300 billion that it would 
cost to give these tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires, that is 
OK. Please.

Over the next year, I am going to be up here reminding my colleagues 
when they say we cannot pay for help to our schools so they can hire a 
science teacher who might create the genius that would create a new 
industry that would create new jobs, when they say we cannot have money 
to repair a road or a sewer project that would create good-paying jobs 
because it would increase the deficit, I am going to remind each and 
every one of them that they said, when they gave tax breaks to 
millionaires, the deficit didn't count. Just remember that.

And, of course, they say these tax breaks for millionaires and 
billionaires are tax breaks for small business. My good colleague--
someone who looks very much like the Presiding Officer, the Senator 
from Minnesota, who was seated over there a few minutes ago--talked 
about that.

My dad was a small businessman. He had a little exterminating 
business. It wasn't very successful. I know how he suffered through it. 
He knows these tax breaks are not for a business like his--or the dry 
cleaner or the restaurant or any of these other businesses. They are 
not for any at all because we are not talking about corporate tax cuts. 
They are for very wealthy people, some of whom you have mentioned.

I know my colleague from Utah has been patiently waiting, so I am not 
going to talk about all the small business stuff, but I just want to 
remind people about this plan. Under the President Bush tax breaks for 
millionaires, here is what would happen. Under the plan my colleagues 
across the aisle are supporting, people who make $1 million would get a 
$43,000 break per year; people who make $10 million would get a 
$400,000 break per year; people who make $100 million would get a 
$3,800,000 break per year. The average middle-class family making 
$60,000 would get $2,500. We want to get that middle-class family its 
break. We will give the same amount to these folks, they will get a 
break, no more and no less, than the middle-class family. But we don't 
believe these breaks, where we have so many other needs and a huge 
deficit to boot, are called for.

We will be debating that all day today, all tomorrow morning until 
10:30--but also for the rest of the next 2 years.

Again, I repeat, don't talk to us about deficit reduction, folks, if 
you are willing to put this whopping hole for deficits for tax breaks 
for the millionaires and billionaires. Don't come


to us and say this program for this school or this road or this small 
business incentive should not be passed because of the deficit but it 
is OK to give the breaks to these folks.

More people last night tuned in to watch the reruns of ''Matlock'' on 
TV Land than would benefit from the Republican proposal. I haven't seen 
''Matlock'' in a long time. I am sure those people who watched it had a 
good time, but it wasn't many of them. But it was more of them than the 
millionaires and billionaires who would get this break. They are a 
powerful group. God bless them. They should not have the kind of power 
they have, to have good people on the other side of the aisle tie 
themselves in a knot to prevent all kinds of important things from 
happening until they get their break.

I yield the floor.