# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2ca319602263b0df724314caf9c65199`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
this important resolution and with great hope that this debate and vote 
will signal an important step towards the end of the Iraq war, a war so 
ill-conceived, so ill-planned for, and so ill-executed that it has cost 
our Nation almost $400 billion, ignited a civil war, and further 
destabilized an already fragile Mideast region. Most importantly, this 
war has


resulted in the deaths of over 3,000 of our bravest military men and 
women. These men and women enlist in the Armed Forces trusting that 
their Commander in Chief will send them into harm's way only as a last 
resort and only with a clear plan for victory.

Madam Speaker, on both of these counts, the President has failed our 
soldiers.

It is time for us to redeploy our troops and redeploy them now. We 
have an opportunity to send a loud and resolute message to the 
President that his misguided judgment must cease, this war must now be 
subject to intense scrutiny and accountability by this Congress; and 
that he must heed the will of the American people, the overwhelming 
majority of whom now strongly disapprove of his handling of this war. 
Sadly, however, this President is tone-deaf when it comes to the most 
pressing issue of the day.

For the past 4 years, the President repeatedly stated that troop 
strength in Iraq would come from recommendations by generals on the 
ground. Yet by moving forward with his escalation plan, the President 
is ignoring solid military advice. General Abizaid, CENTCOM commander, 
stated: ''I do not believe that more American troops right now is the 
solution to the problem. I believe that the troop levels need to stay 
where they are.'' Additionally, according to various reports, General 
Casey repeated to the NSA Director his warnings that to send more 
troops to Iraq would be counterproductive. He believed it might make 
the Iraqi Government less likely to defend itself.

That concern was shared by the Iraq Study Group. In one of their 
recommendations they stated that the Iraqi Government must make 
substantial progress on national reconciliation, security, and 
governance. Without progress, we should reduce our political, military, 
and economic support for the Iraqi Government.

Tragically, the Iraqi Government has shown no progress on any of 
these fronts. We must not be a security blanket for an ineffectual 
government. But the President's escalation plan is exactly that, asking 
little of Iraq's Government while putting the lives of our soldiers 
squarely in the crosshairs of Sunni extremists and Shiite militias.

Many in the military leadership have stated that the solution to the 
Iraqi quagmire at this point must be 80 percent political and 20 
percent military. This escalation plan is 100 percent military with no 
significant political breakthroughs either having been reached or even 
on the horizon. Rather than implement a rigorous diplomatic strategy, 
the administration has instead begun escalating the rhetoric with Iran, 
causing many people throughout the Nation and the world to fear another 
misguided military action.

Our soldiers have done everything that has been asked of them, and 
more. They have served bravely and honorably. They have trained Iraqi 
forces to the best of their abilities. But they cannot be asked to calm 
the sectarian violence ripping Iraq apart without leadership from Iraqi 
politicians. Yet the President is asking exactly that.

Last year, after visiting Iraq, I called for a phased redeployment by 
the end of 2006. That time has come and gone. Today I call on the 
President to finally listen to the American people. Today I call on the 
President to finally listen to the Congress. It is time to move our 
troops out of the middle of this civil war.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and send a clear 
message to the President that the time for this war is over