---
---

# ON THE RETIREMENT OF COLONEL STEPHEN M. CHRISTIAN, UNITED STATES ARMY
## `2ca7b3b920209c781c7a90f0d58b40a0`
`Mr. HOLT — 13 October 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I want to take a moment to honor a fine 
officer who will shortly be leaving active duty. Colonel Stephen M. 
Christian will be retiring from the United States Army on October 21, 
2009 after more than 30 years of active military service, culminating 
as Garrison Commander for the United States Army Garrison, Fort 
Monmouth, New Jersey.

Colonel Christian enlisted in the Army in 1978 and in 1984 attended 
Officer Candidate School and was commissioned as an Air Defense 
Artillery Officer. Throughout his career Colonel Christian has held 
numerous high level command and staff positions, including tours with 
the 7th Infantry Division (Light) at Fort Ord, California; the 25th 
Infantry Division (Light) at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii; and the 10th 
Mountain Division at Fort Drum, New York. He commanded at the Battalion 
level on two occasions and served two tours of duty in Afghanistan in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom, during which he was awarded two 
Bronze Star medals. Colonel Christian's civilian education includes a 
Master's of Science in Administration and a Master of Security Strategy 
from the National War College, National Defense University. Colonel 
Christian is married to Laura Christian and they have two adult 
children, Captain Nicholas Christian and Leslie Roop.

Madam Speaker, our active duty families make many sacrifices for the 
rest of us, and this is especially true of those who make the military 
their career. I thank COL Christian for his long and honorable service 
to our nation, and I wish him and his wife Laura the very best as they 
prepare to enter a new phase in their life journey together.
