---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2ca88bcaa3b85b1fd822ae0fb79863f2`
`Mr. HATCH — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to SPC Eric R. 
Sieger of Layton, UT, who died of injuries suffered while conducting 
operations in Iraq. He was a remarkable young man who overcame much 
adversity in his life. On March 9 of this year, he would have turned 19 
years old.

Part of the 1st Cavalry Division, Specialist Sieger was also a member 
of a very special family. I understand that his parents, Wolfgang and 
Krista, have 15 children, 6 of whom were adopted, including the 
Specialist. Early life was not easy for the Specialist but that all 
changed when he was adopted at the age of 11 by the loving Sieger 
family.

I have been informed that Specialist Sieger enjoyed running, being 
with his friends, building and fixing things. He had a girlfriend whom 
he met while stationed at Fort Hood, TX. Shortly before his passing, 
Specialist Sieger was able speak to his mother on the phone. His mother 
said, ''They spent most of the time laughing and joking with each 
other.''

Specialist Sieger's father said, ''He was dutiful in wanting to do 
what is right.''

Undoubtedly, this led him to become a member of the Civil Air Patrol 
as a teenager and enlist in the Army at 17. Military service is a 
calling for other members of the Sieger family, as well. Currently, one 
of his sisters is also deployed to Iraq, another sister is preparing to 
deploy, and a brother is a member of the Air National Guard.

I would like to conclude my remarks by quoting the words of 
Specialist Sieger's mother and father. Krista Sieger stated, ''He felt 
since he was in the Army, since he took the oath, he has to do 
everything he was asked to do. And he did.'' Wolfgang Sieger said, ''I 
would call him a hero. He is definitely a hero in my sight. I honor him 
as a hero.''

I do not know of any higher praise that parents could give a son in 
military service. Specialist Sieger and his family will always be in my 
prayers.










 Sergeant First Class Douglas C. Stone


Mr. President, I wish to honor one of Utah's fallen sons, SFC First 
Class Douglas C. Stone.

SFC Stone had a lifelong connection to our Nation's military. His 
father served in the Air Force. Yet, SFC Douglas Stone joined the Army 
Reserve later in life. As his mother Dolores Feigley said about her 
son, ''I think he was the oldest at boot camp.''

However, his maturity was only to be an asset to his country, which 
was affirmed when he became a full-time reservist. Over the past 6 
years, SFC Douglas Stone assisted in the preparation of reservists from 
the 96th Regional Readiness Command for deployments in support of 
Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. As my good friend, MG 
Peter S. Cooke, the commanding officer of the 96th Regional Readiness 
Command said about SFC Stone ''There wasn't a unit or individual sent 
from our headquarters that SFC Stone did not personally assist in 
preparing for their mobilization or deployment.''

This was not the first time SFC Douglas Stone had gone in harm's way 
for his country. He also was a part of the fuel re-supply effort during 
the First Gulf War.

However, his life's most important work undoubtedly was as a family 
man. Sergeant First Class Stone was husband to his wife, Mary, and 
father to two boys Nathan, 13, and Cameron, 10.

SFC Douglas Stone was also a member of Fort Douglas's Honor Guard. I 
understand that Rick Edginton, one of his fellow Honor Guardsmen who 
participated at his friend's funeral said, ''for me, probably one of 
the toughest moments was when I was standing at the head of the casket 
and I looked over to the side and I saw a note from his sister on the 
flowers that were there. It said, ''To Doug, my brother, and my 
Hero.''''

No truer words have been written.

SFC Douglas Stone was a hero. He served his country with pride and 
answered its call when it needed him most. All of Utah shall remember 
him and will be praying for this hero and his family.














Sergeant Brandon A. Parr


Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to SGT Brandon A. Parr. 
Sergeant Parr was a member of the 630th Military Police Company and 
gave his life with two other servicemembers when their vehicle was 
struck by an improvised explosive device.

There are certain pictures that define a time and a moment in our 
Nation's history. Such examples can be found in the raising of Old 
Glory over Mount Suribachi, Iwo Jima. I respectfully submit that a 
picture taken during Sergeant Parr's funeral should be added to that 
category. In that photo, Sergeant Parr's wife, Shannah, is seen holding 
the hand of their young son, Nicholas. Nicholas, standing on some 
steps, is wearing the camouflage uniform of an American soldier--a 
young son's tribute to his fallen father. This is an image that I will 
remember for all my days and a fitting tribute to a true hero.

Sergeant Parr enlisted in the Army in 2003, and this was his second 
tour in Iraq. He was involved in one of the most critical tasks in this 
war: training Iraqi police and providing security to the Iraqi people. 
By all accounts, Sergeant Parr preformed these assignments at the 
highest standards of our Nation's military.

Shannah Parr said of her husband, ''He was very laid back and very 
funny. He made everyone feel good.''

His mother, Teota Dangel said, ''I think he would have gone (to Iraq) 
even if he knew this was going to be the outcome.'' Words like this can 
only be spoken of a true hero and patriot.

Sergeant Parr and his entire family will always be in my prayers.













 Corporal Stephen Kowalczyk


Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute to CPL Stephen Kowalczyk, a 
member


of the 1st Calvary Division, who recently lost his life while on patrol 
in Iraq.

Upon learning of about his life, I was struck by all the adventures 
that Corporal Kowalczyk had undertaken. He had been the captain of the 
swim team at Macalester College, traveled extensively throughout 
Europe, the Middle East, including working as a handyman in Jerusalem. 
I understand that he even leapt from an iceberg and swam in the frigid 
waters of the Arctic Ocean. Clearly, this was a young man that seized 
all that life had to offer.

Three years ago, at the age of 29, he began a new adventure and 
joined the Army. According to his family he loved it.

During a recent memorial service in Iraq, one of his comrades SSG 
Richard Coombes stated: ''He was a man who taught me that there was 
still beauty in our everyday life, even in Iraq. I looked at him and 
wondered if he had already figured life out. He was in such peace and 
harmony.'' CPT Kevin Bradley would often notice that Corporal Kowalczyk 
would look from the roof-tops at the area around him. When asked why, 
he reportedly would reply, ''You should see it up here. It's 
beautiful.'' Another friend remembered him as ''a gentle, kind soul, I 
cannot think of anybody who did not love this man.''

And yet he never forgot why he was deployed to Iraq--to help the 
Iraqi people. This commitment was reflected in the letters that he 
would write home asking for history books that he could give to Iraqis 
that he met, and pencils, notepads, and Hershey bars for Iraqi 
children.

What a fine man. What an extraordinary life.

I will always remember him and his family in my prayers.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.