---
---

# CALLING ON CHINA TO END HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRIOR TO THE OLYMPICS
## `2cafc09e8a725c095d1f1266cac5ae66`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 30 July 2008`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Berman and 
Ranking Member Chabot for the time and for their leadership on human 
rights issues as well as Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen. I rise today in 
strong support of House Resolution 1370.

In about a week, all eyes will turn to China. Athletes from around 
the world will converge on Beijing, except, it appears, seven of the 10 
Iraqi athletes who are not allowed into the country for some reason. 
Many world leaders--such as British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel--are taking a very bold step next week 
by boycotting the opening ceremonies. I am still hoping that our 
President will reconsider his decision to attend in light of China's 
poor human rights record. It's no secret, Madam Speaker, that China has 
long sought to sweep its human rights violations under the rug. With 
the help of western companies, the Chinese government blocks or scrubs 
Web sites that it deems as troublemakers. Sites like CNN and certain 
Google searches are being censored. Try looking up Tiananmen Square 
while in China. No pictures of the 1989 student protest, certainly not 
the iconic picture of one man facing down a tank. In fact today many 
students at Beijing University couldn't even identify the photo.

Madam Speaker, as Chair of the Workforce Protections Subcommittee, 
I'm especially concerned about the treatment of Chinese workers. We 
have learned that reeducation labor camps and dire working conditions 
are the norm, not the exception, in China. This year's Olympics offered 
China the opportunity to turn a corner, but instead China turned 
backward.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and call on the 
President to stand up for human rights in China.