# None
## `2cbd0ce2d0533f047f9a39306785d0dd`
`Mr. REYES — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2199, the 
Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long Term Support Act of 
2007. As a Vietnam combat veteran, I have seen the long term effects 
that war-related wounds and illnesses can have on the lives of our 
returning soldiers.

As Agent Orange sickness and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 
came to typify the Vietnam War, I believe that Traumatic Brain Injuries 
(TBI) have become a signature wound of the current conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Advances in body armor and battlefield medicine have 
allowed our troops to survive head wounds that once would have been 
fatal. However, the number of identified traumatic brain injuries is 
alarming. Of the 23,000-plus troops who have been wounded in the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, two-thirds reportedly have been diagnosed with 
traumatic brain injuries. These numbers may even be higher since many 
cases are often undiagnosed and go untreated. Some reports suggest that 
150,000 veterans of the war in Iraq have suffered a traumatic brain 
injury of some kind.

Many of those affected by these devastating injuries are unable to 
perform the most basic cognitive functions and have great difficulties 
with the tasks of everyday life. These injured soldiers will require 
quality care and treatment for the rest of their lives.

While it is our obligation to ensure that our military forces have 
all the necessary arms and equipment to safely carry out their 
missions, we are also responsible for making sure that our troops know 
that we will take care of them when they return home. Today we have an 
opportunity to demonstrate to our wounded veterans our appreciation for 
their sacrifices and our firm commitment to providing them with the 
means for living a full and rewarding life. I urge my colleagues to 
join me in supporting this important bill.