---
---

# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILITY ACT
## `2cc2d37d1e00d4a3085ab0661144fbe5`
`Mr. REED — 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, middle-class families are being squeezed 
financially. They feel that the economy and the Government are just not 
working for them.

The vast majority of Americans are unhappy with the direction 
President Bush has led us over the last 8 years.

For most of the last decade there has been far too little oversight 
of the financial marketplace and too little help for the middle class.

I share that frustration. I have voted time and again for common 
sense tax cuts for the middle class, developing alternative sources of 
energy, like solar and wind power, greater investment in our roads and 
bridges, improving our schools, and expanding health coverage for 
children, new regulations to protect consumers, a responsible end


to the war in Iraq and a host of other important initiatives, but the 
sad reality is that time and again those efforts have been dashed by 
filibusters and vetoes by the President and his allies.

But as real as that frustration is, the economic situation requires 
us to act swiftly and responsibly.

The choice now is to act on this bill or watch as this economic 
crisis makes the already difficult economy even worse. If we fail to 
act, there will be more impacts on the lives of an already struggling 
middle class--job losses, pension losses, and an ever harder time 
paying for college.

That is why we must act, and that is why we must pass this 
legislation.

When this proposal was first unveiled, it was little more than a 
blank check, and I know the people of Rhode Island were outraged just 
like me.

But this proposal is vastly different.

Gone is the blank check.

In its place there are strong protections for the taxpayers, a 
greater likelihood of success, better oversight, and, most importantly, 
a chance for a return on this investment in stabilizing the economy.

When the President sent us his blank check, it was clear that we 
needed to make sure we followed the same principle anyone follows when 
they lend money which is that you get paid back. That is why I fought 
and got bipartisan support for a provision that ensures taxpayers do 
not remain exposed to all of the risks of this program by requiring if 
you participate in this taxpayer-funded program, that taxpayers get a 
piece of your future profits through a share in the profit of the 
assisted company.

This device, known as a warrant, is nothing new, and it can be very 
effective. In fact, in the Chrysler loan guarantee, warrants were used 
and resulted in a profit to the Government and in turn the American 
people. Warrants were also a part of the successful effort to revive 
the airline industry after 9/11. Most recently, Warren Buffett included 
them in his deal with Goldman Sachs last week, as did the FDIC in its 
recent brokering of the purchase of Wachovia by Citibank.

Warrants allow the taxpayers to get their money back and more if a 
participating company rights itself. In other words, as the company's 
stock goes up--as it should over time--taxpayers get to participate in 
that appreciation and even enjoy a reasonable premium.

No one will be shocked to learn that the President and Wall Street 
opposed my idea for warrants. But when faced with the simple fact that 
any Wall Street business transaction would exact no less of a price, 
protecting the taxpayer won and the special interests lost.

There are no guarantees that the assets purchased under this program 
will eventually appreciate, though that is certainly our hope, but at 
the very least warrants help safeguard the taxpayer against losses on 
those assets that underperform.

It is only right to ensure that the taxpayer not foot the bill for 
this rescue plan because the point of this economic rescue plan is to 
provide liquidity throughout our credit markets, not to line the 
pockets of those looking to make a buck on the backs of the taxpayer.

We also said ''no'' when it came to the President's proposal to spend 
all these funds with zero oversight and transparency. Now, there is a 
clear requirement that all of these arrangements are transparent and 
above board. Moreover, there will be a panel of outside experts who 
must report to the Congress and the American people on the Treasury 
Secretary's use of these funds and submit a regulatory reform plan in 
January 2009 so we can work on new laws to prevent a similar case of 
market failure. And, we included provisions to ensure that no-bid 
contracts are not awarded, contracting rules are followed, conflicts of 
interest are prevented, and courts have the authority to review any 
questions about this law.

And, we took a strong first step when it comes to the excessive pay 
of too many executives on Wall Street who got us into this mess. 
Indeed, under this bill, there will be no golden parachutes for those 
executives who helped create this financial crisis. Instead, they will 
see those sweetheart deals go away, and, indeed, the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the FBI have launched investigations into many 
of these questionable financial transactions.

Lastly, we should not overlook that this bill also extends a number 
of tax cuts that will generate investments in alternative sources of 
energy and green job creation as well as a tax cut for approximately 
92,000 middle class Rhode Islanders who would otherwise face the 
Alternative Minimum Tax.

This bill is necessary, but not perfect. It should be stronger when 
it comes to impacting those who got us into this mess, and it should 
contain some of the consumer and investor protections and accounting 
reforms I have called for over the years. There should be more 
resources to prevent foreclosures, not to aid people who took out a 
mortgage they should not have, but to protect the property values and 
stability of those neighborhoods facing a growing number of 
foreclosures.

If we don't follow up this vote with increased transparency and 
better regulations of the financial marketplace, we could very well 
find ourselves debating another economic rescue package in the not too 
distant future.

Indeed, I have held eleven hearings over the last year and a half in 
an effort to bring these regulation and accounting issues to the 
attention of my colleagues and the administration. These may have 
seemed like arcane hearings to many, but the reality is those who were 
supposed to enforce the rules of the marketplace and protect the 
economy were asleep at the wheel, or worse, blinded by a misguided 
ideology that over-relies on deregulation. Time and time again, 
witnesses at these hearings said everything was okay or was at least 
manageable. They said we should not have hearings and that less 
oversight and regulation would cure any problems. Now, two of the 
companies that testified don't even exist. The status quo is 
unacceptable, and I am hard at work on legislation to reform oversight 
of Wall Street because the current system failed.

The bill is prompted by a systematic failure by all the financial 
regulators who turned a blind eye to the problems that had been 
identified well before this crisis erupted.

Reckless and irresponsible business decisions brought us here, but 
lax oversight and poor risk management by regulators also played a 
starring role.

No one is happy that we have to act, but we need to act to avoid 
further damage to our economy. The task before us now is to protect 
people's jobs and retirement savings, and do our best to craft a 
solution to the credit crisis that prevents our economy from grinding 
to a halt.

The question must also be asked: How can we prevent this from 
happening again?

The administration found that it could no longer control events. 
Instead, events controlled the administration as credit markets have 
stubbornly remained frozen and banks still refuse to lend to each 
other. Small businesses are finding it harder to get credit, as are 
consumers.

No one takes lightly voting for a $700 billion package, even with 
taxpayer protections I and my colleagues built into it. These 
sophisticated institutions and complex instruments impact very 
concrete, everyday assets, from homes to retirement savings. We must 
act now to protect these important assets.

Fundamentally, this is about protecting the savings and well-being of 
all Americans and providing access to capital and credit for businesses 
and governments to make investments in our future.

The Senate has taken the first step and I urge the passage of this 
legislation.