# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `2cc62bf3fde48758c154cbdd12a138e3`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Utah. I was 
thinking, there is much more that could be said and much that has been 
said. Undoubtedly next week much more will be said. The vote was 67 to 
30 last time. Those of us who support this remain undaunted in our 
belief that we can improve the process. The process of ethics and 
ethical adjudications has been, with all respect, more problematic in 
the other body of the Congress, but we have an opportunity here, as we 
consider and I believe pass what will be landmark legislation with 
regard to the attempt of this great legislative body to set the highest 
standards of conduct for itself and those who interact with us, to also 
complete the mission while we are doing so by raising the independence 
of the enforcement process, still leaving the Senate Ethics Committee, 
composed of Senators, with the final judgment on what should happen in 
every case.

First, about the vote last year, I suppose the most general response 
I would offer is that hope springs eternal and the power of reason of 
our arguments will touch some of our colleagues. Secondly, we do have 
some new Members who are very focused on this legislation and upgrading 
the rules by which we govern ourselves and the process by which those 
rules are enforced.

Finally, a lot of things have been said here about Iraq and the 
message the people were sending last year about Iraq. It seems to me 
they were sending at least as strong a message about the way we in 
Congress do our business. I saw one public opinion survey or exit poll 
that showed more people said they voted based on what were ethical 
wrongdoings here in Congress than on any other issue. I begin this 
debate to indicate to our colleagues that my cosponsors and I intend to 
go forward with this amendment next week.

I thank my friend from Utah for beginning what I know will be a 
serious and elevating discussion.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.