---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `2cd0a64dcfab0d25c7184a961f57d388`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 10 December 2010`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Every person in uniform is only getting a COLA this 
year of 1.4 percent. Did anybody over there not think about this when 
they raised their hand to say let's give it to millionaires? Those in 
the military most certainly deserve a bonus. They are coming back 
without eyes or legs; they are leaving some of their limbs in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Did anybody over there think about that?

The senior citizens for whom the Senator has been such an advocate 
are not seeing the kind of COLA they normally get. Talk about stimulus, 
I think every dollar you give to a senior citizen--wouldn't the Senator 
say--gets spent right away. They have to buy food with it. They are not 
going out perusing a yacht or an airplane they could or could not buy. 
They need to eat. They go to the corner drugstore; they need to get 
their medicine. They spend it. Yes, we give money to the poor on the 
Democratic side and the middle class because it is the right thing to 
do. It actually happens to be also the smart thing to do for the 
economy and for jobs.

So when people say the Senator has flip-flopped on taxes, I don't 
understand how to say it differently. I voted for tax cuts when we had 
a surplus. I am challenged about how to address this package--I most 
certainly want to extend it for the middle class and to extend help for 
the unemployment. People are unemployed not because they are lazy, for 
Heaven's sake. They are unemployed because there are no jobs for them. 
It is some of the longest term unemployment we have had in our Nation's 
history.

So the other side is making us feel--they say: We gave you the 
unemployment, so surely you should give us the tax breaks for 
millionaires. Is that really an equal trade? If somebody believes that 
actually--I have heard commentators say it on different networks. I 
have been on these news programs, and they say: You got the 
unemployment, so that is a fair trade.

If there is a Senator who thinks that, I would love them to say that 
next week. I think that would be great to have on the record. So this 
situation is what the Louisiana families in my State are facing. 
Obviously, I would like to provide tax relief for these families. We 
have less than 1.8 percent who are making over $200,000. I am checking 
right now to find out how many families in Louisiana actually make over 
$1 million. I was told it was 3,200. That number might be too high. The 
Senator from West Virginia told me that in his State it is 599 people 
who make over $1 million a year. Yet it looks like that is the package.

We are going to be in a tough situation, without amendments, having 
to vote for it. I will see what my constituents are saying over the 
weekend. I want to say one more thing about this inequity and turn it 
back over to the Senator from Vermont. Besides the other things that 
were put into the Record about the inequality, the challenges before 
our country right now, I came across some data, and I would like the 
Senator to be on the floor to listen to this.