---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS
## `2cd45cc53a02fe424ec1c3727137402b`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Let me highlight one thing before we leave 
this subject. This is going to be a chart that we might see a few more 
times on the 30 Something Working Group hour here.

I just want to make sure the people know we are back to business 
here. This is 81 hearings that have been held on issues related to the 
Iraq War this year. I mean, you go through the list just the week right 
after we got back from recess, the last week of February, on Tuesday, 
the 27th, two hearings; on Wednesday, the 28th, five hearings; on 
Thursday, the 1st, three hearings.

Now, that may seem like a lot. It seems like, well, what is Congress 
doing with all these hearings. There was so much work to be done to 
uncover all of these abuses. I think that is going to kind of level out 
over time, but right now we needed to get back to the work of starting 
to do some oversight when it comes to this war, to start uncovering 
many of these abuses. We will continue this chart going forward.

This idea that you presented that we have got two jobs, fix it and 
hold people accountable, we are doing both. This continuing resolution 
that kept the government running had historic levels of funding for 
veterans care. I think we are going to be able to do something similar 
with the supplemental authorization that we will vote on in the coming 
weeks.



But we are also doing that second part, which is holding this 
administration accountable, to make sure that it does not happen again, 
because I do not want to be here a year from now just trying to play 
catch-up and plugging all the holes that this administration creates. I 
actually want to solve the problems and make sure that competent people 
get into places that matter in this administration.

I want to make sure that the President starts putting budgets before 
us that make sense so that these oversight hearings, 81 hearings that 
have been held already in this Congress, are going to start to get us 
there.

That is maybe the moment to turn. We have got a few minutes left to 
talk a little bit about this budget.