---
---

# None
## `2ce99b950cd6a05342207d70bab3eb87`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 22 June 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, in the current issue of the ''New Yorker'' 
magazine, veteran reporter Seymour Hersh lays out the shame that was 
Abu Ghraib and the efforts at the highest levels to sweep it under the 
carpet.

Former Army General Antonio Taguba takes this very brave step to 
share details of his meetings with former Secretary of Defense Donald 
Rumsfeld and other administration officials in the wake of the prisoner 
abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib. In May, 2004, photos of abuse at the 
American-run prison were made public by CBS and other media outlets. We 
can all recall the inhumane treatment and degradation depicted. What 
was included in the photos and videos were not interrogations. They 
were humiliating and often horrible acts of violence.


Months earlier, before the photos emerged, General Taguba had filed a 
report outlining the ''numerous incidents of sadistic, blatant and 
wanton criminal abuses that were inflicted on several detainees and 
systemic and illegal abuse.''

In fact, the first report sent to senior Pentagon officials came in 
January of that year. The response? A senior general in Iraq brushed 
off the report saying that the victims were ''only Iraqis.'' According 
to the article, General Taguba found that Lieutenant General Sanchez, 
the Army commander in Iraq who had visited the prison several times, 
knew exactly what was going on.

Despite many reports contradicting him, Secretary Rumsfeld himself 
clung to the claim that he saw the photos and video of the abuse only 
days before testifying before Congress. He said he first learned of the 
problem in late January or early February. His memory seems to be a 
little fuzzy in this regard. And in response, who did he send to 
oversee prison in Iraq? Major General Jeffrey Miller, the commander at 
Guantanamo.

If this were a movie plot, Mr. Speaker, it would seem ludicrous. 
Unfortunately, this is part of our real history in the occupation of 
Iraq.

And our commander-in-chief? It is unclear when he first learned of 
the situation at Abu Ghraib, but by most accounts it was months before 
the notorious pictures hit the airwaves. This is absolutely 
disgraceful.

It appears that the administration has no shame when it comes to the 
continuing abuse of human rights abroad and at home right here in 
America. Is this the legacy we want to leave in the Middle East? A 
preemptive strike against a nation which did not have weapons of mass 
destruction? A civil war that is tearing a nation apart? Our standing 
in the world at an all-time low? The loss of over 3,500 brave service 
members?

This did not have to happen. The administration willingly misled this 
Nation into an occupation that cannot be won.

The acts at Abu Ghraib could have besmirched the honor and reputation 
of all of the troops who serve each day with distinction and courage, 
but thankfully it did not, because the American people know and 
understand that the acts of the few and of the top leadership who 
endorse those acts should not be visited on those who so bravely and 
selflessly serve. Our troops have shown great valor in the face of 
unbelievable challenges. This Congress honors them and the sacrifices 
they have made.

That said, it is well past time that this Congress stands up and 
says, enough is enough from this administration. The American people 
are frustrated with the lack of progress on ending the occupation and 
bringing our troops home, and rightfully so.

This fight may be difficult, but it is our obligation. I ask my 
colleagues to demand that not another day goes by without a real effort 
to bring our troops home and to return the sovereignty of Iraq to its 
people.
