---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `2ce9d3980fbd51bb18a26d80cbb8e4e8`
`Mr. DURBIN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today, my colleagues, Senator Gordon 
Smith, Senator Frank Lautenberg, and I join together to introduce 
bipartisan legislation to use economic and diplomatic measures to help 
convince the Iranian Government to turn away from its path toward the 
development of nuclear weapons.

The Iran Counter-Proliferation Act of 2007 would strengthen our 
economic sanctions regime against Iran until Iran completely, 
verifiably, and irreversibly dismantles all nuclear enrichment and 
reprocessing programs.

The bill, for example, would penalize foreign oil companies with U.S. 
subsidiaries doing business in Iran and would forbid the awarding of 
U.S. Government contracts to those who have violated our existing 
sanctions against Iran.

The bill reiterates the requirement to produce a National 
Intelligence Estimate on Iran mandated in last year's Defense 
Authorization bill.

In addition to these measures, the bill addresses Russia's role in 
exporting nuclear and military technology to Iran.

Nuclear cooperation agreements with Russia would be prohibited if 
that country continues to assist Iran in developing nuclear weapons. 
The United States could not enter into such an agreement with Moscow, 
absent a Presidential certification that Russia's assistance to Iran 
has ceased.

This week has brought some promising news. Undersecretary of State 
for Political Affairs Nicholas Burns testified before the Senate 
Banking Committee that Russia has begun applying pressure on Iran to 
abandon its nuclear ambitions. That is most welcome, and if the 
President provides the verification that Russia's nuclear assistance to 
Iran has ceased--and that this is a sea change and not merely a 
contract dispute--then our other negotiations with Russia can proceed 
unimpeded.

I firmly believe that we should offer positive incentives if Iran 
does change course and abandon its programs to develop nuclear weapons. 
Iran has energy needs, and we hope that they will join us and the 
community of nations in the peaceful acquisition of those resources.

This legislation authorizes $50 million to the International Atomic 
Energy Agency to support the establishment of an international nuclear 
fuel bank, a concept originally proposed by Congressman Tom Lantos. 
This bank would maintain a reserve of low-enriched uranium for reactor 
fuel and make it available to countries in full compliance with IAEA 
safeguards which do not operate uranium enrichment or spent-fuel 
reprocessing facilities. It is our hope that Iran will become one of 
these nations.

Because members of the American public are our best ambassadors and 
America itself is the strongest evidence of the benefits of freedom and 
prosperity, this bill increases the authorization for funding for young 
Iranians to come to the United States as part of exchange programs.

I support efforts to engage with Tehran's leaders regarding Iraq. 
They should recognize that they, too, have a vested interest in 
regional peace and security. This bill is aimed at an issue which we 
cannot compromise: the Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons.

Iran's leaders face a choice of whether to pursue a legitimate goal 
of peaceful nuclear power for their citizens or a dangerous strategy to 
develop nuclear weapons. We must provide the economic and political 
pressure as well as incentives to help Iran choose the path to 
legitimacy and nuclear nonproliferation. This legislation will help 
achieve that goal.