---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2cf607953236c08ea12d33ed6a54f9a7`
`Mr. SALI — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SALI. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like to tip my hat to 
the good gentleman for his efforts on the floor and for the compelling 
argument that he has made here.

The idea that our young people, young men and women, have gone to 
Iraq, gone to Afghanistan, they have spilled their blood there for a 
purpose that would become meaningless if we withdraw without finishing 
the job over there, that is something that makes the discussion I think 
a little different.

All of us are tired of the war. All of us are tired of the casualties 
that have been inflicted. What we have to do is keep our eye on the 
ultimate goal, what it is. Is it to quell a disturbance, a dispute that 
has arisen between different Islamic groups? No, it is not. It can 
never be.

It has to be the security of the United States. For those folks who 
have died in Iraq and Afghanistan, for their lives to have meaning, we 
have to consider what that goal is.

The national security of every person in this country, those 
interests have to be paramount to everything else that we consider. 
They have to be paramount to our distaste for the fighting that has 
gone on. They have to be paramount to every life that has been lost.

Mr. Speaker, for those lives that have been lost to have meaning, it 
has to be that we will save more lives by their efforts that have been 
there than if we just pull up stakes and quit. If we do not get that 
job done, if those radical Islamists are allowed to declare a State, if 
they have a home, a base from which to operate, we will repeat the 
events that happened when the Taliban had a home base in Afghanistan.

The recipe is before us. We have seen it before. We will have a 
repeat of something like 9/11.

The only choice that we have as a Nation is to continue that job over 
there, to get it finished as best we can. Is there a perfect 
prescription for that? No, there is not. Is it going to be easy? No, it 
is not. Will we have more casualties? Unfortunately, we will, and yet 
we must continue this fight so we will not dishonor those who have paid 
the ultimate sacrifice to this point in the conflict.

I thank the good gentleman.