---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2d06ebaf781ddf792f7f97a6a5c3e537`
`Ms. HARMAN — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Hastings for yielding to me and 
commend him for his continued service both on the Intelligence 
Committee and on the Rules Committee.

As you heard, I served the past 8 years on the Intelligence 
Committee, the last 4 as ranking member. I loved that opportunity, and 
I remain passionate about the issues. I believe that there is nothing 
more central to our roles in Congress than to keep our country safe. 
And that committee has crucial jurisdiction.

I would respectfully disagree with the comments of the last speaker, 
Mrs. Wilson. I have been briefed longer than she has on how the so-
called NSA program operates. I believed then and I believe now that it 
can and must fully comply with FISA, a law that has been modernized 12 
times since 9/11 through changes we have made which I supported in the 
PATRIOT Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and of H.R. 2082. In my 
current role as Chair of the Homeland Security Intelligence Information 
Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment Subcommittee, I continue to 
review intelligence reports and to talk to our key security 
professionals. And, Mr. Speaker, I am concerned. We have surged our 
intelligence resources into Iraq, where they are necessarily focused on 
the tactical needs of warfighters. Meanwhile, al Qaeda has gained 
strength and is inspiring new cells worldwide. We have taken our eye 
off the ball. That ball is al Qaeda.

Mr. Speaker, we should all be worried that terrorist cells are here 
in the United States, right now, waiting for the right moment to 
strike. We have yet to develop a truly effective system for sharing 
time-sensitive intelligence about terror plots with first responders, 
whom I would like to believe could be first preventers.

Even at the Federal level, a variety of data bases, classifications, 
and pseudo-classification systems could still, 5/1/2/ years after 9/11, 
prevent us from connecting the dots. We have yet to develop an adequate 
strategy to counter radicalization in our prisons and in our 
communities. The events at Cherry Hill, New Jersey, earlier this week 
are the latest example. And we have not yet broken into the inner 
circle of the senior al Qaeda leadership even though we have been at 
this for more than 5 years. These problems are urgent as we could be 
attacked at any time.

I recently reviewed the classified annex to this bill and continue to 
pay special attention to our technical satellite programs. Changes to 
these programs cannot be discussed in an unclassified setting such as 
this; but I want to reiterate my long-held view that the women and men 
who build these systems constitute a major strategic asset of the 
United States. Rocket scientists do not grow on trees, and we must keep 
them highly trained and highly motivated. Without their help, we could 
literally lose our ability to see, hear, and communicate.

Finally, I strongly support the effort to develop a National 
Intelligence Estimate on climate change. Changes in our climate will 
affect critical resources such as water, food, and arable land, as we 
are seeing now in Darfur and in many parts of Africa. Droughts affect 
the stability of governments, and the stability of governments is one 
of the key things we need to know about through our intelligence. This 
isn't bugs and bunnies, or even Bugs Bunny. It is survival or 
destruction. And if we make responsible moves now, our grandchildren 
will benefit.

Mr. Speaker, by supporting this legislation, the Congress stands with 
the extraordinary women and men of our intelligence community who often 
serve in austere locations on unaccompanied assignments. I am one of 
the few here who know these people and know where they serve. I say to 
them, our Nation owes you our gratitude; hopefully, this bill provides 
the support and tools you need as well as honors your sacrifice.

I urge support of the rule. I urge support of the underlying 
legislation, and I thank the gentleman for yielding to me.