# None
## `2d0da247c20372a8cbae062795cc4301`
`Mrs. BOXER — 18 December 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, it seems to me if you want to liberate the 
Iraqi people, then you give them back the country and you let them know 
that is what this is all about. We have been there 1 year, 2 years, 3 
years, 4 years, 5 years. We have spent a half a trillion dollars; 3,893 
of our own killed, 28,711 wounded. Is this forever? I went through the 
period of time in the Vietnam war where the people of this country 
stood up and said: Enough is enough is enough. It seems to me what 
Senator Levin is doing--and I am so proud he has bipartisan support, 
Senators Hagel, Voinovich, Snowe, Smith--is good. This shows we are 
beginning to cross over party lines, which is so important, and say: It 
is time the mission changes.

My dear friend from Virginia talks about the Brits. This is exactly 
what the Brits have already done. They are getting out. They have 
turned the keys of the city over to the Iraqis. They are ahead of us. 
In many ways, this resolution tracks what they have done. I read it. It 
is very simple. It is a sense of the Congress that the missions of the 
U.S. Armed Forces should be transitioned to a more limited set--
counterterrorism, training, equipping, supporting Iraqi forces, and 
force protection. Yes, we are sending a message to the Maliki 
Government, get your act together because we are not going to be here 
forever. The American people are generous and good people. But there is 
a limit to how much they can give in terms of blood and treasure.

It is true that many people supporting this resolution are going to 
vote for the McConnell amendment. I will not be one of them. I wish to 
speak against it for my remaining time. I have a list of what we have 
already spent. A half a trillion dollars, that is what we have already 
spent, and we are about to go well over that mark, toward a trillion 
dollars. There comes a time when we have to ask ourselves: What are we 
doing in Iraq? If you listen to the President, it is to bring freedom. 
He said it was the weapons of mass destruction. Then he changed that. 
He said it was to get Saddam. We got Saddam. Then he changed it. He 
said we have to have free and fair elections. They had two. He said we 
have to reconstruct. We are spending money to reconstruct.

It is now time to say enough is enough. I think the Levin resolution 
is not putting into place binding deadlines. It is merely saying to the 
Iraqi Government we want them to step up to the plate.



If my colleagues want to be seen as occupiers, vote against this 
amendment because that is what is happening. We are seen as occupiers, 
when we want to be seen as liberators. If you want to be seen as 
liberators, you do what the Brits did. This is exactly what Senator 
Levin is doing. I am pleased to support this. I will be voting no on 
McConnell.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.