# None
## `2d2588d6050fa285efa61b3303539dc2`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I want to thank my freshman colleagues for the very 
insightful and compelling arguments they raised concerning our budget, 
the budget proposal by the President for the 2009 fiscal year.

Mr. Speaker, I will say that what we are dealing with here is a 
situation in which those of us who were elected in 2006, freshman 
Members, so known as the majority makers, came to this Congress because 
the American people in that election of 2006 thought that the country 
was going in the wrong direction, and it wasn't so much one thing, I 
know a lot of people think that we were elected because of the war in 
Iraq, and certainly that was a factor.

I think more than anything else, the American people collectively 
decided that the priorities that have been established by the 
administration that was in office, beginning in 2000, we were taking 
the country in the wrong direction, that we were spending money, that 
we were emphasizing things that did not represent the best interests of 
the majority of the American people. They sent us here, therefore, to 
set a new pattern of doing business, a new way of setting priorities.

They wanted us to put the American people first. They wanted us to 
recognize the true needs of this society, to recognize that government 
is a way of reorganizing and organizing our responsibilities to each 
other, that we could, as a government, actually create an economy that 
worked for everyone and not just for a very few, but that we could, 
again, set the country on a different direction, that we could use the 
tax revenues that were flowing to the Treasury to empower all people to 
make the best of their lives, to contribute to a more dynamic society. 
We really have set a different direction in this Congress, and I think 
we need to do much more.

But let's think back to 2006 and think about what the American people 
were confronted with when they looked at Washington. They looked at 
Washington and they said, we have a government there that is arrogant, 
that tends to favor the richest people in the country, that tends to 
favor global corporations, that thinks that if we allow the wealthiest 
and most powerful people to do as well as they possibly can 
financially, that there will be a trickle-down effect and it will, 
quote-unquote, float everyone's boat, and that this is what the proper 
role of government should be.

The American people said, no, we don't buy that. We've tried that. We 
tried it under the Reagan administration. We saw then that trickle-down 
economics does not work. We tried that for a few more years under the 
Bush administration. We found that, no, that doesn't work because, in 
fact, what we have seen is that from 2001 to 2006, 100 percent of the 
income growth in this country accrued to the benefit of the top 5 
percent of the population, that, in fact, 95 percent of the people in 
this country did not see their standard of living increase despite the 
fact that they are working harder, they are working longer.

The average family has been working, the average household, 95 hours 
a week. That's two people working more than full time and still not 
getting ahead. So the American people said to us, we want to go in a 
different direction. We think that government can be a tool for 
progress, it can be a tool to create a society that distributes its 
benefits more broadly, and that we ought to take the position that 
rather than trying to let this trickle-down theory flow to everybody's 
boat that we ought to make a society in which everybody has a really 
good boat, and that everybody can swim on their own. In fact, the way 
to create a society that truly works over the long term is to empower 
every individual to be productive, to contribute to society and to have 
the power and the freedom and the support to improve his or her way of 
life.

Now we are confronted, once again, with a budget from the President 
of the United States which does exactly the same thing that they have 
been trying over and over and over again with very


little success. We have a budget, deceitful in many ways because it 
pretends to reach a budgetary balance when it really doesn't, and they 
do it by very deceitful mechanisms, but it sets the wrong priorities.

It takes the money away from programs and policies that actually do 
empower individuals to improve their lives, to make a better society, 
to make a stronger economy, and it sends the money once again to 
basically nonproductive activities. We have, once again, a budget that 
minimizes and disguises the cost of our involvement in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Many of us differ very strenuously on our priorities in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

We all understand that we have some serious problems in Afghanistan, 
and we need to focus there. We also understand that we are spending $3 
billion a week in Iraq, most of which we will never see. It never 
represents any investment in our future. It is money that is down the 
drain.

When you try to compare the benefits of our tax dollars being spent 
again to promote a vibrant and healthy economy and to help people who 
need to get their feet on the ground to become productive citizens 
versus spending money overseas in ways that do nothing to enhance our 
own standard of living, that we know we have a skewed sense of 
priorities.

That's what we are going to talk about for the next few minutes, and 
I am very proud to be here with one of my freshman colleagues, someone 
who is passionate about the need for this country to work for everyone, 
someone who is as passionate about working for working families as 
anyone in this Congress, John Hall from New York.

I am proud to be his colleague, and I would like to recognize 
Congressman Hall to further this discussion.