---
---

# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `2d3547c6c4c3068deed7ed6451304b11`
`Mr. BLUNT — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Of course, I hope that as you grapple with this, you will 
grapple toward the determination of input into this important debate. I 
believe, as you do, it is a critically important debate. This is an 
important issue. You and I have been together to Iraq twice. We both 
have taken this issue very seriously. We watched and the American 
people have watched the debate on the other side of this building this 
week, where the whole process has come to a halt because of the 
unwillingness of that body to move forward without having options on 
the table; and even in that debate, the majority offered at least one 
alternative opportunity to the minority.

And that was not acceptable to that minority on that side of the 
building. I would hope on this side of the building that at least we 
would get the offer that if you are working on the other side of the 
building, you walked away from, which would be one opportunity to 
express another view.

We are going to have 3 full days of debate. The gentleman said some 
of them could very well last as long as midnight.



That is enough time to consider more than one point of view and have 
at least two points of view heard. And I heard the gentleman early in 
the week; I heard him say today, you are still grappling with that. And 
I would just encourage you to do your best to try to create the 
opportunity for this issue to be debated in the fullest possible way at 
this moment and move on with that.

I would also like to ask, with February 15 being the last day for the 
current continuing resolution to be in effect, it seems to me possible 
at least that the Senate is not going to deal


with the bill by the end of the week. Do we have any plans as to how to 
deal with that issue? Or do you have any information that I don't have 
that would suggest that it is likely that the Senate will have agreed 
to a bill that we can agree to?

One option, obviously, would be agree to the bill that the House sent 
over. But I am interested in what happens on Friday, and between now 
and Friday that might settle that also, that important issue as well.

I yield to the gentleman.