# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES SERGEANT WAYNE R. CORNELL
## `2d3821137619558c1cbcc5b0fec06e72`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Army SGT 
Wayne R. Cornell of Holstein, NE.

Sergeant Cornell will be remembered as a dedicated husband and 
father.


Having been deployed to Iraq earlier this year, Sergeant Cornell made 
certain he would be allowed to take his 2 weeks' leave in July. He was 
determined to make it home to Holstein, NE, in time to see his wife 
Patricia give birth to their third child.

With both his father and grandfather having served in the military, 
enlisting had always been a top priority for Sergeant Cornell. While at 
Silver Lake High School in Roseland, no matter what branch of service 
was making a recruiting visit to his school, Sergeant Cornell was 
always the first in line to meet with the military recruiter. In 
addition to his desire to enlist, Sergeant Cornell was also a skilled 
martial arts student and is remembered by his teachers as a kindhearted 
and well-meaning individual.

Shortly after graduating from high school in 1999, Sergeant Cornell 
chose to enlist in the Nebraska Army National Guard. During 4 years 
with the Guard, he served twice in Bosnia and once in Afghanistan. In 
addition to his service to his country, Sergeant Cornell also served 
his community as a volunteer firefighter. Last year he enlisted in the 
Army; he was deployed to Iraq when called up in February. On March 20, 
2007, while serving with the Army's 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry, 4th 
Brigade, 1st Infantry Division, based out of Fort Riley, KS, Sergeant 
Cornell passed away when the vehicle he was traveling in was struck by 
a roadside bomb in Baghdad.

''He did it all for his family,'' said his wife Patricia. ''He was an 
awesome father, and he just made every sacrifice for us.'' In addition 
to his wife Patricia, Sergeant Cornell is survived by his two children, 
Dameion, 5, and Zoie, 3, of Holstein; mother Patricia Perrie of 
Holstein; father Larry Cornell of Fairmont, NE; and sisters Jadeen 
Cornell of Blue Hill, NE, and Janalle Gowlovech, of Sioux Falls, SD.

I offer my sincere condolences to Sergeant Cornell's family. Not only 
did he sacrifice for his family, he made the ultimate and most 
courageous sacrifice for his Nation. Every American and all Nebraskans 
are proud of the service of brave military personnel such as SGT Wayne 
Cornell.