---
---

# REQUIRING REPORTS ON MANAGEMENT OF ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY
## `2d3fb43199f3f8a4e16804f18bf8a9a1`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

What I would like to comment on now, Mr. Speaker, really deals with a 
problem in the House rules that I think needs to be corrected as we go 
into the next session of Congress. So with regard to jurisdiction, 
lines of jurisdiction with regard to committees and how bills are 
assigned through the Parliamentarian, at the direction of the Speaker, 
I sent a letter to the Speaker dated December 9, 2010.

This Senate bill that came to us, it appears that it invokes the 
jurisdiction also of the House Armed Services Committee. The Army 
personnel manage and operate Arlington National Cemetery, and the 
cemetery is under the jurisdiction of the United States Army. So 
Chairman Skelton properly moved out and held his hearings in the House 
Armed Services Committee relative to Arlington. So I can begin to 
understand why the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee then 
allowed the House Armed Services Committee to proceed.

Then when the Senate conducts their hearings, and they did so, the 
Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee passed their bill, and immediately 
they sent it to us in a lame duck session.

Now, you say, why wouldn't this bill also have either a joint 
referral or to the Armed Services Committee, or why did it only go to 
the House Veterans' Affairs Committee?

Well, you go to the House rules. So even though I sent the letter to 
Madam Speaker Pelosi saying, please invoke jurisdiction of the House 
Armed Services Committee, the response obviously was ''no'' because 
here we now are on the House floor doing this bill by a committee who 
had never done hearings on the bill.

The problem is in the House rules itself. When you turn to the House 
rules, I think this has got to be an error in the drafting of these 
rules. Rule X, 2 cites that cemeteries under the United States in which 
veterans of any war or conflict are or may be buried, whether in the 
United States, abroad, except cemeteries administered by the Secretary 
of the VA, it goes to the Veterans' Affairs Committee. This has to be 
corrected. So, hopefully, when you go into the next Congress, this rule 
gets corrected so that the cemeteries that are under the jurisdiction 
of the United States Army, such as the two, Old Soldiers Home and 
Arlington National Cemetery, that that legislation regarding that 
jurisdiction rests with the Armed Services Committee. The VA Committee, 
we have oversight; but with regard to this, it's a jurisdictional 
question, and it needs to be corrected.

And that's why you have two individuals here managing a bill on the 
floor that really the House Armed Services Committee, Mr. Speaker, 
should also be here. But I want all the Members to know that's why this 
is happening.

I suppose, yes, we can all be very upset with regard to the 
management and the markings of some of these graves; but those of us 
who have had the opportunity to go to Arlington and see the job in 
which the Old Guard perform, it is pretty extraordinary. I was last 
there on Monday of Thanksgiving week. I joined Lieutenant General John 
Kelly, his family and hundreds of his friends at the chapel at Fort 
Myer. We all left the chapel. We proceeded down the windy road, down 
the hill, led by the Army Band, a platoon of soldiers, horse-drawn 
caisson that carried the body of John's youngest son, Lieutenant Robert 
Kelly, killed in Afghanistan.

The wind was crisp. The sky was blue. The oak and maple trees were 
clutching onto their red, yellow, gold and light-green leaves. Others 
were slowly drifting to the ground. The sun shined brightly upon them 
all.

Each grave marker properly and perfectly aligned in columns, in rows 
and angles, each was offset by rich green grass signifying the etchings 
in our national book of remembrance. That's my firsthand account of 
having attended the funeral of Lieutenant Robert Kelly at his burial on 
Thanksgiving week. That has been replicated since that Monday of 
Thanksgiving week, and it has been no different than how the Old Guard 
pays their honor and respect to so many, and it goes back so far in 
time.

That rich heritage is what causes each one of us to rise when we get 
so concerned with regard to mismanagement of such a sacred ground.

With that, I'm going to ask all Members to support the legislation.


















 Committee on Veterans' Affairs,




















 House of Representatives,

















 Washington, DC, December 9, 2010.


 Hon. Nancy Pelosi,


 Speaker of the House, House of Representatives, H232, The 




 Capitol, Washington, DC.



 Dear Madam Speaker, in reviewing S. 3860, as amended, a 


 bill to require reports on the management of Arlington 


 National Cemetery, it appears that the bill invokes authority 


 under the jurisdiction of the House Committee on Armed 


 Services.





 Army personnel manage and operate Arlington National 


 Cemetery and the cemetery is under the jurisdiction of the 


 United States Army. Accordingly, as the Ranking Member of the 


 Committee of jurisdiction, I request that an additional 


 referral be made to House Committee on Armed Services to 


 provide for its full consideration of this bill.



 It is important that the Committee on Armed Services be 


 permitted to weigh in on this legislation prior to further 


 consideration, as that Committee has legislative and 


 oversight jurisdiction over the Department of the Army, and 


 held a hearing on management issues at Arlington National 


 Cemetery on June 30, 2010.



 Thank you for your consideration of this matter.





 Sincerely,



























Steve Buyer,




















Ranking Republican Member.