# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `2d41e296eb41d597e210aee04ff7ab25`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS â€” 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Levin-
McCain amendment on the F-22. I was listening with interest to the 
chairman speak a little bit earlier when he raised several points that 
I am going to address specifically as I get into the guts of the 
argument. I think it is kind of interesting when he gives a list of 
those individuals in the Pentagon and in the White House who are now in 
opposition to continued production of the F-22. Interestingly enough, 
everybody he talked about--from the President to the Secretary of 
Defense, to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the 
Air Force, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs--every single one of those 
individuals is political. They are appointed. They are appointed by the 
President.

I am going to talk about some individuals who are in support of the 
F-22 who are not appointed. No. 1, they are the men and women who fly 
the F-22. Secondly, it is men who have had the courage to wear the 
uniform of the United States of America in an unparalleled way that I 
have seen since I have been here, who have been willing to stand up to 
that political leadership and say: You guys are wrong. They have been 
willing to stand and say that if you cut off production of the F-22 at 
187, you are going to put this country at a high risk from a national 
security standpoint.

As we go through the debate, it is going to be interesting to 
contrast the statements and the letters that every Member has received 
a flurry of over the last several days. I have never seen the White 
House lobby such as they have lobbied on this issue. For a White House 
that was not supposed to be a lobbying White House or in support of 
lobbyists, it has been unparalleled in my now going on 15 years as a 
Member of the Congress.

Senator Levin spoke earlier about the F-35: We are going to ramp up 
production. We are going to buy 30 airplanes, 30, in this budget. Well, 
guess what we are paying for those airplanes. We are paying $200 
million a copy. Guess what we are buying an F-22 for today--an airplane 
that has been through the test phase; an airplane that has proved 
itself. We are under a multiyear contract that calls for payment by the 
Air Force to the contractor of $140 million a copy. There is going to 
be a lot of conversation on this floor about the cost of the F-22, and 
it is expensive: $140 million a copy is very expensive. But to come in 
here with a straight face and say we are going to save taxpayers' money 
by moving to the F-35 and then turn around and say we are going to pay 
$200 million a copy in this bill for F-35s, something about that 
doesn't add up.

Well, let me just say we are in a debate with the Pentagon with 
respect to budgetary issues submitted by the Pentagon to Congress. 
There are a lot of people who think we ought to step in line, salute 
the Pentagon and move ahead and do exactly what the Pentagon says with 
respect to the purchase of weapons systems. Well, that is not the way 
the Framers of the Constitution intended the Senate and the House to 
work. Article I, section 8 of the Constitution provides Congress with 
the power to levy and collect taxes, provide for the common defense of 
the United States, to raise and support armies and to make rules for 
the government and regulation of the land and naval forces.

Clearly, we in Congress have a role in overseeing the Department of 
Defense, reviewing budgets, and questioning budget and policy 
recommendations. Our interest and involvement in these issues are 
appropriate and not just based on parochial issues. We are charged with 
the responsibility of reviewing DOD policies, whether fiscal policies 
or otherwise. That is simply a part of our job.

I think it is important to note that on several occasions in recent 
years, Congress has authorized policy or funding initiatives that DOD 
has strongly opposed and, in retrospect, Congress was right and DOD was 
wrong. Perhaps the most similar example to the F-22 is the battle over 
the F-117 that occurred many years ago when the Air Force wanted to 
stop buying F-117s. Thank goodness my predecessor, Senator Sam Nunn, 
who was then chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, forced 
the Air Force to buy more F-117s. Ironically, part of the Air Force's 
argument was that they wanted to shift funding and focus to buying more 
F-22s. The F-117 was critical to establishing air dominance over Iraq 
in Desert Storm, and we can thank Congress for recognizing the need for 
more F-117s years ago.

There are several other examples, such as the Goldwater-Nichols 
Reorganization Act of 1986 and the establishment of Special Operations 
Command in 1987, both of which were strongly opposed by the Pentagon. 
Other examples are continuation of the V-22 program and prohibition 
against retiring U-2s and B-52s, all of which are paying dividends 
beyond what the military expected, including in Iraq and Afghanistan 
today.

I wish to address a comment Senator Levin and others have made 
regarding previous Secretaries of Defense and Chairmen of the Joint 
Chiefs supporting only 183--or 187 now, with the addition of four F-22s 
we are buying in the supplemental. First, that number of 183 originally 
was established not on the basis of any study or analysis--never a 
study that came out and said we need 183 and we are going to be basing 
our decision on that--but it was based on PBD 753, which is inside 
Washington baseball, which was an OSD budget drill 2 days before 
Christmas in 2004, in which the Air Force had absolutely no input. 
Neither the Chief of Staff nor the Secretary was involved. A number of 
''183'' or ''187'' has always been budget driven and not strategically 
driven.

There have been at least 10 studies done on F-22 numbers over the 
past 10 years. Of those, only one, the Joint Air Dominance Study done 
by DOD in 2005, recommended 183 F-22s. However, that study was based on 
only needing F-22s in a single-threat scenario and which also used a 
fixed budget.

Senator Levin mentioned the comments General Cartwright made in the 
Senate Armed Services Committee hearing 2 weeks ago. And he relies 
heavily on the statement General Cartwright made. General Cartwright 
responded to a question I asked, and my question to General Cartwright 
was: General, you say you support terminating the F-22 program at 187. 
Has there been any one single study, in the Air Force or outside the 
Air Force, any analysis done that recommends we terminate the program 
at 187? General Cartwright's statement to me was: Yes; there is a study 
going on in the Air Force right now that says we should terminate the 
program at 187.

Well, unfortunately for General Cartwright, we now know no study was


done. It is our understanding that the comment of General Cartwright is 
being corrected for the record and that we are receiving a corrected 
statement coming to the committee shortly.

I wish to quote from a statement by Pentagon spokesman Geoff Morrell 
that was made last Tuesday with respect to the comments of General 
Cartwright. This comment is quoted in the Daily Report. It now turns 
out that a recent study touted by Pentagon leadership as the 
justification for terminating the F-22 fighter isn't a study at all but 
a series of briefings by DOD's program analysis and evaluation shop in 
the Air Force. That word comes from the Pentagon's top spokesman, Geoff 
Morrell, who told the Daily Report late Tuesday that the study, or 
whatever it is, is: Not so much a study as work products.

Asked to describe the nature and timing of this study, Morrell told 
the Daily Report:




 What I think General Cartwright was referring to . . . is 


 two different work products--


One by the PA&E shop and one by the Air Force--



 and not so much a study.


Since PDB 753, only 183 F-22s have been programmed in the budget, 
with fiscal year 2009 being the last year of funding. To say previous 
Secretaries of Defense and Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs supported this 
is misleading since, until the fiscal year 2010 budget bill process, a 
decision on whether to buy more F-22s would be deferred to future 
decisionmakers. It is perhaps with this in mind that Secretary Gates 
himself decided last year to request additional F-22s in the fiscal 
year 2009 supplemental, and he did, in order to keep the line open and 
preserve the next administration's option for procurement of the F-22.

I know the former President, President Bush, did not want to see the 
program terminated. They can say what they want to on the other side, 
but having had personal conversations, I know what his feeling was 
about this great aircraft. He could have terminated the program, but he 
did not terminate the program. It is this administration that is 
seeking to terminate this program.

There have been five previous Secretaries of the Air Force, six 
previous Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force, seven previous Secretaries 
of Defense before this one, and eight previous commanders of Air Combat 
Command who have said we need more F-22s. We have supported this 
program from day one. We have continued to reduce the number from the 
original 781, now down to 187. The current Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force, whose letters have been quoted and inserted in the Record where 
he says we should cap it at 187, has testified time and time and time 
again in recent days and in recent weeks and who has written me letters 
stating that the military requirement for F-22s is not 187, it is 243, 
but he says we can't afford it. Therefore, he has to salute his boss. 
His boss is a political appointee--Secretary Gates--and the political 
appointee says we are going to cap it at 187; therefore, that is the 
direction in which we are going to go and the direction in which you 
have to salute the flag and move on.

I am going to close my comments at this time and turn to my colleague 
from Connecticut. Before I do so, I will quote somebody who is not 
political, somebody who is not an appointee, somebody who is a former 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force. That is GEN Merrill McPeak, who, last 
week, in an unsolicited statement, came out and said, when he talked 
about terminating the F-22 production rate at 187:




 I think it's a real mistake. . . . The airplane is a game-


 changer and people seem to forget that we haven't had any of 


 our soldiers or Marines killed by enemy air since 1951. . . . 


 It's been half a century or more since any enemy aircraft has 


 killed one of our guys.



 The F-22 is at the top end. We have to procure enough of 


 them for our ability to put a lid on, to dictate the ceiling 


 of any conflict. We certainly need some figure well above 


 200. That worries me because I think it is pennywise and 


 pound foolish to expose us in a way this much smaller number 


 does. . . . That's taking too much high-end risk.


General McPeak is a supporter of this administration and, as far as 
we can tell, he is not a consultant for any major defense contractor. 
For this reason, I think his comments deserve significant attention and 
credibility.

I will stop at this point, but I will say more later. I now turn to 
my colleague, Senator Dodd, who I will say has been a great champion on 
this issue, a great partner in support of not just the men and women of 
the Air Force and our other branches that depend on this weapon system 
to protect America and our soldiers in the field but also a great 
protector from an economic standpoint.