---
---

# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `2d439d6eb772a4069a3ce8ee9cdab586`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here 
tonight.

I wanted to talk on the eve of what may be the most controversial 
bill that we have voted on since I have been a Member of Congress, and 
I have been a Member of Congress now for 16 years. In fact, sometimes I 
don't like to admit that in public because everybody gets so concerned 
about term limits, I don't want to be the poster child for my enemies 
on that subject. But I have been in Congress for the NAFTA vote, for 
the renewal of GATT, the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs. I have 
been here for the impeachment vote. I was here for welfare reform, some 
very significant pieces of legislation, the Contract With America, and 
recently with the Democrats' 6 for 06 plan. Yet in all my years of 
Congress, I can say that this week, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps Friday, 
we will have what is the most controversial bill that I ever voted on 
and the largest supplemental appropriation bill in the history of the 
United States Congress, a bill which the President requested for our 
troops in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism in general. His 
request level was $101 billion, but it is actually going to be about a 
$124 billion bill, because there are many things that aren't even 
related to the war that have now got stuck in the bill.

There are a lot of different views on this that I wanted to talk 
about. I have my friend, Mr. Carter from Texas, who is a fellow 
appropriator on this Special Order. The thing that is interesting, 
though, is that a lot of the traditional allies of the Democrat Party, 
the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, and sometimes in fact those 
two newspapers are inseparable from the Democrat talking points, but 
they are squarely against this bill. The editorial pages have gone out 
of their way to say what a bad bill this is, to say do we really need a 
General Pelosi, which is what the Los Angeles Times said. And to quote 
the Los Angeles Times, ''After weeks of internal strife, House 
Democrats have brought forth their proposal forcing President Bush to 
withdraw the troops from Iraq, 2008. This plan is unruly, bad public 
policy, bad precedent and bad politics. If the legislation passes, Bush 
says he will veto it, as well he should.'' That is the Los Angeles 
Times.

Here is the Washington Post. The Pelosi plan for Iraq. ''The only 
constituency House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi ignored in her plan for 
amending Bush's supplemental war funding bill are the people of the 
country that the U.S. troops are fighting to stabilize.'' That is real 
important.

''The Democratic proposal doesn't attempt to answer the question of 
why August 2008 is the right moment for the Iraqi Government to lose 
all support from U.S. combat units. It doesn't hint as to what might 
happen if American forces were to leave at the end of this year, a 
development that would be triggered by the Iraqi Government's weakness. 
It doesn't explain how continued U.S. interest in Iraq, which holds the 
world's second largest oil reserve and a substantial cadre of al Qaeda 
militants, would be protected after 2008. In fact, it may prohibit U.S. 
forces from returning once they leave.'' That is the Washington Post.

These are not what I would call mainstream moderate newspapers. The 
Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post are out there drumming the 
drums for the liberal causes, time and time again, and they are both 
squarely against this plan.

You know, I think one thing Americans have to ask themselves is, is 
there U.S. interest in Iraq? Rhetorical question. Is there U.S. 
interest in Iraq? Now, if there isn't, and the war is in fact in the 
tank as Speaker Pelosi and many of her followers believe, get out 
tomorrow. Get out. Get out yesterday. Now, this bill doesn't say that. 
It is more of a slow-bleed, sure-formula-for-defeat plan. But if you 
really think the war is in the tank, why spend another nickel there?

Now I understand, I haven't spoken to him, that my colleague from 
Georgia, John Lewis, has made that philosophical and principled 
position. John is a liberal senior Member from Atlanta. And he says, I 
am against the war. Why should I vote to spend $100 billion more there? 
I respect that position. But if you are going to spend the money and 
give the troops some assistance, why are you tying their hands at the 
same time? Again, if there is a U.S. interest, then is there not a U.S. 
interest in victory? Is there a U.S. interest in defeat? And so often 
the critics of


the war always dodge those important questions.

And you can go back to 2003 and cite many things that have gone 
wrong. I am a Republican and I will tell you what, there have been many 
things that we have misjudged and done wrong, and it is regrettable. 
And I would also say that even prior to 2003, maybe some things should 
have gone in a different direction. I will say, as a Member of the 
House at the time, we were driven by the 17 United Nations resolutions, 
which the Iraqi Government ignored. We were driven by the best 
intelligence estimates at the time, which said that there were weapons 
of mass destruction and Saddam Hussein would use them. That was a view 
that was shared by Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Ted Kennedy, and all 
the other leading Democratic critics of this war. But they all had the 
same conclusion in 2001, 2002 and 2003, leading to our resolution to 
give the President the use of force to go into Iraq. But I understand 
politics. Backseat driving and revisionist history just comes with the 
turf.

So we can politically revise history. I understand there is a short-
term memory and a convenience factor, and if you are running for the 
Democratic Presidential nomination, you have got to be dodging and 
weaving, as John Kerry did last time, voting for it and then against it 
and having positions all over the court.

But we are here now. Whether you are Democrat or Republican, the last 
election, November 2006, put the Democrats in charge. They are no 
longer in the back seat of the car. The President may have driven the 
car to where it is, but the Democrat Party now has its hand on the 
steering wheel. And you can steer good policy. And this, as the Los 
Angeles Times says, is bad policy, very bad policy.

If you believe there is a U.S. interest and you think, what would 
happen with the U.S. out of Iraq suddenly? There would be chaos, there 
would be civil war, and it is quite likely that the second largest oil-
producing nation in the world would fall into the hands of anti-
American, anti-Western terrorists and become a nation state of 
terrorists, a haven for more terrorists.

I don't know of anybody in the Congress that thinks it is a good idea 
to ignore terrorism the way we did prior to 9/11, when the two 
embassies were attacked in Africa, when the USS Cole was attacked in 
Yemen, and when the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center happened. We 
are not going to let that happen again. We understand that you just 
can't ignore terrorism, that you have to be engaged with it.

So if you believe there is an interest and there is a huge downside 
in sudden withdrawal, why would you vote for a bill that says we are 
going to withdraw but we are going to withdraw slowly? We are going to 
let our troops stay over there, but we are not going to give them the 
backup that they need.

Now, I have the honor of representing the 3rd Infantry Division, Fort 
Stewart, Fort Hunter, Georgia. I also have a couple other military 
bases. But Fort Stewart leaves this week on its third deployment there. 
And I don't see how I could be expected to represent those soldiers and 
tell them, you know, ma'am, your son is patroling the streets of 
Baghdad and I had the opportunity to send him 20,000 troops to cover 
his back and I voted no. Because it is a fundamental question. If you 
are in Iraq, do you want 20,000 more troops helping you or not? How can 
you say you support somebody if you are not going to give them 
additional troops to back them up?

Now, I don't believe this is a status quo vote at all, because 
General Petraeus, who is now our commander over there, has designed 
this plan as a way to ramp up our forces and clamp down on the violence 
and the attacks, train the Iraqi troops, and then stabilize the country 
and come home. I believe that that is an exit and a victory plan, and 
it is changing the status quo.

So why would you put the general in charge, who I think was approved 
by the Senate by a vote of 80 or 90 to zero, I don't think there was a 
dissenting vote, and then say to him, good luck, but we are going to 
micromanage the war because we have 435 Members of Congress who, 
General Petraeus, are mighty good military folks in own right. Maybe we 
should in fact move Congress to Baghdad, since all the generals seem to 
be in this room who have all the answers.