---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `2d56f5e9acbd0df9cca9228497aa91bb`
`Mr. REID — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I think the distinguished Republican leader 
has outlined the problem, the problem that exists with the Republicans 
in the Senate.

The reason there weren't a lot of cloture motions filed in the last 
Congress is, as the distinguished Republican leader has pointed out, we 
believed in legislating, not delaying. Most of the motions that have 
been filed regarding cloture have been on motions to proceed to bills--
dilatory tactics by the Republicans--and it is very frustrating to them 
that in spite of that--in spite of that--we have been able to 
accomplish much, including ethics lobbying reform, minimum wage, 9/11 
Commission recommendations. We did the budget. We were able to do the 
continuing resolution. We did stem cell research. We have done some 
very good work, and we are going to continue to do that.

We have spent a lot of time on the Republicans delaying what the 
American people want us to do, and that is legislate. In spite of that, 
we were able to move on and do some significant legislating, as we are 
going to continue to do.

As I said this morning, we want to finish this legislation in a 
positive vein. The minority said they wanted more amendments. They got 
more amendments. We don't know if there is a magic number, but we will 
work and make sure--I think we are in the process now of lining up four 
amendments on each side. We should dispose of those fairly quickly. I 
have indicated that we are willing to do whatever is necessary 
postcloture to take care of as many of the postcloture germane 
amendments as we can. We are happy to do that. This is very important.

I spoke last night to the Secretary of Homeland Security, one of the 
people who represented the President in these negotiations. This bill 
that is on the Senate floor is not a Democratic bill. It is a bill that 
has been worked on by Democrats and Republicans in cooperation with the 
President of the United States and his people. My message to Secretary 
Chertoff last night was that--it seems a little unusual to me when we 
have worked so hard and we have offered opportunities for all of these 
amendments, and we are going to offer more. My message to him is, why 
in the world would anyone object to delaying the cloture vote? But that 
is what has happened.

I think that is unfortunate because I told the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, Judge Chertoff, the message in the newspaper is going to be: 
Democrats Support Cloture to Continue Debate on Immigration; 
Republicans Oppose It--President Bush Fails Again.

Let's have some successes around here. We need to work with the 
President. He needs to work with us. Here is a way that it can be done.

I know there are people who want us to stay on this bill for the rest 
of this work period, but we have other things we need to do that some 
do not want us to work on. When we went home for our Memorial Day 
break, what were the issues people talked about more than anything 
else? Ending the war in Iraq and gas prices. So when we finish this, we 
are going to move on to energy--gas prices. When we finish that, we are 
going to move to the Defense authorization and again have a debate on 
ending the Iraq war. I know people don't want us to do that, but we 
need to do that. That is what the American people want us to do.

So I cannot accomplish directly what I think should be done, and that 
is have a cloture vote that is successful right now. But I can do 
indirectly what I can't do directly. If the cloture vote doesn't 
succeed, I will change my vote so I will be on the winning side, and I 
will bring up the cloture vote later today. We are going to continue 
working this bill.

As my friend, the distinguished junior Senator from Washington said 
this morning in a caucus we had, she said: You know, what we have done 
here is like a marathon. When you run a marathon, you run 22 miles, you 
have 4 miles more to go, and you look back and think of all the times 
you wanted to quit, but right now, as tired as you are from running a 
marathon, you can see the end.

The race is up there and we need to continue. This is a marathon. We 
owe it to the American people to move forward on this legislation to 
improve a broken system. That is what we are trying to do. I hope my 
Republican colleagues vote for cloture. If they don't, they will have 
another opportunity later today and, hopefully, we can process some 
amendments in the interim.