---
---

# None
## `2d5dd9d14eb3d3c8c59692e137a5d261`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 1 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate it, Mr. Meek. And I was watching you 
earlier talk about this, and I appreciate your concern and your passion 
on the issue. And I just can't help but thank Mr. Murtha and the 
Speaker for taking such quick action on this.

This is the kind of thing that unfortunately has been going on for a 
long time, not only in this particular institution due to a lack of 
oversight, but also this is what has been going on in Iraq. The stories 
that we hear coming out of some of the oversight committees are 
absolutely atrocious to hear about the waste of money and some of the 
situations on the ground in Iraq.

Then to hear the story about Walter Reed, it just seems to 
consistently be a lack of owning up to what the current situation is on 
the ground or in the hospitals or wherever the case may be. And that is 
why you have to have an open process. That is why you have got to have 
hearings. And if we would have maybe over the past couple of years had 
more oversight hearings on these situations, maybe we wouldn't be in 
the situation that we are in today.

I want to share with you, Mr. Meek, and I apologize because I have to 
leave in a couple minutes but I wanted to come by and support you and 
add my two cents here, today in the Washington Post regarding the 
complaints at Walter Reed, and this is what is really damning here as 
far as the issue goes, on the front page of the Washington Post:

''Top officials at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, including the 
Army's Surgeon General, have heard complaints about outpatient neglect 
from family members, veterans groups, and Members of Congress for more 
than 3 years.

''A procession of Pentagon and Walter Reed officials expressed 
surprise last week about the living conditions and bureaucratic 
nightmares faced by wounded soldiers staying at the D.C. medical 
facility. But as far back as 2003, the commander of Walter Reed, 
General Kiley, was told that soldiers who were wounded in Iraq and 
Afghanistan were languishing and lost on the grounds, according to 
interviews.

''But according to interviews, Kiley, his successive commanders at 
Walter Reed, and various top noncommissioned officers in charge of 
soldiers' lives have heard a stream of complaints about outpatient 
treatment over the past several years. The complaints have surfaced at 
town hall meetings for staff and soldiers, at commanders' sensing 
sessions in which soldiers or officers are encouraged to speak freely, 
and in several Inspector General's reports detailing building 
conditions, safety issues, and other matters.''

That is what hurts, Mr. Meek, is the fact that people knew about 
this. And


one of the most prestigious obligations that we have as Members of the 
United States Congress, as Members of the House of Representatives, 
being the most closely, directly elected officials for the people of 
this country to represent them in their Federal Government is that we 
have oversight responsibilities. And to neglect those duties, as the 
109th Congress did, on Iraq, on contracting, on intelligence, on all of 
these things, blistering accounts that we are learning about, this is 
what hurts, that these kinds of situations could have been prevented, 
and if not prevented, immediately fixed.

And when you think about this, just ask, just ask us, is this 
Congress, whether Republican led or Democratically led, going to say 
''no'' to our soldiers? That is not going to happen. But the fact that 
this administration refuses, talk about a culture which we talked about 
in the 109th Congress, a culture and a complete culture of an 
unwillingness to accept the fact that things can go wrong. We are all 
human beings. Things go wrong; mistakes are made. The key is to fix 
them. The key is to not make the same mistakes twice, or in this case, 
many, many, many times over. And the fact that a few soldiers had to go 
through this is a shame. But when the problem isn't fixed, when the 
problem continues and we have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of 
soldiers go through this same situation, Mr. Meek, when it could have 
been fixed I think is a tragedy.

So I want to commend you for bringing this up and sharing this with 
the House of Representatives and the American people. And I want to 
commend you for your service on the Armed Services Committee in these 
difficult times and a lot of the tough decisions that you have to make 
on that committee.

So I yield back to my friend, and I apologize for having to cut out 
on you early; but you are doing all right on your own.