---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2d5fa50039704e94412535a6e763a3d7`
`Mr. DODD — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, this past week the President of the United 
States warned of the ''disastrous consequences'' and ''chaos'' which 
could occur in Iraq if we fail in that country. Once again the 
President's statements demonstrate how out of touch he is on this 
issue.

Iraq already is in a state of chaos. The American people know it and 
the Iraqi people know it, most painfully. Unfortunately, we already are 
dealing with the ''disastrous consequences'' of 4 years of this 
administration's failed policy in Iraq.

This chaos became inevitable the day the President invaded Iraq 
without a viable plan for winning the peace. And this chaos has been 
further compounded by 4 years of consistent failure by this 
administration.

The President's plan to surge forces into Iraq is no different from 
previous surges, including Operation Together Forward, which only 
resulted in more violence. Despite all of our military strength, the 
United States cannot through force alone instill Iraqis with democratic 
values or end the sectarian civil war in that country.

We have before us this afternoon a very direct, succinct nonbinding 
resolution. The language is unequivocal in expressing opposition to the 
President's surge. I am strongly opposed to the ''surge'' and will 
therefore vote in a favor of this straightforward, simple resolution 
expressing that opposition.

Surely our colleagues on the other side of the aisle can vote on a 
simple resolution stating whether they support the President's surge.

This is a vote on whether you support the President's Iraq war 
policy, without caveat or qualifier. And if this Chamber is ever 
allowed to get to a vote on this measure, a majority of this body will 
vote aye and therefore be publicly on record against the President's 
proposed policy to put even more of our soldiers in harm's way in 
Iraq's civil war.

If Congress had wanted to express its opinion on this important 
issue, this vote should have been among the first steps taken back in 
January, immediately after the President announced his intention to 
escalate our military involvement in Iraq.

Nearly 5 weeks have passed since that announcement. In those 5 weeks 
we have heard from experts across the political spectrum explain why 
the surge won't work and explain that there is no military solution to 
the conflict in Iraq.

Yesterday, the House of Representatives sent a message to the 
President and to the American people with their vote on this resolution 
opposing the surge. And yet the President has unwaveringly declared 
that he will stay the course. It's full speed ahead in the words of 
Vice-President Cheney.

We all know that and up-or-down vote on this resolution is not 
enough. Yes, I oppose the President's proposed surge. But I oppose much 
more than that--I oppose the President's overall strategy in Iraq.

So let's be realistic and understand that our pronouncing ourselves 
on the measure before us today will do nothing to force the President 
to change course in Iraq.

It will do nothing to get our troops out of harms way.

It will do nothing to improve the lives of Iraqi civilians.

American combat brigades are being asked to carry out a mission that 
is unachievable; namely, to bring an end to Iraq's civil war through 
military force.

Only a political solution can salvage Iraq.

Regrettably, we are in the fourth year of this conflict, and for some 
reason, this administration is still failing our troops. The 
President's proposed surge tactic will send thousands of American G.I.s 
into a battle with inadequate protection and training and on a mission 
which they will be unable to achieve.

Last month, Senator Kennedy and I sent a letter to Defense Secretary 
Gates demanding that he address reported shortfalls among two combat 
brigades being deployed as part of the President's proposed surge 
without the most up-to-date armored vehicles, vehicles that have been 
designed to withstand explosions and provide significantly better 
protection for our troops.

Just this week, media accounts of a classified Defense Department 
inspector general's report cited significant problems in outfitting our 
forces with a variety of vehicle armor to protect troops from IEDS.

How much more of this can we allow to stand? How many more of these 
reports should we tolerate until we say enough is enough?

The only way to reverse course in Iraq is to demonstrate to the 
President that it's no longer business as usual--that this Congress 
will not continue to support funding for the President's failed 
strategy, which is needlessly harming our troops and weakening our 
national security.

It is essential that we find a better use for the funds being 
allocated for the President's surge. We need to redirect U.S. funds to 
immediately begin to redeploy combat forces within and out of Iraq, to 
focus on counterterrorism and training of Iraqis, to put pressure on 
all of Iraq's leaders--not just the Maliki government--to seek and 
reach necessary and painful political compromises, and to ensure the 
security and political rights of all Iraqis.

We must also acknowledge how broken our own military is as a result 
of the Iraq war and redirect a portion of the funds proposed for Iraq 
to restore our own military's readiness.

It is time that this Congress moves beyond debating non-binding 
resolutions about the surge. It is time for the Congress to debate how 
much longer and under what circumstances we are prepared to support 
funding for a continued U.S. presence in Iraq.



That is the debate the American people want to hear, that is the 
debate our courageous and dedicated troops deserve.