---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `2d641ba0988a2e242200b4b3eba4da85`
`Ms. SNOWE — 20 May 2010`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today, along with Senator Mary 
Landrieu, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, to introduce the Strengthening Entrepreneurship for 
America's Veterans Act. This critical legislation, which is a slightly 
modified version of language we included in S. 1229, the 
Entrepreneurial Development Act of 2009, will establish a nationwide 
Veterans' Business Center program, housed at the Small Business 
Administration, or SBA, to tailor counseling and outreach programs for 
aspiring veteran entrepreneurs. This program will build on the 
extraordinary work of the SBA's Office of Veterans Business 
Development, headed by Bill Elmore, which currently oversees eight such 
centers and last year counseled or trained over 120,000 veterans.

According to the Department of Veteran Affairs, almost 2 million 
brave American men and women have deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq 
since the beginning of combat operations in September 2001, nearly 1.2 
million of whom are now veterans. Regrettably, the unemployment rate 
among these veterans stands at 13.1 percent over three percentage 
points higher than the national average. It is critical that when our 
Nation's service-members return from duty, they receive the assistance 
they deserve to seamlessly assimilate back to civilian life.

Many of these veterans are aspiring entrepreneurs seeking to open 
their own business and live the American dream. To assist them in their 
efforts, our legislation establishes a Veterans' Business Center 
program to create a nationwide network of entrepreneurial assistance 
centers for veterans and reservists, along with their spouses and 
surviving spouses. Each center would receive an annual grant between 
$150,000 and $200,000 for a 5-year period, followed by the opportunity 
for additional 5-year renewal periods. These centers would provide 
specific education, training, advice, and counseling tailored to 
eligible individuals regarding financing planning and access to 
capital; management and business operations; marketing and advertising; 
procurement and contracting opportunities; and other general small 
business opportunities for reservists and their spouses.

Furthermore, each district office under the auspices of the SBA would 
be required to designate one employee to serve as a ''veterans business 
ownership representative'' responsible for increasing coordination 
between that region's Veterans' Business Center and SBA district 
office, to leverage resources and perform outreach to a greater number 
of veterans.

Additionally, our legislation will ensure proper oversight of the 
recently formed Interagency Task Force on Veterans Small Business 
Development by requiring the SBA to issue biennial reports to Congress 
regarding the establishment and progress of this body. This task force 
was included in the Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business 
Reauthorization and Opportunity Act which Senator John Kerry and I 
fought for last Congress and which was signed into law by former 
President George W. Bush on February 14, 2008. After more than 2 years 
of delay, the task force was finally established by Executive Order on 
April 26 of this year.

The purpose of the task force is to coordinate the efforts of Federal 
agencies necessary to increase capital and business development 
opportunities for, and increase the award of Federal contracting 
opportunities to, small businesses owned and controlled by veterans. 
Given that we are fast approaching the ninth anniversary of the 
commencement of Operation Enduring Freedom, this type of coordinated 
and targeted effort by our Federal government is long overdue.

Finally, our bill includes several additional reporting requirements 
to ensure that the Veterans' Business Center program is being 
administered effectively and providing truly unique and proper 
resources, counseling, assistance, and training to veterans. Because 
credit to small businesses remains stifled, one of these reports will 
explore the sources of credit utilized by veteran-owned small 
businesses, obstacles faced by veterans trying to access credit, and 
the extent to which deployment and other military responsibilities 
affect the credit history of veterans and reservists. This crucial 
report will provide a detailed picture of the access to credit 
landscape confronting veteran entrepreneurs, and will afford us an 
opportunity to make necessary policy changes that alleviate any 
challenges they face.

As our service-members and reservists answer our Nation's call to 
duty, we must similarly fulfill our obligations to help protect their 
livelihood back home. That is why I am pleased to be introducing this 
critical legislation today with Chair Landrieu, and I pledge to push 
for its passage before the end of this Congress.