# None
## `2d735b0e7109515070a156b37b0d1c76`
`Ms. DeLAURO — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the rule and the 
underlying legislation. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act 
is an important step toward a more straightforward, just tax system. I 
commend Chairman Rangel for his tireless leadership.

Among other things, this bill will allow IRS employees to refer 
taxpayers needing assistance to qualified low-income taxpayer clinics, 
boost outreach, supporting the earned income tax credit. For so many 
families facing such great income insecurity during these difficult 
times, the EITC is a powerful initiative whose benefits reach our 
entire economy.

In particular, I want to recognize Representative Ellsworth and 
highlight this bill's Fair Tax Provision, rooted in our belief that no 
one, no one, should receive special privileges under our tax system. 
After all, what does it say about our Nation and our priorities when 
American companies like Kellog, Brown & Root, by far the largest 
contractor in Iraq, are allowed to take their Department of Defense 
dollars and filter them through offshore shell companies in order to 
avoid paying significant Social Security and Medicare taxes? It is my 
understanding that there are no other contractors in Iraq who are doing 
this.

KBR, which received a no-bid contract to rebuild Iraq's oil 
infrastructure and provides logistical support to the military, employs 
roughly 14,000 Americans in Iraq, and nearly all of them, approximately 
10,500, are listed as employees of two Cayman Islands' shell companies, 
contracted by KBR solely to avoid paying payroll taxes for those 
workers.

And that means big cost savings passed on to a Defense Department 
that is contracted to reimburse KBR for all its labor costs while 
guaranteeing a profit, a Defense Department that is more than ready to 
look the other way as long as the bottom line works out in its favor. 
Indeed, the department knew KBR was shirking its responsibilities since 
2004; yet they took no action. This kind of setup may mean a smaller 
price tag on any particular contract, but the long-term costs to the 
government and the taxpayer are far greater, $846 million over 10 
years, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. And the only one 
who really wins in the end is the company who gets the contract thanks 
to its unfair competitive advantage.

Mr. Speaker, these practices must end. This bill amends current law 
to treat foreign subsidies of U.S. companies under contract with the 
U.S. Government as American employers. And it changes the degree of 
common ownership to 50 percent, ensuring that more companies owing 
taxes are subject to the new law and greater transparency.