---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2d7793f7fe5aed502e9c29875f222cee`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE â€” 21 November 2009`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, I had the occasion to listen to some 
of the remarks of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle. It 
forces the conclusion that the irony department of the Republican Party 
is working overtime these days.

The criticisms of this bill are over deficit and cost. We are hearing 
these criticisms about deficit from the party that, when it had control 
in the Bush years, ran up over $8 trillion in our national debt--$8 
trillion, the biggest spendthrifts in history, an orgy of fair-weather 
debt. They didn't have any hesitation about deficits then. On the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, we have never heard any interest in having 
those paid for on a current basis. Borrowing for wars is completely 
satisfactory to them, it appears. When they had the chance to amend 
Medicare, they added Part D, and they ran up the cost immensely by 
providing a special protection for the pharmaceutical industry so that 
it can dictate prices to the Federal Government. The Federal Government 
can't negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry for Part D 
pharmaceuticals. That costs the Federal Government a fortune. Do they 
mind? No. They spend on deficits over and over. Now, when at last we 
take on the insurance industry, suddenly they discover a concern about 
deficits. Well, I would urge that based on that trajectory, these 
remarks have a lot less to do with the deficit than they do with 
protecting the insurance industry.

There is another clue of this as well, and that is the concern about 
cost. We all, indeed, are concerned about cost. But I think the best 
thing we could do about cost in health care is to pass a public option. 
Why do I say that? I say that because the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office has said that changes in government policy which we 
adhere to in this bill have the potential to yield large reductions in 
both national health expenditures and Federal health care spending 
without harming health. It is not just a possibility. He goes on to 
say: Many experts agree on the general direction in which the 
government must go to get those cost savings. But they conclude they 
can't put a specific score on them yet for the following reason: The 
specific changes that might ultimately prove most important cannot be 
foreseen today and could be developed only over time through 
experimentation and learning.

Now, who is going to develop those changes that will save costs while 
improving the quality of our health care system over time through 
experimentation and learning? The public options. There will be public 
options, if the original health plan is followed, in all 50 States. 
Each would have to stay within its State on balance, solvent, could not 
go to the Federal Treasury to make up losses. So they have to look for 
reform in order to continue to succeed. They would be 50 engines of 
reform, of experimentation, and of learning.

Who is against the public options? The insurance industry, because 
they don't want the competition. They love an environment in which they 
are immune from the antitrust laws--almost uniquely in American 
business--and in which they have incredible market share. In many 
cases, there are only two dominant insurers in the entire market around 
this country. So they love having these huge market shares to be able 
to dictate price, to be immune from the antitrust laws, and they don't 
want the competition.

Guess who else is against the public options. Our Republican friends. 
It is very hard to find any daylight between the position of the 
insurance industry and the position of our Republican friends.

The problem with this is that it is not just about numbers and it is 
not just about statistics; it is about people. It is about people by 
the hundreds of thousands, but it makes their stories better when you 
actually come down to cases. So let me mention a few cases.

I talked a few weeks ago about one of my very dearest family members 
who fell victim to the system when his insurance company tried to deny 
him the indicated treatment prescribed by a world-class physician from 
the National Institutes of Health on the grounds that it was so-called 
''not the indicated treatment.'' This was an individual who had 
received a devastating diagnosis. He had gone to the top expert for 
that diagnosis in the country at the National Institutes of Health. He 
had been told what he should do. He had been told, indeed, that was 
very standard. This was not anything exotic; this was essentially the 
automatic way you should treat a particular condition. When he filed it 
with his insurance company, some faceless bureaucrat said: No; we know 
better than the top expert at the National Institutes of Health. That 
is not the indicated treatment.

From that, and from thousands and thousands of Americans who have had 
their claims denied and have had insurers try to intrude between them 
and their doctor and interfere with the care their doctor thinks they 
need, we can tell one thing: the insurance companies do this for a bad 
motivation, which is to save costs. Of all of the stories I have heard, 
of all of the stories our colleagues have related here on the Senate 
floor, never once has there been a story of an insurance company that 
stepped in and said: Oh, wait a minute, that is not the indicated 
treatment; the indicated treatment is actually more expensive than what 
your doctor has indicated. Always, it is less expensive. Go figure.

I wish to share another story today about a person who is close to 
me, a member of my staff. His name is Richard Pezzillo, and he has 
hemophilia. He has gotten the treatment he has needed so far, but he 
has been lucky, and it illustrates how luck now enters into our 
equation in health care.

In 2003, after a very turbulent airplane flight, Rich unfastened his 
seatbelt from the airplane, collected his things, and suddenly realized 
things were going badly wrong. He started to feel tremendous pain. He 
started vomiting blood. Simply wearing his seatbelt in that turbulent 
aircraft had caused Rich to begin to bleed internally, inside of his 
stomach, eventually requiring that his gallbladder be removed.

Rich is a kind and thoughtful young man from North Providence, RI. He 
was hospitalized in very serious condition. He spent nearly 3 weeks in 
the hospital. Thankfully, he received excellent treatment, and today he 
works here in my Washington office. The doctors, the nurses, and the 
hospital staff in Rhode Island gave Rich the best treatment. He now 
leads an energetic, vigorous life and does well at a challenging job.

But the stunning part about Rich's story is his treatment and his 
treatment cost--$1.5 million. At least that is what they said. If you 
look at a copy of the billing sheet, you will see that the insurance 
company said that his billing, here, for instance, was $366,240.

The insurance company allowed only $106,000. That is what was 
actually paid, which gives you a sense of how much funny business is 
going on in the private health insurance industry and in the health 
care sector, when an insurance company can get away with paying about 
one-third of the bill's cost.

We have heard a lot of talk about how burdensome it is for Members of 
Congress to make it through a 2,000-page long health care bill. If you 
actually reduce its size to the substantive


language--and I am elaborating on what the House bill would do, which 
is about the same as ours--the substantive language is less than a 
Harry Potter novel. My daughter could read Harry Potter novels when she 
was 13. I don't think it is asking too much of our colleagues to plow 
through a bill that represents one-sixth of our economy--when it is the 
size of a Harry Potter novel. It would be a good idea.

Rather than fighting about the 2,000-page bill, how about Rich's $1.5 
million health care bill? The hard truth is, Rich was able to get 
lifesaving treatment because he was lucky, since he hadn't graduated 
from college yet and was still covered by his parents' insurance 
policy. Because he was covered, the hospital only charged his insurer 
less than half of that--$106,000. What if things had been different? 
What if he needed treatment a couple of years later when he wasn't on 
his parents' policy and couldn't afford his own? What if he had applied 
for his own coverage but was denied by an insurance company because his 
illness was deemed a preexisting condition? What if Rich's father lost 
his job and his health insurance along with it or what if Rich's 
parents' policy had a limit on benefits, and they had to pay the rest 
of the $1.5 million out of pocket?

Rich would have been a victim not just of his illness but of the 
health care status quo. If he or his family had been uninsured, they 
almost certainly would not have been able to afford the full care Rich 
needed. Their financial future would have been irrevocably altered--
probably ruined.

Luck is no way to run a health care system. Unfortunately, Americans 
need all the luck they can get when dealing with health insurance 
companies that use every bit of their bureaucratic guile and financial 
might to delay and deny health insurance benefits they are obligated to 
provide.

For example, in March 2006, the Arizona Department of Insurance 
ordered health insurance giant United Healthcare to pay fines of more 
than $364,000--the largest in the department's history. Regulators 
found that the company illegally denied more than 63,000 claims by 
doctors without examining all of the information needed to accept or 
deny a claim. It looks as if they were just on automatic pilot to deny 
them.

In January 2008, California insurance regulators found that a 
subsidiary of United Healthcare had committed more than 130,000 
violations of law in handling claims. For example, the company 
inappropriately denied more than $750,000 in claims on the grounds that 
insureds had a preexisting condition. The regulators found that the 
companies ''made large-scale and willful decisions to use broken 
systems to process claims and respond to providers, while continually 
and effectively collecting premiums.'' The total potential liability of 
the company for all violations is $1.3 billion.

Last year, United Healthcare's CEO, Stephen Helmsley, made $3.2 
million and holds almost $120 million in stock options.

The health care reform bill we are talking about today would right 
this massive power imbalance between the health insurance industry and 
ordinary Americans who are getting rolled over by it. It would empower 
average Americans to take control of their health and financial future. 
Rather than taking their health insurance premium dollars to the health 
insurance ''casino,'' they could take them to the bank.

Unfortunately, many on the other side of the aisle wildly 
misrepresent both the status quo and how reform would empower 
consumers. The opponents of reform depict our bill as an Orwellian 
takeover of the system.

Madam President, let me close with a story that illustrates how 
ironic and completely wrong these cries of ''death panels'' or 
''government interference'' really are.

In 2000, Christiane Hymel--insured by a subsidiary of Blue Cross Blue 
Shield of Louisiana--scheduled an appointment for a routine physical. 
During the examination, she reported to her doctor her history of back 
pain and weakness in her legs over the past year and a half. Her doctor 
ordered x rays of her spine and referred her to a neurologist.

The neurologist, after detecting troubling symptoms, ordered an MRI. 
In accordance with her insurance policy, the doctor sent Blue Cross a 
request to preauthorize the MRI. The day before the MRI was scheduled, 
Blue Cross denied that request on the basis that the service was for a 
preexisting condition--Mrs. Hymel's back pain.

Mrs. Hymel appealed the insurance company's decision in accordance 
with the terms of her policy, but Blue Cross never processed the 
appeal.

After Blue Cross denied coverage for the MRI, Mr. and Mrs. Hymel were 
told that the MRI would cost about $4,000. They started saving up for 
it. It took 3 months to save up the money necessary to pay cash for the 
procedure, but they eventually did. The MRI showed that Mrs. Hymel had 
massive tumors involving ''nearly the entire cervical and thoracic 
[spinal] cord.'' She was immediately scheduled for surgery. Helpfully, 
Blue Cross stepped in to deny coverage for that as well, stating it was 
for a preexisting condition.

Mrs. Hymel's neurosurgeon later testified at trial:




 Tumors inside the spinal cord are growing tumors, as they 


 grow, they cause damage to vital structures in the spinal 


 cord, which are important to walking, sensation, and 


 breathing.


The longer the wait in removing a tumor, the more damage the tumor 
will cause to the spinal cord. The doctor testified:




 Two-thirds of Mrs. Hymel's current condition and 


 disabilities were the direct result of the growth of the 


 tumor during the 3 to 4-month delay between the time Blue 


 Cross denied the MRI until the time Mrs. Hymel was able to 


 pay for it by herself. Additionally . . . this delay also 


 caused the tumor's quick recurrence, necessitating the second 


 surgery.


In ruling for Mrs. Hymel in her lawsuit against Blue Cross, the court 
described the consequences for Mrs. Hymel of this 3-month delay the 
insurance company caused by denying her MRI:




 Mrs. Hymel testified that when she first woke up from 


 surgery, she could not move her arms or head and she thought 


 she was paralyzed. She felt painful burning sensations in her 


 body. . . . While she was in the surgical ward, she 


 contemplated committing suicide. During her hospital stay, 


 she suffered from bowel obstruction, fecal impaction, and had 


 to wear diapers. Mrs. Hymel didn't see her children in the 


 hospital until two weeks after the surgery, and when her 


 children finally saw her, they were scared of her and would 


 not touch her. Mrs. Hymel spent approximately eight months in 


 a wheelchair after her surgery.



 Mrs. Hymel is house-bound, she cannot take a shower, work 


 in her garden, ride a bike, swim, or drive, as she had 


 frequently enjoyed prior to the surgery. . . . Mrs. Hymel 


 must also take large doses of medication to relieve the 


 burning and shocking sensations from which she suffers. She 


 cannot be touched on her back or leg, because the second 


 something touches her lower back, it's like fireworks that go 


 off.


Every day that insurance companies delay or deny payment is another 
day they earn interest on your premiums, adding to their profits and 
adding to the funds that support their massive executive pay packages. 
When Blue Cross of Louisiana failed to pay for Mrs. Hymel's MRI, it 
wasn't just making a mistake, it was making a calculated decision--a 
heartless, profit-maximizing decision. Christiane Hymel's story isn't 
just a sad tale, it is a symptom of a disease that is spreading through 
the private health insurance system.

For many Americans like Christiane and Rich, our health care system 
is a casino, where a roll of the dice or spin of the roulette wheel 
determines one's fate. Such an irrational and random system doesn't 
comport with the society that Franklin Roosevelt described in his 1944 
State of the Union:




 We have come to a clear realization of the fact that true 


 individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and 


 independence. Necessitous men are not free men.


These days I think it would be more proper to say necessitous men and 
women are not free men and women.

By passing health care reform, we will take health insurance off the 
casino floor for the average American family and make it a reliable 
part of every family's economic foundation. No longer will happenstance 
or chance determine whether treatment will be paid for. No longer will 
the casino wheel determine whether Rich Pezillo gets his treatment or 
that Christiane Hymel does not. Parents of kids like Rich Pezillo would 
not worry whether their son's illness could lead him to be


turned down for that preexisting condition or whether a layoff or lack 
of insurance could deny their son the treatment he needs.

Necessitous men and women are not free men and women. Let's redeem 
FDR's promise by passing health care reform. Let's bear in mind, as we 
go forward, the nature of the arguments that are made against health 
care reform and the astonishing coincidence between the arguments made 
between health care reform by our Republican colleagues and by the 
barons of the health insurance industry. There seems to be literally no 
daylight between those arguments.

If we are going to turn around the extraordinary spiraling costs of 
health care, we are going to have to do it by reforming the delivery 
system. The best way to do that is the public option. Yet they oppose 
it.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.