---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2d7e33fca949cadbaa85799baf170054`
`Mr. OBEY — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we have a tough problem before the House today. We have 
a war which the majority of this House despises. We have a war that we 
do not have the power to end so long as the President is as 
obstreperous as he has been on the subject. That means that we have to 
find a way to try to manage this problem in a way that sends a clear 
message to the public that they are the only ones who can, in fact, 
muster the power to change direction on this war by electing a 
President who will get us out of this war. It also means we have to 
manage it in such a way that we set the table for the new President to 
give him at least a few months to think through how he is going to 
proceed to extricate us from this war and to get his ducks in a row on 
Iraqi policy. Therefore, we are taking the Senate bill and we are 
asking the House to consider three amendments and work their will on 
it.

The first amendment is very simple. It's an up-or-down vote on 
providing the funding to pay for the equipment and to pay for the 
salaries for the troops as long as they are going to be in the war 
situation. That money will be estimated to run out by June of 2009.

The second amendment would simply be an up-or-down vote on the 
conditions that the House believes should appropriately be attached to 
the spending of that money, many of which the House has seen before. 
Those conditions will, among other things, require that virtually every 
unit sent to the war be fully combat ready. They will provide that no 
one who works for the United States may engage in interrogation 
techniques that are at variance with the Army Field Manual. In plain 
language, no torture. The conditions will also say that there shall be 
no long-term security agreements entered into with Iraq without 
submission of those agreements to the United States Senate for their 
consideration. It will establish a timetable for extricating ourselves 
from combat by setting a goal, not a firm date but a goal, of 18 months 
from the date of enactment.

Also, we have added two conditions which would have the effect of 
requiring Iraq to provide a dollar-for-dollar match for any of the 
redevelopment and reconstruction activities that are being carried out 
by the United States Government. The effect of that would be the 
functional equivalent of turning 50 percent of what we provide to Iraq 
into loans. We've done it this way because we have faith that the loans 
would ever be repaid, and this way we guarantee that the Iraqis, who 
are now about to develop very large surpluses in their own budget--they 
will have to meet these costs up front on an equal basis before the 
United States proceeds to expend its own money. And it would also 
require that the American military be provided gasoline in Iraq at the 
same subsidized price as the Iraqis are being subsidized. We don't see 
why the United States troops who are defending that country ought to 
have to pay a premium.

Then we will have a third amendment, again up or down, on the other 
administration requests. Those include food aid. We've increased the 
international food aid recommended by the President by $745 million. 
Anybody who has read the newspapers or watched television for the last 
2 weeks understands why that is a moral necessity. We have also 
included the administration request for the Louisiana levies exactly as 
they have requested it as fiscal 2009 money. We have responded to a 
request from the Bureau of Prisons to provide $178 million so that they 
do not have to lay off prison guards and other personnel in the U.S. 
prison system. The Secretary of Commerce has requested that we provide 
additional funding because they run into technology problems at the 
U.S. Census Bureau; so we have responded to that with a $210 million 
appropriation. We have also added $2.2 billion in military construction 
funds above the President's request to fully fund the administration's 
2008 BRAC requests. We have also included $210 million for military 
child care centers, which the President from that rostrum told the 
country he was for but neglected to ask the money for in his budget 
this year.

There are no Members' projects whatsoever in this bill. In the 
military construction portion of the bill, for instance, there are 121 
facilities that are provided for; 111 of those were specifically asked 
for by the White House, and the others were identified by the committee 
as top service priorities after testimony from the military services.

There's only one proposal that could be really considered a specific 
project earmark, and that is one hospital which the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense asked to be included in the recommendations, and we're 
providing planning funds for that facility.

In addition, the other items in that third amendment to be considered 
would deal with the following:

If we're going to fight the war, we happen to believe that we ought 
to provide a ''thank you'' to the people who have fought it, especially 
because there has been no sense of shared sacrifice in this country. 
The only people who have been asked to sacrifice are military families 
again and again and again. So what we are doing is including the Webb 
bill, which would provide for the equivalent of a full-boat 4-year 
education at a public university for persons who have spent 36 months 
on active duty, and the benefits are scaled down in accordance with 
time served. It's long past time that we do that.

We have also included emergency funding for unemployment compensation 
so that for persons who have exhausted their unemployment benefits, 
they will have an additional 13 weeks available to them.

We have also in this amendment recommended delaying the 
administration's rules changes in Medicaid that have been so 
controversial, and we include two contractor reforms which the House 
had already passed.

The main difference, Mr. Speaker, between this bill and the 
administration's bill is that we pay for everything in the bill except 
the unemployment compensation provision and the President pays for 
virtually none of his requests.



Now I prefer to pay for the entire war if we are going to have it. I 
don't think we ought to have it. But if we were going to have it, I 
thought we ought to pay for the whole thing. So did Mr. Murtha and Mr. 
McGovern. So we introduced legislation to pay for the whole war with 
the war surtax. We lost that argument. That is not in this bill.

I felt that if we weren't going to pay for the war up front, then 
there should be no requirement to provide an offset to provide the 
additional GI Bill expanded benefits, which are the equivalent of only 
about 6 percent of the cost of this war so far. But I lost that 
argument, too.

And so this bill does pay for the expansion of GI benefits. And it 
pays for that in probably the best way possible, by asking the most 
fortunate citizens in our society, those who individually make $500,000 
or more a year, or as a couple who make $1 million or more a year, we 
are asking them to help out in the form of a patriot premium by, in 
essence, asking them to pay a one-half of 1 percent surtax in order to 
finance the GI Bill expansion.

As I look at this bill, what we are doing is we are asking people 
who, on average, have gotten a $126,000 annual tax cut to take a tiny 
portion of that


tax cut to help us make life better for the persons who have been doing 
the most in order to preserve the way of life which has enabled those 
people to do so well in life. And I make no apology for it.

Ninety-nine percent of the appropriated dollars in the bill--99 
percent of the appropriated dollars in this bill--are being requested 
by the administration.

This war, Mr. Speaker, has screwed up our economy. This war has 
injected chaos in the lives of military families all across the 
country. We make no apology in trying to use this vehicle to respond to 
the needs of the two groups in society who have been hit the hardest by 
this war; one being those who have lost their jobs because of the 
turmoil we have had in the economy because of the war and other 
factors, and second, the military families whom we believe ought to be 
treated about as well as the GIs were when they came back from World 
War II. This war has now lasted longer than World War II. And we think 
we have an obligation to respond to what is actually out there on the 
ground in communities all across the country.

We can debate our political philosophies. We can debate our economic 
theories. We can behave like little budgeteers, arguing about this 
comma and that comma, this offset and that offset. But in the end, we 
are dealing with the lives of human beings. We are dealing with the 
lives of families. We are dealing with people who have sacrificed 
incredibly much with their family members being sent to Iraq and 
Afghanistan once, twice, three times. Kids are not seeing their 
parents.

I represent a city of 37,000 people. We have had almost 35,000 
casualties in this country. It is as if 4,000 people in my hometown 
were killed, and virtually every other person in that hometown wound up 
in a VA hospital. That is the human toll that has been paid so far just 
by Americans on this war.

So this is a process which will give Members the opportunity to vote 
up or down on the major pieces that comprise this legislation.

And I urge the House to move forward.

I, myself, will be intending to vote against the first amendment. I 
will be voting for the second and the third amendment. I hope that 
every Member here today exercises his conscience. That is what they are 
supposed to do.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.