---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `2d886cbf42589475812b4e9c45e2ff4f`
`Ms. PELOSI — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, thank you very much. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding and commend him for his exceptional leadership in bringing 
this important legislation to the floor. I also acknowledge the 
leadership of Mr. Murtha and Mr. Skelton for all that they are doing to 
make our country safer and to support our troops.

Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq is the greatest ethical challenge facing 
our Nation. This is so because our troops are being sent into battle 
without the training, equipment. And the strategic plan for success 
because the administration is not honoring our commitment to our 
veterans and because the Iraqi war has strained our military, and 
therefore weakened our ability to fight the war on terrorism.

By placing an unacceptable strain on our military, this war is 
undermining our ability to protect the American people. Instead of 
making the American people safer, the war in Iraq has weakened our 
ability to protect our Nation from the threat posed by international 
terrorism, I repeat.

As Major General Petraeus said, right now we are not prepared. We are 
not prepared for the threat this Nation faces here at home. And, 
because in this business you cannot be half ready or half prepared, you 
are either ready or you are not.

We have put our citizens at greater risk. We have put their lives at 
greater risk, their property, our economy, our way of life, and that is 
just unacceptable.

Instead of strengthening our hand, the President's policies in Iraq 
have weakened our reputation in the world and diminished our ability to 
lead the international effort against terrorism, which again is the 
real threat.

With U.S. focus on Iraq, the war in Afghanistan has intensified 
because of the resurgence of the Taliban and al Qaeda in the absence of 
the fullest effort on our part there.

As Major General John Baptiste said, Here is the bottom line. 
Americans must come to grips with the fact that our military alone 
cannot establish a democracy. We cannot sustain the current operational 
tempo without seriously damaging the Army and the Marine Corps. Our 
troops have been asked to carry the burden of an ill-conceived mission. 
End of quote, Major General John Baptiste.

Our troops have done everything that they have been asked to do and 
excellently. We salute them for their courage, their patriotism, and 
the sacrifices they and their families are making. Instead of being 
honored as the heroes they are when they come home, our wounded 
veterans are being forced to cope with a system that is not equipped to 
care for them. Preparation was not made.

Americans have been shocked by the revelations of the appalling care 
at Walter Reed. As Senator Max Cleland, a great patriot, a decorated 
Army veteran, said, Walter Reed is the ugly face of the Iraq war. It is 
a face that the American people need to see because this administration 
from the beginning never planned to deal with casualties, never planned 
for the consequences of this war.

Last fall, the American people voted for a new direction in Iraq. 
They made it clear that our troops must be given all they need to do 
their jobs but that our troops must be brought home responsibly, safely 
and soon.

The President responded to this clear call for winding down the war 
in Iraq with a policy of escalation in Iraq that has been tried three 
times previously and failed and, additionally, has burdened our already 
strained military.

The problems addressed in this bill are problems of the President's 
own making. From the start of the war, the President has failed to 
recognize and to request in his budget the funds needed by our troops 
serving in Iraq, as has been indicated by the distinguished chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee, Mr. Obey.




This is the seventh emergency appropriations bill that Congress has 
had to pass to make up for the President's failure, seven emergencies. 
What is the surprise? Why aren't they understanding the cost of this 
war in lives and health, in reputation, in dollars, and the readiness 
of our military?

Furthermore, the President's budgets have failed to provide 
adequately for the medical needs of our troops wounded in Iraq and for 
other veterans. This bill supports our troops, honors our commitments 
to our veterans, rebuilds our military, and holds the Iraqi government 
accountable. It winds down the war by providing for the responsible 
redeployment of our combat forces based on benchmarks endorsed by the 
Iraqi government and by President Bush. They are his own benchmarks.

Oddly, though, even though they are the President's own benchmarks, 
holding the administration accountable to benchmarks has been 
criticized by the administration. They are criticizing their own 
benchmarks. Yet both Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and retired 
Major General Paul Eaton, formerly in charge of training of Iraqi 
security forces, have noted the value of timelines in persuading Iraqis 
to make the political compromises needed to end the violence.

Secretary Gates noted, we are all familiar with this, it bears 
repeating, ''The strong feelings expressed in Congress about the 
timetables probably has had a positive impact . . . in terms of 
communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended 
commitment.''

General Eaton said, ''This bill gives General Petraeus great leverage 
for moving the Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out 
by the Iraq Study Group.''

My colleagues, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than World War II 
and resulted in the lowest level of American military readiness since 
the Vietnam War. It has cost thousands of American lives, tens of 
thousands, scores of thousands of Iraqi lives, plus tens of thousands 
of our soldiers to suffer grievous injuries, and will cost well over $1 
trillion if the war ended today.

The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand more 
than the blank check the President is asking for, for a war without 
end. The sacrifices demand a plan for bringing the war to an end. This 
bill contains that plan and provides the President for every dollar he 
asked for the troops, and, indeed, thank you, Mr. Murtha, much more.

I urge my colleagues to support it. I urge the President to sign the 
bill so that we can focus on winning the war against terrorism, which 
is the real threat to the American people. That is our responsibility, 
and we fully intend to honor it.