---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2d8e4fffda006b94192815c28585a42d`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last 
word.

My friend who just spoke and those on the other side of the aisle are 
fond often of quoting our Founding Fathers. I'm not a student of James 
Madison or some of his brethren, but I would think that they would be 
turning in their graves if they watched how this House worked for the 
last 12 years.

I come here as a freshman Member and I am speaking from what I saw 
from the outside. I am sure this analogy has been used here on the 
House floor over the course of the last 10 hours, but listening to 
folks on the other side of the aisle, my Republican friends, complain 
about the issues of fiscal responsibility and transparency has got to 
conjure up the image of the bull in the china shop. If you let a bull 
into a china shop for 12 years and then he just tears down everything 
off the walls, he knocks over every case, he breaks every single glass 
in there. And then in this case, he runs out of the china shop and 
says, Well, why don't you go in there and clean that up? Why doesn't 
somebody go clean up the mess that we just made?

That's what happened in this House from those of us who watched it 
from afar on the issues of transparency and on fiscal responsibility.

You know, it's interesting. I sat here last night being called back 
and forth to the floor for, I guess, eight different motions to shut 
down this House and to stop the Homeland Security bill from going 
forward, and I wondered why hadn't that happened in the last 12 years. 
Why wasn't there a night while we were wasting billions of dollars on 
this floor in Iraq, $9 billion that we found out are totally 
unaccounted for? Why didn't we shut down the House one night to talk 
about that?

As thousands of FEMA trailers were stranded on open lots in the 
southeastern United States, why didn't we shut down this House for one 
night to talk about that over the last 12 years? While $70 billion in 
corporate giveaways were handed out through the Medicare bill, why 
didn't we shut down this House to talk about that?

Millions of dollars in no-bid contracts. Record deficits year after 
year. Why on earth wasn't this House shut down like it was last night 
over the last 12 years?

The American people are probably asking that same question, and there 
is probably one answer: This House changed hands. There is a different 
party in charge. And so now there is a very different standard that 
applies here. The questions that should have been asked for 12 years, 
well, now in a political context they are being asked today.

I also don't shy away, Mr. Chairman, from the fact that as a new 
Member, I'm also one of the younger Members here. So I kind of feel 
that I have an obligation to talk for the millions of my generation 
that have just become utterly turned off to politics. And when they 
look at a House being shut down overnight into today, who knows how 
many more days, to prevent a fairly nonpartisan Homeland Security bill 
that will protect them, that will protect their parents, their 
neighbors, that will make their communities a safer place, they know 
this is about politics, not policy.

And so I think about all of those people who, as they watch this 
process unfold, are losing their faith in this institution. As angry as 
I am about the double standard that's applied, about the hypocrisy 
that's exercised on this House, this House thick with irony over the 
past several days, I think also about what people think when they see 
members of the Republican Party playing politics with the issue of 
homeland security.

Now, we hear claims that this isn't obstruction. We don't have a 
problem


with slowing down the House to talk about this. Well, I would say this. 
I think that my friends on the Republican side of the aisle, they 
vastly underestimate the gullibility of the American people. They also 
vastly overestimate the amount of patience that the American public has 
left for the games that are being played here on the House floor.

We have an obligation to do all the things that we were sent here to 
do, to fund homeland security, to protect this Nation. We also have an 
obligation to live up to the expectations that people had of this 
Congress when it changed hands, to take the politics out of this House 
and to start doing the right thing for the American people, not the 
right thing for either political party.

I would ask we don't go through tonight what we did last night, that 
we start doing what's right for the American people on policy rather 
than what's right for the Republican minority on politics.