# None
## `2d9205836e749eeaed687db0242ea0f5`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the conference report 
for H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010. This is, my friends, a very, very good bill; and we cannot ignore 
the fact that we are fighting two wars. We're fighting a war in 
Afghanistan and a war in Iraq. The conference report before us today 
reflects our efforts to strengthen the readiness posture of our Armed 
Forces. It authorizes a total of $244.5 billion for operations and 
maintenance, including $4.7 billion for Army training, $13 billion for 
Army and Marine Corps equipment reset, and $255.3 million for pre-
positioned stocks.

The conference report adds $70 million to address Navy aviation depot 
maintenance. It provides $350 million to replace rundown Army barracks, 
and adds $200 million for National Guard and Reserve construction 
projects. It funds the 2005 BRAC account at $7.4 billion and adds $100 
million to address the environmental issues at bases closed prior to 
2005.

The conference report expands the Homeowners Assistance Program and 
provides $300 million to help ensure that servicemembers who were 
forced to move during the real estate downturn are not severely 
affected financially. The conference report supports energy security by 
authorizing $12.3 million for energy conservation projects on military 
installations and programs that enable the Defense Department to reduce 
energy used during times of peak demand.

The conference report repeals the NSPS and transitions DOD civilian 
employees back to the General Schedule by January 1, 2012. At the same 
time, it provides the Department flexibilities to ensure efficient 
hiring and effective personnel management. The conference report allows 
FERS employees to receive credit for unused sick leave toward their 
retirement annuity. It provides locality pay for Federal workers in 
Hawaii, Alaska and the United States territories.

My friends, this is a good conference report that reflects our 
bipartisan desire to improve readiness and balance the many priorities 
of our military around the world and domestically. My friends, I urge 
you to support this bill. It is a good bill and it gives our troops 
what they deserve and they need.