# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `2d951dac78b8f380077cadca76cbefd1`
`Mr. SPECTER — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, there is another very important aspect, in my opinion, 
of the Senate enacting legislation on this bill; that is, we were sent 
to Washington to govern. What we have seen in the recent past has been 
staggering partisan politics. Partisan politics became a blood sport in 
Washington, DC. It is a blood sport on the floor of the Senate. It 
pervades the entire town.

The point from the Republican side of the aisle has been very clear; 
that is, to make this President Obama's Waterloo, to make this ''break 
President Obama.''

I saw the ramifications when we took up the stimulus package earlier 
this year. There were only three Republicans--Senator Snowe, Senator 
Collins, and myself--who would even talk to the Democrats. There was a 
determination to look ahead to the 2012 elections on the Presidency 
even before the ink was dry on the oath of office taken by President 
Obama on January 20. This was the second week of February, the week of 
February 6, as I recall, just a couple weeks, and already the plans 
were for the next election.

As I reviewed the matter, it seemed to me we were on the brink of 
going into a 1929 Depression. The 1929 Depression was very hard on the 
Specter family, living in Wichita, KS, at the time. Both of my parents 
were immigrants. In the mid-1930s, the family moved from Wichita to 
Philadelphia to live with my father's sister. That is what happened in 
the Depression--you moved in with relatives because there were no jobs.


I sided with supporting the stimulus package and played a key role in 
having that enacted. And the political consequences on a personal level 
are not something to be discussed on this floor at this time, but the 
conduct of partisanship on the stimulus package is directly relevant to 
what we are doing here today, and that is that we are being 
stonewalled.

I think it is harder for a Republican to stand up on health care 
reform and join the Democrats today than it was in January and in 
February when three of us did so. And if I were on the other side of 
the aisle today, I would be supporting health care reform. I would be 
supporting, and perhaps, if I were on the other side of the aisle 
today, I could bring somebody with me. I don't know. That is entirely 
speculative.

Without revealing any more of the confidence which went on inside of 
the Republican caucus, when I talk about a Republican Senator's 
statement that this should be the Waterloo of President Obama and this 
should break him, those are matters in the public record. But the 
pressure over there in the Republican caucus is absolutely intense, and 
we were sent here to govern.

In the Democratic caucus--and the Presiding Officer, the 
distinguished Senator from Colorado, was there on Monday evening--when 
my turn came to speak, I said: I have two sentences. And may the record 
show a smile on the face of the Presiding Officer. I said: I have two 
sentences. One sentence is, the bill is a great deal better than the 
current system, and the second sentence is, we should not let 
obstructionism prevent us from governing. And that is why I crossed the 
aisle to make the 60th vote. I was very surprised to see in the public 
record--been in the newspapers--that everybody stood up and applauded, 
and I read in one of the Hill newspapers today that you could hear the 
applause down the corridor. So they knew what was going on. Well, that 
is the role, it seems to me, of a Senator. We are facing a situation 
where, if defeated, it will have a significant impact on the tenure of 
President Obama.

We had a meeting on Tuesday--2 days ago--in the Executive Office 
Building, and it was a rather remarkable setting. There was a large 
rectangular table, and in the center on each side--one side was 
President Obama, the other side was Vice President Biden, and almost 
all of the 60 Senators were present. I think Senator Byrd couldn't be 
there because of his ailment, but I believe everybody else was present. 
During the course of that session, the President expressed himself--and 
this has also been publicized--that if action was not taken now, it 
would discourage anyone from the foreseeable future--any President--
from undertaking health care reform if now, with both Houses and 60 
Members of the Democratic Party, you can't get it through the Senate 
and get it conferenced and get it enacted.

Some of those who were most vocal in favor of the public option urged 
those in the caucus who disagreed to reconsider their position, and I 
would renew that request that they reconsider their position. The 
people who would classify themselves as most progressive in the 
Democratic caucus have swallowed hard and have announced publicly that 
they would support this bill even though it doesn't have a robust 
public option, doesn't have the Medicare expansion. And that may shift 
yet.

It is fair and accurate to say there are more pressing problems 
confronting the United States today than at any time in our history, 
and we have


to finish health care next year to move ahead to jobs. We have the 
issues of global warming and climate control, and we have the problems 
with the Mideast peace process and the difficulties in Iran and North 
Korea and Afghanistan. We need a strong President, and we need a 
Congress which has the courage to act and the tenacity and willingness 
to confront tough problems. We need to show the American people that it 
is not all gridlock here, that it is not all desperate, desolate 
partisan politics.

So my vote will be in favor of the bill. Although I am, frankly, 
disappointed and I share the frustration expressed by many people who 
say go back and start again, this is a significant step forward. We 
have a great chance to improve it in conference, and beyond that there 
will be another Congress. And with the analogy of civil rights 
legislation, we can get the public option and get greater public 
involvement for the benefit of the American people.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.

Mr. President, in the absence of any other Senator seeking 
recognition, I ask unanimous consent to speak up to 3 minutes on 
another subject.