---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA VOTING RIGHTS
## `2d9d93258a76c1192d277a36bc307430`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, today is Tax Day and it is 
the day that D.C. residents pay their Federal income taxes. Yet D.C. 
residents remain without a vote. D.C. residents enjoy many of the 
benefits of U.S. citizenship but they lack the vote.

The rest of the Nation votes as District residents pay their taxes 
and serve in wars abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan. Andy Shallal, a D.C. 
citizen said it best, ''People like me of Iraqi ancestry and even my 
son, who was born in the United States, are entitled to vote in the 
Iraqi's election due in large part to the service of the citizens of 
the District of Columbia and other Americans who have fought and died 
in Iraq.'' In spite of D.C. residents' service in foreign wars and even 
in the American Revolution, and every war since where U.S. was 
involved, D.C. residents cannot vote in their own country.

Tax Day is a bitter reminder to the Nation that the founders of our 
country who staged their revolution for representation would then deny 
representation to residents of their very


own capital city. Professor Viet Dinh, President Bush's former 
assistant attorney general for constitutional matters, has wiped away 
the major argument that because the District is not a state, its 
American citizens cannot vote in the House by detailing the many ways 
in which ''since 1805 the Supreme Court has recognized that Congress 
has the authority to treat the District as a state and Congress has 
repeatedly exercised this authority.'' My favorite is the 16th 
amendment which requires only that citizens of states pay Federal 
income taxes. Why then have District residents continuously been taxed 
without representation?

There is a terrible racial stain that has been at the core of the 
denial of the rights of D.C. citizens. Congress required the same 
racial segregation in schools and public accommodations in D.C. and 
other parts of the South until the 1954 Brown decision. As one southern 
Senator put it, ''The Negroes . . . flocked in . . . and there was only 
one way out . . . and that was to deny . . . suffrage entirely to every 
human being in the District.''

Former Republican Senator Edward Brooke, a native Washingtonian and 
the Nation's first popularly elected black Senator wrote, ''The 
experience of living in a segregated city and of serving in our 
segregated armed forces perhaps explains why my party's work on the 
Voting Rights Act reauthorization last year and on the pending D.C. 
House Voting Rights Act has been so important to me personally. The 
irony of course, is that I had to leave my hometown to get 
representation in Congress and to become a Member.''

Today, on Tax Day, we need to move to abolish the irony and the 
tragedy of the many who have come to the Nation's capital seeking 
freedom for well over 200 years. It is on this day, that D.C. residents 
pay their Federal income taxes without a vote.

Presently, only three votes are needed for Senate passage of the D.C. 
Voting Rights Bill. I am a supporter of the bill in the House. I appeal 
to your conscience and ask for your vote so that finally there will be 
a vote for your fellow Americans here, who have paid for this precious 
right many times over in blood and tears. Support the voting rights 
bill today.
