---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `2d9e9bbb357dcae4c59bc722cedb9bca`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Let me, first of all, begin by saying I'm not sure whether the 
underlying resolution introduced by Mr. Kucinich is necessarily the 
right way to approach this issue, but he and Mr. Paul are reflecting 
the anxiety, the growing anxiety, the growing fear of a lot of Members 
of Congress and a lot of people throughout this country that the United 
States of America is continuously getting sucked into wars that have no 
end, wars that are costing us dearly in terms of the lives of our brave 
men and women who serve in uniform, and it is costing us dearly in 
terms of our treasury. We're going bankrupt.

People talk about the deficit all the time around here, but the 
reality is that these wars, by and large, are not paid for--the war in 
Afghanistan, the war in Iraq. It's all going onto our credit card, and 
it's going to be paid for by my kids and my grandkids and my great-
grandkids. We are going bankrupt by the wars that we are fighting.

And I think they also reflect this feeling that we seem unable to 
make the necessary adjustments to our policy when they appear to not be 
working in the way we would like them to work. In Afghanistan, for 
example, we've been there for nearly 10 years. And the WikiLeaks 
documents that were published all over the world yesterday remind us 
that, notwithstanding all the sacrifices of the American soldiers and 
their families and all the money we have poured into that country, that 
we don't have any reliable partners.

The Afghan Government is corrupt and incompetent. The President of 
that country oversaw an election where they stuffed the ballot boxes, 
and our men and women are sacrificing their lives to prop that 
government up. We don't have a reliable partner in the Afghan police or 
in the Afghan military. And as we learned from these documents--again, 
it isn't new, but it was emphasized by the release of these documents--
that we don't have a reliable partner, by and large, with certain 
elements of Pakistan. That does not mean that we should walk away from 
Pakistan, and I want to agree with much of what my colleague from 
California (Mr. Dreier) said.

I believe it is important for the United States to support civilian 
institutions and to support democratic movements in Pakistan. I want 
the civilian government in Pakistan to be able to have control over the 
security forces and the military forces in a way that we believe that 
they are actually in control.

So I think this debate that we are going to have here today on the 
Pakistan War Powers Act is important. I'm not quite sure that this is 
the way we should deal with Pakistan with the underlying resolution, 
but I will conclude by making reference to another measure we are going 
to be voting on here today, and that is the supplemental war funding 
bill.

In light of what was released yesterday, in light of all the 
questions that have been raised, it seems to me that it is 
inappropriate for us to vote ''yes'' on a blank check for this 
administration to do whatever they want in Afghanistan. I have great 
respect for the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State and the 
President of the United States, but I have to tell you I am deeply 
troubled that, with all that is coming out, that we are not doing 
hearings, we're not doing our oversight. We're basically going to be 
asked to vote for a $33 billion package--all borrowed money--and kick 
the can down the road and let's hope when we come back in September 
that maybe things will get better.

We were told almost 1 year ago that we would never have another 
supplemental. Well, here we are doing another supplemental and we have 
a policy in Afghanistan that is not clearly defined. And so I 
understand the anxiety and the frustration of Mr. Paul and Mr. 
Kucinich. I share that anxiety and frustration as well. But it seems to 
me that we in Congress have a responsibility, too. These wars are not 
just the administration's wars. They are our wars, too. We fund them. 
We're the ones who go along with it. We're the ones who decide whether 
we're going to condition aid or whether we're going to withhold aid, 
and I think we should be doing a better job.

We have known for a long time that the Pakistan intelligence agencies 
have been undercutting our efforts in Afghanistan. They have put our 
soldiers at risk. We have known that for a long time, yet what have we 
done? So this may be a time for us to raise some of these issues, raise 
some of these questions, hopefully prompt more Members of this body to 
get involved in this debate, but also to send a signal to the 
administration that we really need to reevaluate what we're doing. We 
need to rethink some of these strategies. And if we are going in the 
wrong direction, we need to have the courage to change course if 
necessary.



With that, Mr. Speaker, I would urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous 
question and on the rule.

I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution.



The previous question was ordered.