---
---

# IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL
## `2da38952abe43961f5288e9358d97026`
`Mr. THOMAS — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, I think this is certainly one of the most 
important bills we have had before us and one, frankly, that is the 
most time-constrained of any we have had before us. Normally, we have a 
good deal of time to talk about bills and we have budget bills that 
won't go into effect until next year, but the fact is, this bill, which 
is for the funding of troops, these dollars need to be available within 
the next couple of weeks, as we understand it, of course. So it is 
important that we recognize that and that we understand the purpose of 
this bill is to fund our troops.

Whether you agree with the troops being there, the troops are there, 
and the fact is that it is up to us to provide the support they need 
and the dollars which are necessary to provide them the support they 
need in the position they are in. If there were ever a bill that should 
be recognized as having a unique purpose and should not be attached to 
other kinds of nonpertinent issues, I believe this is one. We are going 
to have the opportunity to decide whether we want to attach other 
issues to this bill and extend it, whether we want to have a situation 
where there is a veto and all those time-consuming things or whether we 
indeed want to have a clean bill that provides for the support of our 
troops who are now in Iraq and Afghanistan.

For weeks now, the President has repeatedly said he will veto the 
bill if it ties the hands of the generals on the ground. What he is 
saying is he and the generals have a plan, and the fact is the plan 
seems to be making more advances and accomplishments than we have had 
in the past, so we need to allow that to continue to work. We have all 
said the President needs a different plan. The President now has a 
different plan. There is new leadership in Iraq.

So I think we need to understand where we are with respect to this 
bill because we certainly have been on notice and are well aware of the 
looming veto. That veto would simply take more time and keep this money 
from getting where it needs to be to support the troops.

Not passing this legislation, of course, would only delay the 
critical resources and the necessary equipment and training for our 
soldiers who are getting ready to deploy or have, in fact, deployed. 
Secretary of Defense Gates has warned the Congress that if we delay 
emergency spending for our troops already deployed, many will not be 
able to come home. This is a very serious statement, and we need to pay 
attention to it.

I don't want to portray the President's plan in Iraq as being a 
success so far, but our commanders on the ground are reporting good 
news and that we are making progress, and that is what it is all about, 
of course. We need to be there until we have completed our task. I 
understand that explaining what the completion of the task is may not 
be easy, and people have different views about what that should be, but 
it is pretty clear we need to be able to get the Iraqis in a position 
to govern themselves before we can return. I am for returning as soon 
as possible, but I think setting an artificial definition for when they 
return is not appropriate anywhere and particularly not appropriate on 
this bill.

I just do not understand how Members on the other side can say one 
thing in their States and then stand and do the opposite thing--stand 
for supporting their troops in their States and then come here and have 
exactly the opposite position in Washington. At this point, we are 
where we are, and we need to have funding for our troops in the field, 
no question. Nobody would argue that, and I think no one would dispute 
that is a time sensitive issue as well.

We are going to be here this week on this bill. We are going to be 
gone next week. If the bill were to be vetoed, then we would have to go 
through that whole process. One can see that if we are going to get 
this done by the date which we have all heard, which is April 15, it is 
important we take off these kinds of things that are holding it up. We 
should not play political one-upmanship when it comes to funding our 
men and women who are in theater or are ready to deploy--I don't think 
there is any question about that--nor should we attempt to move 
legislation by buying votes for things that would be at the expense of 
our troops.

Unfortunately, the emergency legislation we have before us has been 
larded up with all manner of nonemergency spending and extraneous 
measures. Not only are we attempting to tie the President's hands by 
micromanaging the war, but we are trying to push through pet projects 
at the expense of our troops. I understand the politics of this place. 
When someone has something they would like very much to have done, the 
greatest thing to do is to put it on the bill that has to pass, and 
even though it is inappropriate, even though it is not a part of the 
purpose of the bill, of course, I understand that helps get it done. 
But the request submitted to the Congress was to have $100 billion for 
troops and hurricane relief. The bill we are considering contains an 
additional $20 billion--$20 billion--for individual Member requests, a 
minimum wage increase, and small tax packages. The last time I checked, 
none of these is an emergency, so they do not qualify for this bill. I 
understand the merits of many of these things, and they should be 
considered. But, again, in terms of how we do things here, this is an 
emergency bill, and things that are in here ought to qualify as 
emergencies or else not be on the bill.

So we have to say: Do they have merit? Of course they have merit. 
There is no question that many of them do and should be individually 
addressed in the normal legislative process. They should be considered 
because they have merit and, indeed, are worth consideration. However, 
we are also faced with the question that the majority has said we must 
get our fiscal house in order. That is what we have been hearing, but 
that is not what we have been doing. It is easy to say that, but it is 
hard to do it.

We do need to take a look at spending. This is an emergency bill--
this is outside the budget--and so it is a wonderful place to pen on a 
lot of things that are additional spending that really aren't within 
the limits of spending, which all of us seem to be so proud to be 
putting on in this Congress. So I think we have to take a look at all 
those things. Almost to a person, everyone has come to the floor and 
promised the American public that future spending would be paid 
for. These things that are added are not paid for. So we are not 
keeping that promise that has been made.


I think this week the majority will have an opportunity to stand by 
their words. We must keep Federal spending under control and 
accountable. To add things that are inappropriate, that do not fit on 
the bill, that are outside the budget--to use this opportunity is not 
being accountable. To add projects to emergency spending, which by 
definition is outside the normal budget process, is not the right way 
to accomplish this goal.

It is going to be tough. We are going to have projects that everyone 
on both sides of the aisle thinks: Oh, that is good for my State--
whether it is shrimp or spinach or whatever. So there will be support 
for those things. But the fact is, they do not belong on this emergency 
bill.

I remind my colleagues of the budget resolution for 2007 which 
explicitly defines what constitutes an emergency. It says all of the 
five following criteria must be satisfied in order for something to be 
considered an emergency: No. 1, is necessary, essential, or vital; No. 
2, sudden, quickly coming into being, and not building up over time; 
No. 3, a pressing and compelling urgent need requiring immediate 
action; No. 4, an unforeseeable, unpredictable, and


unanticipated issue; and, finally, not permanent but temporary in 
nature.

The Senate has to establish the criteria, and I think we ought to 
follow it in this budget area. I know we cannot fix the problems in 
just 1 week. There should be an effort to remove all the extraneous and 
nondefense spending. I look forward to bringing an important question 
before us, privatizing these things. The American people will soon 
learn whether the Members of the Senate have committed themselves to 
getting their financial house in order, whether they will back their 
words with action.

I yield the floor.