---
---

# DEMOCRATIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS
## `2daaa8e62a722f13af95327a30736d22`
`Mr. REID — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we have reached the end of a long, hectic, 
at times contentious and frustrating but unquestionably productive 
first year of the 110th Congress.

We welcomed back our friend and colleague, Senator Tim Johnson, who 
has made an extraordinary recovery, and we were so happy this week to 
see him walk in the Senate Chamber.

We lost a friend in Craig Thomas, said hello to his successor, Dr. 
John Barrasso, and said goodbye to Senator Trent Lott last night.

We held an unusual three Congressional Gold Medal ceremonies, three 
of them this year. That is very unusual.

We honored the Tuskegee Airmen for showing America that valor is 
color-blind.



We awarded a Gold Medal to Dr. Norm Borlaugh for putting food on the 
tables of billions of people--not millions but billions. This scientist 
figured out a way to grow a lot of food very quickly.

The Dalai Lama was awarded the Gold Medal for planting seeds of peace 
throughout the world.

Of course, we tried to address the major issues that affect us at 
home and abroad. Although these efforts occasionally ended in 
frustration, the record will show we also made real progress on behalf 
of the American people in spite of the fact that yesterday the record 
was broken--62 filibusters in 1 year; in 1 year, they broke the 2-year 
record. The record previously was 61 filibusters in a 2-year period. 
Yesterday, it was broken in a 1-year period.

But as we return home to spend the holidays with our families and 
constituents, all 100 Senators can say with confidence that we have 
taken steps to make our country safer, stronger, and more secure--I 
guess after last night, with Senator Lott's resignation, all 99 of us.

This Congress put working families first. We passed the first 
increase in the minimum wage in a decade to get the hardest working but 
least paid Americans more to make ends meet. Remember, 60 percent of 
the people who draw minimum wage are women, and for the majority of 
those women, that is the only money they get for themselves and their 
families.

We passed a bill to help Americans avoid foreclosures and keep their 
homes. According to RealtyTrac, Nevada has seen 47,000 foreclosure 
filings this year alone. This legislation is desperately needed.

We invested in community health centers, high-risk insurance pools, 
and rural hospitals to give lower income Americans a better chance for 
healthy lives.

We passed--and I was with the President as he signed it at the 
Department of Energy building today; he signed a landmark energy bill 
which will save consumers money on their heating bills, lower gas 
prices, and begin to stem the tide of global warming. For the first 
time in 32 years, we have increased fuel-efficiency standards--
extremely important. We could have done better. I am happy we got this 
done. We were one vote short because we could not get another 
Republican, one vote short of passing legislation dealing with energy 
that would have been so wonderful. It would have given long-term tax 
incentives for our great entrepreneurs in America to invest in solar, 
wind, geothermal, bio. But we will be back in the next few months and 
try that again. I feel confident that we will pick up another vote.

We also have invested in education with funding for title 1, special 
education, teacher quality grants, afterschool programs, Heat Start, 
and student financial aid--the most significant change in higher 
education as it relates to keeping kids in school and letting them go 
to school since the GI bill of rights. On higher education, we believe 
that all children, regardless of the wealth of their parents, should 
have an opportunity to go to college.

This Congress also made our country safer.

After 3 years of inaction by the Republican-controlled Congress, we 
finally have implemented the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, 
which helps secure our most at-risk cities. It gives our first 
responders the communications tools they need in an emergency and 
improves oversight of our intelligence and homeland security systems.

We provided funds to replace the equipment our National Guard and 
Reserve have lost because of the war in Iraq.

We secured permanent funds for western wildfires and other disaster 
relief that makes our country safer.

This Congress has supported our courageous troops with more than 
words but action. Despite the President's opposition, we gave every man 
and women in uniform an across-the-board 3.5-percent pay raise. We 
provided much needed funds for body armor and other protective gear to 
keep our troops safe during this combat that they fight in Afghanistan 
and Iraq.

We exposed the awful neglect at Walter Reed and other military health 
care centers. We passed the Wounded Warrior Act and other legislation 
that ensures the veterans receive the physical and mental health care 
they need.

A fair reading of the Record will show that we have not accomplished 
everything we had hoped. This was not for lack of effort by us. On 
issue after issue, a majority of the Senate expressed support for 
change, only to be thwarted by Republicans in the minority wedded to 
business as usual, the status quo.

On Iraq, a bipartisan majority of Senators consistently supported 
changing course. Like the American people, this majority is saddened to 
say that after nearly 5 years, nearly 4,000 American lives lost, more 
than 30,000 wounded, a third of them grievously wounded, and some say 
as much as $800 billion spent, there appears to be no end in sight for 
the Iraq war. But last night, I think we showed that even Republicans 
are losing support for this war. The President asked for $200 billion; 
they got $70 billion. So even the Republicans understood that the 
President should not have a blank check.

Unfortunately, the President still refused to heed the call of the 
American people to responsibly end the war, as Republican supporters in 
Congress continue to stand by him. On more than 40 separate occasions, 
the President's supporters denied the Senate from even voting on a 
change in course. Only once did they step aside and let the majority 
speak, and on this occasion the President wielded his veto pen and 
halted our efforts to begin a phased redeployment of our forces from 
Iraq so we can focus on those who attacked us on September 11, bin 
Laden and al-Qaida.

Just today, the Washington Post reports that the people of Iraq 
believe they would be better able to reconcile the nation without our 
combat presence.

A major story in the Washington Post today pronounced that the Shias 
and all their different sects, the Sunnis and all the different Sunni 
sects, and the Kurds, all agree that the invasion is the problem in 
Iraq today. We are an occupying force. I quote: The Iraqis believe our 
presence ''is the primary root of the violent differences among them 
and see the departure of 'occupying forces' as the key to national 
reconciliation . . . ''

This has been clear for a long time, and the President should start 
listening. The war will soon be starting its sixth year. Even as the 
war rages on, this Congress has made a difference. Before Democrats 
took control of Congress, the President's Secretary of Defense was 
named Rumsfeld. He and the Bush White House and the Cheney White House 
conducted the war with total impunity. No dissent was tolerated. The 
patriotism of those who raised questions was attacked openly. Billions 
of taxpayer dollars were given to companies such as Halliburton with 
little or no accountability. But this year, Democrats have fought the 
President's recklessness in the harsh light of day. We forced the 
President to set benchmarks for legislative and political progress and 
required regular reports on whether these benchmarks were being met, 
which has shown that the surge has failed to reach its main objective--
as set forth by the President, not us--political reconciliation. We 
compelled General Petraeus to testify. He has said repeatedly the war 
cannot be won militarily; it can only be won politically. We brought to 
light the Blackwater controversy and have begun to untangle the web of 
massive financial mismanagement in Iraq that has cost American 
taxpayers dearly.

Do I feel enough has been done? Of course not. Too many Republican 
Senators continue to fall in lockstep with the President on the war. It 
is frustrating for all of us who so desperately want to change course. 
The Iraq war has not been the only source of frustration. Bush-Cheney 
Republicans have set an all-time record for obstruction. They have 
almost made a sport of it. If my Republican colleagues had reached 
across the aisle to work with us more often, as we tried to do with 
them, they would have found us willing and eager to find more common 
ground.

Children's health insurance, about 15 million people have no health 
insurance in the country. But sadly, some of those people are little 
people. They are children. What we tried to do and did do on a 
bipartisan basis--and I appreciate my Republican colleagues for 
sticking with us--we passed twice a


children's health initiative that the President vetoed, a bill that 
would give 10 million children the opportunity to go to the doctor when 
they are not feeling well or even maybe for a checkup. They would have 
a place to go if they were in an automobile accident or some injury was 
suffered. The President vetoed that. So what do we have now? We have 
5.5 million less children who have more limited benefits than we would 
have given them. Instead of 10 million children with a very nice 
insurance policy, we have 4.5 million children with a bad insurance 
policy--better than nothing but not a good one.

It is my goal for the coming year to redouble our efforts of finding 
common ground. I am hopeful my Republican colleagues will join us. I 
believe this year's session will be remembered more for progress than 
setbacks. Yesterday Senator McConnell said: ''We have come to a very 
successful conclusion of this year's Congress.''

I agree and thank my Republican counterpart for those words. He and I 
have gone through some difficult times this year. The Senate has gone 
through some difficult times. Senator McConnell and I have criticized 
each other at times, never personally but on a political basis. That is 
how it is supposed to be. Senator McConnell has been at all times a 
gentleman. I have done my best to reciprocate.

I thank my 50 Democratic Senators I have the honor of being able to 
be the leader of for entrusting me with the office of majority leader. 
I am grateful for the opportunity to be a Senator. I am grateful for 
the opportunity to be the leader of these 50 wonderful men and women. I 
will continue to do the best I can during the next year, recognizing my 
failings and weaknesses, but also working on what strengths I have to 
the best of my ability.

I also take an opportunity to thank this staff, the people before the 
Presiding Officer, who do everything they can to make us look good. 
They work so hard. Some of us got home by midnight last night. Many of 
these people were here much later than that. When we get here in the 
morning, they are here earlier than we are. These are people who do all 
kinds of different work. I have been in Congress for 25 years. I don't 
understand all of what they do, but what they do makes our jobs 
meaningful and successful.

As we speak, we have plainclothes police officers here to protect us 
from the evil people who are trying every day to infiltrate this 
beautiful building and do harm to us and this building. I was a Capitol 
policeman, very proud of that. I carried a gun for the U.S. Capitol 
Police when I was going to law school. I am always trying to recognize 
their good work on our behalf.

Without identifying individuals by name, I am so grateful for the 
help I get. But I would be remiss if I did not mention two people, and 
that is Marty Paone, whom I depend on every day I am here--there are 
few hours I am here that I don't depend on him--and, of course, Lula 
Davis who runs this floor with an iron hand. I am not going to go 
through the entire staff, Trish and Tim and everybody, but I wanted to 
give special recognition to those two people who do so much for me on a 
daily basis. Then my personal staff: My chief of staff Gary Myrick, who 
works so hard and is separated from his family a lot more than he wants 
to be. That includes my entire staff, who devote long hours to me and 
the Senate and to our country. I am very grateful.

As I told my caucus today, these staff people are so well educated, 
so well trained, do so many different things. But they are interested 
in public service, trying to make this country a better place. That is 
what we are all here trying to do for our country. I wish every one a 
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.