# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2dc539ad18ff2e046c90599e8566b65d`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Chairman, let me thank my colleague for yielding, 
and I rise today to support the gentleman's amendment.

The bill before us spends some $10 billion more than the President 
requested, $7 billion more than what this bill spent last year. And 
what the gentleman seeks to do is reduce the overall amount of spending 
in this bill to the level we spent last year.

Now, our job as Members of Congress is to make decisions, decisions 
about spending, and when we keep increasing spending and increasing 
spending, guess what? There's no reason to make a decision. We don't 
have to make the tough choices because we just keep spending more.

Now, this bill is some $7 billion more than we spent last year. This 
will be on top of the bills that we've already spent this year, 
spending some 10 to $12 billion more than the President asked for and 
above last year's levels.

On top of that, there's $6 billion of additional spending that was in 
the continuing resolution in February; $17 billion more in the 
supplemental spending bill for Iraq and Katrina, over and above what 
was needed in those theaters. And the appropriation process is not 
finished yet.

What's happening here is we're continuing to spend more. We've got 
the largest tax increase in American history coming, and I thought we 
were here to ensure that our kids and their kids had a better chance in 
life than what we had. I mean, every generation of Americans has been 
proud of the fact that they left the country and left opportunities for 
our children and their children that were better than what we had. And 
I think it's our obligation to make sure that our kids have a better 
chance at the American Dream than what we had.

But we're not doing that. We're mortgaging our children's future by 
continuing to raise taxes and increase spending. We've done it all 
year, and we're not even to the end of the year yet. Now we're only in 
July and we've got numbers that will add up to close to $100 billion of 
additional spending. How much is enough? How much is enough?

I think that the gentleman's amendment is a good amendment, just to 
bring the spending level in this bill down to last year's level, and 
let's make the tough choices that the American people sent us here to 
make.