---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `2dc98aeb6f7e24f668777d90d18ed2c4`
`Mr. HOLT — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Chair, a budget is a moral document that demonstrates 
our values and priorities. I want to congratulate Chairman Spratt for 
again bringing forth a budget that represents values of which we can be 
proud. This budget would make real investments in education, hometown 
security, veterans' programs, healthcare, and research and development 
while halving the budget deficit in four years.

I am pleased that this Fiscal Year 2010 budget continues to follow 
the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) principle that the House restored at the 
start of the 110th Congress in January 2007. This ensures that every 
new dollar of spending is offset and will not worsen the deficit. 
Although the budget resolution does not set tax or spending levels, it 
does lay out the plan for the coming years to spend money and to raise 
revenues.

This budget validates the President's Inaugural declaration that we 
will ''restore science to its rightful place.'' This resolution 
restores science to its rightful place in terms of our national 
innovation investment by providing $31 billion for the science and 
research programs. In these troubled economic times, it is important to 
understand that while research lays the foundation for our long-term 
prosperity, research also creates jobs now. A report by the Information 
Technology and Innovation Foundation estimated that each additional $1 
billion investment in research would create approximately 20,000 
American jobs a year. This investment would provide jobs not just to 
scientists but also to research students, electricians who wire the 
labs, lab technicians who run the instrumentation, construction workers 
who will renovate the buildings, and many more. This job creation is 
comparable to or better than job creation for other spending, even in 
the short term, and over the long term, nothing produces jobs tomorrow 
like research today.

This budget would make a significant investment in our nation's 
energy future by building on the significant funding and tax incentives 
for renewable energy and energy efficiency that were contained in the 
recovery bill. The budget increases investments in energy programs by 
18.4 percent to create new sources of renewable energy, to improve 
energy efficiency, and to expand research and technological 
development. The budget is committed to reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions and ensures that Congress has the flexibility to consider 
legislation for increasing our nation's energy independence.

Madam Chair, this budget honors our commitment to our nation's 
children by investing in education. The budget follows on the bold 
investments made by the economic recovery bill and provides further 
support for early childhood education. The budget supports education at 
a young age through a range of approaches, including strengthening and 
expanding early childhood education programs, home visiting programs, 
and child nutrition programs such as school meals. I am pleased that 
the budget also would help make college more affordable and accessible 
for students in New Jersey and throughout the country by increasing 
funding for Pell grants and providing additional assistance for low-
income high school graduates. The budget further would expand our 
scientific workforce by tripling the number of graduate fellowships in 
science.

I am pleased that the budget addresses the fact that 46 million 
Americans are uninsured, with more than 8 out of 10 of those uninsured 
living in working families. Specifically, data from The Henry J. Kaiser 
Family Foundation show that 16 percent of New Jersey's residents were 
uninsured in 2007. This is despite the fact that health care spending 
has grown to about $7,026 per person as of 2007. According to a report 
from the Institute of Medicine, working-age Americans without health 
insurance are more likely to receive too little medical care too late 
and to receive poorer medical treatment throughout their lives. As a 
result, they are sick more often and die at a younger age. This budget 
resolution supports the President's goal for health care reform and 
provides opportunities for the relevant committees to work this year to 
draft reform legislation that will help more Americans get health 
insurance, reduce health care costs, and improve patient safety.

I strongly support the provisions in the budget that would invest 
$53.3 billion for veterans' programs, an increase of 11.5 percent over 
the 2009 level. I am pleased that the budget reverses the policies of 
the previous administration and restores health care eligibility for 
non-disabled veterans with modest incomes. This funding is more 
important than ever to treat the 908,690 Iraq and Afghanistan war 
veterans, many of whom suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, 
traumatic brain injuries, or blast-related injuries.

I also am voting for the two alternatives offered by Mr. Scott and 
Ms. Lee because, although each is imperfect, each in different ways, 
they would advance the principles of equality and justice in our 
society and the peaceful resolution of international problems. I expect 
that neither of those alternatives will prevail over the well-crafted 
compromise of Mr. Spratt, yet they are worthy of support.

Madam Chair, the budget produced by the Budget Committee, under the 
leadership of Representative Spratt, reflects values of which we can be 
proud. It supports healthcare, science and engineering research, 
education, veterans, and national security programs while maintaining 
our commitment to fiscal responsibility. By adopting this budget and 
supporting the designated funding levels throughout the appropriations 
process, we would be investing in priorities important to our future.