# DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2dcc026a572f39255cd213b30aeab4c0`
`Mr. GINGREY — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague for yielding.

I was listening to my good friend and colleague from New York who 
just spoke about the debt that we built up under the Republican 
leadership; I think he mentioned the number $3 trillion. And I don't 
think that's admirable on our part.

I want to say that I think most Members know that I'm a big fan of 
country music and one of my favorite singers is Randy Travis, and one 
of my favorite songs is ''Diggin Up Bones.'' The American people don't 
want us to be digging up bones and saying, well, you did this, or he 
hit me back first. I think what our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle need to remember, the fact that we are now in the minority is not 
so much about the miscreant action of a couple of Members on our side 
who violated the public trust or the difficult slog in Iraq. That slog 
has been difficult. But more importantly, it's this debt that has been 
built up, this fiscal irresponsibility.

This Republican Study Committee, the majority of the minority, and 
I'm proud of my Members on this side of the aisle that said enough is 
enough, the American people want us to stop spending their money.

I support this amendment, a 1 percent cut across the board. It's not 
specifically so much about this particular appropriations bill, but 
it's about all of them. We have got to stop this nonsense spending once 
and for all. This is the time to draw the line in the sand, just like 
our colleague from Colorado, the esteemed Representative Mr. Hefley, 
did every year, 1 percent across-the-board cut. I'm embarrassed that I 
didn't vote for all those amendments, but I strongly support my 
colleague from Georgia in this amendment.

And as my other colleague from Georgia said, to spend just $1 
billion, you could spend $1 a second for the next 31 years to get to 
this expenditure of $1 billion.

Support the amendment.