---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `2dd734a2d51262652e4a09e0855ee795`
`Mr. CONRAD — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, we have no such tax increase assumption in 
our budget. Here are the facts. It is true we have $400 billion more in 
revenue over the 5 years than the President has in his budget. That is 
a difference of 2.6 percent. We believe that revenue can be attained 
without a tax increase. How? The pool of money I am talking about is 
the tax gap, the difference between what is owed and what is paid. The 
vast majority of us pay what we owe, but we have a group of people who 
don't. No. 2, offshore tax havens. The Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations has told us we are losing $100 billion a year to 
offshore tax havens. I have shown many times on the floor the Ugland 
House in the Cayman Islands, a little five-story building that claims 
to be the home to 12,600 companies. How can that be, that a five-story 
building in the Cayman Islands can be the operational home to 12,600 
businesses? They are not engaged in business out of that building. They 
are engaged in monkey business. That monkey business is costing us a 
lot of money.

Now we have new evidence from the Boston Globe of another building in 
the Cayman Islands, this time a four-story building. In that building, 
they are also engaged in massive tax fraud. How? The company that is 
hiring the contractors for the United States in Iraq, KBR, is using 
that operation in the


Cayman Islands to avoid paying their Medicare and Social Security taxes 
in the amounts of hundreds of millions of dollars for one company.

The New York Times has just reported in Liechtenstein that they have 
uncovered massive tax fraud.

I would say to the American people, before we ask for a tax increase 
from anyone, we ought to go after these tax scams. What is the amount 
over 5 years? The estimates are at least $2.7 trillion. If we get 15 
percent of that--not 50 percent, 15 percent of the abuse in tax havens, 
the abuse of tax shelters, the tax gap, 15 percent of it--we can 
balance this budget with no tax increase. Yes, additional revenue, 
revenue acquired by going after people who are cheating.

Senator Dorgan and I are perhaps the only two Members who have 
actually audited the books and records of major corporations, because 
we used to be the tax commissioners for our State. I have looked at the 
books and records. I have audited the books and records. I found tens 
of millions of dollars from my little State of North Dakota. One of the 
things I learned when I did it and actually examined the books and 
records is how much fraud is going on. This is fraud not just from my 
conclusion or Senator Dorgan's conclusion, this is what has happened as 
a result of investigations by our own Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations that have uncovered massive fraud, massive cheating. We 
ought to go after it.