---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2df89e9c32e990abe3bc48a7f61ed262`
`Mr. CUELLAR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution. While 
I believe that the President as the Commander in Chief has the inherent 
authority to manage the conduct of congressionally approved military 
action, I have serious concerns that a surge in the number of U.S. 
combat troops in Iraq is not the best course of action at this time.

The deployment of 21,500 additional combat troops to Iraq is not the 
answer. I agree with former Secretary of State Colin Powell when he 
stated: ''I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad 
for the purposes of suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil 
war, will work.''

Secretary Powell is not alone in his belief. Generals Wesley Clark, 
Barry McCaffrey, John Abizaid, and James Conway have also made 
statements to this same effect.



I have traveled to Iraq and I have met with our military forces. And 
I believe our foremost commitment must be to their safety. I strongly 
believe that we must concentrate our efforts on preparing the Iraqi 
Government for the task of providing security to their own citizens. 
Our forces in Iraq should be primarily focused on training and 
supporting Iraq's own military and police.

We must continue working to shift the responsibility for security 
from the U.S. forces to those of the Iraqi Government. It is only 
through this path that we will ensure the safe and orderly return of 
our brave men and women.

Empowering the Iraqi people and the Iraqi Government must be our 
primary goal. I will continue fighting to ensure that our service men 
and women have every tool and every resource that they need to carry 
out their duties and return home safely.

We must all dedicate ourselves to ensuring that our brave men and 
women in uniform have all of the unconditional support and thanks. 
Their sacrifices and bravery must never be forgotten. We should also be 
mindful of those who have served and serve in our National Guard and 
Reserve units, and those that are not yet American citizens but who 
still serve our country with distinction.

Let us always remember the lives of more than 3,000 dedicated 
Americans who have lost their lives in this conflict, and the thousands 
and thousands of American soldiers that have been injured.

It is time to be bipartisan and move forward with a comprehensive 
plan for handing over responsibility to the Iraqi Government and 
stabilizing the region. Iraq must become the responsibility of the 
Iraqis. Let's surge forward only in the commitment to transfer 
responsibility for Iraq to the Iraqis.

Only together can we ensure the safe return of our brave and 
dedicated American troops.