# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `2e09951c8610b3c356fb1ea100a83cd1`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a cosponsor of H. Con. 
Res. 207--Recognizing the 60th Anniversary of the U.S. Air Force.

I am honored to represent the men, women, and families that make up 
Travis Air Force


Base in Fairfield, California. They are the service men and women who 
represent ''The Gateway to the West,'' and oversee more cargo and 
passenger traffic on its runways than any other military air terminal 
in the United States.

To me, they represent what is best about our Air Force and its proud 
history. Travis airmen are constantly being called upon to provide 
critical service to our Nation. Along with their Air Force colleagues 
across the globe they continue to play a vital role in the global war 
on terror as well as Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom.

Not only do they put their lives on the line in military missions 
whenever called upon, but the men and women of Travis have provided 
humanitarian relief across the globe as recently as the Indonesian 
tsunami and right here at home in response to the hurricane Katrina 
disaster.

The service members of Travis carry out their missions and protect 
the homeland because they have the right airlift platforms--the C-5s 
and the C-17s--to do their job.

This year, I was able to secure $10.8 million for the Global Support 
Squadron Facility at Travis Air Force Base in the fiscal year 2008 
Military Construction Appropriations bill.

This project would provide a cutting edge operations facility to 
house approximately 130 personnel necessary for the first Global 
Support Squadron Facility on the West Coast.

It would enhance readiness through specialized design features for 
command and control, training and deployment preparation, not available 
in current facilities. GSS is critical to the Air Force's ability to 
rapidly deploy U.S. military forces and initiate operations in minimal 
time at any base or location around the globe.

The 60th Air Mobility Wing at Travis is the largest air mobility 
organization in the Air Force with a versatile all-jet fleet of C-5 
Galaxy, C-17 Globemaster III cargo aircraft, and KC-10 Extender 
refueling aircraft. It handles more cargo and passengers than any other 
military air terminal in the United States.

Travis is the West Coast terminal for aeromedical evacuation aircraft 
returning sick or injured patients from the Pacific area. The 60th Air 
Mobility Wing crews can fly support missions anywhere in the world to 
fulfill its motto of being ''America's First Choice'' for providing 
true global reach.

I am proud to join my colleagues in commending the Air Force and its 
achievements.