---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `2e150a74249ba68062694226288861f2`
`Mr. REID — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have had the good fortune in my lifetime, 
my adult life, to see people for whom I have developed a tremendous 
respect and admiration, and certainly one of those people is John 
Kerry. Why? Why would I say that about John Kerry? Why would I say that 
as I have traveled through life he is one of those people who has meant 
so much to me in being a role model for the things that I do and the 
things that I think the American people should focus on?

He has a tremendous educational background--Yale, Boston College. He 
was a prosecutor. He was a war hero. A war hero--multiple awards, 
fighting in the jungles of Vietnam, for heroism. We saw someone last 
night stand in the House Chamber whom the President directed, who 
received the Silver Star, and that is wonderful. We all looked at him 
with admiration. John Kerry has had a Silver Star, multiple Purple 
Hearts--I repeat, multiple awards for bravery. He is a political 
activist, someone who at great sacrifice decided to do gallant things 
after his heroic efforts in Vietnam. He came home and continued being a 
hero politically. The people of Massachusetts elected him to Lieutenant 
Governor, a job I also had,


and I have some understanding about that job. He came to Congress the 
year I did. In 1982, we both came here. He is a cancer survivor. His 
wife is one of the most remarkable people I have ever met. Teresa Heinz 
is a real fighter in her own way. I knew her before the Presidential 
election, but I got to know her very well during the Presidential 
election, and I like her so much.


John Kerry was my nominee for President of the United States. I 
worked hard for John Kerry. I believed in John Kerry. I believed John 
Kerry would change the direction of this country and the world. I still 
believe that. John Kerry came within a few votes of being President of 
the United States in one of the dirtiest, most negative, unfair 
campaigns I have ever witnessed. I am not going to go into all the 
things they did to John Kerry other than to say that to try to take 
away from this man, his gallantry as a warfighter, was beyond the pale, 
but they did it.

John Kerry and I have shared heartache together. We have done it 
recently. I will always have admiration and respect for John Kerry. The 
mere fact that he announced he is not running for President speaks well 
of this gallant man, this heroic man, because he could run for 
President. He has money in the bank, so to speak. He knows people all 
over America. He has the best e-mail addresses in the country. He has 
chosen that this is not the time. But I will continue to look to John 
Kerry for his leadership in foreign affairs. He is a man who knows this 
world. Listen to the speech he just gave on the conflict in Iraq, a 
textbook address about the ills of the present status of what we are 
doing in Iraq. He will approach whatever he does with a sense of 
morality. He will proceed to be one of the leaders, as he has been for 
decades, on the environment. He has a book coming out soon with his 
wife, and I am sure it will lay out things he has believed in for so 
long, such as health care. He is the chairman of the Small Business 
Committee.

So I say to John Kerry: I love you, John Kerry. I am so sorry things 
didn't work out for our country, but that doesn't take away from the 
fact that I will always care about you greatly and remember the times 
we have spent together. We have a lot more to do for Massachusetts, 
Nevada, and the country.