---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES ARMY SECOND  LIEUTENANT MARK J. PINCEK
## `2e17f8303e3ac203acb4a42f4f44f657`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 15 September 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
2LT Mark J. Pincek, who passed away on July 11, 2010.

Born and raised in Michigan, Mark joined the U.S. Navy in July, 1991 
and rose to the rank of Petty Officer Second Class. He served two 
deployments aboard the USS Vicksburg as a gunner's mate before 
graduating from Florida State University with a Bachelor's Degree in 
communication and film studies.

On September 17, 2009, Mark graduated from Fort Benning's Officer 
Candidate School and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. 
Army. He was then assigned to Charlie Company of the 304th Military 
Intelligence Battalion where he completed the Military Intelligence 
Basic Officer Leadership School and was then assigned to Bravo Company 
of the 304th and was responsible for updating the Afghanistan training 
scenario. His work in the training scenario function earned him many 
laudatory comments.

We remember Mark and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the feeling 
of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, it is 
my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Mark made a difference in the lives of many others and 
serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend that 
will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

This body and this country owe Mark and his family a debt of 
gratitude and it is vital that we remember him and his service to his 
country.

Mark is survived by his wife, Kerin; father, Stephen; mother, Dianne 
Heskett-Ward; brothers, Steven, Duane and Devin; and sisters, Diana, 
Nancy, Susan, Sandy and Mara.
