---
---

# STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `2e1e2f25ce1f490e2fa0950c7418e680`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from South Dakota 
for his eloquent words. The numbers being thrown around are so huge--
and numbers get thrown around so often in Washington, DC--that it is 
sometimes hard to distinguish between $1 million and $1 trillion or $1 
billion or $10.

One thing I was thinking of as the Senator from South Dakota was 
speaking, I believe he said as much as 10 percent of the gross domestic 
product of the United States would be the size of this year's Federal 
deficit. What that means is, this country--even in these


bad times--is such a marvelous country that we will produce about 25 
percent of all of the money in the world just for Americans, 5 percent 
of the people in the world. So what we are saying is, just this year we 
are going to run up a debt of 10 percent of 25 percent of all of the 
money in the world and add it to the national debt we already have and 
which we already know we are going to be increasing because of the 
responsibilities we have to try to help fix housing and encourage the 
financial institutions to support the efforts that the President is 
making to get the economy moving again.

What we are asking is, why would we spend the whole piggybank on a $1 
trillion piece of legislation that isn't targeted to create jobs when 
we have so many other pressing responsibilities for this limited amount 
of borrowed money--namely, fixing housing and getting lending moving 
again? That is where we would put our attention. So we have a lot of 
questions about the bill.

As the Senator from South Dakota said, Republicans offered our 
legislation, which was voted down, and it focused on housing, it 
focused on letting people keep more of their own money and on a limited 
amount of spending for targeted, job-creating infrastructure projects. 
That saved $500 or $600 billion which could have been reserved for 
housing, for lending, or to reduce the debt. But this bill, I am 
afraid--and we will know more about it as it comes--is mostly spending 
instead of mostly stimulus. Not enough of the jobs come quickly enough 
to make as much difference as this borrowed money should make. Even 
most of the tax cuts in the bill aren't stimulative. They may be 
welcome, they may leave 13 more dollars in your paycheck each week. But 
is running up the debt this much more worth that? This is a lot of 
money--according to one report, more than the Federal Government spent 
in the entire New Deal, more than we spent in Iraq, more than we spent 
in Afghanistan, and we should spend this money carefully.

As the Senators from South Dakota and Arizona have pointed out, what 
happens after 2 years? The Senate rejected our amendment that said once 
the economy recovers, the new spending stops so we don't continue to 
run up an unimaginable debt.

States are having trouble and in a shortfall. Tennessee has a $900 
million shortfall this year. But we are sending Tennessee, according to 
the latest estimates--even with the cuts and the compromise--about $3.8 
billion. We are establishing policy without even thinking about it. In 
this legislation, which has never been to the authorization committees, 
we are having possibly the largest, I believe, Federal education bill 
in our history in terms of dollars. We are having one of the largest 
health care bills. We are having one of the largest energy bills. That 
is not the way we make energy, education, and health care policy--just 
by passing an appropriations bill with a huge amount of money.

We are very disappointed about the lack of bipartisanship. We respect 
our new President. We want him to succeed because if he succeeds, our 
country succeeds. We expected that in this first major piece of 
legislation, a number of us would sit down on both sides of the aisle 
and compare our notes and say: Let's go forward. We know the Democrats 
have the majority and we have the minority, and so more of their ideas 
are going to be included than more of our ideas, but 58 Democrats and 3 
Republicans is not a bipartisan effort. That is not the way we do 
things around here.


The way we do things in a bipartisan way around here is when we had 
the Energy bill in 2005 and Senator Domenici and Senator Bingaman 
worked side by side. All ideas were considered. We had our votes. It 
took weeks and we got a big result. Another example is when we passed 
the America COMPETES Act and we worked side by side, or even with a 
contentious area such as intelligence surveillance when Senator Bond 
and Senator Rockefeller worked side by side and we came to a conclusion 
together. The American people gained more confidence in what we could 
do and in the result that we came to. I am afraid in this case we have 
not had that kind of bipartisanship.

What I fear is that this is not a good sign for the future because 
this is the easy piece of legislation. This is the first major proposal 
from the President. This is just a spending bill, albeit a massive 
spending bill. Next comes health care and controlling entitlements and 
whether we want to authorize more money to take bad assets out of banks 
and to help housing. Next comes whether we want to pass this version of 
climate change or that version of climate change. All of these are 
difficult pieces of legislation.

I have said on this floor before that President Bush technically did 
not have to have broad-based congressional support to wage the war in 
Iraq because he was the Commander in Chief. So he went ahead, and it 
made the war more difficult. It made his Presidency less successful. 
''We won the election, we will write the bill'' is not a recipe for 
resolving a difficult problem or for a successful Presidency.

I would hope we can either do as the South Dakota Senator said, which 
is start over again on this bill and retarget it, make it temporary, 
make it timely, and save hundreds of billions of dollars while focusing 
on housing and lending. That somehow we can get the Congress on track 
with the President so that when we say bipartisan, we do bipartisan, 
and we don't have an attitude that says, in effect: We won the 
election; we will write the bill.

Unless the Senator from South Dakota has additional comments--I am 
finished with mine, so I yield the floor and yield to him.