# None
## `2e24cd01d9c928d2b9871b242fb0b03d`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, many who are filibustering this Defense 
appropriations bill tonight are filibustering because they want to 
delay health care. They want to delay the health care reform 
legislation from being voted on so the bill that provides the funding 
to support our men and women in uniform who are serving on the front 
lines, often under arduous and dangerous circumstances to protect our 
Nation, is being filibustered to keep the Senate from acting on another 
unrelated piece of legislation. This is not only unbelievable, it is 
unconscionable.

A 3.4-percent pay raise for the troops is being filibustered. 
Additional funding for needed medical research in traumatic brain 
injuries and posttraumatic stress syndrome, and to improve the care, 
the medical care for our wounded warriors is being filibustered 
tonight. Funding to provide over 6,000 MRAP vehicles--those are the 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles that are so desperately needed 
by our troops in Afghanistan--is being filibustered tonight.

There is $1.8 billion for what is called the joint IED organization, 
which has one purpose, one mission, and that is to develop and deploy 
technologies to protect our troops from the deadly Improvised Explosive 
Devices that have maimed and killed so many, is being filibustered here 
tonight.

There is $470 million for family advocacy programs and full funding 
for family support and yellow ribbon programs to provide support to 
military families, including quality childcare, job training for 
spouses, expanded counseling and outreach to families experiencing the 
separation and the strain and the stress of war is being filibustered 
here tonight.

What in the world kind of message does a filibuster such as this send 
to our troops? Our troops deserve the full support--and they should 
know they have the full support--of the Congress when they are in the 
field carrying out the democratically arrived at policies and decisions 
of our government.

Instead, what they are getting tonight is a Republican filibuster. 
Those who are filibustering this Defense bill because they think they 
are aiming at health care reform are tragically off target. They are 
hitting our troops and their families. How in the name of heaven should 
the well-being of our troops be sacrificed for 1 hour when they are 
sacrificing so much for us day after day?

There are those who are going to argue that the end they seek--the 
delay of the health care reform bill--justifies the means they are 
using: holding hostage the critical funding to support our troops and 
their families. I couldn't disagree more. The lesson our troops are 
going to take from the filibusters tonight is that those who are 
filibustering this bill think a short-term political objective is more 
important than a prompt vote of support and confidence for our military 
members and their families.

Just yesterday, the ranking member, the ranking Republican member of 
the Appropriations Committee, said the following about this 
appropriations bill:




 This Defense appropriations bill ought to be passed and it 


 ought to be passed as soon as possible in recognition of our 


 respect for servicemembers and their families.


Our respect for our troops and the sacrifice they and their families 
make for our country every day is exactly why this filibuster should be 
defeated tonight.

Those who are filibustering this bill because they want to delay a 
vote on health care legislation should end that filibuster out of 
respect for our troops and their families--out of respect for our 
troops and their families--and for the sacrifices they make for this 
country every day. The Senate should defeat this filibuster tonight.

The stakes are huge, Mr. President. They were set forth in a letter 
we received from the Secretary of Defense. This is what the Secretary 
of Defense is telling us:




 I am writing to advise you of my serious concern over the 


 prospect that fiscal year 2010 appropriations authority for 


 the Department of Defense could expire by Friday, December 


 18, 2009.


That is today. He goes on:




 Should we face this unfortunate situation, it would result 


 in a serious disruption in the worldwide activities of the 


 Department of Defense and limit our ability to pay our 


 workforce, including military forces.


I am going to repeat this. This is what our Secretary of Defense is 
saying. He is not someone who shoots from the hip. Our Secretary of 
Defense is one of the most serious-minded, careful Secretaries of any 
agency that I have ever known. The Secretary of Defense said the 
following. I will repeat it because I want everybody to know what the 
stakes are tonight if we don't defeat this filibuster:




 Should we face this unfortunate situation, it would result 


 in a serious disruption in the worldwide activities of the 


 Department of Defense and limit our ability to pay our 


 workforce, including military forces.


He concludes:




 It is inconceivable to me that such a situation would be 


 permitted to occur with U.S. forces actively deployed in 


 combat. Accordingly, I strongly urge the Congress to do what 


 is necessary to ensure the Department has the needed 


 resources to fully and appropriately continue its vital 


 national mission.


It is signed by Robert Gates. I hope everybody, before they decide 
whether to continue this filibuster, will read this letter from 
Secretary Gates and think about what the message is to our troops and 
their families if an unrelated issue as important as that issue is 
allowed to interfere with us appropriating the necessary funds for the 
men and women who put on the uniform of this Nation, who take that risk 
for us.

Let's remember that as we vote tonight and understand what the stakes 
are if this filibuster succeeds.

I yield the floor.