---
---

# CREDIT CARDHOLDERS' BILL OF RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `2e26743763a74399a75ff2e6e38c3f4f`
`Mr. TEAGUE — 30 April 2009`

---


Mr. TEAGUE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment along with my 
friends, Congressmen Nye, Kissell and Boccieri, that has three 
principal attributes. One is it's common sense. It does what is right 
and it helps out our Nation's veterans. Specifically, the amendment 
stops credit card companies from bringing down the credit scores of 
deployed soldiers and disabled veterans during the first 2 years of 
their disability.

Mr. Chairman, one of the time-honored commitments we make to our 
veterans is after they do the dangerous work of protecting our national 
security, we, as a country, ensure their economic security. When a 
soldier is fighting in the mountains of Afghanistan or the deserts of 
Iraq, he or she does not have access to regular mail service nor the 
ability to tend to the everyday financial pressures of home.

Likewise, when an injured veteran is adjusting to life with his or 
her disability, there is often a period of economic vulnerability where 
the costs pile up and sometimes you just don't get to every last letter 
in the mail.

When veterans return home, they should do so with the confidence that 
their credit history allows them to open a business, buy a house or a 
truck. If they were late on some payments while serving their country 
or recovering from a severe injury, that shouldn't prevent them from 
pursuing the American Dream. No commercial credit rating agency can be 
equipped to account for the intangibles of combat service and 
recovering from service-connected injuries.

Economic opportunity for veterans should not be a question of 
mistakes that they may have made during deployment or recovery. It 
should be a question of their service.

I urge my colleagues to pass this amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.