---
---

# SPEECH ON AFGHANISTAN
## `2e316d8f3aa5ff059e534b9e3b43b32d`
`Mr. SKELTON — 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, on Friday December 4, 2009, I had an 
opportunity to address the American Security Project Conference 
regarding the situation in Afghanistan. This speech followed a hearing 
of the House Armed Services Committee, which I chair, the day before. 
My address is as follows:


[Speech given at the American Security Project Conference, Dec. 4, 
















 2009]



Beyond the Surge: Assessing the President's Afghanistan Strategy















(By Ike Skelton)




 First, let me take a moment to thank Admiral Gunn for that 


 introduction. You're too kind. I'd like to extend that thanks 


 to Senator Hart and the American Security Project as a whole. 


 You're doing great work, and I appreciate your efforts. I'd 


 also like to say happy birthday to Evelyn Farkas, here at 


 ASP. I would also like to thank our brave men and women in 


 uniform. We have asked much of them in the past decade, and 


 they have not failed to deliver.



 Two months ago, I wrote a letter to the President saying, 


 essentially, that he should listen to his commanders in the 


 field. Being a member of Congress, it took six pages to say 


 that, but that was the basic message. I made that same point 


 in private conversations with the President. And so it 


 pleased me the other night when the President agreed to 


 provide General McChrystal with additional forces needed to 


 make this new strategy work.



 But before assessing the overall strategy, I think we 


 should take a moment to remind ourselves why we're in 


 Afghanistan and the threat we face there.



 Al Qa'ida presents a serious threat to our nation. Osama 


 bin Laden and his minions have attacked us or attempted to 


 attack us many times over the years. The most remarkable 


 attack involved the murder of 3000 civilians--men, women, and 


 children--but it was hardly the only attack. And I do not 


 believe that anyone has a good reason to believe that they 


 have given up their attempts to attack us.



 Following our invasion of Afghanistan in response to this 


 attack, al Qa'ida largely fled to the border regions of 


 Pakistan. Their Taliban allies, meanwhile, continue to 


 escalate their attacks in an attempt to overthrow the Afghan 


 government and drive out the international coalition.



 Others have differing opinions on this, but I do not 


 believe that we can ultimately destroy al Qa'ida if we cannot 


 prevent them from recreating a safe haven in Afghanistan.




 I also do not believe that we can be successful in rooting 


 them out of Pakistan if we fail in Afghanistan.



 Afghanistan and Pakistan have some inherent advantages for 


 al Qa'ida that other places may not. Having been in the 


 region for over 20 years, they have married into local tribes 


 and made contacts with other extremist organizations. These 


 connections have allowed the senior leaders to hide 


 successfully for many years.



 Afghanistan is also of strategic value to al Qa'ida. In 


 losing Afghanistan, they lost not only the support of a 


 government and the use of an entire country as a safe haven, 


 but suffered a tremendous blow to their image. Reestablishing 


 a safe haven in Afghanistan could rehabilitate this image 


 among those who resent or oppose the United States, leading 


 to increases in recruiting and funding.



 Nor can we consider Afghanistan and Pakistan in isolation--


 the security situation in Afghanistan can have a negative 


 impact on the stability of Pakistan. It is foolish to think 


 that if the Taliban and al Qa'ida were able to reestablish 


 themselves in all or part of Afghanistan, they would not lend 


 support to those militants seeking to overthrow or 


 destabilize the Pakistani state. Al Qa'ida has already 


 assisted the Pakistani Taliban in carrying out attacks on the 


 Pakistani government, and I would expect this aid to increase 


 if al Qa'ida regained a base in Afghanistan. There was an 


 attack at a mosque earlier today that killed dozens. With a 


 secure base for al Qa'ida, I would expect many more such 


 attacks. And the only thing worse than al Qa'ida loose in 


 Afghanistan again is a destabilized, nuclear-armed Pakistan.



 On Tuesday night, the President proposed what I think is a 


 good way ahead as we address this threat. From the extensive 


 media reporting on the process, we all know how thorough a 


 review was conducted by the White House, lasting months and 


 including somewhere around 10 cabinet secretary level 


 meetings and extensive consultation with every expert they 


 could find.



 President Obama's strategy rightly focuses on seizing the 


 initiative from the enemy, building Afghan capacity, and 


 ultimately allowing the Afghan government and security forces 


 to take the lead in fighting this war.

The President has appropriately called for additional troops from our 
allies--this is not just America's war, and we must not allow it to 
become that. Perhaps more importantly, the President has put the burden 
of reform squarely on the Afghan government, laying out clear 
expectations of performance and promising support for those ministries 
and local leaders that perform.



 The President has also rightly acknowledged the importance 


 of Pakistan. Pakistan remains a challenge, playing a key and 


 often contradictory role in the region. Pakistan, by 


 assisting in the pursuit of al Qa'ida and Afghan Taliban 


 leaders, could help bring the war in Afghanistan to an end. 


 Conversely, if Pakistan were to return to old habits of 


 supporting the Afghan Taliban, the war may be almost 


 impossible to win. More concerning, the continued ascendency 


 of militant movements in the region could destabilize 


 Pakistan, a country with nuclear weapons. This could be 


 disastrous for all of us.



 I think this is a good strategy. Perhaps most importantly, 


 it is a strategy that I believe has a good chance of success. 


 In the past, I have often said that we lacked a strategy for 


 the first 7 years of the war in Afghanistan. Some of my 


 colleagues have suggested that this assertion may not be 


 entirely fair. But, the result of whatever the prior 


 Administration thought it was doing, ultimately resembled 


 conducting combat operations without any thought of what we 


 were trying to accomplish. So having a strategy, much less a 


 good one, is a great start.



 President Obama also, I am pleased to say, took my advice. 


 He listened to his military leaders, including Generals 


 McChrystal and Petraeus, Admiral Mullen, and Secretary Gates. 


 Ultimately, the President endorsed adding 30,000 troops to 


 carry out his strategy. This is on top of the 21,000 he 


 dispatched to Afghanistan earlier this year. In January 2009, 


 there were about 33,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan. In about 


 7 months, there will be three times that. That is, I believe, 


 a clear sign of the President's resolve and willingness to do 


 what it takes to be successful in Afghanistan.



 Yesterday, the House Armed Services Committee, which I have 


 to honor to chair, hosted Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, 


 and Deputy Secretary of State Lew. Next Tuesday, we will hear 


 from General McChrystal and Ambassador Eikenberry. Members, 


 properly, have a lot of questions about the strategy, and we 


 want to make sure that the details have been thought through. 


 I'll list a few of the areas we have explored or will next 


 week.



 Many members are concerned about the July 2011 date to 


 begin redeployment. So far, most have focused on that date as 


 being set, rather than completely conditions based, but to me 


 it looks like this is a case where there isn't much to 


 complain about. Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen were 


 pretty clear that not only were they comfortable with the 


 date, but that they thought it served the useful purpose of 


 motivating the Afghans.



 To me, what happens after that date is at least as 


 important as the date itself. Secretary Gates testified that 


 the process of transition that begins on that date would 


 itself be slow and conditions-based, so that while the start 


 of the process was fixed in time, the end could be adjusted 


 as required. And I think that flexibility and realistic 


 approach to a difficult process is exactly right.



 One other concern, and one that in my mind might be more 


 realistic, is the unintended consequences of setting out such 


 a message. The message of a gradual, conditions-based 


 transition may not be understood the same way by all 


 audiences. The Pakistanis may well believe that it signals 


 that the United States is once again leaving the region, and 


 that might undermine our hopes of gaining their cooperation. 


 Various ethnic groups in Afghanistan, fearing a civil war 


 after we begin to depart, could start stockpiling weaponry or 


 hedge their bets in other unhelpful ways. I think we have to 


 keep our eyes open for this possibility and be creative in 


 reassuring the Afghans and the Pakistanis that we are not 


 abandoning them.



 Corruption in the Afghan government, and the legitimacy or 


 illegitimacy of that government, is also frequently a subject 


 of questioning. It's a concern I share, and one that 


 President Karzai's recent election reinforced. On the 


 positive side, there are ministers and ministries in 


 Afghanistan that have functioned well--Minister Wardak at the 


 Defense Ministry and Minister Atmar at the Interior Ministry 


 are honest effective ministers. The Health Ministry, 


 Education Ministry, and the National Solidarity Program, run 


 by the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, all 


 seem to be functioning well.



 But there are also legitimate concerns. High level 


 corruption among ministers and governors; shakedowns by 


 police, judges, and other authorities; and perceptions that 


 warlords are untouchable by the law feed the belief among the 


 Afghan people that their government does not serve them. And 


 President Karzai has not always been helpful--his family is 


 perceived to be part of the problem, and his unwillingness to 


 remove the immunity from some ministers so the Afghan 


 Attorney General can indict them is not helpful.



 There are ways we can help push for reform--for example, 


 not working with those leaders who prove to be corrupt so 


 that their ability to deliver for their followers or to make 


 money is hampered--but we have to take this seriously. 


 President Karzai, in his inauguration speech also promised to 


 crack down on corruption and to hold a loya jirga of national 


 reconciliation. I would like to hear from General McChrystal 


 and Ambassador Eikenberry how we can hold him to these 


 promises and push to have the jirga also help develop a 


 compact of what the Afghan people have a right to expect from 


 their government.



 Members will also likely ask about the promised assessment 


 of efforts in December 2010. I think that is a good time to 


 begin such an assessment--six months after all the promised 


 troops arrive in country--but members will likely have many 


 questions about it. What will we assess? What is an 


 acceptable level of progress? What are the options if 


 progress is insufficient? These are all obvious questions. 


 The one thing I would say is that I think it will behoove all 


 of us to offer the Administration some breathing space before 


 we make judgments about the success of the plan. Asking 


 questions is fair, drawing conclusions about the success or 


 failure of the strategy before it is really implemented 


 probably isn't.



 So, in the first few days after the announcement of the new 


 strategy, those are some of my thoughts. I think the 


 President is to be commended for the strategy and the resolve 


 he is showing. I believe he is fully aware of the threat 


 posed by al Qa'ida and the potential posed by a sanctuary for 


 terror in Afghanistan and a possibly destabilized Pakistan. 


 These are serious threats we are facing, and the President is 


 clearly prepared to take realistic, effective and fully 


 resourced steps to address them.



 So I conclude as I started, by thanking all of you for what 


 you do, and by asking you to think of the brave men and women 


 in uniform, and the civilians who will assist them, who will 


 have to do the hard, dangerous work to make this strategy a 


 success. We owe them a great deal, and we should never forget 


 it.



 Thank you.
