---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2e4d1c575fe544e497f86b22890bdefe`
`Mr. CASEY — 23 February 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise for two purposes this morning. The 
first is to speak about a native of Scranton, PA, who died serving our 
country in Afghanistan. LCpl Larry M. Johnson, just 19 years old, lost 
his life in the service to his country in the last couple of days. He 
becomes for Pennsylvania the 43rd soldier killed in action in 
Afghanistan, with an additional 191 Pennsylvanians who have been 
wounded at last count.

When we lose one of our brave young soldiers in Afghanistan or Iraq 
or anywhere around the world, we have a lot to say about their 
sacrifice and their service. I often, as we all do at one time or 
another, quote Abraham Lincoln: ''These Americans gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country.'' No one said it better than 
Lincoln. He captured the essence of their service and the sense of loss 
we all feel when someone who is serving their country is lost in 
combat.

LCpl Larry Johnson's duties were the following: He was the combat 
engineer. His main responsibility was to combat and detect improvised 
explosive devices, and we know them by the acronym IEDs. He lost his 
life doing that work. Just 19 years old, he was a graduate of Scranton 
High School in 2008.

In instances such as this, probably the best testimony about the 
soldier's life, their commitment to their country and the sacrifice 
they made, probably the best testament of all of those subjects comes 
from members of their family. In this case, there was testimony in news 
articles over the last couple of days from friends and teachers, but, 
of course, most poignantly and most movingly from Larry Johnson's 
family. Yesterday in the Scranton Time-Tribune there was an article 
among several over the course of a couple of days, but this article in 
particular focused on Larry Johnson's family. I unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record two stories, one entitled ''Teacher Recalls 
Scranton Marine's 'Really Good Heart.' '' That is the name of the first 
story. That is February 21. The second story I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record is entitled ''Knock at the Door Brought 
Tragedy Home for Marine's Kin.'' That is from Borys Krawczeniuk, 
February 22.