# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2e5302d4a657eb06823755370a39014f`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I want to yield myself 1/1/2/ minutes to 
respond to the first assertion just made by my colleague, to the effect 
that we sent the troops in without what he called life-saving 
equipment.

When we finished the Clinton administration, virtually no one in any 
of the 10 Army divisions, which, incidentally, had been cut from 14 
Army divisions when that administration went into power, none of the 10 
divisions that were left, virtually none of them had any bulletproof 
vests, any of this body armor that we talk about that our troops have 
today.

When we went into the first operation, we had much more than the 
Clinton administration had. At that point we had a number of the 
inserts, of the so-called Small Arms Protective Inserts. We had the 
outer tactical vests that incorporate those inserts with all of our 
Marines, with all of the infantry units going in with the U.S. Army. 
And very quickly after that, we developed a plan in which we fielded 
body armor for not only the people on the front lines, the infantry, 
the artillery, the armor, but also everybody that is in theater.

Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely outrageous to tell the American people 
that the Americans were dangerously unequipped when we went into Iraq. 
We went in with better equipment than we have ever had in any wars that 
this country has ever fought. And today, we have fielded over 40,000 
pieces of new equipment that we didn't have 4 years ago that makes our 
troops yet more efficient.

I would like to yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Linder).