---
---

# HONORING THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY'S 87TH REPUBLIC DAY
## `2e5a284823ded9c0ae4773c95047abc1`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Madam Speaker, as a co-chair of the 
Congressional Caucus


on Turkey and Turkish Americans, I would like to offer my warmest 
congratulations to the people of Turkey, as they recently observed the 
87th anniversary of the founding of the Turkish Republic on October 29.

Under the visionary leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his 
successors, Turkey transformed itself into a modern, secular state 
allied with the democracies of Europe and the Americas. This alliance 
is enshrined in Turkey's NATO membership, as evidenced in the 
logistical and reconstruction efforts Turkey has undertaken in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

In light of changing geopolitical developments, there have been 
questions about Turkey's commitment to its friends in recent years. 
While there may be bumps in the road in any friendship, differences 
that may exist between Turkey and the United States on certain issues 
are evidence of mature and healthy democracies having differences of 
opinion. The bilateral relationship is still undergirded by the same 
long-term goals of peace, security and prosperity.

I am confident that the relationship between our two peoples will 
stand the tests of time, given our shared ideals. Moreover, our ties 
are cemented by the presence and contributions of over 150,000 Turkish 
Americans, whose ranks are growing every year. Through diverse fields 
ranging from music to science--and increasingly through politics--
Turkish Americans contribute to the vibrancy, health, and advancement 
of our society. We are fortunate to have them as our fellow citizens.

In closing, my congratulations again to all Turks everywhere on the 
commemoration of the 87th Turkish Republic Day.
