---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `2e6a226dc36ec42d7baf8710c7578f23`
`Ms. HARMAN — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, to paraphrase an old ad, when Ellen Tauscher 
and Ike Skelton speak, I listen. They work together carefully on 
important legislation, and this is a piece of important legislation.

I don't know about others in this Chamber, but I am tired. We have 
been working all day and all night for weeks to try to get to an August 
recess after accomplishing as much as possible. It is 100 degrees 
outside. The humidity level is very high, but we are in an air-
conditioned place.

In contrast to us, over 100,000 American troops, very brave kids, are 
in 120 degree weather with 40 to 75 pounds of equipment on their backs, 
bravely defending America. I think as tired as I am, this bill strikes 
the right tone and says that in order to fulfill our constitutional 
duty to provide for the common defense, our constitutional duty to 
provide for the common defense, we have to make sure that we have a 
ready military.

Mr. Speaker, we don't. It is broken. Every expert we have heard from 
knows that. Our failure to plan adequately for the post-military phase 
in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere has created a broken military.

So I commend the sponsor of this bill and the others who have helped 
draft it. I am proud to be a cosponsor in the effort to state clearly 
that the kids we have sent into harm's way should get the rest and 
training they deserve.

I would close by saying there was a lot of conversation this morning 
about FISA and how we are at heightened risk and we are doing the wrong 
things. Well, I know what is the right thing to do about FISA, and I 
know what is the right thing to do about a broken military. Pass this 
bill.