---
---

# None
## `2e75d78c5bbd68914df84818400b04e5`
`Mr. LEVIN — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, the pending amendment Senator McCain and 
I have offered would strike the $1.75 billion that was added to the 
bill by a very close vote in committee to purchase additional F-22 
aircraft that the military does not want, that the Secretary of Defense 
does not want, that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and all the Joint 
Chiefs do not want, that President Bush did not want, that the prior 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs did not want, and they all say the same 
thing: The expenditure of these funds jeopardizes other programs which 
are important, and they provide aircraft we do not need.

These are fairly powerful statements from our leaders, both civilian 
and military leaders, in this country. I hope the Senate will heed them 
and reverse the action that was taken on a very close vote in the Armed 
Services Committee.

We received a few minutes ago a letter from the Secretary of Defense 
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A letter is on its way 
also from the President. When I get that letter, I will, of course, 
read the President's letter. But for the time being, let me start with 
the letter we have received from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, as 
well as the Secretary of Defense, because it is succinct. It is to the 
point. It states the case for not adding additional F-22s as well as 
anything I have seen.




 Dear Senators Levin and McCain: We are writing to express 


 our strong objection to the provisions in the Fiscal Year 


 2010 National Defense Authorization Act allocating $1.75 


 billion for seven additional F-22s. I believe it is 


 critically important to complete the F-22 buy at 187--the 


 program of record since 2005, plus four additional aircraft.



 There is no doubt that the F-22 is an important capability 


 for our Nation's defense. To meet future scenarios, however, 


 the Department of Defense has determined that 187 aircraft 


 are sufficient, especially considering the future roles of 


 Unmanned Aerial Systems and the significant number of 5th 


 generation Stealth F-35s coming on-line in our combat air 


 portfolio.



 It is important to note that the F-35 is a half generation 


 newer aircraft than the F-22, and more capable in a number of 


 areas such as electronic warfare and combating enemy air 


 defenses. To sustain U.S. overall air dominance, the 


 Department's plan is to buy roughly 500 F-35s over the next 


 five years and more than 2,400 over the life of the program.



 Furthermore, under this plan, the U.S. by 2020 is projected 


 to have some 2,500 manned fighter aircraft. Almost 1,100 of 


 them will be 5th generation F-35s and F-22s. China, by 


 contrast, is expected to have only slightly more than half as 


 many manned fighter aircraft by 2010, none of them 5th 


 generation.



 The F-22 program proposed in the President's budget 


 reflects the judgment of two different Presidents, two 


 different Secretaries of Defense, three chairmen of the Joint 


 Chiefs of Staff, and the current secretary and chief of staff 


 of the Air Force.



 If the Air Force is forced to buy additional F-22s beyond 


 what has been requested, it will




 come at the expense of other Air Force and Department of 


 Defense priorities--and require deferring capabilities in 


 areas we believe are much more critical for our Nation's 


 defense.


The letter concludes with the following very pointed paragraph:




 For all these reasons, we strongly believe that the time 


 has come to close the F-22 production line. If the Congress 


 sends legislation to the President that requires the 


 acquisition of additional F-22 aircraft beyond Fiscal Year 


 2009, the Secretary of Defense will strongly recommend he 


 veto it.


It is signed by Secretary of Defense Gates and the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff Mullen.

The determination of the Department of Defense to end the production 
of the F-22 is not new. Secretary Rumsfeld, President Bush, as well as 
the current President and Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs, are recommending the same thing. We have testimony on the 
record at the Armed Services Committee from the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, both urging us 
strongly to end the production of the F-22.

Let me read, first, Secretary Gates's testimony on May 14 of this 
year:




 . . . [T]he fact is that the F-22 is not going to be the 


 only aircraft in the TACAIR arsenal, and it does not include 


 the fact that, for example, we are going to be building, 


 ramping up to 48 Reapers unmanned aerial vehicles in this 


 budget.


The F-35, he said, is critically important to take into account.



 . . . and the fact is that based on the information given to 


 me before these hearings, the first training squadron for the 


 F-35 at Eglin Air Force Base is on track for 2011. The 


 additional money for the F-35 in this budget is to provide 


 for a more robust developmental and test program over the 


 next few years to ensure that the program does stay on the 


 anticipated budget.



 You can say irrespective of previous administrations, but 


 the fact remains two Presidents, two Secretaries of Defense, 


 and three Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have 


 supported the 183 build when you look at the entire TACAIR 


 inventory of the United States.



 And when you look at potential threats, for example, in 


 2020, the United States will have 2,700 TACAIR. . . .


The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Cartwright, just a few 
days ago, on July 9, told the Senate Armed Services Committee the 
following:




 I was probably one of the more vocal and ardent supporters 


 for the termination of the F-22 production. The reason's 


 twofold. First, there is a study in the Joint Staff that we 


 just completed and partnered with the Air Force on that, 


 number one, said that proliferating within the United States 


 military fifth-generation fighters to all three services was 


 going to be more significant than having them based solidly 


 in just one service, because of the way we deploy and because 


 of the diversity of our deployments.



 Point number two is, in the production of the F-35 Joint 


 Strike Fighter, the first aircraft variant will support the 


 Air Force replacement of their F-16s and F-15s. It is a very 


 capable aircraft. It is 10 years newer--


He is referring here to the F-35--




 It is 10 years newer in advancement in avionics and 


 capabilities in comparison to the F-22. It is a better, more 


 rounded, capable fighter.


He goes on relative to point No. 2:



 . . . the second variant is the variant that goes to the 


 Marine Corps. The Marine Corps made a conscious decision to 


 forgo buying the F-18E/F in order to wait for the F-35. So 


 the F-35 variant that has the VSTOL capability, which goes to 


 the Marine Corps, is number two coming off the line. And the 


 third variant coming off the line is the Navy variant, the 


 carrier-suitable variant.



 Another thing that weighed heavily, and certainly my 


 calculus, was the input of the combatant commanders. And one 


 of the highest issues of concern from the combatant 


 commanders is our ability to conduct electronic warfare. That 


 electronic warfare is carried on board the F-18. And so 


 looking at the lines we would have in hot production, number 


 one priority was to get fifth-generation fighters to all of 


 the services; number two priority was to ensure that we had a 


 hot-production line in case there was a problem; and number 


 three was to have that hot-production line producing the F-18 


 Gs which support the electronic-warfare fight.


General Cartwright concluded:




 So those issues stacked up to a solid position . . . that 


 it was time to terminate the F-22. It is a good airplane. It 


 is a fifth-generation fighter. But we needed to proliferate 


 those fifth-generation fighters to all of the services. And 


 we need to ensure that we were capable of continuing to 


 produce aircraft for the electronic-warfare capability. And 


 that was the F-18. In the F-18 we can also produce front-line 


 fighters that are more than capable of addressing any threat 


 that we'll face for the next five to 10 years.


The letter to which I referred from President Obama has now been 
received. I know Senator McCain has received a similar letter. I will 
read the one I have just received:




 Dear Senator Levin: I share with you a deep commitment to 


 protecting our Nation and the men and women who serve it in 


 the Armed Forces. Your leadership on national security is 


 unrivaled, and I value your counsel on these matters.



 It is with this in mind that I am writing to you about S. 


 1390, the Senate Armed Services Committee-reported National 


 Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, and in 


 particular to convey my strong support for terminating 


 procurement of additional F-22 fighter aircraft when the 


 current multiyear procurement contract ends. As Secretary 


 Gates and the military leadership have determined, we do not 


 need these planes. That is why I will veto any bill that 


 supports acquisition of F-22s beyond the 187 already funded 


 by Congress.



 In December 2004, the Department of Defense determined that 


 183 F-22s would be sufficient to meet its military needs. 


 This determination was not made casually. The Department 


 conducted several analyses which support this position based 


 on the length and type of wars that the Department thinks it 


 might have to fight in the future, and an estimate of the 


 future capabilities of likely adversaries. To continue to 


 procure additional F-22s would be to waste valuable resources 


 that should be more usefully employed to provide our troops 


 with the weapons that they actually do need.


He concludes:




 I urge you to approve our request to end the production of 


 the F-22.


This is no longer a simple recommendation of the President's staff 
that they would make to the President should we add additional F-
22s. This is now clear. It is crystal clear, and there is no way a 
President of the United States can say more directly than President 
Obama has said this afternoon that he will veto any bill that supports 
acquisition of F-22s beyond the 187 already funded by Congress. That 
should clear the air on a very important issue, and that is would the 
President veto this bill if it contained the extra F-22s the military 
doesn't want or wouldn't he. That speculation is no longer out there. 
It is now resolved, and it ought to be resolved in our minds, and we 
ought to realize then that those who support the added F-22s are 
supporting a provision which, if it is included, will result in the 
veto of a bill which is critically important to the men and women of 
our military and to their missions and operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.


Madam President, not only does the amendment which was adopted by the 
committee on a very close vote add planes which our uniform--our 
military--and civilian leaders do not want, and say we do not need, but 
the amendment also pays for these additional F-22s in the following 
ways:

No. 1, it cuts operation and maintenance. No. 2, it cuts civilian pay 
funds that need to be available. No. 3, it also reduces the balances 
that have to be kept available for military personnel. And No. 4, it 
assumes that there are going to be near-term savings in fiscal year 
2010 from the acquisition reform legislation that we recently adopted 
and the business process reengineering provision that is in the bill 
that was adopted by the Armed Services Committee.

Each of those places cannot afford those cuts. We are talking here 
about operations and maintenance. This is the readiness accounts of our 
Armed Forces. These are the pay accounts of our Armed Forces. And in 
the case of at least one of the four sources, the assumption is 
unwarranted that we are going to make savings this year from the 
acquisition reform legislation, the very focus of which was to make 
changes in acquisition reform in the short term, which may actually 
cost us money to save money--significant money--in the long term. But 
there is no assessment I know of that says we are going to make savings 
in 2010 from our acquisition reform legislation.

As the Presiding Officer knows, because she was a strong supporter of 
this acquisition reform, as were all of us on the Armed Services 
Committee, we believed very strongly that we had to make these changes 
in the way in which we acquire equipment and weapons. Senator McCain 
has been fighting this battle for as long as I can remember--change 
these acquisition reform procedures--and I have been involved for about 
as long as I can remember as well in these efforts. The Armed Services 
Committee put a lot of energy in the acquisition reform that we adopted


unanimously and was ultimately passed and signed by the President. But 
to say we can't make savings this year in no way knocks the importance 
of that acquisition reform or minimizes the importance of that 
acquisition reform. The fact is, as we said at the time, there are 
going to be major savings, we believe, from that reform, but they are 
not going to come in the short term. They are surely not coming in 
2010. Yet the amendment which added the F-22s made an assumption that 
there are going to be savings in 2010 from the acquisition reform 
legislation.

Let me spend a minute on some of the other sources of funds for the 
F-22, unobligated balances for operations and maintenance--O&M. We 
already reduced by $100 million the funds in those accounts, and we did 
so consistent with the report and assessment of the Government 
Accountability Office. So we acted in a way that would not affect 
readiness, would not affect O&M, and we had the guidance there of the 
Government Accountability Office. But what the amendment did that added 
the F-22s is reduced by $700 million more those O&M accounts.

The original bill we adopted avoided cutting O&M funds from the Army 
and from the Marines because readiness rates across the board have 
continued to suffer after several years in combat. Yet half of the 
reduction made by the amendment which added the F-22s was assessed 
against O&M Army. It is a dangerous thing to do. It is an unwise thing 
to do.

We also now face an increase in the price of oil--an increase above 
what the accounts assumed would be the cost of energy. So we have an 
additional challenge to those O&M accounts which would be made far more 
difficult and those reductions far more problematic in that regard as 
well.

Another source of funds which was used to add the F-22s was in the 
civilian pay accounts. Civilian pay had already been reduced by almost 
$400 million in the Air Force, and we did that consistent with, again, 
the assessments of the Government Accountability Office. Further, 
civilian pay reductions of $150 million to help fund the F-22s can have 
a negative effect on readiness, and we simply cannot take that risk. 
Also, that cut does not take into effect the likely additional civilian 
pay raise that we will have to absorb in these budgets if, as is 
likely, using historical acts, Congress increases the civilian pay 
raise to match the increased military pay raise.

Deep cuts in funds available for civilian pay will have that effect, 
but also these cuts will undermine the Secretary's efforts and our 
efforts to hire significant numbers of new employees for the 
acquisition workforce, it is going to set back our effort to implement 
acquisition reform, and it is going to cost us a lot more money in the 
long run.

Another source of the money for the additional F-22s came from the 
military personnel accounts. Our bill already has taken $400 million in 
unobligated balances from the military personnel accounts in order to 
pay for additional personnel pay and benefits, and we did that, again, 
in line with the recommendation of the Government Accountability 
Office. The Department's top line, so called, for military personnel 
was intact until the committee adopted the F-22 increase amendment. And 
if we reduce military personnel accounts for nonpersonnel matters, it 
is going to result in a military personnel authorization that is less 
than was requested, and it is going to hinder the Department's ability 
to execute its military personnel funding in the year 2010. That is 
going to be particularly problematic this year, because the Army and 
Marine Corps have moved their increased end strengths to the base 
budget. They did that because we urged them to do that.

So the cost of personnel continues to rise, and yet one of the 
sources of the funding for the F-22 increase came from that very 
military personnel account.

There is another impact of the amendment--which was barely adopted in 
the Armed Services Committee--and that is it is going to cause the 
Department of Defense to cut back in so-called nondirect pay areas, 
such as bonuses or other personnel support measures, which could have a 
very significant impact--a negative impact--on the long-term management 
of the all-volunteer force. It is very likely that the Department will 
then have to either seek a reprogramming during the next fiscal year to 
cover personnel costs or they may even have to file a supplemental 
request.

We have worked hard as a Congress to get the administration--any 
administration, as we tried during the Bush years and we try again 
during the Obama years--to make sure that its budget request is solid; 
that it will not require reprogramming; that it will not require a 
supplemental request. With this amendment--which was again adopted by 
just two votes in the Armed Services Committee--we are jeopardizing 
that longstanding effort on the part of Congress to make sure that the 
budget request of the administration in fact is a realistic request 
when it comes to the various accounts. And particularly this year, as 
the Army and Marine Corps have moved their increased end strengths to 
the base budget, as we have pressed them to do for many years, it is a 
mistake for us to be taking funds from that account.

I have talked about acquisition reform and the fact that the 
amendment which was adopted in committee assumed savings from 
acquisition reform. I have pointed out, and will not repeat, that while 
the acquisition reform, strongly supported obviously by our committee 
and by the Congress, is likely to result in major savings, it cannot be 
assumed to produce savings in the short term.

I hope this body is going to adopt the Levin-McCain amendment. Two 
administrations now have made an effort to end the F-22 line. This is 
not a partisan issue. This is a Republican and a Democratic 
administration that have made this effort. Our top civilian leaders and 
our top uniform leaders are unanimous. The Secretary of Defense, 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs have 
joined in supporting the President's request, just as they did 
President Bush's determination to end the F-22 line. We have to make 
some choices in this budget and in other budgets, and this is a choice 
which our military is urging us to make.

We all know the effect that this has on jobs in many of our States, 
and that varies from State to State, but probably a majority of our 
States will have some jobs impacted by a termination of the F-22 line. 
But we cannot continue to produce weapon systems forever. They have a 
purpose. They have a mission. And those missions and those purposes can 
be carried out by 187 F-22s. That is not me speaking as Chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee, that is not Senator McCain speaking as the 
ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee, that is both of us 
saying that we must make difficult choices and we have to build the 
systems we need. The F-35 is a system which all of the services 
need. It cuts across the services. It has greater capabilities in 
electronics than does the F-22. It is a half of a generation advance on 
the F-22. This is not to minimize the importance of the F-22. We have 
and will have 187 in our inventory. While not minimizing the importance 
of the F-22, it points out how important it is that we modernize, and 
in order to do that--and that means the F-35--we have to at some point 
say we have enough F-22s. We tried it last year. We could not succeed 
last year. But this year, not only does the President oppose the 
increase, as did President Bush, President Obama has now said in 
writing today that he will veto a bill that contains the unneeded F-
22s.


Our men and women in the military deserve a defense authorization 
bill. This has a pay increase even larger than that requested. It has 
benefits that are essential. It has bonuses and other programs to help 
recruitment and retention. It helps our families. It modernizes our 
weapon systems. At some point, we have to acknowledge that a weapon 
system production, extremely valuable, has come to a logical end and 
that it is time to then pick up its continuity with a different plane, 
a different weapon system which will benefit our military and support 
the men and women in uniform.

I yield the floor.