---
---

# BEACH PROTECTION ACT OF 2007
## `2e7e7f6bd767e82ff24c2d78ccd8e303`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. I thank the Chair. And I appreciate the 
gentleman from Tennessee having come to the floor a moment ago to 
address this energy and the like. To be honest, that's the only way 
that we are going to be able to find solutions to these major issues 
that we need to address, whether it is the Iraq war situation, or this 
major issue of energy costs in this country.

Obviously, we have been able to find common ground when it comes to, 
I would catch it, slightly less significant issues dealing with beach 
quality and what have you. Now if we can find that same comity when it 
comes to the Iraq war and energy, then we'll be moving in the right 
direction.

That being said, the gentleman can't disagree with some of the facts 
that have been set out here for the last evening, and this will 
probably be my last comment for the night; and that is that the 
Democrat majority, prior to becoming the majority, did point out some 
problems with regard to energy prices prior to coming into the 
majority.

And the gentleman from Georgia went through a litany of quotes from 
Democrat leadership citing the problem, and making a promise that the 
Democrat majority had a solution to those problems. I'm eager to see 
what those solutions are. I would like to extend a hand across the 
other side of the aisle to work with them, if those solutions were ever 
forthcoming.

As I indicated in my last comments, the only proposals that I've seen 
so far from the other side of the aisle have been restrictive or 
increasing to the cost of energy. They were the two or three tax 
increases that I ran through before, the 50 cent increase per gallon 
gasoline Federal gas hike proposed, the $150 billion war surtax or the 
5 cent increase per gallon tax hike, all proposals from the other side 
of the aisle. None of those things will lower the cost of energy. All 
of those things will raise the price that you and I and everyone else 
have to pay at the pump.

What we may want to do is look to see what other countries are doing 
with regard to energy costs in general. Let me just run down real 
quickly some of these.

Over in China, three or four things. One, China has expanded its 
natural gas infrastructure by constructing pipe lines. Unfortunately, 
the Democrats have opposed natural gas production in this country and 
natural gas infrastructure improvements in the country in general. And 
the chart that we had up previously showed that as far as offshore.

Secondly, China is rapidly expanding its refining capacity. 
Unfortunately, Democrats have repeatedly voted against expanding 
America's refinery capacity. I don't think we've had any new refineries 
built in some several decades.

Thirdly, China is ambitiously developing its nuclear power energy 
which plans to spend $50 billion on 30 additional nuclear reactors 
within the next 15 years. Again, unfortunately, Democrats consider the 
notion of increasing nuclear power generation in the U.S. basically as 
off the table.

And finally, China's planning on constructing many new large scale 
hydro electric projects over the forecasted period, including an 18.2 
gigawatt Three Gorges dam project which is expected to come in in 2009. 
Again, unfortunately, Democrats have actively opposed new hydro 
electric power plants here in the United States.

So I will end where I began. The gentleman said that we should be 
concerned about how much money is going to Saudi Arabia and Dubai and 
all of the things that they're able to build with that oil. I agree.

I wish all of our American tax dollars and American gasoline dollars 
that we pay at the pump weren't going overseas. But right now, 63 
percent of our energy sources are dependent on foreign sources of 
energy and growing more every year.

What we need to do is make America more self-reliant when it comes to 
energy. You do that by what we've talked about all evening. Don't tax 
it, don't raise the cost of production, don't restrict the production 
here in the United States, don't restrict the ideas of new efficient 
energy alternatives and the like, but allow it to grow using ingenuity 
of Americans insight and entrepreneurs, so that we do not have to be 
more dependent every day on foreign, unreliable sources that are a 
threat to this country, are a threat to our national security, and put 
our young men and women in harm's way on the points with regard to war, 
as the gentleman from Tennessee was pointing out.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.