---
---

# None
## `2e7f98e9fd44eb3f1172a13058743098`
`Mr. LEAHY — 18 May 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, earlier today I, along with 67 other 
Senators, sent a letter to President Obama on an issue that has 
concerned the Congress since the late 1980s.

Our letter, signed by more than two-thirds of the Senate, commends 
the President for conducting a comprehensive review of the U.S. 
Government's policy on antipersonnel mines. That review has been 
underway for some time, and I expect it will be completed later this 
summer.

It has involved consultations with the Department of Defense 
including active and retired U.S. military officers, the Department of 
State including current and former U.S. diplomats, key military allies, 
and humanitarian and arms control organizations. The review has 
examined the historical record, asked rigorous questions, and solicited 
a wide range of views.

I want to thank the Senators who joined me and Senator Voinovich in 
signing this letter, which states our belief that through a thorough, 
deliberative review the administration can identify any obstacles to 
joining the Ottawa Treaty banning the production, use, transfer and 
stockpiling of antipersonnel mines, and develop a plan to overcome them 
as soon as possible.

The treaty has been signed by 158 countries, including our NATO 
allies whose troops are fighting with our forces in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, and by every other country in this hemisphere except Cuba.

This issue has a long history, and I do not have time to recount it 
in detail today. But suffice it to say that 13 years ago the United 
States missed an opportunity to play a leadership role in the 
international effort to ban antipersonnel mines, which culminated in 
the treaty. Although our country declined to join the treaty then, as 
early as 1994 President Clinton announced to the United Nations General 
Assembly his support for ridding the world of antipersonnel mines, and 
a plan to develop alternatives to these weapons with the intent of 
joining the treaty by 2006.

That date came and went, alternatives were developed, and U.S. troops 
have fought in two wars without, to the best of our knowledge, using 
these weapons. In the meantime, most of our closest allies have 
renounced antipersonnel mines, and their militaries long ago made the 
necessary doctrinal and technological adjustments to meet their force 
protection needs in accordance with the requirements of the treaty.

Antipersonnel landmines, which are triggered by the victim, have no 
place in the arsenal of a modern military. They function like some of 
the IEDs used by insurgents in Afghanistan and Iraq that have caused so 
many casualties of innocent people, as well as U.S. and coalition 
forces. Landmines are inherently indiscriminate, and no matter how 
sophisticated the technology they do not distinguish between a 
combatant and a civilian. They can be dropped by aircraft or disbursed 
by artillery by the thousands over wide areas. In today's fast moving 
battlefield where mobility is a priority, they can pose as much of a 
danger to our own forces as to the enemy.

Thirteen years ago the Pentagon argued that we should continue to 
stockpile antipersonnel mines. They said these weapons might be 
necessary in Korea or in a mechanized war against enemy armor.

But ownership and control of the mines in the Korean DMZ have been 
transferred to South Korea, and the United States has renounced the use 
of these types of mines, including in Korea. While there is the 
possibility that one day we may find ourselves in a conventional war 
against a major world power, antipersonnel landmines would have little 
if any utility or relevance in such a war. Rather than our own troops 
needing these weapons, if our adversary were so lacking in more 
effective weapons as to use them, our troops would not need 
antipersonnel mines they would need effective countermine technology.

There have been other arguments made, none of which are persuasive. 
For example:

Some have asked, after landmines what is the next weapon the Pentagon 
will be asked to give up? Isn't this a slippery slope for those seeking 
to ban other types of weapons? This hypothetical question has nothing 
to do with antipersonnel landmines, which are in a unique category of 
weapons that are designed to be triggered by the victim.

They are not like bullets or bombs that are aimed or targeted by a 
soldier. They are inherently indiscriminate, activated by whoever comes 
into contact with them, whether an enemy soldier, a refugee woman 
searching for firewood, or a child. Renouncing landmines should have no 
bearing on U.S. policy toward other weapons.

I have heard it asked how we can ensure that our troops can operate 
in coalitions with countries that are not parties to the treaty, for 
example South Korea. The answer is the same way as the NATO countries 
that have signed the treaty whose troops are fighting in coalition with 
our forces in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Why join the treaty when we are in de facto compliance already? What 
would we gain at this point? First, this question implicitly 
acknowledges that the United States does not require antipersonnel 
landmines. We have not used them since 1991, we have not exported them 
since 1992, we have not produced them since 1997 and the Pentagon has 
no plan to do so in the future.

It is important to recognize that the United States is not causing 
the mine problem today, although mines we exported to dozens of 
countries, or that are left over from past wars involving U.S. forces 
especially in Southeast Asia, continue to kill and injure civilians.

But most importantly, it would be a mistake to underestimate or 
devalue the positive reaction, practical effects and depth of goodwill 
toward the United States and our military that would result from 
joining the treaty. Other countries know the United States, the world's 
most powerful nation, needs to be part of multilateral agreements if 
those agreements are to achieve their goals. And they know the United 
States needs to be part of the solution to the landmine problem,


which means more than conforming our policy to the treaty and it means 
more than joining the treaty. It means actively using our influence to 
persuade other counties to join. Countries like India and Pakistan, 
China and Russia, Israel and Egypt today make the excuse that the 
United States has not joined, so why should they?

One particularly farfetched notion is that giving up landmines while 
Russia, China and other potential adversaries keep theirs is at odds 
with our usual arms control strategy, which seeks to use disarmament 
agreements as a means of enhancing U.S. security. This makes sense in 
the context of long-range missiles and nuclear bombs, but antipersonnel 
landmines? We have not used these weapons for 19 years, and no one can 
credibly argue that they are necessary to protect the national security 
of the United States or that our security is threatened by China's and 
Russia's antipersonnel landmines which are deployed along their common 
border.

Today, the United States is the largest contributor to humanitarian 
demining, a fact I am proud of, and I have been asked if by joining the 
treaty we would feel less obligated to support it. This question is 
nonsensical to me. Speaking as the chairman of the Appropriations 
subcommittee that funds these programs, whether or not we are a party 
to the treaty has nothing to do with our interest and responsibility in 
helping get rid of the millions of mines and other unexploded ordnance 
that litter and plague dozens of countries, including allies like 
Jordan, Afghanistan and Vietnam whose citizens continue to lose their 
lives and limbs from these hidden killers. Some of those mines and 
bombs were manufactured here and left behind by U.S. forces decades 
ago.

Some might ask why bother developing a plan to join the treaty, since 
the fact that 68 Senators signed a letter supporting it does not 
guarantee that two-thirds of the Senate will vote to ratify it. It is 
true that no one can guarantee what the U.S. Senate will do about 
treaties or anything else. But that is hardly a reason not to join. The 
fact that more than two-thirds of the Senate today supports such a 
policy, including 10 Republicans and 2 Independents, should certainly 
give momentum to doing so, and convey to the President that the treaty 
would find wide acceptance in the Senate.

Finally, I have heard it suggested that U.S. troops might need 
antipersonnel mines in Afghanistan. I find it hard to imagine that the 
United States, which has spent hundreds of millions of dollars to get 
rid of mines left over from past wars in Afghanistan that have killed 
and injured more civilians than in any other country, at a time when 
our military leaders are trying to minimize civilian casualties which 
have caused so many Afghans to turn against us, would use antipersonnel 
landmines in Afghanistan--a party to the treaty--and risk the public 
outcry that would result.

We could debate whether the United States should have joined the 
Ottawa Convention 13 years ago, but there is no point in that. The 
question today is why not now? Many years have passed and we have seen 
the benefits of the treaty. The number of antipersonnel mines produced 
and exported has plummeted, as has the number of victims.

But landmines remain a deadly legacy in many countries, and the world 
needs the leadership of the United States to help universalize the 
treaty and put an end to the time when antipersonnel landmines were an 
acceptable weapon. It will not happen overnight, but it will never 
happen without U.S. support. As President Obama said in his acceptance 
speech for the Nobel Peace Prize, ''I am convinced that adhering to 
standards, international standards, strengthens those who do, and 
isolates and weakens those who don't.'' We are fortunate to have a 
President, and top leaders at the Pentagon and commanders on the 
battlefield, who recognize that civilians far too often bear the brunt 
of war's misery, and who believe that we can and must do more to 
prevent it. There is no better way to begin implementing that important 
principle, and working toward that goal, than by joining the Ottawa 
Treaty.

The United States is by far the world's strongest military power. We 
also have the moral authority that no other country has and the 
obligation to use that authority in ways that set an example for the 
rest of the world. It was 16 years ago that President Clinton embraced 
the goal of ridding the world of these indiscriminate weapons. The 
Obama administration's review of U.S. policy can finally turn that goal 
into reality.

I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the letter sent to President 
Obama be printed in the Record.