# None
## `2e8209101e6dadc017f353465873d364`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, let me first commend our 
distinguished colleague and member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment, my good 
friend and colleague, the gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) for 
being the author of and introducing this important resolution.

The underlying context for this important resolution, which 
congratulates President-elect Lee Myung-Bak and wishes him well as he 
assumes his new duties on February 25, 2008, is that the Republic of 
Korea has, through the industrious will of its people and the 
unyielding leadership of its elected officials, transformed itself into 
a successful democratic nation.

As the twentieth century taught us all too well, democratic 
governance is a fragile enterprise. That the Republic of Korea, in 
merely six decades, emerged from the ashes of colonial rule and war 
torn poverty to become the eleventh largest economy in the world and 
America's seventh largest trading partner, is a tribute to their strong 
democratic principles and indelible desire to live peacefully and 
prosperously despite the enormous challenges facing the Korean 
Peninsula and the Northeast Asia region.

Madam Speaker, the strong alliance between the United States and the 
Republic of Korea has proven itself to be a relevant and resilient 
relationship since our involvement when we fought side by side in the 
Korean War nearly 58 years ago. Out of that often ''forgotten'' 
conflict was born one of the most significant dividing lines of the 
Cold War, the demilitarized zone on the 38th parallel but, at the same 
time, one of the most successful alliances in our Nation's history.

The Republic of Korea has remained a steadfast ally of the United 
States. South Korea has contributed the third largest coalition troop 
contingent in Iraq, pledged $460 million toward postwar reconstruction 
and had previously also committed troops for peacekeeping operations in 
Afghanistan, and Lebanon. As a key member of the Six-Party Talks to 
denuclearize North Korea, the Republic of Korea shares an important 
responsibility for broader security in Northeast Asia. Today, we are 
committed absolutely to compelling the North Korean regime to eliminate 
its nuclear program and to ensuring that promises made by Pyongyang 
are, in fact, followed through with verifiable action.

The combination of South Korea's efforts to stand alongside the 
United States in meeting the global threats of the 21st century as well 
as the North Korean challenge makes this resolution particularly 
important today. President-elect Lee Myung-Bak has stated that he 
''will do [his] best to resolve the North Korean nuclear problem 
through cooperation and a strengthened relationship with the United 
States.'' I am very encouraged by President-elect Lee's remarks and, as 
Chairman of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global 
Environment, I look forward to working with his administration to this 
end.

What is clear from our longstanding relationship over the past half-
century is that it is reciprocal. As President-elect Lee's Special 
Envoy to the United States, Dr. Chung Mong-Joon, said recently after 
meeting Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte last month, ''We both 
need each other.'' Let me also take this opportunity to once again 
congratulate my good friend, Dr. Han Seung-soo, on his nomination to 
become Prime Minister. I am confident that Dr. Han's nomination will 
serve to further consolidate our alliance partnership under President-
elect Lee's leadership.

Madam Speaker, many years ago, I served in the U.S. Army during the 
Vietnam War, and I remember vividly the presence of more than 300,000 
soldiers from South Korea who bravely served and fought alongside our 
American forces. Through that particular experience, I learned quickly 
and firsthand, the special friendship and bond that existed between the 
United States and the Republic of Korea.

I personally will never forget the sacrifices that South Korean 
soldiers made in that terrible conflict in Vietnam. In fact, South 
Korea has the unique distinction of being one of only four allies that 
fought alongside the United States in all four major conflicts since 
World War II and I hope that my other colleagues will join me in 
thanking the leaders and people of the Republic of Korea for the untold 
sacrifices they made to be with us when we needed help.

This resolution, while focusing on the peaceful, democratic 
transition to the presidency of Lee Myung-Bak, honors our special 
alliance but also welcomes a strengthening and deepening of the 
relationship between our two countries and our two peoples.

I have had the privilege on several occasions to visit the Republic 
of Korea and I have observed that the South Korean people are among the 
most industrious men and women in the world. However this trait for 
hard work and entrepreneurship developed, it has carried over despite 
geographic distance to the more than two million Americans of Korean 
heritage and descent that live throughout our own country today. The 
vibrant Korean American communities across the United States include 
some of the most prominent individuals that have contributed to every 
facet of American life in every state and territory.

Madam Speaker, this resolution is very important to show our sense of 
appreciation to all South Koreans, to express how much we care about 
them and how important they are to our strategic and economic interests 
in that important region of the world. Its effect is not just to 
deliver good wishes to President-elect Lee as he assumes office on 
February 25, but to send a message of solidarity to the government and 
people of the Republic of Korea and to the soldiers who have fought 
side by side with the men and women of our own armed forces over the 
past nearly 60 years.

For all these reasons, this resolution is most fitting, and proper. I 
wish to congratulate President-elect Lee Myung-Bak and commend again my 
good friend, the gentleman from California, for offering and proposing 
this resolution. I strongly encourage my colleagues to offer their own 
expressions of support and urge the House to adopt this resolution 
today.