---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE PEASE GREETERS
## `2e85a7bb9199112b1e5c9ae11461cf28`
`Mr. GREGG — 10 September 2009`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the Pease 
Greeters for their consistent and unwavering support for our brave men 
and women in uniform passing through New Hampshire on their way to 
combat assignments in Iraq and Afghanistan or returning home to their 
loved ones. The Pease Greeters provide a loud and welcoming voice not 
only to servicemembers from New Hampshire but to all of the soldiers, 
sailors, Marines and airmen who pass through the Pease Air Terminal in 
Portsmouth, NH.

During the Spring of 2005, when members of the Seacoast Detachment of 
the Marine Corps League met a flight returning from the Middle East, no 
one could have known that this small volunteer group of veterans and 
citizens would be the nucleus of a group that has met every one of the 
more than 130 flights landing in New Hampshire, however briefly, with 
soldiers heading to or returning from combat operations overseas. The 
Greeters, now numbering over 200 members, have helped to ensure that 
each of the thousands of servicemembers has received the welcome home 
and best wishes that they so richly deserve.

The Pease Greeters travel from all over New Hampshire to meet every 
military flight in to Pease, at any hour, day or night. Arriving troops 
are met with applause, handshakes, and a boisterous welcome, and if the 
flight is taking them into a combat area, the Pease Greeters assure 
them that they will be met right there upon their safe return. These 
honored guests are provided with refreshments and the opportunity to 
make free phone calls to their loved ones. Each of these events has 
been recorded and the photographs line the Pease Air Terminal Hall that 
is known as the ''Heroes Walk.''

It is my privilege to recognize the time and energy these men and 
women of the Pease Greeters have devoted and continue to devote to 
assuring our Armed Forces that their country and its citizens 
appreciate the sacrifices they and their families are making on our 
behalf. Thank you to each and every member of the Pease Greeters for 
providing such a warm welcome home to those returning and a warm memory 
of home to those departing to carry out their missions.
