# ADMINISTRATION NOT COOPERATING WITH CONGRESS
## `2e8c10a9d9677444c9508bd89bc54c5f`
`Mr. ROHRABACHER — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor tonight with a 
heavy heart. The nature of the allegations I make speaks poorly of this 
administration. In my heart of hearts, I have always wanted this 
administration to succeed, but the issue at hand is of such magnitude 
that the American people need to know what is being done and what 
precedents are being set.

In my tenure as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs 
Committee, both as chairman and ranking member of an investigative 
subcommittee, I have witnessed firsthand behavior by the Bush 
administration which I find deeply troubling.

The disdain and uncooperative nature that this administration has 
shown toward Congress, including Republican Members, is so egregious 
that I can no longer assume that it is simply bureaucratic incompetence 
or isolated mistakes. Rather, I have come to the sad conclusion that 
this administration has intentionally obstructed Congress' rightful and 
constitutional duties.

Tonight I will discuss some serious examples of this administration's 
contemptuous disregard for the authority delegated to Congress by the 
Constitution. This bad attitude has consistently manifested itself in a 
sophomoric resentment toward Congress' constitutional role as an equal 
branch of government. The result has been an executive branch too 
insecure to let Congress do its job, an executive branch that sees 
Congress, even when Republicans held the majority, as a rival and a 
spoiler, rather than as elected representatives of the American people 
playing a rightful role in establishing policy for our great country.

Unfortunately, when the President of the United States rejects the 
legitimacy of congressional prerogatives, there are serious 
consequences. Tonight, I will provide examples of how this 
administration for the past 7 years has undercut congressional 
investigators, has lied to Members of Congress, and has forged ahead 
with secret deals in spite of efforts and pleas by Congress to be 
informed, if not involved.

In the last Congress, I was chairman of the Oversight and 
Investigations Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In 
that capacity, I learned that in the time immediately leading up to the 
bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, convicted Oklahoma 
City bomber and murderer Terry Nichols had been in Cebu City in the 
Philippines. His stay in Cebu City coincided with another visitor to 
that city, al Qaeda's terrorist leader Ramsey Yousef. Interestingly, 
both Nichols and Yousef used similar bombs and methods just 2 years 
apart to blow up two American targets. Yousef was the mastermind of the 
first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Nichols was a 
coconspirator in the bombing of the Oklahoma City Federal Building in 
1995.

By the way, I would like to acknowledge that today happens to be the 
15-year anniversary of that first devastating attack on the World Trade 
Center.

These individuals, one American and one Arab, were responsible for 
planning two of the most lethal terrorist attacks on our countrymen in 
our history. We are to believe that by coincidence they ended up in an 
off-the-beaten-track city in the Southern Philippines? One doesn't have 
to be a conspiracy nut to understand that this coincidence is certainly 
worth looking into.

I started an official congressional investigation sanctioned by Henry 
Hyde, then the chairman of the International Relations Committee, to 
see whether Terry Nichols or his accomplice, Timothy McVeigh, had 
foreign help in their murderous terrorist bombing of the Alfred Murrah 
Building in Oklahoma City.

In light of the fact that Terry Nichols and Ramsey Yousef were both 
in Cebu City at the same time prior to hauntingly similar terrorist 
attacks, it was no stretch for a congressional investigative committee 
to be looking into this matter. However, the Bush administration felt 
quite differently. To those I had to deal with, it was ''case closed, 
don't bother us.'' They had looked into the matter, and Congress should 
simply and blindly accept their conclusion that there was no Nichols-
Yousef connection. ''Don't bother us.'' This was at times bureaucratic 
laziness, and at other times it was clearly based on a disdain for 
congressional investigations and authority.

During my investigation, I secured Ramsey Yousef's cell phone 
records. The records were part of the phone calls that he made when he 
was in that New York City area in the months just prior to the bombing 
of the World Trade Center in 1993.

The phone records show that Ramsey Yousef made at least two phone 
calls to a row house in Queens, New York. 


That row house was occupied by the cousin of Terry Nichols' Filipina 
wife. Let me repeat that. The terrorist bomber of the first World Trade 
Center attack, the nephew of al Qaeda 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammad, made phone calls to the same row house that was occupied by 
Terry Nichols' cousins-in-law just 2 months before he exploded the bomb 
in the garage of the World Trade Center 15 years ago. Another 
coincidence?


I gave this information to the Department of Justice and since that 
time have repeatedly sought their help in investigating this matter. 
Time after time, my requests have gone unanswered or have just been 
flatly denied.

I also asked the Department of Justice on numerous occasions to help 
me investigate the name Samir Khahil. This name is on a list of 
unindicted co-conspirators of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, 
again in connection with Ramsey Yousef.

It also is the name, by the way, of an Iraqi man in Oklahoma City who 
at the time of the Oklahoma City bombing employed an Arab immigrant who 
fits the description originally made by numerous witnesses as to John 
Doe II.

This Oklahoma-based Iraqi lied, meaning the John Doe II look-alike, 
lied to the investigators about his whereabouts at the time of the 
Oklahoma City bombing, yet there was little if any follow-up on this 
John Doe II look-alike. In fact, the FBI simply declared that John Doe 
II never existed. The existence of John Doe II, let it be remembered, 
was based on a sketch and sketches derived from witnesses on the scene 
of the Oklahoma City bombing and the truck rental company in which that 
bomb was placed on a truck from that truck rental company. Those 
witnesses described a man who, as I say, looked very much like Samir 
Khahil's employee.

Now, I have repeatedly asked the Department of Justice to tell me if 
the Samir Khahil on the unindicted coconspirators list of the 1993 
World Trade Center bombing is the same Samir Khahil who employed a man 
originally identified as John Doe II, the bomber, the number two bomber 
in the Oklahoma City bombing. The Justice Department's answer: ''It 
would be too burdensome to find out if it was the same man.''

Further, we asked help in finding the Arab immigrant who looked like 
John Doe II and the man who was employed by Samir Khahil. We traced him 
to Boston, but we have had no support or cooperation in finding this 
very possible terrorist, or at least terrorist suspect. He may well 
have been working at Boston's Logan Airport on 9/11/01, the day that a 
plane took off from that airport and was hijacked and crashed into the 
World Trade Center. Another weird coincidence to the Oklahoma City 
bombing. Another coincidence, yes.

You don't have to be a conspiracy nut to believe that these things 
should be investigated. Instead, there has been no follow-through, no 
interest. The case is closed, forget it, both in terms of Samir Khahil 
and his Iraqi employer and employee; and both of these people, of 
course, reside in the United States right now.

That is just a small taste of the deplorable lack of cooperation for 
a legitimate congressional investigation. And it was no fluke. I didn't 
just happen to snag some uncooperative Federal employee. No, this is 
the level of non-cooperation Congress has learned to expect from this 
administration.

Yes, Departments and agencies do have limited resources, and I 
understand that. I used to work in the executive branch. So, yes, there 
may be some better uses for and some good uses for those limited 
resources and better uses for their time and investigators, rather than 
just following up on leads that are provided by Members of Congress.



You can hear someone explaining that. But the lack of cooperation 
that we have had goes far beyond the fact that they are not going to 
give their limited resources or even use some of their investigators to 
track down what most of us would consider a very worthwhile lead, 
especially considering that the terrorist that we are asking to look 
into currently resides in the United States and may well have had 
something to do with the bombing of the World Trade Center and the 
bombing of the Oklahoma City building there.

But, again, a lot of my requests don't require a lot of time and 
effort on the part of the executive branch, and I still have been 
stonewalled. For the past year, for example, I have repeatedly 
requested to interview the imprisoned terrorist Ramzi Yousef. He is in 
Colorado and in strict lockup. He has been there for 10 years.

This would have taken no time and no resources from any executive 
branch or Federal employee. None. This request is well within my 
committee's jurisdiction as ranking member of the Investigative 
Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

This request has been supported by the chairman of the Investigative 
Subcommittee, the chairman of the full Foreign Affairs Committee, the 
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and the chairman of the 
Intelligence Committee.

Such attention by Congress should be welcomed by this administration 
and every administration. The legislative branch can help bring new 
information to light and inform the public.

Nevertheless, the Department of Justice, consistent with its 
treatment of congressional inquiries during the tenure of this 
President, has dismissed this valid request. This request has been 
treated with what can only be described as contempt and condescension.

The point is, unfortunately, that this rejectionist attitude is 
typical. It is not that they don't have enough resources to help out, 
to look into an easy matter to look into. It is just that they do not 
want to cooperate with Congress, even when it's a Republican in 
Congress, even when the Congress was controlled by a Republican 
majority.

So, why would this administration obstruct congressional inquiries 
such as this? Remember, Ramzi Yousef was the mastermind behind several 
devastating terrorist attacks and plots against America. He led the 
first murderous attack on the World Trade Center in 1993, as I say.

After fleeing to the Philippines, he and two other terrorists plotted 
to kill thousands of Americans by blowing up 12 commercial airliners 
over the Pacific at the same time. It was known as the Bojinka plot. It 
was within 2 weeks of being executed when it was discovered and 
thwarted by Philippine police.

Interestingly, the terrorist operation, the Bojinka plot, was to take 
place about the same time as the Oklahoma City Federal building 
bombing, perhaps on the same day. We don't know. Perhaps we should 
know. Perhaps we should ask Ramzi Yousef about that.

Ramzi Yousef has been in Federal prison for over a decade. He is a 
prisoner with a unique understanding of the al Qaeda terrorist 
structure. He is the nephew of Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the mastermind of 
the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center.

In 2006, when I was the chairman of the House Oversight 
Investigations Subcommittee on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I was 
investigating Yousef's movements and activities not only in the United 
States but in the Philippines. I even traveled to the Philippines to 
question authorities who had captured Yousef's roommate and 
coconspirator in the Bojinka plot.

In spite of that fact and in spite of the fact that I was looking 
into Yousef's terrorist activities and in spite of the fact that I had 
obtained new information about Yousef's phone calls right here in the 
United States and new information about his associates while he was in 
the United States, the Department of Justice still dismisses the effort 
and, more than that, they are obstructing a legitimate congressional 
investigation, refusing to permit this elected Member of Congress, a 
ranking member of a congressional investigating committee, to interview 
a Federal prisoner. They refused access to Yousef claiming that there 
is a ''ongoing investigation.''

This prisoner has been in jail for over 10 years. It is more likely 
that what we have here is an ongoing coverup and not an ongoing 
investigation. In fact, I have been told recently by a former member of 
the Justice Department that they were told routinely simply to give 
answers that there is an ongoing investigation even if no ongoing 
investigation was underway, but simply using it as a phrase to dismiss 
a request from Congress.



Well, this is outrageous, but it's typical of this administration. 
This is a lot more than just a hurtful pride on my part of being turned 
down.

This administration is setting a terrible precedent. What people have 
to understand, when I am turned down like this, is when there is a 
liberal Democrat in the White House, the President will have set that 
Members of Congress can simply be dismissed, and that when they are 
trying to do a congressional investigation need not be cooperated with, 
in fact, can be obstructed. Is that the type of President that we want? 
Is that acceptable? It shouldn't be acceptable to Democrats and it 
shouldn't be acceptable to Republicans.

Doesn't Congress have a right to talk to Federal prisoners. Are these 
the rules of engagement? Is it really the rules of engagement that we 
want for our government that Members of Congress and the legislative 
branch don't have a right to talk to Federal prisoners?

Well, that's apparently what the Bush administration is trying to 
establish as the executive authority, as executive authority, the right 
to deny congressional investigators access to Federal prisoners. The 
danger of this should be easy to understand, both on my side of the 
aisle, the Republican side, and the Democratic side of the aisle.

Again, the attitude, apparent in the treatment of this request, is 
not an aberration or is it some sort of situation where this is not 
really a representative way the President has acted with his authority. 
No, I am afraid that's not the case.

This request was first made and denied when the Republicans 
controlled the Congress and I was the chairman of the Investigative 
Subcommittee.

Now Congress has a Democrat majority. In my position as ranking 
member of the International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight 
Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have seen it 
time and time again.

Our subcommittee chairman, Bill Delahunt from Massachusetts, read in 
the newspaper that our President is negotiating a security agreement 
with the Iraqi Prime Minister that will govern the future relationship 
of our countries.

Now let me say that again. The chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee 
on Foreign Affairs Committee is getting the information about a hugely 
important foreign bilateral security agreement by reading the 
newspaper. So, Chairman Delahunt conducted a hearing about the status 
of such an agreement and invited the administration to send a witness 
to testify before Congress.

How did the administration respond? They ignored the request. So the 
hearing was held with a private panel of witnesses, and, yes, the 
public has a right and an obligation to fully understand such 
commitments that are being made by the President in our name.

In a democratic society, policy is made after having an open 
dialogue. George Bush was elected President, not king.

In another attempt last month, our subcommittee held another hearing 
on the Iraqi security agreement and, again, our panel invited and 
pleaded with the administration to provide a witness. Their response? 
Silence.

Our subcommittee held another, a third hearing on this topic. Again, 
our subcommittee invited the administration to attend and explain to 
Congress what kind of commitment our government has agreed to with the 
government of Iraq. Even our full committee chairman wrote letters 
asking for the administration to participate in the subcommittee 
hearing. All the requests to the administration by our committee and by 
the superiors in the full committee were ignored, except for one, and, 
in one instance, where the contact was made, and I am sad to say that 
once again this administration was less than honest on a matter of 
national importance, Chairman Dela-
hunt's subcommittee was told by a White House staffer that the 
administration's unwillingness to participate in hearings was because 
''There is nothing to talk about because we haven't put pen to paper'' 
on security, because they haven't put the pen to paper on the security 
agreement, supposedly.

Well, when confronted with the fact that the New York Times had 
written a story saying that a 17-page agreement was being passed 
around, this White House staffer backtracked and quibbled.

This is unacceptable, it's dishonest, and it's typical. It's like 
saying there is an ongoing investigation; don't discuss anything 
anymore with me. There is nothing going on here.

Now, there is something going on, just as, instead of talking and 
trying to negotiate about what type of spokesman we could have at a 
hearing, instead, what we get is an undermining of the congressional 
right to oversee for the foreign policy decisions of this 
administration.

This stonewalling prevailed until a few weeks ago, when Condoleezza 
Rice, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a person and a leader who I 
deeply admire, testified at a hearing of the full International 
Relations Committee.

When asked about this issue, about witnesses not showing up from the 
State Department and this administration to explain to us in public and 
to discuss in public these very important agreements that are being 
negotiated with Iraq, she pledged at that time that there would be 
future witnesses dealing with this Iraqi agreement.

At least Condoleezza Rice, the Secretary of State, feels secure 
enough in this administration to do what's right and to talk directly 
to Congress and to send her people over to talk to us.

Unfortunately, we had to go all the way to the Secretary of State 
before we could get anybody in this administration to participate. Let 
me note, I am a supporter of the President's Iraqi policies. I have 
been a supporter since day one. I supported the surge, and I am not in 
favor of some of the propositions made by my friends on the other side 
of the aisle, which I consider would be a precipitous leaving of Iraq 
and would cause damage, I believe.

But that's not the point. The point is, Congress has a legitimate 
oversight responsibility and that the President of the United States 
should be discussing in public so that the public could understand why 
policy is being made rather than trying to secretly arrange a policy 
agreement and then surprise everybody, you know, as a done deal. Sadly, 
this administration's antipathy to the constitutional responsibilities 
of the legislative branch of government does not stop and end with my 
efforts and those of my subcommittee on investigations.

In October of last year, 22 of my colleagues and I wrote to the 
Acting Attorney General, Peter Keisler, regarding the pending lie 
detector test for former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger.

Madam Speaker, I submit for the Record, a copy of a letter concerning 
making that request of Acting Attorney General Peter Keisler.

















 Washington, DC, October 10, 2007.


 Mr. Peter D. Keisler,


 Acting Attorney General, Department of Justice, Washington, 