---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2e8c151759d2fca10a927e1b3b8535c5`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. I thank my colleague from New York.

Mr. Speaker, next month we will mark the fourth anniversary of the 
President's decision to launch a war of choice against Iraq. Many of us 
came to the floor of this House in the weeks before the invasion to 
urge the President to take a different course. The White House ignored 
those appeals for restraint. The President's mantra was, and these are 
his words, ''Bring it on.''

For almost 4 years after the invasion, the President had a rubber-
stamp Congress right here that never seriously questioned his misguided 
policies in Iraq. It was the ''see no problems, hear no problems, 
conduct no oversight'' Congress.

When the President stood below the banner ''Mission Accomplished'' 
aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln in May 2003, the rubber-stamp Congress 
believed the slogan, rather than the facts on the ground.

When Vice President Cheney declared that the insurgency was in ''its 
final throes'' back in May 2005, the Republican Congress accepted that 
verdict without question.

When the President unveiled his so-called ''Plan For Victory'' at the 
Naval Academy in November 2005, the old Congress dutifully parroted the 
talking points sent down from the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue.

The days of the rubber-stamp Congress are now over. This Congress 
will no longer serve as the mouthpiece for the White House. This 
Congress is finally standing up to do its job as a separate and coequal 
branch of government.

Mr. Speaker, the message from the last election was clear. The 
American people have an uncanny ability to cut through the slogans and 
get to the heart of the matter. They understood clearly that more of 
the same in Iraq was not working. And the American people understand 
what both General Casey and General Abizaid have told us: that the 
escalation of more troops in Iraq is not the answer; that it will make 
matters worse, not better.

Increasing the number of American troops in Iraq will put off the day 
when the Iraqis, the Shia, the Sunnis and the Kurds, must make the 
difficult compromises necessary to achieve political and national 
reconciliation. Putting more American forces in the middle of a bloody 
sectarian civil war will only lead to further violence and more 
American and more Iraqi casualties. It is time for the Iraqis to assume 
more responsibility, not less.

The Bush administration has been wrong about this war from the 
beginning and it is wrong with respect to its proposed course of action 
now. The recommendations of the bipartisan, independent Baker-Hamilton 
Commission provide for the responsible redeployment of our forces and 
represents the best way forward in Iraq.

And to those who would suggest that having this debate will undermine 
our troops, I say shame on you. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
General Peter Pace put that canard to rest just last week when he said, 
''There is no doubt in my mind that the dialogue here in Washington 
strengthens our democracy. Period.''

Our men and women fighting in Iraq understand the strength and 
vibrancy of this democracy, and they understand that it is our duty in 
this Congress to exercise our best judgment for America's national 
security. What has harmed our national security is not the


debate in Iraq, but the lack of serious oversight over the Bush 
administration's decisions and conduct.

What emboldens our enemies is not the exercise of our democracy, but 
misguided policies that have weakened our national security.

Our national security is weakened when our credibility around the 
world is undermined by false claims regarding weapons of mass 
destruction. Our national security is weakened when the chaos in Iraq 
allows Iran to greatly expand its influence in the region. Our national 
security is weakened when America's diminished standing in the world 
has eroded our ability to influence the actions of others. Our national 
security is weakened because we have diverted our attention away from 
completing the mission against the architects of 9/11, against Osama 
bin Laden and al Qaeda and the terrorist network that continues to 
operate along the Afghan-Pakistan border.

We must change course. We must strengthen our national security 
position, not compound the errors we have already made. That is what 
this resolution is all about. We hope the President will join us in 
that effort. Let's chart a new direction now together.