---
---

# IN HONOR OF THE WELCOME HOME A HERO PROGRAM
## `2e9072a416748a09089bbf08372a6f3d`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Welcome 
Home a Hero program at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. Every 
day, more than a hundred troops come through DFW on their way home from 
Iraq and Afghanistan for Rest and Recuperation. Since Welcome Home a 
Hero's inception in 2004, coordinated volunteers have gathered at the 
airport each day to greet our brave men and women serving our country 
and to make sure they receive the warm homecoming they have earned.

Welcome Home a Hero is a result of the dedication of the North Texas 
Commission, the employees at DFW International Airport, the USO, the 
Boy Scouts of America, local businesses and thousands of volunteers. 
This program is one of the largest and most effective community 
initiatives in north Texas, and its positive impact on the morale of 
our troops has not gone unnoticed.

As the 500,000th soldier arrives at DFW International Airport this 
month and the program approaches its 3-year anniversary, I want to 
thank all involved in this valuable effort. The dedicated and selfless 
participants of this valuable program are what make our country great.

The North Texas Commission, DFW Airport employees, the USO and all of 
the volunteers should be proud of their leadership and accomplishments. 
I am extremely grateful for their dedication to our troops and our 
country, and I applaud the people of north Texas for taking the 
initiative to create this program.
