---
---

# BRING THE SOLDIERS HOME
## `2e94a5c9cd9f64b849eab67068653293`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, they say they care about the soldiers. 
The President and his administration talk a lot about the soldiers, but 
in Iraq, the situation keeps getting worse. There are another 18 months 
left in this administration, and unless the Republicans finally dig in 
and demand action instead of words, casualties will continue to rise at 
a horrendous rate. In the 18 months the President remains in office, 
1,800 more soldiers will die and 18,000 more U.S. soldiers will be 
wounded if they keep up at the present rate.

We are suffering as mightily as we did in Vietnam, and the results 
are just as catastrophic and just as preventable. We have a choice, but 
this President chooses to spend more U.S. lives in Iraq, and he does so 
with the full support of the Republican Party, which is the only way he 
can survive.

The American people have spoken, the Democratic Party has spoken, we 
all said the same thing: Set a timetable and get U.S. soldiers out of 
Iraq's civil war. Even the majority of Iraq's elected Parliament has 
demanded a timetable for U.S. withdrawal, but the President ignores it 
all.

So far, the Republican Party has sat on its conscience and given the 
President every blank check he asks for. Too many Republicans in this 
House and Senate know the truth, but they remain silent and 
acquiescence and give up their congressional responsibility.

The American people have submerged the President's approval rating in 
an effort to get his attention, but he keeps ignoring the fact, the 
evidence and the lessons of history. And it is be possible because 
blind allegiance has become the litmus test of the members of his 
party.

Republicans used to give the President blank checks, now they give 
him a rubber stamp veto to keep Americans fighting and dying in a war 
he lost several years ago. U.S. casualties will continue to rise at the 
President continues to escalate his stay-the-course policy in Iraq.

The President's stubbornness has nothing to do with taking new ground 
in Iraq, but it has everything to do with gaining rights to what's 
underground in Iraq, the oil wealth of the Iraqi people. That's why the 
rhetoric is already being planted by the administration with friendly 
media that September won't really matter when it comes to a progress 
report. As Frank Rich reported in the Sunday New York Times, the fix is 
already on. And I will enter this journalism into the Record.



 [From the New York Times, June 24, 2007]










 They'll Break the Bad News on 9/11















(By Frank Rich)




 By this late date we should know the fix is in when the 


 White House's top factotums fan out on the Sunday morning 


 talk shows singing the same lyrics, often verbatim, from the 


 same hymnal of spin. The pattern was set way back on Sept. 8, 


 2002, when in simultaneous appearances three cabinet members 


 and the vice president warned darkly of Saddam's aluminum 


 tubes. ''We don't want the smoking gun to be a mushroom 


 cloud,'' said Condi Rice, in a scripted line. The hard sell 


 of the war in Iraq--the hyping of a (fictional) nuclear 


 threat to America--had officially begun.



 America wasn't paying close enough attention then. We can't 


 afford to repeat that blunder now. Last weekend the latest 


 custodians of the fiasco, our new commander in Iraq, Gen. 


 David Petraeus, and our new ambassador to Baghdad, Ryan 


 Crocker, took to the Sunday shows with two messages we'd be 


 wise to heed.



 The first was a confirmation of recent White House hints 


 that the long-promised September pivot point for judging the 


 success of the ''surge'' was inoperative. That deadline had 


 been asserted as recently as April 24 by President Bush, who 


 told Charlie Rose that September was when we'd have ''a 


 pretty good feel'' whether his policy ''made sense.'' On 


 Sunday General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker each downgraded 


 September to merely a ''snapshot'' of progress in Iraq. 


 ''Snapshot,'' of course, means ''Never mind!''



 The second message was more encoded and more ominous. Again 


 using similar language, the two men said that in September 


 they would explain what Mr. Crocker called ''the 


 consequences'' and General Petraeus ''the implications'' of 


 any alternative ''courses of action'' to their own course in 


 Iraq. What this means in English is that when the September 


 ''snapshot'' of the surge shows little change in the overall 


 picture, the White House will say that ''the consequences'' 


 of winding down the war would be even more disastrous: 


 surrender, defeat, apocalypse now. So we must stay the surge. 


 Like the war's rollout in 2002, the new propaganda 


 offensive to extend and escalate the war will be 


 exquisitely timed to both the anniversary of 9/11 and a 


 high-stakes Congressional vote (the Pentagon 


 appropriations bill).



 General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker wouldn't be sounding like 


 the Bobbsey Twins and laying out this coordinated rhetorical 


 groundwork were they not already anticipating the surge's 


 failure. Both spoke on Sunday of how (in General Petraeus's 


 variation on the theme) they had to ''show that the Baghdad 


 clock can indeed move a bit faster, so that you can put a bit 


 of time back on the Washington clock.'' The very premise is 


 nonsense. Yes, there is a Washington clock, tied to 


 Republicans' desire to avoid another Democratic surge on 


 Election Day 2008. But there is no Baghdad clock. It was 


 blown up long ago and is being no more successfully 


 reconstructed than anything else in Iraq.



 When Mr. Bush announced his ''new way forward'' in January, 


 he offered a bouquet of promises, all unfulfilled today. 


 ''Let the Iraqis lead'' was the policy's first bullet point, 


 but in the initial assault on insurgents now playing out so 


 lethally in Diyala Province, Iraqi forces were kept out of 


 the fighting altogether. They were added on Thursday: 500 


 Iraqis, following 2,500 Americans. The notion that these 


 Shiite troops might ''hold'' this Sunni area once the 


 Americans leave is an opium dream. We're already back 


 fighting in Maysan, a province whose security was officially 


 turned over to Iraqi authorities in April.



 In his January prime-time speech announcing the surge, Mr. 


 Bush also said that ''America will hold the Iraqi government 


 to the benchmarks it has announced.'' More fiction. Prime 


 Minister Nuri al-Maliki's own political adviser, Sadiq al-


 Rikabi, says it would take ''a miracle'' to pass the 


 legislation America wants. Asked on Monday whether the Iraqi 


 Parliament would stay in Baghdad this summer rather than 


 hightail it to vacation, Tony Snow was stumped.



 Like Mr. Crocker and General Petraeus, Mr. Snow is on 


 script for trivializing September as judgment day for the 


 surge, saying that by then we'll only ''have a little bit of 


 metric'' to measure success. This administration has a 


 peculiar metric system. On Thursday, Peter Pace, the 


 departing chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called the 


 spike in American troop deaths last week the ''wrong metric'' 


 for assessing the surge's progress. No doubt other metrics in 


 official reports this month are worthless too, as far as the 


 non-reality-based White House is concerned. The civilian 


 casualty rate is at an all-time high; the April-May 


 American death toll is a new two-month record; overall 


 violence in Iraq is up; only 146 out of 457 Baghdad 


 neighborhoods are secure; the number of internally 


 displaced Iraqis has quadrupled since January.



 Last week Iraq rose to No. 2 in Foreign Policy magazine's 


 Failed State Index, barely nosing out Sudan. It might have 


 made No. 1 if the Iraqi health ministry had not stopped 


 providing a count of civilian casualties. Or if the Pentagon 


 were not withholding statistics on the increase of attacks on 


 the Green Zone. Apparently the White House is working 


 overtime to ensure that the September ''snapshot'' of Iraq 


 will be an underexposed blur. David Carr of The Times 


 discovered that the severe Pentagon blackout on images of 


 casualties now extends to memorials for the fallen in Iraq, 


 even when a unit invites press coverage.



 Americans and Iraqis know the truth anyway. The question 


 now is: What will be the new new way forward? For the 


 administration, the way forward will include, as always, 


 attacks on its critics' patriotism. We got a particularly 


 absurd taste of that this month when Harry Reid was slammed 


 for calling General Pace incompetent and accusing General 


 Petraeus of exaggerating progress on the ground.



 General Pace's record speaks for itself; the administration 


 declined to go to the mat in the Senate for his 


 reappointment. As for General Petraeus, who recently spoke of 


 ''astonishing signs of normalcy'' in Baghdad, he is nothing 


 if not consistent. He first hyped ''optimism'' and 


 ''momentum'' in Iraq in an op-ed article in September 2004.



 Come September 2007, Mr. Bush will offer his usual false 


 choices. We must either stay his disastrous course in eternal 


 pursuit of ''victory'' or retreat to the apocalypse of 


 ''precipitous withdrawal.'' But by the latest of the 


 president's ever-shifting definitions of victory, we've 


 already lost. ''Victory will come,'' he says, when Iraq ''is 


 stable enough to be able to be an ally in the war on terror 


 and to govern itself and defend itself.'' The surge, which he 


 advertised as providing ''breathing space'' for the Iraqi 


 ''unity'' government to get its act together, is tipping that 


 government into collapse. As Vali Nasr, author of ''The Shia 


 Revival,'' has said, the new American strategy of arming 


 Sunni tribes is tantamount to saying the Iraqi government is 


 irrelevant.





 For the Bush White House, the real definition of victory 


 has become ''anything they can get away with without taking 


 blame for defeat,'' said the retired Army Gen. William Odom, 


 a national security official in the Reagan and Carter 


 administrations, when I spoke with him recently. The plan 


 is to run out the Washington clock between now and Jan. 


 20, 2009, no matter the cost.



 Precipitous withdrawal is also a chimera, since American 


 manpower, materiel and bases, not to mention our new Vatican 


 City-sized embassy, can't be drawn down overnight. The only 


 real choice, as everyone knows, is an orderly plan for 


 withdrawal that will best serve American interests. The real 


 debate must be over what that plan is. That debate can't 


 happen as long as the White House gets away with falsifying 


 reality, sliming its opponents and sowing hyped fears of 


 Armageddon. The threat that terrorists in civil-war-torn Iraq 


 will follow us home if we leave is as bogus as Saddam's 


 mushroom clouds. The Qaeda that actually attacked us on 9/11 


 still remains under the tacit protection of our ally, 


 Pakistan.



 As General Odom says, the endgame will start ''when a 


 senior senator from the president's party says no,'' much as 


 William Fulbright did to L.B.J. during Vietnam. That's why in 


 Washington this fall, eyes will turn once again to John 


 Warner, the senior Republican with the clout to give 


 political cover to other members of his party who want to 


 leave Iraq before they're forced to evacuate Congress. In 


 September, it will be nearly a year since Mr. Warner said 


 that Iraq was ''drifting sideways'' and that action would 


 have to be taken ''if this level of violence is not under 


 control and this government able to function.''



 Mr. Warner has also signaled his regret that he was not 


 more outspoken during Vietnam. ''We kept surging in those 


 years,'' he told The Washington Post in January, as the Iraq 


 surge began. ''It didn't work.'' Surely he must recognize 


 that his moment for speaking out about this war is overdue. 


 Without him, the Democrats don't have the votes to force the 


 president's hand. With him, it's a slam dunk. The best way to 


 honor the sixth anniversary of 9/11 will be to at last disarm 


 a president who continues to squander countless lives in the 


 names of those voiceless American dead.


The truth about September will be that the President is still losing 
the Iraq war, but that's not what we will be told, nor will the 
President tell the American people that he has no plan to treat all the 
gravely wounded soldiers returning from Iraq. Already America has lost 
over 3,500 soldiers, as many as 53,000 more are gravely wounded. As 
many as 50,000 more may yet be afflicted with post traumatic stress 
disorder or traumatic brain injury.

As the Associated Press reported over the weekend, our government is 
overwhelmed now in trying to care for our wounded, and the President 
has this Nation on course to see 20,000 more casualties before he 
leaves office. That's what will happen unless his own Republican Party 
finally tells him and the American people the truth about Iraq, and the 
urgent need to get their soldiers out of harm's way.

The Vietnam Memorial in Washington is a place where we commemorate 
the soldiers who died during the last failed war. Had enough people 
gotten through to the President back in 1968, there would only be one 
side of that Memorial because we could have saved at least 25,000 
lives. That's why we have to get through to the President today. The 
American people can't, the Democratic Party can't, even the Iraq 
Parliament can't. That leaves own the Republican Party to stop the 
memorial to Iraq's fallen heroes from growing any larger than it 
already will be.

We have a chance today to save U.S. lives by seeing the Iraq war for 
what it is and what it isn't. It is a civil war created by us, and it 
isn't in America's interest to be there.

Bring the soldiers home, Mr. President.
