---
---

# None
## `2ebdd9dae07e0fc68eb5f7380a9c3fae`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS â€” 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today to concur with my good 
friend from Arkansas with respect to H. Con. Res. 135, which 
acknowledges the role slave labor played in constructing the U.S. 
Capitol and thank her for her leadership on this issue. Once again, she 
and I had an opportunity to work on an issue that is important to 
America and to Americans.

Senator Lincoln has been a true champion for the common man, as well 
as for all Americans, on any number of issues. It has been a great 
pleasure to work with her on any number of issues over the years. I do 
thank her for her great leadership on this resolution.

The story of the very building in which we are standing is a story of 
freedom. It is a story of how people from every corner of the globe 
arrived to have a chance to steer their own lives, shape their own 
destinies, and toil at tasks of their own choosing, not those dictated 
by birth or caste.

Sadly, however, that shot at freedom was not given to everyone. For 
those who were brought here against their will and forced to toil for 
someone else's gain, freedom was a vague concept--for others but not 
for them. Slavery will forever remain a shameful tarnish on the shining 
city that is America. Unbeknownst to most Americans, slave labor helped 
build our Nation's Capitol. It is one of the saddest ironies of our 
history that the very foundation of this building in which we have 
debated the most fundamental questions of liberty was laid by those in 
shackles. They labored in the heat, cold, and dust of quarries in 
Virginia and Maryland to cut the stone upon which rests this temple of 
liberty.


We know very little about these workers and artisans, and of the few 
records that were kept at the time, only several first names survived, 
next to those of their owners and sums paid for the grueling labor. 
From 1793 to 1826, up to 800 slaves at one time painted, roofed, sawed, 
glazed, and perfected this building which represents a freedom most of 
them were never to know. They laid the foundation still visible at the 
Capitol's east front. They carved the marble columns that witnessed so 
many of the deliberations on the future of our Nation in the old Senate 
Chamber. They erected and polished the tall marble columns that lend 
Statuary Hall such elegance and grace.

As the Civil War ripped this Nation asunder over the very issues of 
human liberty, a slave artisan named Philip Reid cast the statue that 
crowns this very building, aptly named ''Freedom.'' I am pleased to 
join with my colleague from Arkansas and my House colleague from my 
home State of Georgia, Congressman John Lewis, in the submission of S. 
Con. Res. 135, which directs the Architect of the Capitol to place a 
marker in Emancipation Hall of the Capitol Visitor Center acknowledging 
the role these slave laborers played in the construction of this 
building and to accurately reflect its history. I would especially like 
to thank Congressman Lewis for his work in heading the Slave Laborer's 
Task Force, which recommended that such a marker be designated and 
erected.

This marker is a small way of showing our gratitude to these 
Americans, but it is a necessary and proper one.















 Amendment No. 1469


Mr. President, I now wish to move to another issue. It is the issue 
of the McCain-Levin amendment that is before us on the Defense 
authorization bill. In the Defense authorization mark, we filed an 
amendment seeking to add seven F-22s for additional procurement by the 
Air Force. And as a part of that amendment, we provided all the offsets 
necessary within the budget to purchase those seven aircraft. That 
amendment passed in the full committee and now is a permanent part of 
the mark. The amendment by Senators McCain and Levin seeks to strip 
those seven airplanes out of that mark and to deny--to basically shut 
down--the production line for the F-22.

First, with respect to this debate, let me put it in context and draw 
from a statement by a Washington expert in this area who is known for 
being bipartisan and level-headed, and that is John Hamre, President 
and CEO of CSIS, and a former Pentagon Assistant Secretary under the 
Clinton administration. In an April newsletter, Mr. Hamre stated as 
follows:




 All of the systems proposed for termination by Secretary 


 Gates in his budget have valid missions and real 


 requirements. None of them is a wasteful program. This is a 


 case of priorities. Secretary Gates has decided that these 


 programs don't enjoy the priority of other programs in a 


 constrained budget, but Congress can and should legitimately 


 question spending priorities. Every individual has a unique 


 calculus for prudent risk. Secretary Gates has rendered his 


 judgment. Not only is it appropriate but necessary for 


 Congress to pass final judgment on this question.


Mr. Hamre goes on to say:




 I admire Secretary Gates, but it is the duty and obligation 


 of Members of Congress to question his recommendations. These 


 recommendations merit serious and dispassionate debate, not 


 sloganeering. Secretary Gates has made a series of 


 recommendations. Only the Congress can decide what to do for 


 the Nation.


Congress is the branch of government most directly connected to the 
American people. We have a crucial role in the budget process, which we 
should not shy away from. Some will say this


is a debate about jobs and pork-barrel spending, unnecessary spending 
and powerful defense contractors. Hopefully, Mr. Hamre's statements 
have at least partially dispelled what is truly a myth in this respect.

Clearly, jobs are at stake--lots of jobs--and good-paying jobs at 
that. About 95,000 jobs are going to be lost if the McCain-Levin 
amendment passes--95,000 good-paying jobs across America. Several 
thousand of those jobs are in my home State.

But this is not a debate about jobs. This is a debate about the 
security of the United States of America, and I am going to talk in 
greater detail about that in a minute.

Since the Korean War, our military has been able to maintain what we 
call air dominance and air superiority. And what that means is that our 
Air Force has been able to control the skies, to rid the skies of any 
enemy aircraft. We have been able to control the skies by having the 
capability of taking out any surface-to-air missile that might seek to 
shoot down one of our planes in any conflict with an adversary. Since 
the Korean War, the United States of America has not lost a foot 
soldier to tactical enemy aircraft because of our ability to maintain 
air dominance and air superiority. Well, if we do not have the F-22, 
our ability to maintain air dominance and air superiority is in 
jeopardy.

Over the years, we have been in conflicts in different parts of the 
world with different adversaries, and there will be additional 
conflicts down the road at some point in time. We hope not, but we know 
one thing, and that is if we have an inventory--the capability of 
taking away the enemy's ability to come after us--then it puts our 
enemy in a difficult position from the standpoint of ever wanting to 
engage us.

Let me respond now to some comments that Senator McCain made 
yesterday, and which he and others have made often, about the power of 
the military industrial complex. Our industrial complex is powerful, 
but it is not all powerful. If there were not serious national security 
interests at stake here, we wouldn't be having this debate.

Also, there is absolutely nothing unique about the role of outside 
interests in the case of the F-22. Anyone involved in the current 
debate we are having in this body over health care, and even this 
week's hearings regarding Sotomayor, knows that outside interests, 
including industry, are intimately involved in trying to influence the 
process in regard to those issues. It is simply part of the process in 
a democracy, and there is absolutely nothing unique to it in relation 
to the F-22. We wouldn't be here if there were not serious national 
security issues at stake that are worth debating.

However, most importantly, this debate is about what kind of military 
we need today and what kind of military these young people who are 
sitting before us today are going to need in the future. It is about 
the balance between needing to maintain both the ability to win current 
wars and guard against future challenges. The United States is a global 
power, with global commitments and responsibilities that exceed Iraq 
and Afghanistan. We are also a nation that has fought and won wars 
through the use of technology and not just a total reliance on 
manpower.


Lastly, we are a nation for whom the basic war-planning assumption 
for the last 50 years has been that we will control the skies--air 
dominance and air superiority. If that assumption goes away, so does 
one tenet of American military strategy and the planning assumptions 
attached to maintaining air dominance.

A criticism of the F-22s in the bill is that it is funding something 
DOD does not want. Defense budgets, as enacted into law, always--and I 
emphasize always--contain measures, be they weapons systems or other 
programs, that DOD does and does not want. As John Hamre said, it is 
the job of Congress to assess what DOD requests and to render judgment 
thereon. If we do not do that, we have given up our oversight role with 
which the constitution entrusts us. Congress is the branch of 
government most connected to the American people. It has an important 
role to play, and we should not shirk that role and be afraid to 
challenge DOD's priority, when necessary, and when we know they are 
wrong. This is a debate about military priorities and what kind of 
military we need. We cannot and should not assume that future 
challenges will be like today. In predicting where the next threat will 
come from, the United States of America and our tacticians have a 
perfect record: We have been wrong every single time.

Jobs are at stake, and a variety of different interests are at stake 
but, most importantly, what is at stake is our national security and 
our ability to execute our global responsibilities. That is what is at 
stake and that is what I am going to focus on in my remarks today.

I would also like to rebut one point critics make about the F-22 not 
flying in missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Senator McCain and 
Secretary Gates have made this point often and over and over again. But 
there are numerous and very expensive weapon systems in this budget 
that we are going to be voting on in the next couple weeks that have 
not, and hopefully will not, be needed in Iraq and Afghanistan--the 
Trident missiles, the ballistic missile system, the DDG 1000. There is 
a long list of items that are not going to be used in Iraq and 
Afghanistan that are very expensive and that are contained within this 
authorization bill. That does not mean these systems are not needed. It 
is merely that they are intended to address a different threat. To 
argue against the need for a system because it is not being used in the 
current conflict is shortsighted and betrays a very short-term 
perspective on our national security.

Frankly, if the Pentagon had wanted to use the F-22 in the current 
conflicts, they could have been used. I don't know whether a conscious 
decision was made otherwise, but the conflict in Afghanistan is not 
over, and we are going to be in that area of the world for a long time 
to come. I suspect that before it is over, we will have F-22s flying in 
the region.

Let me just add that these numerous projects that DOD did not 
request--and there are several DOD projects which DOD did not request--
have drawn little or no attention. For example, $560 million for 
unrequested FA-18s, $1.2 billion for unrequested MRAPs, and significant 
funds to support a pay raise above what was recommended by the 
President. We spent a lot more money on these items than what DOD 
requested. So to come up here and say: Well, DOD didn't request any F-
22s and, therefore, we are to salute and go marching on is something we 
have never done, we did not do in this bill, and we should not have 
done in this bill.

Let me also address the veto threat regarding the F-22 funding. A 
veto is a serious step and one that should only be taken when the 
welfare of our troops or national security is at stake. After doing 
extensive research of Defense bills as far back as data is available, I 
have been unable to find one single example where a veto has been 
threatened or issued in relation to funding that correctly supports an 
unmet military requirement, as funding for the F-22s in this bill does. 
It is regrettable the administration needs to issue a veto threat for 
funding intended to meet a real national security requirement that has 
been consistently confirmed by our uniform military leaders.

Specifically, in his letter to Senators Levin and McCain, President 
Obama states as follows:




 The Department conducted several analyses which support 


 this position to terminate F-22 production at 187.


I am not sure who was advising the President on this, but that 
statement is simply not true. Of the countless studies--and I emphasize 
study after study after study--that DOD has done, only one recommended 
187 F-22s, and that study was based on one major contingency operation 
that has not even been factored into our national security strategy.

There are numerous other studies--again, numerous other studies--
including one commissioned by the DOD itself in 2007, which support 
buying a minimum of 250 F-22s, not 187.

I would also like to offer a few comments on the letter from 
Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen. Like General Cartwright did at last 
week's hearing, Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen talk about the 
importance of UAVs in obviating the need for F-22s. That means taking 
pilots out of the air


when it comes to destroying critical adversarial weapon systems that 
are on the ground or in the air trying to take out our men and women.

What they don't note is that of the UAVs we are procuring in this 
budget--and I am a big fan of UAVs; we need them in certain scenarios, 
but of the UAVs we will be procuring in this budget, that we will be 
procuring in additional budgets, virtually none of them will have any 
stealth capability, and they will be useless in a situation that 
requires penetrating denied airspace.

In other words, if we need to fly a UAV into a country--and there are 
a number of countries in the world today that have the Russian-made SU-
30 surface-to-air missiles--those UAVs get shot down every single time. 
The F-22 is the only weapon system in our inventory that has the 
capability of penetrating that airspace and firing not one shot, not 
two shots, but three shots and getting out of that enemy territory 
before the enemy ever knows the F-22 is in the theater. There is 
nothing in our inventory or on the drawing board that has that kind of 
capability--certainly not the UAVs.

As they did in hearings before the Armed Services Committee, 
Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen also do not address the issue of 
surface-to-air missiles and that the F-22 is more capable against those 
systems.

Lastly, their letter notes the decision to terminate the F-22 program 
at 187 has been consistent across administrations. Again, let me just 
say it was Secretary Gates himself, as the Secretary of Defense at the 
end of the Bush administration, who decided to procure additional F-
22s. We just procured those four F-22s in the supplemental we passed a 
month ago, or 6 weeks ago--that is additional F-22s beyond the program 
of record--to keep the option for additional F-22 procurement open for 
the next administration. So that has not been a decision of previous 
administrations. It is this administration that is making the decision 
to terminate the best tactical airplane ever conceived in the history 
of the world.

In relation to the letter sent yesterday from Secretary Gates and 
Admiral Mullen, I would like to quote from a letter I received from 
Rebecca Grant, a military expert who is at the Mitchell Institute for 
Air Power Studies. Here is what she says:




 In the letter of July 13, from Admiral Mullen and Secretary 


 Gates, the characterization of F-35 as a half generation 


 newer aircraft than F-22 and more capable in a number of 


 areas such as electronic warfare and combating enemy air 


 defenses is incorrect and misleading. Air Force Secretary 


 Donley and General Schwartz have repeatedly stated, ''The F-


 22 is unquestionably the most capable fighter in our military 


 inventory.'' And citing a Washington Post article of April 


 13, 2009:



 The F-22 was designed with twice the fighting speed and 


 altitude of the F-35, to preserve U.S. advantages in the air 


 even if adversaries can test our countermeasures or reach 


 parity with us. If electronic jamming fails, the speed, 


 altitude and maneuverability advantages of the F-22 remain. 


 The F-35 was designed to operate after F-22s have secured the 


 airspace, and does not have the inherent altitude and speed 


 advantages to survive every time against peers with 


 electronic countermeasures. America has no unmanned system 


 programs in production today that can cope with modern air 


 defenses such as those possessed by Iran. The Navy UCASS 


 demonstrator program may produce such a system in several 


 years for carrier-based operations only. However, together, 


 China and Russia have 12 open production lines for fighters 


 and fighter bombers. Only 5 F-35s are flying today. The F-35 


 has completed less than half its testing. Developmental tests 


 will not be complete until 2013. It is impossible to assess 


 the full capabilities of the F-35 until operational test is 


 complete in 2014.


Let me just add right here, in the history of the United States of 
America, when it comes to tactical aircraft, we have never ever 
purchased a tactical air fighter while it was still in test and 
development stage. We always allow that to be completed because we know 
there are going to be deficiencies.

Going back to the letter from Ms. Grant:




 The United States Air Force will not have a robust F-35 


 force structure for another 10 years. In addition, the 


 Pentagon removed funding for the F-35 to reach the rate of 


 110 per year as desired by the Air Force. Departing Air Force 


 Secretary for Acquisition Sue Payton recently warned of 


 potential cost growth in F-35, upon her departure. Cost 


 growth, or a Nunn-McCurdy breach, could slow down the rate at 


 which the United States Air Force takes delivery of the F-35. 


 The letter misrepresents the position of former Chairman of 


 the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Richard Myers.


I ask unanimous consent to have that letter printed in the Record.