---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2ed2113a3036cdb95a5d5c345022342b`
`Mr. WARNER — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for her analysis. As I 
read this, they can look backward, forward, sidewise, any way they wish 
and have one of the strongest powers Congress can confer on any 
commission--subpoena power--compelling persons against their wishes to 
come before that committee, take an oath, and provide testimony. That 
is something that Congress should consider very carefully before it 
confers that on--for the moment we know not who will be on this 
commission.

As I say, we will require further deliberation. But I do point out 
that the Senator talked about the uniform side. Much of the military 
procurement system is performed by very able career civilians. From 
time to time, military officers are detailed as a part of their career 
and otherwise to work with those civilians. But I feel the Senator is 
putting on report an awful lot of people with a broad brush. I want to 
think about that. Having had the privilege of serving with those people 
in the Department of Defense--perhaps not the ones who are there now 
but many. I think at the time I was Secretary of the Navy, I had 
700,000 to 800,000 civilians in the Department of the Navy. They are 
very conscientious people. I acknowledge there have been a lot of 
unfortunate things in the rush to do what we felt was necessary with 
respect to Iraq and, to a lesser degree but nevertheless to a degree, 
Afghanistan.

Haste makes waste is the old adage. For the moment, I have thoroughly 
been informed by the views of the Senator, and I hope to continue to 
have a dialog with the Senator as this matter is now before the full 
Senate.

I yield the floor.