# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2efe3fad8d9b4c8f8542a5129b83acd4`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman, my dear friend from California, for the time.

Mr. Speaker, after the debate in the Rules Committee last night where 
I hoped, and I made clear that it was my hope, that there would be an 
opportunity for the minority to present an alternative to this debate 
in the form of an alternative motion, an amendment, it was 
disappointing that that was not made possible. So now we are faced with 
a resolution before us that we cannot seek to amend with regard to that 
extraordinarily serious problem facing the United States of America: 
the crisis in Iraq.

Iraq presents the United States, Mr. Speaker, as the leader of the 
free world, with very difficult options, tough options. None of the 
options before us are simple nor easy. Clearly, as in every war in 
history, mistakes have been made. I believe, for example, that we 
should have learned the lessons from a neighbor of Iraq, from the 
creation in the 20th century of the Turkish state, modern Turkish 
state, by Ataturk, the father of that state, where the ability of 
religious parties, for example, to insert themselves into the political 
process was significantly limited. I think we could have done things 
such as that.

I admit, we all must admit, that mistakes have been made. But, Mr. 
Speaker, as the Spanish philosopher Ortega y Gasset said: ''Man is man 
plus his circumstances,'' and our circumstances in Iraq today 
constitute our options.

What are our options? One option is partition. I do not believe that 
it is reasonable nor appropriate nor acceptable to very important 
realities in the region and factors in the region, I don't think that 
is a reasonable alternative. Another alternative is to withdraw before 
the situation is stabilized, before the democratically elected 
government in Iraq is stable. That is an option.

I happen to believe that the resolution before us, in effect, says 
this is the beginning of withdrawal. That is what the resolution says 
in effect. Melt it down. The resolution states this is the beginning of 
withdrawal, despite the fact that the situation in Iraq by the 
democratically elected government has not been stabilized.

So what will occur if we withdraw prematurely? Ethnic cleansing on a 
massive scale; obviously, the collapse of the current government; the 
creation of an ideal vacuum in power, a power vacuum for international 
terrorism. We would see the creation of terrorist camps that would 
dwarf what we saw in Afghanistan before 9/11. Inevitably a surge in 
influence and the projection of power by the Iranian dictatorship. That 
uncontrolled projection of power in its quest to acquire, by the way, a 
nuclear weapon, that uncontrolled projection of power by Iran may very 
possibly lead to a regional war, Mr. Speaker, because the reality of 
the matter is that that region of the world cannot permit the 
uncontrolled projection of power by the Iranian dictatorship.

Now, the withdrawal could be, as I have stated, either announced and 
immediate or announced and phased. The reality of the matter is what 
the new congressional majority is bringing to the floor today is an 
announcement of withdrawal irrespective of what the situation may be on 
the ground in Iraq.

Another alternative, Mr. Speaker, is the President of the United 
States' attempt to stabilize the situation, to provide sufficient 
order, sufficient absence of chaos, for the government of Iraq to 
survive, for the sake not only of Iraq but of our national security. 
That is an option the President of the United States is trying to 
convert into a reality for the sake of our national security.

Now, Mr. Speaker, the options before us are not difficult. The 
resolution before us constitutes the wrong message at the wrong time in 
the wrong manner.