---
---

# IN HONOR OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE OF NOREEN EGAN OF GLEN ROCK, NEW JERSEY
## `2f0107098c919dc022fe9c45fb09d2f6`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute 
to the tremendous public service of Noreen Egan of Glen Rock, New 
Jersey. For the past quarter of a century, Noreen has been the rock of 
the Glen Rock Volunteer Ambulance Corps.

A graduate of Holy Name Hospital School of Nursing and Seton Hall 
University, Noreen settled in Glen Rock with her husband, Tom, and has 
raised two sons there--Dan and Jamie. She soon became interested in 
using her nursing skills to help her community by joining the Glen Rock 
Volunteer Ambulance Corps. Over the years, she has not only been one of 
its most active members, Noreen has also served as its Chief and 
Lieutenant.

Earlier this year, Noreen was nominated by her fellow Corps members 
for the John R. Rinaldi Special Recognition Award given by the Bergen 
County Chapter of the 200 Club at their Annual Valor Awards luncheon in 
April 2007. The award is a highly competitive honor presented to one 
person each year for his or her outstanding contribution to emergency 
services. And later this year, the Glen Rock Ambulance Corps will honor 
Noreen for her 25 years of service at their annual installation dinner.

In addition to serving people in need through the Ambulance Corps, 
Noreen has also served the children of the Academy of Our Lady as their 
school nurse for the past 24 years. And, last year, she was appointed 
Assistant Director for the Glen Rock Office of Emergency Management.

Furthermore, Noreen and Tom Egan--a Vietnam War veteran and Commander 
of VFW Post 850 in Glen Rock--have cultivated a sense of community 
spirit and civic responsibility in their sons. Dan, who joined the 
Ambulance Corps with his mother when he was in high school, is now an 
emergency room doctor at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York and at 
Bergen County's own Valley Hospital. Jamie just completed a tour of 
Iraq as an Army Ranger. The Nation has achieved its greatness because 
of families like the Egans.

The Glen Rock Volunteer Ambulance Corps has served the people of Glen 
Rock for just over 50 years--almost half of that with the help of 
Noreen Egan. She and her colleagues are what make the words of the 
Ambulance Corps' slogan, ''Neighbor helping Neighbor,'' ring true.



