---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2f034a61e2212d7f7eca159b68a08eda`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Mr. Speaker, on Monday morning of this week I had the 
opportunity to recognize and honor 53 elderly widows of veterans of 
World War II and the Korean War.

The sacrifices of that Great Generation are legendary, and they are a 
reminder of the sacrifice of the current generation of our military men 
and women who have heeded the call to service in defense of our Nation. 
Their patriotism, their willingness to put themselves in harm's way, 
possibly to pay the ultimate price for our Nation, should give us all 
pause.

So, Mr. Speaker, I stand here with deep gratitude and respect for the 
sacrifices of all of our troops, but especially for the 3,124 Americans 
killed in Iraq and those tens of thousands injured.

I stand here with great sympathy for the mothers and fathers, sons 
and daughters, whose loss is irreplaceable. I stand here tonight firmly 
and strongly in support of this resolution, in support of the troops, 
and in opposition to the President's escalation of our military 
involvement in the war in Iraq.



Let there be no misunderstanding. The men and women serving our 
Nation in our Armed Forces will continue to receive the support they 
require during their training, while they are in theater and when they 
return home.

It is in honor of their service and the sacrifices of their family, 
and the love of our country that we share that I stand to make it clear 
that the President's plan for Iraq to escalate the number of troops and 
to continue his failed conduct of this war is wrong.

Escalation of this war will not make our Nation safer. Escalation of 
this war will not stabilize Iraq. Escalation of this war will not move 
us closer to bringing our troops home, and escalation of this war will 
not better protect Americans from those terrorists who would stop at 
nothing to bring grave danger to our Nation and our allies. It is for 
these reasons that the President's escalation of the war in Iraq is 
wrong.

At a time when so many current and former military leaders, as well 
as the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, recognize the need for political, 
rather than military solutions to the ever increasing violence, that 
the President is so gravely misguided in sending more of our men and 
women into combat in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution is the answer to a simple question: Do 
you believe that an escalation of this war will bring our troops home 
sooner, and will it help the Iraqis achieve the national reconciliation 
needed to bring a lasting peace to their nation? I and the majority of 
Americans do not think so.

We believe the facts are clear. Escalation of this war fails to 
address the administration's strategic and diplomatic failures. It does 
not move us closer to success.

What we now need to succeed in Iraq is an overwhelming political and 
diplomatic force, not more American combat troops. Instead, the 
President should be working to end U.S. combat involvement in Iraq. To 
do so, he must demand that the Iraqis take charge of their internal 
security, should demand that the Iraqi President take the lead in 
national reconciliation, he should engage all the regional parties to 
prevent this war from escalating regionally and to explore every 
diplomatic and political solution to end this war.

Finally, the President must be accountable for his actions to this 
Congress and to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, over the first 6 weeks of the Democratic control of 
Congress, we have begun to move our Nation in a new direction, to 
restore credibility and ethics in this Chamber and to put the interests 
of everyday Americans in the forefront. There is so much more to do, 
here at home, and in our relations internationally, to better ensure 
the security and opportunity for all Americans.

The war in Iraq overshadows all that we do. The war has already cost 
this Nation so much, young lives lost, greater uncertainty and 
instability in the Middle East, greater hostility towards our own 
Nation and financial costs that will take years to repay. So it is 
timely and right that we take action now to change direction and 
strategy in Iraq.

I stand with the majority of Congress in support of this resolution, 
in support of our troops, and in opposition to the escalation of U.S. 
combat troops in


Iraq. This resolution sends the President a very strong message. It is 
our hope and the hope of the American people that he heeds it.