# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `2f031af8e4cd9ea69666b06da7a1f6a0`
`Mr. BAYH — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of SGT Marvin 
Ray Calhoun, Jr. of the U.S. Army and Elkhart, IN.

Sergeant Calhoun was assigned to the Army's Bravo Company, 5th 
Battalion, 101st Combat Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division. He 
lost his life on September 21, 2010, while serving bravely in support 
of Operation Enduring Freedom in Qalat, Afghanistan, where he was 
serving his second tour of duty. Sergeant Calhoun was 23 years old.

Marvin joined the Army soon after graduating from Elkhart Central 
High School in 2006. He played on his high school football team and was 
described by his coach as one of the team's hardest working players.

Today, I join Marvin's family and friends in mourning his tragic 
death. He is survived by his wife Yamili Sanchez and their daughter 
Yohani; his mother Shirin Reum; and his father Marvin Calhoun, Sr.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

As we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we take pride in 
the example of this American hero. We will cherish the legacy of his 
service and his life.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Sergeant Marvin Ray Calhoun, 
Jr. in the Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace.











 Private First Class Gebrah Noonan
