---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `2f147a88b1099fd5f3cecf816c4225ae`
`Mr. MARKEY — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to speak about a very 
important provision in the Defense Appropriations Act for 2008, which 
yet again confronts President Bush over his inhumane and un-American 
torture policies.

I want to thank Chairman Murtha for agreeing once again to include my 
language regarding torture in this bill. The provision, in Section 8104 
of the bill, states that none of the funds in the Defense 
Appropriations bill may be used in contravention of the United Nations 
Convention Against Torture. This is a crucial provision because, as we 
all know, for years the President has been willing to ignore our 
obligations under international and domestic law to protect the basic 
human rights of detainees. This disregard for treaty and legal 
obligations also undermines our efforts in the war on terror, serving 
as a valuable recruiting tool for terrorists and putting our brave men 
and women in uniform at risk of similar mistreatment if captured by our 
enemies.

I have inserted this provision into a number of funding bills over 
the past several years, and I will continue to do so until we can 
legislatively restrain this and every future President from 
intentionally misinterpreting our obligations to respect the 
fundamental human rights of all people. In the period of the Republican 
majority, I had to come to the floor and offer amendments to insert 
this funding restriction into the appropriations bills. Fortunately, my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree that our obligations to 
treat individuals humanely are paramount, and my amendment repeatedly 
prevailed with near unanimity. I commend Mr. Murtha for including this 
language in the bill, which reflects his deep concern for our troops 
and his commitment to upholding our obligations to fundamental human 
rights.

With his policies of extraordinary rendition, President Bush has 
shipped countless prisoners to countries such as Syria and Uzbekistan 
where they are brutally tortured--without ever having been afforded a 
lawyer, a trial, or any opportunity to challenge their transfer based 
on probability of abuse. By allowing senior officers and officials to 
implicitly encourage the abuse of Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib, 
President Bush not only allowed a situation to develop where Americans 
horribly abused detainees but also created one of the greatest public 
diplomacy disasters in American history. By establishing a network of 
black-site CIA prisons around the world, where prisoners are held in 
total secret and without access to international monitors such as the 
Red Cross, the President engages in the grossest hypocrisy and 
undermines the very international protections for prisoners that our 
own troops abroad count on as their last line of defense should they be 
captured.

These policies must come to an immediate and permanent end. I look 
forward to passing my Torture Outsourcing Prevention Act to end 
extraordinary rendition once and for all, and it is essential that 
Congress reinstate habeas corpus. Until then, I am proud that the 
Congress will, with this funding restriction, once again bar any 
appropriations in violation of the Convention Against Torture.