---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `2f1b2f135ce5fe287270191a1bb57b30`
`Mr. AKAKA — 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to set 
aside bipartisan differences and vote in favor of the motion to proceed 
to the National Defense Authorization Act. This bill is critically 
important to ensuring that our troops have the equipment and support 
they need in order to fulfill their mission. Voting against the motion 
to proceed would have significant consequences for the men and women 
who have made so many sacrifices for this Nation, as well as their 
families. It would mean delays in pay increases, delays in benefits, 
and delays in authorities that are necessary to train and equip our 
soldiers.

This bill authorizes the military construction projects that directly 
affect the quality of life of our armed services members by giving them 
new, safer, more effective facilities in which to work.

Under the leadership of Chairman Levin, the Armed Services Committee 
has produced a carefully crafted bill that addresses the many complex 
issues facing today's military. This includes language in direct 
support of our armed services members and their families, such as a 
3.9-percent pay raise.

Over the last 6 years, continuous combat operations have put a severe 
strain on our Nation's military capabilities. Consequently, one of the 
primary goals of this year's bill was to focus on restoring the 
readiness of our troops.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, I worked very closely 
with Ranking Member Thune on the readiness acquisition policy and 
military construction portions of this bill that are under the 
jurisdiction of my subcommittee. I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank Senator Thune for his hard work and cooperation during the 
markup of this bill. It was my privilege to work with him to advance 
the readiness of our Armed Forces.

I also thank our personal staff members and the professional staff of 
the committees for their efforts, in particular Peter Levine, Mike 
McCord, Bill Sutey, Lucian Niemeyer, Greg Kiley, and Chris Paul.

The Readiness Subcommittee has a broad mandate of policy oversight as 
well as jurisdiction over a substantial part of the DOD budget. In 
addition, it is responsible for the readiness and operation and 
maintenance provisions that support the essential requirements of the 
military services for the next fiscal year for the cost of normal 
operations. However, our goal remains simple: to maintain and, wherever 
possible, improve the readiness of our military.

Altogether, this bill contains $162 billion for the programs within 
the jurisdiction of the Readiness Subcommittee, which represents over 
30 percent of the DOD budget. That amount is within one-quarter of 1 
percent of the amount requested.

I believe all of us are concerned that our military forces have what 
they need to be trained and ready, but we are particularly concerned 
about the readiness of our ground forces. This bill fully funds the 
Army and Marine Corps readiness accounts, including the training and 
equipment maintenance request.

With respect to revitalizing our defense facilities, this bill 
invests an additional $413 million above the budget request in our 
infrastructure to repair or replace our aging defense facilities and 
improve the quality of life and the productivity of our military.

These military construction projects require both an authorization 
and an appropriation. I urge the Senate to pass both these important 
pieces of legislation--this authorization bill and the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill--as soon as 
possible.

This year's Defense authorization bill also addresses the need for 
increased oversight of the acquisition programs and activities of the 
Department of Defense to ensure that taxpayers' dollars are well spent 
and not wasted. For example, this bill requires DOD to establish ethics 
standards to prevent personal conflicts of interest by contractor 
employees who perform acquisition functions on behalf of DOD.

This bill ensures that private security contractors do not perform 
inherently governmental functions in an area of combat operations. It 
codifies existing DOD standards under which security operations are 
inherently governmental if they will be performed in highly hazardous 
public areas where the risks are uncertain.

This bill prohibits contractor employees from conducting 
interrogations of detainees during or in the aftermath of hostilities. 
The provision has an effective date 1 year after the date of enactment 
to give DOD time to comply.

This bill requires the military departments to ensure that urgent 
requirements documents developed by operational field commanders are 
presented to senior officials for review within 60 days of the time 
they are submitted. This is a response to reports that Marine Corps 
leadership failed to respond to requests for Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected vehicles, known as MRAPs, and other critical requirements for 
several years.

This bill codifies the requirement for boards to review and approve--
or disapprove--any new requirements that could add to the costs of a 
major weapon system.

This bill requires DOD to ensure that a contractor does not receive a 
competitive advantage by using foreign subsidiaries to avoid the 
payment of U.S. payroll taxes for its workers.

This bill requires DOD to establish a database of information 
regarding the integrity and contract performance of contractors, to 
ensure that this information is available to acquisition officials 
making key contracting decisions.

This bill requires DOD to take steps to ensure that contractor 
employees who are the victims of sexual assault and other crimes in 
Iraq and Afghanistan receive the help they need and the investigative 
assistance they deserve.

This bill requires the military departments to establish business 
transformation offices to serve as a central focus for the reform of 
their business and financial systems and processes.

This bill ensures that the chief lawyer for the DOD inspector 
general, or IG, serves at the discretion of the IG and reports only to 
the IG.

It is my hope that the Senate will strongly support these provisions.

In addition to working to improve the readiness of our troops as 
chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, I was pleased in my role as 
chairman of the


Veterans' Affairs Committee to work to include language in this bill 
that will improve care for this Nation's wounded warriors. One such 
provision responds to the need for comprehensive care for wounded 
warriors and their families by requiring the Secretary of Defense to 
provide referrals for legal assistance when appropriate in order to 
help with legal issues related to long-term care needs.

The necessity to encourage and promote the treatment of service-
related injuries was also addressed in this bill through the 
authorization of a pilot program to assess treatment approaches for all 
forms of traumatic brain injury and the establishment of a center of 
excellence for the treatment and rehabilitation of traumatic extremity 
injuries and amputations.

In order to ensure that the Department of Defense and Department of 
Veterans Affairs continue to carefully coordinate these efforts to 
improve the process for the care, management, and transition of wounded 
and ill servicemembers, this year's bill also provides for a 3-year 
extension of the Senior Oversight Committee.

Let me end by restating how vitally important it is for us to move 
forward with the debate of this bill. A little over 3 weeks ago, I 
attended the deployment ceremony for the members of the Hawaii Army 
National Guard's 29th Infantry Brigade Combat Team who are headed to 
Kuwait in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom for their second 
deployment. It was my great honor and privilege to say goodbye to these 
soldiers who are leaving their homes, their jobs, and their families in 
order to fulfill a commitment to defend and protect our Nation. I 
remind my friends and colleagues that we have also made a commitment to 
work together to pass a bill that provides our troops with everything 
they need to come home safely. The first step in this process is to 
adopt this motion to proceed so that we can begin debate on this very 
important bill.

I yield back the remainder of my time, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.