---
---

# DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `2f1fa23d9d3c90af5043812ffeda8a69`
`Mr. ROSS — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Indiana, a new member of the 
fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition for joining me this evening 
and being a part of this discussion on how we restore common sense, 
fiscal discipline, and accountability to our government.

Mr. Tanner said it very well earlier in the evening when he said the 
American people are sick and tired of all the partisan bickering that 
goes on at our Nation's Capitol. I can tell you those of us in the Blue 
Dog Coalition, we don't care if it is our idea or the Republican idea. 
We are looking for commonsense ideas, ideas that promote 
accountability, ideas that make sense for the people back home.

Now, there are others that will come to this floor and talk about the 
Democrats being bad on this or so forth and so on, and there are 
Democrats that will talk about the Republicans being bad on this or so 
forth and so on, but the American people are sick of that. The American 
people get it. They recognize that we are all Americans first and we 
are in this together.

Talking about accountability, this is a bipartisan issue that I would 
like to raise in the closing minutes of this Special Order. The United 
States is spending about $9 billion a month in Iraq, which translates 
to about $275 million a day or $12 million an hour. However, even with 
all of this spending, many believe that the U.S. Army is not providing 
our troops with the most technologically advanced and effective body 
armor available.

If you ask 100 different people what they think about this post-war 
Iraq policy, you get about 100 different answers. But I can tell you 
that there is one thing that all of us, Democrat and Republican, should 
remain united on, and that is funding and supporting and properly 
equipping our men and women in uniform. This war has affected all of 
us. My brother-in-law is in the United States Air Force. He is in the 
Middle East region this evening.

Let me tell you that 2 weeks ago, one of my constituents, Mr. John 
Grant of Hot Springs, Arkansas, brought this issue to my attention. Mr. 
Grant has become an expert on the types of body armor that are 
currently available in the market due to the fact that his youngest son 
serves in the Army National Guard's 39th Infantry Brigade. Arkansas' 
39th was recently informed that they could be deployed to Iraq by the 
end of the year. It will be their second deployment. I was there in 
Baghdad visiting them August 11, 2004, on their previous deployment, 
soldiers from my hometown, soldiers from throughout my district, people 
that I used to teach in Sunday school and people that, well, I have 
duck hunted with.



And they will be returning again, perhaps by the end of the year, and 
I believe that we owe it to this soldier, his family, and all soldiers 
and their families, to ensure that our troops are given the finest 
armor and equipment available.

This issue specifically involves the U.S. Army's recent testing and 
comparison of Pinnacle Armor's so-called Dragon Skin body armor and the 
Interceptor Body Armor, often referred to as IBA, currently in use by 
the Armed Forces. Because of equipment shortages in 2005, some troops 
purchased equipment at their own expense, including body armor, and 
Congress enacted legislation to reimburse these soldiers. However, 
months later, the Army issued a ''safety of use message,'' which 
instructed all commanders to ensure that only IBA brand is used by 
soldiers, prohibiting the use of any other body armor.

The Army's ''safety of use message'' also dispelled recent reports 
that Dragon Skin was superior to the IBA, citing that Dragon Skin has 
failed various tests and therefore does not meet the Army's 
requirements for soldier body armor protection.

Military support organizations, such as Soldiers for the Truth, of 
which Mr. Grant is a member, along with Dragon Skin manufacturer 
Pinnacle Armor, argue that Dragon Skin did not fail any test. They have 
stated that the testing was biased, and they continue to stand behind 
their assertions that Dragon Skin is superior to the IBA.

They point out that Dragon Skin has also been approved and is used by 
the U.S. Air Force, the CIA, the NSA, the U.S. Department of Energy 
officials in Iraq, the U.S. Secret Service Presidential Protection 
detail, some Special Forces units, and various police departments and 
SWAT teams around the Nation. However, our troops cannot purchase or 
use this body armor. I have even been informed that, as a result of 
this message, if a soldier purchases and uses any armor other than the 
IBA, this action will be construed as though the soldier has disobeyed 
a direct order and could, could, jeopardize his or her family receiving 
service group life insurance if killed in combat.

It is not certain whether this is true, but if it is, I completely 
disagree with this policy and believe that our combat soldiers should 
not be denied the use of the latest and most effective body armor if it 
will result in the preservation of their lives.

Therefore, for the protection of our troops, I am calling for a full 
investigation into whether the U.S. Army is using the most effective 
body armor for our troops' protection. We need an unbiased external 
investigation to determine whether the IBA is the most effective armor 
available. And if additional testing reveals that Dragon Skin body 
armor or any other brand is the superior product, then it should be 
provided to our troops.

I am extremely grateful to Mr. Grant for bringing this issue to my 
attention, as there is no greater obligation we have to our troops, who 
risk their lives on a daily basis, than to supply them with the most 
advanced technology and resources available.

I believe that we must demand that the most stringent test possible 
be conducted to resolve whether our troops are being given access to 
the absolute best body armor available. What might have been good in 
2003 might very well be outdated today. My only goal is to protect our 
troops in harm's way by ensuring that they receive the most advanced 
body armor on the market today as they carry out their mission.

May God bless our country, may God bless and keep our soldiers safe.
