---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `2f31cc2bfff27bd1164d040580cfed47`
`Mr. KYL — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, the Senator from West Virginia has, again, 
asked the most fundamental of all questions. I am going to have to take 
some time to go into more detail about my answer to the question. But I 
think I have tried to answer one of the two questions: What is the U.S. 
security interest in achieving victory in Iraq?

We know that the world in that region would be thrown into absolute 
chaos, with probably hundreds of thousands of casualties, if not more, 
if we leave Iraq a failed state. Even more directly to America's 
interests and to answer the question of how long will Americans support 
this effort is the danger that our momentum in the war on terror will 
be set back and will be dealt a tremendous blow if we leave Iraq a 
failed state and the terrorists are able to then move out from there 
and again become dominant in places such as Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
the Wahabis, and Saudi Arabia and so on. That would be a terrible blow 
to the progress we have made against these terrorists.

Osama bin Laden has a saying about the weak horse and the strong 
horse. It has always been his view that we are a weak horse because we 
get out when the going gets tough--in Lebanon, in Vietnam, and in 
Mogadishu. He believes that just as he thinks he threw the Soviets out 
of Afghanistan, he can throw the United States out of all of this part 
of the world because we are the weak horse. If we confirm to the people 
in that region that he is right, because we will not stay in Iraq 
because of the difficulties we have confronted, then we will only 
validate the view that he has propounded and make it much more 
difficult for us to confront terrorists.

To the question of how long Americans will continue to support this, 
I suspect that the answer is only so long as they believe there is a 
prospect for success and only so long as the hidden costs of failure 
remain hidden. We have not done as good a job as we need to, to say: 
All right, maybe this new strategy of President Bush won't work. He 
believes it will. There are new commitments from the Iraqi Government 
that suggest it will. We are going to be doing things differently. We 
believe this has a chance to succeed. We know one thing for sure; that 
is, the alternative, withdrawal, is a guarantee for failure. And what 
will that failure bring? Who wants the blood on his or her hands of the 
hundreds of thousands of people who are likely to be killed as a result 
of our leaving Iraq a failed state? Who wants to then ask the question 
of why it is that terrorists began to spread their evil ideology 
throughout that part of the world to be more effective in potentially 
attacking the United States, when, in fact, we have had them on the 
run? The evidence of what we did in Somalia is a good illustration. The 
fact that the London bombing about 6 months ago was thwarted is another 
good illustration of the fact that when we have good intelligence and 
when we have the ability to take the fight to the enemy, we make 
ourselves more secure.

I appreciate the questions of the Senator from West Virginia. They go 
to the heart of this debate. I would hope that we will have the 
opportunity soon to expand on these questions and the answers to them 
and engage in the kind of debate that we haven't had up to now and this 
country needs in order to be able to make the decision of what kind of 
support it wants to give to the President or whether it wants to accept 
other points of view.

I didn't deliver quite the remarks I intended, but I appreciate the 
comments of the Senator from West Virginia. I would be happy to engage 
in that discussion in the future.