# None
## `2f4d2a1c318147e515f66148005315a3`
`Mr. REED â€” 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my strong support for 
Christopher R. Hill to be the next Ambassador to Iraq. I have had the 
privilege of working with Ambassador Hill and I know him. He is a Rhode 
Islander. He was born in Little Compton, where he resides. He brought 
his fine skills and talents to public service many years ago. He has 
distinguished himself in that service over many years. He is being 
posted to one of the most critical areas of the world.

Mr. President, you and I just returned from Iraq. One of the comments 
we heard from General Odierno and from our diplomatic personnel was the 
need to rapidly confirm Ambassador Hill. They have every confidence in 
him. They believe he cannot only do the job but do it extremely well. I 
think their support is much more compelling than the opposition I have 
heard on the Senate floor today.

We understand, as they do, the real step forward in Iraq is building 
its governmental capacity and dealing with very explicit problems, one 
of which--and the Presiding Officer and I have both spoken on this 
today--is the tension between the Kurds and Arabs around Kirkuk, with 
respect to oil. Our Ambassador has to hit the ground running and deal 
with a very difficult set of issues. Chris Hill is prepared to do that.

Together with General Odierno, they will form a team that will 
continue the progress that has been made over the last several months.

Ambassador Hill, as I mentioned, is from Rhode Island. He earned his 
B.A. from Bowdoin College and a masters from the Naval War College, 
also in Rhode Island. He is extremely well qualified for this position, 
with a lifetime of diplomatic service and facing challenges in many 
different arenas, and facing them with distinction. He has particular 
skills in bridging gaps and bringing people together, which will be 
critical.

Ambassador Hill entered the Foreign Service in 1977. In the 1980s, he 
served in various positions within the State Department in Washington. 
He was an economic officer in the Embassies in Belgrade, Yugoslavia; 
Warsaw, Poland; and Seoul, Korea.

Beginning in 1991, he spent 2 years as the Deputy Chief of Mission at 
the U.S. Embassy in Tirana, Albania. From 1994 to 1996, he was the 
Director of the Office of South Central European Affairs.

Then, in 1996, he was named the Ambassador of Macedonia during a 
period when the United States was actively engaged in multilateral 
efforts to prevent the spread of ethnic conflict in Macedonia, bolster 
Macedonian independence and state viability, and manage bilateral 
disputes between Macedonia and Greece. He worked with our American 
military forces during that period.

The first time I met with him I was with the commander of the First 
Infantry Division of the U.S. Army who was on the ground. So the 
Ambassador is someone who has already been in a situation in which 
ethnic tension, bilateral relationships between regional


powers, and Army military stabilization operations were underway. I 
think that experience will make him extremely prepared for and equipped 
to accomplish the mission he has been assigned in Baghdad.

Ambassador Hill was also part of a team that was assembled by 
Ambassador Holbrooke that negotiated the Bosnian peace settlement. He 
fought to ensure that protections were included for those who had been 
made refugees by the war. In one instance, he personally intervened at 
the Stenkovac refugee camp to prevent a rioting mob from beating an 
ethnic Roma family to death.

I think he has a sensitivity to ethnic and sectarian tension, not 
gleaned from textbooks but from personal involvement and engagement in 
these situations.

In 2004, he returned to Seoul, Korea, this time as the Ambassador. 
There he partnered with Korean authorities and the commander of the 
U.S. Forces Korea, General Leon LePorte, another Rhode Islander, to 
develop and implement the most significant realignment of our military 
posture in the region since the Korean war. I think it was an effort 
that today is bearing fruit in terms of the ability of U.S. forces in 
Korea to continue their mission with a smaller footprint, and indeed to 
be able to support operations around the globe as units from Korea are 
being sent into the combat zone in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Most recently, after his experience as Ambassador to Seoul, he served 
as Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and 
also as head of--as somebody mentioned--the six-party talks, which 
attempted to get the North Koreans to move away from their path of 
nuclear progress they had been making. He worked hard to dismantle 
their main nuclear facility and provide a full accounting for their 
plutonium.

Ambassador Hill also engaged in issues of human rights. It has been 
pointed out that not all of the efforts have been completely 
successful. But what he was doing was carrying out the policy of the 
beneficiary administration. He was carrying out the instructions of the 
Secretary of State and the President of the United States. I think he 
did that with fidelity to his responsibilities to his superiors and 
also a keen commitment to improving a situation that had become very 
dire indeed.

Ambassador Hill has received numerous awards, including the Secretary 
of State's Distinguished Service Award, the Francis Shattuck Security 
and Peace Award, the Robert C. Frasure Memorial Award for Peace 
Negotiations, and the Secretary of Defense Medal of Meritorious 
Civilian Service.

Ambassador Hill, with his talent, his character, and his commitment 
to the Nation, has also been recognized because he has been endorsed 
for this position by the last three Ambassadors to Iraq, including Ryan 
Crocker, Zalmay Khalilzad, and John Negroponte. These gentlemen did an 
extraordinarily good job for us there. I am particularly singling out 
Ryan Crocker--someone whose commitment was not just in terms of his 
professional skill but his physical skill--risking his life numerous 
times, working day and night, 7 days a week, and doing it with 
distinction and grace. That is remarkable.

Again, no one is going to be another Ryan Crocker. I think it is 
extraordinarily significant that Ryan Crocker, who probably knows that 
job as well as anybody, would endorse Christopher Hill to take the job. 
He would not do it just as a courtesy to a fellow State Department 
officer. He did it because I believe he understands that Ambassador 
Hill not only can do the job but will do it.

I also say the same thing about the commitment and sincerity and 
support of Zalmay Khalilzad and John Negroponte. Furthermore, I think 
both General Petraeus and General Odierno have indicated that not only 
is he someone with whom they can work, they want to be able to work 
with him quickly. They want him on the ground. Iraq is at a pivotal 
juncture in the history of that country and its relationship with the 
United States. The intelligence and commitment and experience of the 
Ambassador to Iraq is critical. Ambassador Hill has an abundance of the 
necessary skills. He has proven again and again he can bring a possible 
situation to a workable solution. He is the right man for the job. I 
urge my colleagues to support his nomination.

I yield the floor.