---
---

# NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE  PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
## `2f562d572b63c9a2f17a974b1f9002ca`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, pursuant to clause 2, rule IX, I hereby 
give notice of my intention to raise a question of the privileges of 
the House. The form of the resolution is as follows:






 An Article of Impeachment of President George W. Bush




 Resolved, that President George W. Bush be impeached for 


 high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following Article 


 of Impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:



 An Article of Impeachment exhibited by the House of 


 Representatives of the United States of America in the name 


 of itself and the people of the United States of America, in 


 maintenance and support of its impeachment against President 


 George W. Bush for high crimes and misdemeanors.


Article One--Deceiving Congress with Fabricated Threats of Iraq WMDs to 
Fraudulently Obtain Support for an Authorization of the Use of Military 













 Force Against Iraq




 In his conduct while President of the United States, George 


 W. Bush, in violation of his constitutional oath to 


 faithfully execute the Office of President of the United 


 States, and to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, 


 and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in 


 violation of his constitutional duty under article II, 


 section 3 of the Constitution ''to take care that the laws be 


 faithfully executed,'' deceived Congress with fabricated 


 threats of Iraq Weapons of Mass Destruction to fraudulently 


 obtain support for an authorization for the use of force 


 against Iraq and used that fraudulently obtained 


 authorization, then acting in his capacity under article II, 


 section 2 of the Constitution as Commander in Chief, to 


 commit U.S. troops to combat in Iraq.



 To gain congressional support for the passage of the Joint 


 Resolution to Authorize the Use of United States Armed Forces 


 Against Iraq, the President made the following material 


 representations to the Congress in S.J. Res. 45:



 1. That Iraq was ''continuing to possess and develop a 


 significant chemical and biological weapons capability. . . 


 .''



 2. That Iraq was ''actively seeking a nuclear weapons 


 capability. . . .''



 3. That Iraq was ''continuing to threaten the national 


 security interests of the United States and international 


 peace and security.''



 4. That Iraq has demonstrated a ''willingness to attack, 


 the United States. . . .''



 5. That ''members of al Qaeda, an organization bearing 


 responsibility for attacks on the United States, its citizens 


 and interests, including the attacks that occurred on 


 September 11, 2001, are known to be in Iraq. . . .''



 6. The ''attacks on the United States of September 11, 


 2001, underscored the gravity of the threat that Iraq will 


 transfer weapons of mass destruction to international 


 terrorist organizations. . . .''



 7. That Iraq ''will either employ those weapons to launch a 


 surprise attack against the United States or its Armed Forces 


 or provide them to international terrorists who would do so. 


 . . .''



 8. That an ''extreme magnitude of harm that would result to 


 the United States and its citizens from such an attack. . . 


 .''



 9. That the aforementioned threats ''justify action by the 


 United States to defend itself. . . .''



 10. The enactment clause of section 2 of S.J. Res. 45, the 


 Authorization of the Use of the United States Armed Forces 


 authorizes the President to ''defend the national security 


 interests of the United States against the threat posed by 


 Iraq. . . .''



 Each consequential representation made by the President to 


 the Congress in S.J. Res. 45 in subsequent iterations and the 


 final version was unsupported by evidence which was in the 


 control of the White House.



 To wit:



 1. Iraq was not ''continuing to possess and develop a 


 significant chemical and biological weapons capability . . . 


 ''



 ''A substantial amount of Iraq's chemical warfare agents, 


 precursors, munitions and production equipment were destroyed 


 between 1991 and 1998 as a result of Operation Desert Storm 


 and United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) actions. There 


 is no reliable information on whether Iraq is producing and 


 stockpiling chemical weapons or whether Iraq has or will 


 establish its chemical warfare agent production facilities.''



 The source of this information is the Defense Intelligence 


 Agency, a report called, ''Iraq--Key WMD Facilities--An 


 Operational Support Study,'' September 2002.



 ''Statements by the President and Vice President prior to 


 the October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate regarding 


 Iraq's chemical weapons production capability and activities 


 did not reflect the intelligence community's uncertainties as 


 to whether such production was ongoing.''



 The source of this information is the Senate Select 


 Committee on Intelligence, a report entitled ''Report on 


 Whether Public Statements Regarding Iraq By U.S. Government 


 Officials Were Substantiated By Intelligence Information.'' 


 June 5, 2008.



 ''In April and early May 2003, military forces found mobile 


 trailers in Iraq. Although intelligence experts disputed the 


 purpose of the trailers, administration officials repeatedly 


 asserted that they were mobile biological weapons 


 laboratories. In total, President Bush, Vice President 


 Cheney, Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary Powell, and National 


 Security Advisor Rice made 34 misleading statements about the 


 trailers in 27 separate public appearances. Shortly after the 


 mobile trailers were found, the Central Intelligence Agency 


 and the Defense Intelligence Agency issued an unclassified 


 white paper evaluating the trailers. The white paper was 


 released without coordination with other members of the 


 intelligence community, however. It was later disclosed that 


 engineers from the Defense Intelligence Agency who examined 


 the trailers concluded that they were most likely used to 


 produce hydrogen for artillery weather balloons. A former 


 senior intelligence official reported that 'only one of 15 


 intelligence analysts assembled from three agencies to 


 discuss the issue in June endorsed the white paper 


 conclusion.'''



 The source of this information is the House Committee on 


 Government Reform, minority staff, ''Iraq on the Record: Bush 


 Administration's Public Statements about Chemical and 


 Biological Weapons.'' March 16, 2004.



 Former chief of CIA covert operations in Europe, Tyler 


 Drumheller, has said that the CIA had credible sources 


 discounting weapons of mass destruction claims, including the 


 primary source of biological weapons claims, an informant who 


 the Germans code-named ''Curveball'' whom the Germans had 


 informed the Bush administration was a likely fabricator of 


 information including that concerning the Niger yellowcake 


 forgery. Two other former CIA officers confirmed Drumheller's 


 account to Sidney Blumenthal who reported the story at 


 Salon.com on September 6, 2007, which in fact is the media 


 source of this information.



 ''In practical terms, with the destruction of the al Hakam 


 facility, Iraq abandoned its ambition to obtain advanced 


 biological weapons quickly. The Iraq Survey Group (ISG) found 


 no direct evidence that Iraq, after 1996, had plans for a new 


 biological weapons program or was conducting biological 


 weapons-specific work for military purposes. Indeed, from the 


 mid-1990s, despite evidence of continuing interest in nuclear 


 and chemical weapons, there appears to be a complete absence 


 of discussion or even interest in biological weapons at the 


 Presidential level. In spite of exhaustive investigation, the 


 Iraq Survey Group found no evidence that Iraq possessed, or 


 was developing, biological weapon agent production systems 


 mounted on road vehicles or railway wagons. The Iraq Survey 


 Group harbors severe doubts about the source's credibility in 


 regards to the breakout program.'' That's a direct quote from 


 the ''Comprehensive Report of the Special Advisor to the 


 Director of Central Intelligence on Iraq's WMD,'' commonly 


 known as the Duelfer report by Charles Duelfer.



 ''While a small number of old, abandoned chemical munitions 


 have been discovered, the Iraq Survey Group judges that Iraq 


 unilaterally destroyed its undeclared chemical weapons 


 stockpile in 1991. There are no credible indications that 


 Baghdad resumed production of chemical munitions thereafter, 


 a policy the Iraq Survey Group attributes to Baghdad's desire 


 to see sanctions lifted, or rendered ineffectual, or its fear 


 of force against it should WMD be discovered.''



 The source of this information, the ''Comprehensive Report 


 of the Special Advisor to the Director of Central 


 Intelligence on Iraq's WMD,'' Charles Duelfer.



 2. Iraq was not ''actively seeking a nuclear weapons 


 capability.''



 The key finding of the Iraq Survey Group's report to the 


 Director of Central Intelligence found that ''Iraq's ability 


 to reconstitute a nuclear weapons program progressively 


 decayed after that date. Saddam Husayn (sic) ended the 


 nuclear program in 1991 following the Gulf War. Iraq Survey 


 Group found no evidence to suggest concerted efforts to 


 restart the program.''



 The source of this information, the ''Comprehensive Report 


 of the Special Advisor to the Director of Central 


 Intelligence on Iraq's WMD,'' Charles Duelfer.



 Claims that Iraq was purchasing uranium from Niger were not 


 supported by the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence 


 and Research in the National Intelligence Estimate of October 


 2002.



 The CIA had warned the British Government not to claim Iraq 


 was purchasing uranium from Niger prior to the British 


 statement that was later cited by President Bush, this 


 according to George Tenet of the Central Intelligence Agency 


 on July 11, 2003.



 Mohamed ElBaradei, the Director General of the 


 International Atomic Energy Agency,




 in a ''Statement to the United Nations Security Council on 


 The Status of Nuclear Inspections in Iraq: An Update'' on 


 March 7, 2003, said as follows:



 ''One, there is no indication of resumed nuclear activities 


 in those buildings that were identified through the use of 


 satellite imagery as being reconstructed or newly erected 


 since 1998, nor any indication of nuclear-related prohibited 


 activities at any inspected sites. Second, there is no 


 indication that Iraq has attempted to import uranium since 


 1990. Three, there is no indication that Iraq has attempted 


 to import aluminum tubes for use in centrifuge enrichment. 


 Moreover, even had Iraq pursued such a plan, it would have 


 been--it would have encountered practical difficulties in 


 manufacturing centrifuges out of the aluminum tubes in 


 question. Fourthly, although we are still reviewing issues 


 related to magnets and magnet production, there is no 


 indication to date that Iraq imported magnets for use in a 


 centrifuge enrichment program. As I stated above, the IAEA 


 (International Atomic Energy Agency) will naturally continue 


 to further scrutinize and investigate all of the above 


 issues.''



 3. Iraq was not ''continuing to threaten the national 


 security interests of the United States.''



 ''Let me be clear: analysts differed on several important 


 aspects of [Iraq's biological, chemical, and nuclear] 


 programs and those debates were spelled out in the Estimate. 


 They never said there was an 'imminent' threat.''



 George Tenet, who was Director of the CIA, said this in 


 Prepared Remarks for Delivery at Georgetown University on 


 February 5, 2004.



 ''We have been able to keep weapons from going into Iraq. 


 We have been able to keep the sanctions in place to the 


 extent that items that might support weapons of mass 


 destruction have had some controls on them. It's been quite a 


 success for 10 years.'' The source of this statement, Colin 


 Powell, Secretary of State, in an interview with Face the 


 Nation, February 11, 2001.



 On July 23, 2002, a communication from the Private 


 Secretary to Prime Minister Tony Blair, ''Memo to British 


 Ambassador David Manning'' reads as follows:



 ''British Secret Intelligence Service Chief Sir Richard 


 Billing Dearlove reported on his recent talks in Washington. 


 There was a perceptible shift in attitude. Military action 


 was now seen as inevitable. Bush wanted to remove Saddam 


 through military action, justified by the conjunction of 


 terrorism and WMD. But the intelligence and facts were being 


 fixed around the policy. The NSC had no patience with the 


 U.N. route and no enthusiasm for publishing material on the 


 Iraqi regime's record. There was little discussion in 


 Washington of the aftermath after military action. The 


 Foreign Secretary said he would discuss this with Colin 


 Powell this week. It seemed clear that Bush had made up his 


 mind to take military action, even if the timing was not yet 


 decided. But the case was thin. Saddam Hussein was not 


 threatening his neighbors, and his WMD capability was less 


 than that of Libya, North Korea or Iran. We should work up a 


 plan for an ultimatum to Saddam to allow back in the U.N. 


 weapons inspectors. This would also help with the legal 


 justification for the use of force.''



 4. Iraq did not have the ''willingness to attack, the 


 United States.''



 ''The fact of the matter is that both baskets, the U.N. 


 basket and what we and other allies have been doing in the 


 region, have succeeded in containing Saddam Hussein and his 


 ambitions. His forces are about one-third their original 


 size. They really don't possess the capability to attack 


 their neighbors the way they did 10 years ago.'' The source 


 of this quote, Colin Powell, Secretary of State, in a 


 transcript of remarks made to German Foreign Minister Joschka 


 Fischer in February 2001.



 The October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate concluded 


 that ''Baghdad for now appears to be drawing a line short of 


 conducting terrorist attacks with conventional or chemical or 


 biological weapons against the United States, fearing that 


 exposure of Iraqi involvement would provide Washington a 


 stronger case for making war.''



 5. Iraq had no connection with the attacks of 9/11 or with 


 al Qaeda's role in 9/11.



 ''The report of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 


 documents significant instances in which the administration 


 went beyond what the intelligence community knew or believed 


 in making public claims, most notably on the false assertion 


 that Iraq and al Qaeda had an operational partnership and 


 joint involvement in carrying out the attacks of September 


 11.'' This is a quote from Senator John D. Rockefeller, IV, 


 the chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 


 entitled ''Additional Views of Chairman John D. Rockefeller, 


 IV'' on page 90.



 Continuing from Senator Rockefeller:



 ''The President and his advisors undertook a relentless 


 public campaign in the aftermath of the attacks to use the 


 war against al Qaeda as a justification for overthrowing 


 Saddam Hussein. Representing to the American people that the 


 two had an operational partnership and posed a single, 


 indistinguishable threat was fundamentally misleading and led 


 the Nation to war on false premises.'' Senator Rockefeller.



 Richard Clarke, a National Security Advisor, in a memo of 


 September 18, 2001 titled ''Survey of Intelligence 


 Information on Any Iraq Involvement in the September 11 


 Attacks'' found no ''compelling case'' that Iraq had either 


 planned or perpetrated the attacks, and that there was no 


 confirmed reporting on Saddam cooperating with bin Laden on 


 unconventional weapons.



 On September 17, 2003, President Bush said: ''No, we've got 


 no evidence that Saddam Hussein was involved with September 


 11. What the Vice President said was is that he (Saddam) has 


 been involved with al Qaeda.''



 On June 16, 2004, a staff report from the 9/11 Commission 


 stated: ''There have been reports that contacts between Iraq 


 and al Qaeda also occurred after bin Laden had returned to 


 Afghanistan in 1996, but they do not appear to have resulted 


 in a collaborative relationship. Two senior bin Laden 


 associates have adamantly denied that any ties existed 


 between al Qaeda and Iraq. We have no credible evidence that 


 Iraq and al Qaeda cooperated on attacks against the United 


 States.''



 ''Intelligence provided by former Undersecretary of Defense 


 Douglas J. Feith to buttress the White House case for 


 invading Iraq included 'reporting of dubious quality or 


 reliability' that supported the political views of senior 


 administration officials rather than the conclusions of the 


 intelligence community, this according to a report by the 


 Pentagon Inspector General.



 ''Feith's office 'was predisposed to finding a significant 


 relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda,' according to 


 portions of the report released by Senator Carl Levin. The 


 Inspector General described Feith's activities as 'an 


 alternative intelligence assessment process.' '' The source 


 of this information is a report in the Washington Post dated 


 February 9, 2007, page A-1, an article by Walter Pincus and 


 Jeffrey Smith entitled ''Official's Key Report on Iraq is 


 Faulted, 'Dubious' Intelligence Fueled Push for War.''



 6. Iraq possessed no weapons of mass destruction to 


 transfer to anyone.



 Iraq possessed no weapons of mass destruction to transfer. 


 Furthermore, available intelligence information found that 


 the Iraq regime would probably only transfer weapons of mass 


 destruction to terrorist organizations if under threat of 


 attack by the United States.



 According to information in the October 2002 National 


 Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraq that was available to the 


 administration at the time that they were seeking 


 congressional support for the authorization of use of force 


 against Iraq, the Iraq regime would probably only transfer 


 weapons to a terrorist organization if ''sufficiently 


 desperate'' because it feared that ''an attack that 


 threatened the survival of the regime were imminent or 


 unavoidable.''



 ''The Iraqi Intelligence Service (IIS) probably has been 


 directed to conduct clandestine attacks against the United 


 States and Allied interests in the Middle East in the event 


 the United States takes action against Iraq. The IIS probably 


 would be the primary means by which Iraq would attempt to 


 conduct any chemical and biological weapon attacks on the 


 U.S. homeland, although we have no specific intelligence 


 information that Saddam's regime has directed attacks against 


 U.S. territory.''



 7. Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction and therefore 


 had no capability of launching a surprise attack against the 


 United States or its Armed Forces and no capability to 


 provide them to international terrorists who would do so.



 Iraq possessed no weapons of mass destruction to transfer. 


 Furthermore, available intelligence information found that 


 the Iraq regime would probably only transfer weapons of mass 


 destruction to terrorist organizations if under severe threat 


 of attack by the United States.



 According to information in the October 2002 National 


 Intelligence Estimate on Iraq that was available to the 


 administration at the time they were seeking congressional 


 support for the authorization of the use of force against 


 Iraq, the Iraqi regime would probably only transfer weapons 


 to a terrorist organization if ''sufficiently desperate'' 


 because it feared that ''an attack that threatened the 


 survival of the regime were imminent or unavoidable.'' That, 


 again, from the October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate 


 on Iraq.



 ''The Iraqi Intelligence Service probably has been directed 


 to conduct clandestine attacks against U.S. and Allied 


 interests in the Middle East in the event the United States 


 takes action against Iraq. The Iraq Intelligence Service 


 probably would be the primary means by which Iraq would 


 attempt to conduct any chemical or biological weapons attacks 


 on the U.S. homeland, although we have no specific 


 intelligence information that Saddam's regime has directed 


 attacks against U.S. territory.''



 As reported in the Washington Post on March 1, 2003, in 


 1995, Saddam Hussein's son-in-law, Hussein Kamel, had 


 informed U.S. and British intelligence officers that ''all 


 weapons--biological, chemical, missile, nuclear--were 


 destroyed.'' That from the Washington Post, March 1, 2003, 


 page A15, an article entitled ''Iraqi Defector Claimed Arms 


 Were Destroyed By 1995,'' by Colum Lynch.



 The Defense Intelligence Agency, in a report called 


 ''Iraq--Key WMD Facilities--An Operational Report Study'' in 


 September 2002, said this:



 ''A substantial amount of Iraq's chemical warfare agents, 


 precursors, munitions and production equipment were destroyed 


 between 1991 and 1998 as a result of Operation Desert Storm 


 and United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) actions. There 


 is no reliable information on whether Iraq is producing and 


 stockpiling chemical weapons or




 whether Iraq has or will establish its chemical warfare agent 


 production facilities.''



 8. There was not a real risk of an ''extreme magnitude of 


 harm that would result to the United States and its citizens 


 from such an attack'' because Iraq had no capability of 


 attacking the United States.



 Here's what Colin Powell said at the time: ''Containment 


 has been a successful policy, and I think we should make sure 


 that we continue it until such time as Saddam Hussein comes 


 into compliance with the agreements he made at the end of the 


 Gulf War.'' Speaking of Iraq, Secretary of State Powell said, 


 ''Iraq is not threatening America.''



 9. The aforementioned evidence did not ''justify the use of 


 force by the United States to defend itself'' because Iraq 


 did not have weapons of mass destruction, or have the 


 intention or capability of using nonexistent WMDs against the 


 United States.



 10. Since there was no threat posed by Iraq to the United 


 States, the enactment clause of the Senate Joint Resolution 


 45 was predicated on misstatements to Congress.



 Congress relied on the information provided to it by the 


 President of the United States. Congress provided the 


 President with the authorization to use military force that 


 he requested. As a consequence of the fraudulent 


 representations made to Congress, the United States Armed 


 Forces, under the direction of George Bush as Commander in 


 Chief, pursuant to section 3 of the Authorization for the Use 


 of Force which President Bush requested, invaded Iraq and 


 occupies it to this day, at the cost of 4,116 lives of 


 servicemen and -women, injuries to over 30,000 of our troops, 


 the deaths of over 1 million innocent Iraqi civilians, the 


 destruction of Iraq, and a long-term cost of over $3 


 trillion.



 President Bush's misrepresentations to Congress to induce 


 passage of a use of force resolution is subversive of the 


 constitutional system of checks and balances, destructive of 


 Congress' sole prerogative to declare war under article I, 


 section 8 of the Constitution, and is therefore a High Crime. 


 An even greater offense by the President of the United States 


 occurs in his capacity as Commander in Chief, because he 


 knowingly placed the men and women of the United States Armed 


 Forces in harm's way, jeopardizing their lives and their 


 families' future, for reasons that to this date have not been 


 established in fact.



 In all of these actions and decisions, President George W. 


 Bush has acted in a manner contrary to his trust as President 


 and Commander in Chief, and subversive of constitutional 


 government, to the prejudice of the cause of law and justice 


 and to the manifest injury of the people of the United States 


 and of those members of the Armed Forces who put their lives 


 on the line pursuant to the falsehoods of the President. 


 Wherefore, President George W. Bush, by such conduct, is 


 guilty of an impeachable offense warranting removal from 


 office.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
