# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `2f5efe9865aa2e54a776e6d08cbea0da`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I thank the gentleman for yielding.



Mr. Speaker, I just want to point out that the base text of funding 
the war originated in the Senate and that article I, section 7 of the 
Constitution says: all bills for raising revenue shall originate in the 
House of Representatives.

Now, one of General McChrystal's top aides was quoted as saying, ''If 
Americans started paying attention to this war, it would become even 
less popular.'' The question is, when will Congress finally begin 
paying attention to this war, which is being waged with our consent; 
when will Congress realize that we've lost more than 1,200 troops too 
many; that we've spent $300 billion too much; that the deaths of our 
brave soldiers cannot be justified, that their service is sacred but 
the mission is not; that the death of every innocent Afghan citizen is 
a blot on our national conscience.

When will Congress cut off funding? When will the requirements of our 
failing domestic economy of unemployment, factory closings, business 
failures, foreclosures, loss of savings, bankruptcies, failing 
infrastructure, and failing energy policy cause us to look homeward?



Or should we cut social and economic programs to balance the budget 
to pay for the war?

We went to war in Iraq based on lies. More than 1 million innocent 
Iraqis have died. We've lost more than 4,000 of our troops. The long-
term cost will be close to $3 trillion.

Our presence in Afghanistan is an unmitigated disaster. The war is a 
cesspool of corruption. Billions in U.S. taxpayer dollars are being 
stuffed into suitcases and flown out of Kabul. The counterinsurgency 
strategy is a failure. U.S. tax dollars are going to support warlords 
who end up shooting at our troops. Security contractors bribe 
insurgents to shoot at our troops to demonstrate the U.S. needs more 
security services. Professional killers from Blackwater are now 
contracted to guard our embassy in Afghanistan. Drug production has 
skyrocketed during the U.S. occupation. U.S. tax dollars are going to 
build villas in Dubai, and our country is falling apart with a failing 
economy.