---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `2f650e9abaa5832e4ad8072bd0d58f19`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. I think when you generate ideas like we're having 
tonight with this decision, people are free to have an enthusiastic 
conversation where we can see each other's individual ingenuity. And 
then it is that collective ingenuity, that individual collective 
ingenuity that spawns these kinds of ideas that solve problems.

I couldn't agree more that the Iraq Study Group reassemble to 
evaluate where they were just 6 months ago in their recommendations to 
where we might want to be in September or sometime this fall is an 
excellent idea. And I am pretty sure that those men and women would 
come together to do this second reevaluation.

The other thing is, I think we, as members of our group here, Members 
of Congress, we need to do some preparation ourselves prior to whatever 
that announcement, whatever that assessment is going to be in 
September, we have to have some preparation for what we think the 
status of the conflict in Iraq needs to be.

And the third thing, while we are preparing for this report by 
General Petraeus, while we are encouraging the Iraq Study Group to 
reevaluate the status, as General Petraeus will, I really think it's 
important for us to continue to pursue a dialogue with all of Iraq's 
neighbors, including Iran and Syria.

Now, we all know that the Ahmadinejad administration, if I can say 
that, has said some pretty pointed, scary, threatened things. But it is 
my understanding that the Iranian people do not see the world, do not 
see the United States through Ahmadinejad's eyes. The Syrian people, 
the parents, the fathers, the people who want good lives for their 
children, the Chamber of Commerce in Damascus wants to have a 
relationship with the United States. There are many, many business 
people, many, many people in Iran that want a relationship with the 
United States.

So as we are preparing for this discussion in September, where we are 
with the surge and where we are with the conflict, let's get the Iraq 
Study Group together. Let's prepare for that statement so we understand 
where we think we should be. And then let's continue to pursue, however 
difficult it is, this dialogue.