---
---

# HIGHER EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `2f6ce03cb0a50988c282fbf9d272dc7b`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI — 31 July 2008`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I rise to speak briefly on the 
conference report to the Higher Education Opportunity Act. The 
reauthorization of this act, the Higher Education Act, has taken 5 
years and thousands of hours to complete. I congratulate Senator 
Kennedy and Senator Enzi for guiding us through passage of the Senate 
bill and then through a long and somewhat contentious conference 
process. Their leadership has brought us to an achievement of which we 
can all be proud. It is a bipartisan product that will have a positive 
impact on the lives of American students.

I also acknowledge and thank Senator Mikulski for the good work she 
has done, stepping in for Senator Kennedy during his period of absence, 
in order to help us resolve these last issues.

The Higher Education Opportunity Act includes many provisions that 
will benefit students and student loan borrowers in my home State of 
Alaska. One provision of which I am particularly proud will assist 
members of the military, particularly those who are in the lowest 
ranks. It will help them and help their spouses and their children to 
afford college or job training.

I had the opportunity last winter to visit Fort Richardson, outside 
of Anchorage. I met with the spouses of the deployed soldiers who were 
over in Iraq. It was kind of a townhall meeting. I was there to ask 
them what I could do to help make their lives a little bit easier, help 
them get through the long winter. One of them told me


that the one thing that was keeping her from being able to afford to go 
to college was the money that the military pays to help offset a 
portion of their housing costs. The housing allowance prevented her 
from being eligible for a Pell grant.

Given the low rate of pay for many members of our military, 
particularly those in the lowest ranks, they could not afford to take 
on any student loan debt. So I made contact with the National Military 
Families Association and learned that so many military spouses are in 
that same position.

So what we included in this legislation, through my provision, is 
language that excludes the cost of the basic allowance for housing for 
servicemembers who live off base, as well as the value of on-base 
housing. We exclude that from being calculated in the final 
calculations for financial need.

Excluding the basic housing allowance, which in the vast majority of 
cases does not completely cover military families' housing costs, and 
the value of on-base housing will benefit the least well paid members 
of our military and their spouses, whether they be privates, seaman 
apprentices, lance corporals, airmen--those folks whose base pay is 
less than $35,000 per year. While they are off defending our country at 
war, we want to be able to help the spouses and family members who 
remain at home.

I am very pleased to know that this wonderful woman I had the 
privilege to meet last winter, and potentially thousands like her, will 
have a better chance now of being able to attend college or obtain job 
training.

Another provision I was pleased to participate in and to author 
authorizes a program dedicated to improving science, technology, and 
engineering and mathematics education, with a focus on Alaska Native 
and Native Hawaiian students.

There are three programs in Alaska, Washington State, and Hawaii. 
They have had outstanding success using an innovative model to recruit 
and support Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian students through 
engineering, science, and technology programs. These are available at 
the University of Alaska, the University of Hawaii, and also through 
the Maui Economic Development Board.

The programs' graduation rate is phenomenal. By identifying the 
students who have an interest in math, science, and technology while 
they are still in middle school, helping them to graduate from high 
school with the courses they need to be successful in those disciplines 
in college, and then mentoring them throughout the college program, 
these entities have helped so many of our young students, Natives and 
the non-Natives alike, to really succeed in these demanding and high-
need fields.

The Higher Education Opportunity Act includes many provisions of 
which Members of the Senate can be proud. Suffice it to say that before 
the fall semester begins at many colleges around the country, we will 
have authorized: improvements to the Federal Pell grant; changes 
designed to help colleges and textbook publishers take steps to make 
the textbooks more affordable; increased and improved information about 
the cost of college and financial aid; rules intended to increase 
students' safety on campus; and greater State involvement in and 
accountability to the public for the success of our teacher preparation 
programs.

There are so many provisions in this legislation that I think we have 
to be proud of, and I thank my colleagues for their good work and 
certainly urge all Members to support this legislation. And my thanks 
to those who have led this through the process: Senator Kennedy, 
Senator Enzi, and Senator Mikulski.

I yield the floor.