---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `2f87f788f797cf83228df6944c51df07`
`Mr. LEAHY — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, with this confirmation--and I expect Mr. Wu 
will be confirmed--we will have confirmed 14 lifetime appointments to 
the Federal bench so far this year. This is March. I mention that 
because, when President Clinton was in office and the Republicans 
controlled the Senate, there were only 17 confirmations during the 
entire 1996 session of the Senate.

For those who think there is partisanship in the confirmation of 
judges, yes, there has been. Fortunately, it has been my friends on the 
other side.

Today the Senate continues, as we have since the beginning of this 
Congress, to make progress on judicial nominations. The Senate will 
consider and, I believe, confirm the nomination of George H. Wu to be a 
United States District Judge for the Central District of California.

With this confirmation, the Senate will have confirmed 14 lifetime 
appointments to the Federal bench so far this year. There were only 17 
confirmations during the entire 1996 session of the Senate. I have 
worked cooperatively with Members from both sides of the aisle on our 
committee and in the Senate to move quickly to consider and confirm 
these judicial nominations so that we can fill vacancies and improve 
the administration of justice in our Nation's Federal courts.

The Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts lists 48 remaining 
judicial vacancies, yet the President has sent us only 27 nominations 
for these vacancies. Twenty-one of these vacancies--almost half--have 
no nominee. Of the 20 vacancies deemed by the Administrative Office to 
be judicial emergencies, the President has yet to send us nominees for 
10 of them. That means half of the judicial emergency vacancies are 
without a nominee.


Judge Wu's nomination has the support of his home State Senators, and 
I thank Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their support of this 
nomination.

Judge Wu has an extensive record of public service as a State trial 
judge, a Federal prosecutor, and a law professor. In his 14 years on 
the State trial bench, Judge Wu has served in the Los Angeles Municipal 
Court and in the Los Angeles Superior Court, handling an array of 
criminal and civil cases. Previously, Judge Wu worked on complex 
commercial matters in private practice for two Los Angeles law firms. 
Judge Wu has also served as a law professor at the University of 
Tennessee School of Law, and as an assistant U.S. attorney and later 
assistant division chief in the civil division of the U.S. Attorney's 
Office for the Central District of California.

I am pleased that the nominee before us is an Asian-Pacific American. 
I have urged, and will continue to urge, the President to nominate men 
and women to the Federal bench who reflect the diversity of America. 
Racial and cultural diversity remains a pillar of strength for our 
country and one of our greatest


natural resources. Diversity on the bench helps ensure that the words 
''equal justice under law,'' inscribed in Vermont marble over the 
entrance to the Supreme Court, are a reality and that justice is 
rendered fairly and impartially. Judicial decisions should reflect 
insight and experiences as varied as America's citizenry. A more 
representative judiciary helps cultivate public confidence in the 
judiciary which strengthens the independence of our Federal courts.

There is still much work to be done. Out of the 875 seats on the 
Federal judiciary, there are only 5 active Asian-Pacific American 
judges on the Federal bench, less than 1 percent of all Federal judges. 
President Bush has nominated only two Asian-Pacific American candidates 
during his 6 years in office, neither to a seat on a Federal circuit 
court. With outstanding lawyers like Dean Harold Koh of Yale, Professor 
Goodwin Liu of Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California 
at Berkeley, or attorneys Karen Narasaki, John Yang and Debra Yang, it 
is not as if there is a dearth of qualified candidates who would be 
universally endorsed.

Our Nation has highly qualified individuals of diverse heritages who 
would help to unify our Nation while adding to the diversity of our 
courts. I hope the President will send us more consensus nominees that 
reflect the rich diversity of our Nation.

I congratulate Judge Wu, and his family, on his confirmations today.










 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations


Mr. President, this emergency supplemental bill that we are debating 
today has been long seen as our best chance of extricating ourselves 
from the quagmire in Iraq. As one of only 23 Senators who opposed the 
authorization of the use of military force, I have supported every 
credible proposal that has come before this body to bring our troops 
home.

The war in Iraq was not about September 11. It was not about al-
Qaida. It was not about making our Nation safer. While no one can prove 
a negative, I believe the damage this war has done to our national 
security, our national interest, and our international standing has 
been incalculable. When we had a chance to capture Osama bin Laden, the 
master mind of 9/11, we let him get away because the administration, 
the Bush-Cheney administration, wanted to take our troops out of 
Afghanistan and send then to Iraq, a country that had absolutely 
nothing to do with 9/11. The injustices perpetrated at Abu Ghraib and 
Guantanamo have tarnished our national reputation and leadership, and 
the way Iraq has become a rallying cry for religious extremists has 
made the American people less safe.

For whatever misguided reasons, the President started a unilateral, 
preemptive war in Iraq which has cost us thousands of American lives 
and made us less safe. I think that historians will look back at this 
war as one of the most costly, reckless mistakes made by any 
administration in this history.

This supplemental contains another $96 billion to support U.S. 
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. I supported the use of 
military force to remove the Taliban from power, and I support the 
continued efforts of our military and NATO forces against the Taliban 
and al-Qaida in Afghanistan. But I did not, do not, and will not agree 
to the use of the U.S. military to continue putting our people in 
harm's way in the middle of a continuing civil war in Iraq.

This bill also contains money to help the people of Lebanon rebuild 
after the devastating war between Hezbollah and Israel last year, aid 
for refugees in Darfur, the Congo, Uganda, and other humanitarian 
crises, and to prevent the spread of avian influenza. It contains 
resources to help Kosovo as it moves toward independence, for Liberia 
to rebuild after their civil war, and to support the peace process in 
Nepal which finally has a chance to shed its feudal past.

It contains a provision I sponsored, with the support of both 
Republicans and Democrats, to fix the illogical and unfair provisions 
in the Immigration and Naturalization Act that have been used to 
prevent victims of terrorist groups or members of groups who fought 
alongside the United States from admission as refugees or from 
obtaining asylum.

As the chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee on State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs, I am also pleased to report the bill 
includes, for the first time, benchmarks on a portion of the 
reconstruction assistance for Iraq. We are not going to continue to 
pour billions of dollars into no-bid contracts that have been plagued 
by rampant fraud and shoddy workmanship. It is about time we put an end 
to the practice of handing out American taxpayers' money with no 
strings attached. These benchmarks reflect what the Iraqi Government 
itself has pledged and what even President Bush acknowledged is 
necessary if the Iraqi Government is to succeed in bringing stability 
to that country.

So there is much in this bill that I support, but despite that, I do 
not support the funding to continue the military operations in Iraq, 
and I will vote against this bill unless it contains the provision 
relating to the withdrawal of our forces, which is similar to 
legislation which narrowly lost in the Senate last week. I voted for it 
then, and I will vote for it again.

The withdrawal provision in this bill is not, in some respects, as 
definitive as what passed the House by the slimmest of margins last 
Friday. Like many others, I would have written it differently. I wanted 
a deadline for commencement of the withdrawal of our forces but also 
for completing it within a target date. I have cosponsored legislation 
that contains such a deadline. But this provision represents a 90-
degree change of course from the President's policy of escalation in 
the middle of a civil war. It is our best hope of obtaining the 
majority of votes needed to begin that process. So I am confident that 
once the withdrawal of our troops begins, there will be no turning 
back.

We have to remove our troops from the Iraq civil war. That argument 
has been made eloquently, including by former senior military officers 
whose credibility is unimpeachable. Retired LTG William Odom, in an op-
ed piece of February 11 in the Washington Post, said it better than I 
ever could. It is the only way the Iraqis will make the difficult 
political compromises that can save their country from further 
destruction.

The President has threatened to veto this bill if the troop 
withdrawal provision is included. That is not surprising for a White 
House that has stubbornly refused to change course even in the face of 
dwindling support from the American people whose sons and daughters are 
dying. For more than 4 years, President Bush, Vice President Cheney and 
former Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld, backed by a rubberstamp Congress, 
made one incompetent decision after another, arrogantly insisting they 
knew best and dismissing anyone who so much as questioned their policy 
for ''not supporting the troops.'' It has been reminiscent of the old 
''soft on communism'' and ''soft on drugs'' refrains that were used, 
and still are used, for political purposes to justify failed policies.

None of us should be intimidated by these worn out arguments. If they 
want to show their support of the troops, they should do something 
about our VA system. Fix up Walter Reed and fix up the other facilities 
where we are not giving proper help to our wounded soldiers when they 
return from Iraq. We Democrats want to support those troops, too, and 
not just to be at the parades when they go over but to be there to help 
them when they come back. If this administration wants to support the 
troops, it should have given them the equipment, the training, and the 
armor they still don't get in a war that has lasted longer than World 
War II. And they should take care of the wounded whose bodies, minds 
and lives have been shattered.

None of us should have confidence in a failed war effort that has 
already wrought enormous toll in American blood, treasure, and 
credibility, not after the fiasco this White House has wrought. It is 
time for the Congress to act as the voice and the conscience of the 
American people.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.