---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR  FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2f8c9fa9740aa5ae07b341849c401f00`
`Mr. CASTLE — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2082, the 
conference agreement on the Fiscal Year 2008 Intelligence Authorization 
Act.

As a former member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, I 
believe it is vital that we provide the United States intelligence 
agencies with the tools and resources necessary to ensure our security. 
Therefore, I strongly support funding in this bill for human 
intelligence activities, intelligence analysis, and training, 
infrastructure, and global intelligence improvements. I also support 
the authorization in the bill providing emergency funding for 
counterterrorism operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Furthermore, I support language in the agreement prohibiting the use 
of any interrogation techniques not authorized by the U.S. Army Field 
Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations against any 
individual in the custody or effective control of any element of the 
intelligence community. Our soldiers and interrogators need to know 
exactly where the line is when engaging prisoners and there should be 
absolutely no question about what is acceptable behavior and what is 
not. In fact, I recently cosponsored legislation to require the anti-
torture provisions included in this conference agreement.

Nevertheless, I will oppose this bill because it fails to implement 
the 9/11 Commission's recommendations for reforming congressional 
oversight of intelligence funding. In its final report, the 9/11 
Commission concluded that: ''Of all our recommendations, strengthening 
congressional oversight may be among the most difficult and important. 
So long as oversight is governed by the current congressional rules and 
resolutions, we believe the American people will not get the security 
they want and need.''

Earlier this year, the Democratic leadership attempted to apply a 
''Band-Aid'' to this problem by creating a powerless Intelligence 
Oversight Panel that has very little control over actual funding 
decisions. This is clearly not what the 9/11 Commission recommended. In 
fact, its report plainly states that ''tinkering with the existing 
committee structure is not sufficient.'' In May, I offered a simple 
amendment to the bill before us, calling for Congress to implement 
these crucial recommendations--but it was prevented from being 
considered for inclusion in this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, the American people have insisted that we implement all 
of the 9/11 Commission recommendations--even those that are difficult. 
We will be doing this country a disservice until we put in place an 
effective committee structure capable of giving our national 
intelligence agencies the oversight, support, and leadership they need.