---
---

# AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `2f8e46a99a1b8dfa528bfff5faafcf35`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 21 July 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, my high school English teacher always used 
to say: All right, let's review things. So let's review things just for 
a moment.

I have listened to some of this debate in the Senate today, and as 
best as I can tell, we have people standing, saying the deficit is a 
bad thing. I think there is general agreement about that in the Senate, 
and we have to do something about it. There is general agreement about 
that.

They say: We are going to make our last stand here on this deficit 
with respect to those who are out of work and who need extension of 
unemployment benefits. We were quick to give help to the wealthiest 
Americans, to the biggest investment banks that needed help. We gave 
hundreds of billions of dollars to those interests at the top of the 
economic ladder, who nearly ran the country right into the ditch. But 
those at the bottom of the ladder, who are out of work, who are 
unemployed, and who are having trouble, that is where they say they are 
making their last stand on deficits.

So let me try to understand this with a review. We are told the 
deficit is too high; that we cannot give help to the unemployed in the 
manner we used to give help to the unemployed. We always did that when 
there was an economic downturn. We have always done that. But, oh, by 
the way, what we need to do is to repeal the estate tax for the 
wealthiest individuals in America. I don't know. I took mathematics in 
a high school senior class of nine students, and I passed it at least. 
I can understand how things add up now and then. But I don't know how 
that adds up at all.

There are those coming to the floor of the Senate and having great 
apoplexy about giving help to the unemployed. By the way, some have 
even said: You give help to the unemployed, it just discourages them 
from work. Well, you know something, a guy told me the other day about 
a young third grader who was asked in his school--it was going to be 
his birthday--what he would like for his birthday; what kind of 
birthday present he would like. This little third grader said: A 
flashlight. The guy said: A flashlight? He said: Yes, so I can read at 
night. They turned off our electricity.

How many in this room would even understand having your electricity 
turned off and having a third grade son who can't read at night because 
there are no lights and asking for a flashlight as a gift? There is 
nobody in here who is unemployed--not one person in this room. This is 
a roomful of people who take their showers in the morning, not at 
night. They get up and put on a blue suit, a pressed white shirt and a 
tie and come to work--all fully employed--and we talk about the 
unemployed.

We are short 20 million jobs in this country. There are millions of 
people out of work. Five million manufacturing employees alone have 
lost their jobs in the last 9 years. As we ran into this deepest 
recession since the Great Depression, a whole lot of folks--yes, at the 
lower end of the economic ladder and in middle-income areas--have lost 
their jobs and can't find another job. When they worked, from their 
paychecks they paid a small premium for unemployment insurance. They 
paid for that insurance, and now they can't get the extension of that 
unemployment insurance in the Senate. Why? Because the last stand on 
deficits is to take place with respect to restricting the ability of 
those who are out of work from getting the funds to extend their 
unemployment benefits. That is the last stand.

Did my colleagues make that last stand with regard to the big 
investment banks that ran into trouble? No, not at all. They rushed 
that aid in on a pillow. Can we help you? How much do you need? But now 
that it is the folks at the bottom of the ladder, all of a sudden we 
don't have the capability.

Some of my colleagues just complained about speakers who wanted to 
talk about the past. You know, if you don't understand the past, you 
are destined to repeat it. I understand that neither side is much of a 
bargain--Republicans and Democrats. This country deserves more from 
both sides. I understand that. But I also understand what has caused 
this problem. I was on the floor of the Senate in February of 2001. By 
the way, when President Clinton left office 2 months prior to that we 
had the first budget surplus in 30 years--over $200 billion in surplus. 
President Bush said: You know, we have these projected surpluses now 
for 10 years. Let's get rid of them. Let's give big tax cuts, with the 
biggest by far going to the wealthiest Americans.

I stood on the floor and said: Let's be a little conservative. What 
if something happens? They said: You know what, we are going to give 
these tax cuts, and the biggest cuts are going to the wealthiest 
Americans. If you made $1 million a year, that bill gave you, I think, 
$80,000 a year in tax cuts. So everyone on that side voted for it. 
Absolutely. Happy to vote for it, to reduce this country's income. What 
happened? Very quickly, we ran into a recession. Then we had a 
terrorist attack against our country on 9/11. Then we were at war in 
Afghanistan, then at war in Iraq, and this Congress appropriated 
massive amounts of money as it sent young men and women to war and did 
not pay for one penny of it--not a penny. All of it went right onto the 
debt.

Those who cry the loudest on the floor of the Senate these days, 
right now, are the very ones who voted to reduce this country's income 
with the biggest benefits going to the wealthiest Americans. Yet now 
they come to us and say: Well, you know, now we are making our last 
stand for the unemployed--to prevent the unemployed from getting what 
they should get. By the way, while we are on the floor, they say: Why 
can't we repeal the estate tax that will help the wealthiest Americans?

Let me mention the estate tax for a moment. First of all, my 
colleague said death tax. He knows, and I know, there is no such thing 
as a death tax. If my colleague should die, his estate is not


taxed. His entire estate goes tax free, under current law, to his 
spouse. It is true this year there is zero estate tax for anybody, and 
my colleague didn't mention that was created in an architecture of tax 
cuts in 2001 that many of us voted against.

By the way, that turns out to have been just fundamentally goofy. 
They created estate tax relief that goes down, down, down, and down to 
zero in this year and then springs way back up in 2011. We didn't do 
that. That wasn't us. That was the other side. Now what they say is 
that they would like to repeal the estate tax altogether because they 
think it is a tax on death. It is not. It is a tax on inherited wealth 
and they know that.

But this year, because there is zero estate tax, about four 
billionaires have died and not one penny of their estate will be taxed 
and most of their estates were never taxed. They were growth 
appreciation of stocks and various assets never subject to a tax. Most 
people have an income and it is subject to a tax. They help send kids 
to school with that tax, pay to build roads, pay for police, pay for 
defense. But that runup in tax for the billionaires or that runup in 
income, I should say, has never borne a tax to support anything. My 
colleagues say: You know what, I want to make sure it doesn't ever bear 
a tax. Let's have the little folks pay a tax. Let's have the rest of 
the folks pay a tax but not the people at the top.

What an unbelievable irony that on the very day that we have people 
digging in the heels of their cowboy boots and saying we are making our 
last stand to prevent the unemployed from getting unemployment 
compensation they deserve--on the very day that they say we can't do 
that--they come to the floor of the Senate saying: But what we have to 
do as a priority is to relieve the richest Americans, the wealthiest 
Americans, of the obligation to pay estate tax. If there is any 
narrative that tells the American people whose side they are on, this 
little vignette describes it completely, in my judgment.

Let me mention that the reason it is important to understand how we 
got to this point is, we will never get out of it unless we understand 
that. A lot of my colleagues have been perfectly content for most of 
the decade standing on this floor deciding that we will ship men and 
women to Iraq and Afghanistan to fight, but we will not pay for 
the cost of a penny of it. They have been perfectly content to do that. 
I have come to the floor of the Senate to say: You know what, sacrifice 
works a number of ways in this country. If we are going to ask young 
men and women to sacrifice their lives, to go 12,000 miles away and 
strap on body armor in the morning and risk their lives by going in 
harm's way, perhaps we could ask the American people to provide the 
money to pay for it.


I have proposed that in the Senate. President Bush, at one point, 
said: You all do that, and I will veto the bill. My colleagues were 
content to say: Let's spend the money and put it all on the deficit. We 
will send kids to war and they can come back and pay the bill. That is 
how we got here. The second portion of how we got here is about 10 
years ago we passed what was then called financial reform. I voted 
against that as well. That said to the biggest financial institutions 
in this country: Katy bar the door. Do whatever you want. We will not 
watch. We are taking away the protections that existed since the Great 
Depression. We will not look and we will not care.

As a result, we saw in recent years unbelievable speculation and 
gambling. It was not business, it was just flatout gambling. We saw the 
creation of exotic instruments--CDOs, derivatives, credit default 
swaps, naked credit default swaps, and the like--and we saw 
unbelievable, rampant gaming going on as opposed to thoughtful 
investing in this country's future. As a result, this country nearly 
had an economic collapse.

It is important for us to understand how that happened because we had 
regulators come to town who were supposed to regulate, and they boasted 
about being business friendly: Don't worry, we will not look. There is 
a new sheriff in town and this sheriff doesn't have a weapon. So don't 
worry about it. Then we saw a decade go by in which this country's 
economy nearly collapsed. So that is how we got where we are. It is 
important for people to understand that.

They say: Let's not review the past, but let me review one final 
point. When President Obama walked through the White House door, had he 
gone to sleep for 12 months, had he done nothing at all, he would have 
had a $1.3 trillion budget deficit because that is what the previous 
President left him--$1.3 trillion on autopilot.

Having said all that, let me say this. This deficit, in my judgment, 
is unsustainable. It cannot continue. We have to diffuse it. This is a 
timebomb that will destroy this country's economy inevitably at some 
point. We can't have a government the size and cost of which is such 
that the American people are either unable or unwilling to pay for it. 
You can't do that. So we have to fix it, and we have to fix it 
together. But if we don't learn from what happened, if we don't 
understand the past decade of what happened--going from a $200 billion-
a-year budget surplus to the largest deficits in history and to a near 
economic collapse--we are destined to repeat it.

Again, it seems to me that everybody here are people of good faith. I 
don't come here suggesting that there are people of bad faith here, but 
there are some people with bad judgment here, for sure. All you have to 
do is look at the record. Those who say: Let's don't look at the 
record, I guess they do not want the record to be understood. I think 
the only way we get out of this unbelievable deficit and debt trap is 
to understand what has caused it. I will tell you this for sure. We are 
not going to get out of this mess by having people come to the floor of 
the Senate and say that one of the biggest problems in the country is 
the death tax, when no such tax exists. What an unbelievable spoof. 
Death tax my eye. We have a tax on inherited wealth and the only people 
who have been paying it are the people at the upper income levels.

We have had a $3/1/2/ million-a-year exemption for the husband, and a 
$3/1/2/ million exemption for the wife. That was last year's exemption. 
That means you don't pay a penny unless you have $7 million clear, 
husband and wife. How many families have that? But that is not enough, 
my colleagues say. In the middle of all this economic trouble we face, 
in the middle of wars and a near economic collapse, what is their 
priority? Get rid of the so-called death tax, which doesn't exist, or 
perhaps I can rephrase it for them: Get rid of the tax on inherited 
wealth for the wealthiest of Americans.

These are billionaires' best friends, I guess. I have nothing against 
billionaires. I guess I wish I was one. But when billionaires die, 
they, I think, ought to expect to be able to contribute something to 
this country. It is unbelievable to me. I hope people have listened to 
this discussion today and understand that their priority is to 
eliminate the estate tax, the tax on inherited wealth, which would only 
apply to the wealthiest Americans. It is unbelievable to me.

I have seen other unbelievable things, some of which have led to this 
current economic trouble. I hope perhaps in calmer times and perhaps 
more sober times we can discuss the best of what both parties have to 
offer this country because I think both parties do make a contribution.

We cannot wait much longer. This is not something we can delay, it is 
not something we can decide to postpone. This country is in trouble. We 
have a deep Federal budget deficit. It comes from the steepest decline 
in the economy since the 1930s. As a result of that decline, we have 
victims at the bottom of this economic ladder who have not had work, in 
some cases for 2 years. They wake up in the morning feeling helpless 
and hopeless, wondering, How on Earth can I find a job? What do I tell 
my family today?

This Congress, in my judgment, ought to at least pay as much 
attention to those folks at the bottom of the economic ladder as it has 
paid in the last 2 years to the interests at the top of the economic 
ladder. We shoveled hundreds of billions of dollars toward those at the 
top--the most comfortable pillows to make them rest, the medicine to 
calm their nerves. But when it comes to the people at the bottom, Will 
Rogers had it best. Here is what Will Rogers said 80 years ago and it 
applies today in this Chamber. Will Rogers said: ''The unemployed here 
ain't eating regular but we'll get around to


them as soon as everybody else gets fixed up OK.''

Let me say this. A whole lot of other folks got fixed up at the top 
of the economic ladder, at the top of this country's economy. A whole 
lot of folks got fixed up and it is the case that the unemployed here 
''ain't eating regular,'' and this Congress, this Senate ought to care 
about that. It is part of our responsibility. Then let's get about the 
business of having a real debate, a thoughtful rather than thoughtless 
debate about all of the issues that affect us, such as spending and 
taxing, and let's use real terms, not things like ''death taxes'' that 
come from a pollster who decides they want to fool people. Let's use 
real terms in serious discussions between adults and try to figure out 
how we fix what is wrong with this country to put this country back on 
track.

This country deserves better. It is the first generation of 
Americans, I think, that believes its kids are not going to do as well 
as they did. We have to change that. This country has a lot to offer 
with a good future if we make some good decisions going forward.