# None
## `2fa8b10c32cdb6d2bfcf804e92941e57`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank my good friend for his leadership in the Blue 
Dogs, his leadership in the Congress, and my good friend from Georgia 
who, as he noted, cochairs with me the Democratic Study Group on 
National Security, which is intended to ensure that this Congress and 
Democrats in Congress continue to lead the fight on behalf of our 
troops, to lead the fight on behalf of our national security. We were 
founded in the acknowledgement that we need a robust, muscular military 
to protect us from the threats that are out there.

I think this topic is critically important, the topic of war 
profiteering. And who pays the price for war profiteering? Our 
taxpayers pay the price, our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the 
world pay the price. But there is another group that is paying the 
price, and I would like to address that this evening, our National 
Guard units at home.

This morning there was a report in the National Journal's Congress 
Daily. It was headlined, National Guard May Lack Needed Gear to Deal 
With Domestic Crisis, GAO Says. And the report raises questions about 
whether the State-run National Guard units have adequate supplies to 
respond to disasters and emergencies on U.S. soil. It says it will 
remain unclear whether the Guard is equipped to respond effectively to 
the consequences of a large-scale terrorist attack or natural disaster.

The article in the National Journal states, ''Over the last several 
months, many State Guard leaders have complained that their unit took 
their best equipment with them when they deployed to Iraq, leaving the 
personnel at home short of trucks, radios and other equipment needed 
for domestic missions. Indeed, Lieutenant General Steven Blum, chief of 
the Pentagon's National Guard Bureau, told Congress last year that at 
least two-thirds of his units in the United States are not combat 
ready.''

Now this, to me, is just incredible that Halliburton made money, that 
these contractors made money. In my view, they gouged the military, 
gouged our taxpayers, marked up the services they provided, and 
National Guard units at home are short of the equipment they need.

I represent a district on Long Island. The World Trade Center was 40 
miles from my hometown. We know what terrorism is like. We needed our 
emergency responders when that happened. We are likely to need them 
again, the gentleman from Georgia knows that very well. But when two-
thirds of their equipment is sitting in Iraq, that creates a very 
serious problem. That is the cost of war profiteering.

Now, I understand the exigencies of war and I understand that when 
you go to war, you know, you have to make sure that your troops have 
everything they need, and there are all sorts of funding issues; but my 
goodness, Secretary Rumsfeld said, You go to war not with the Army you 
want but with the Army you have. You have got to budget for that Army. 
You never send people into war unequipped, underfunded, underequipped 
without the right number of coagulant bandages, without the right 
number of night vision goggles and up-armored Humvees.

If they found the money to pay these contractors that ripped us off, 
they can find the money to make sure that our National Guard units have 
the equipment they need. If they found the money to pay the excessive 
bills of these contractors so that they could raise their bottom lines, 
they could find the money to raise the equipment that the National 
Guard needs for the mission-critical equipment that will be required--
not just in an act of terrorism, by the way, but when we have a major 
hurricane as we did with Katrina.

Long Island stands a very good chance of suffering a Category 3 
hurricane or more. And it is going to be very difficult for me to 
explain to my constituents that they didn't have the National Guard 
equipment resources that they were depending on to respond to a 
Category 3 hurricane because that equipment was in Iraq; but 
Halliburton got what it wanted, its CEO got the salary increase he 
needed.

This isn't very complicated. We are short-funding our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan; we are undersupplying our National Guard units at 
home. The big corporations who are contracted as part of this war are 
making more money than ever. And there are still companies in the 
United States that can register their international headquarters at a 
P.O. Box in Bermuda so they can avoid their fair share of taxes at 
home. That is a disgrace.

It is time for accountability. It is time for oversight. It is time 
to put our money where our mouths are. It is time to quit talking about 
funding our


troops here and abroad and then not giving them the resources they 
need.

The Blue Dogs believe in fiscal accountability. We take second place 
to nobody when it comes to supporting our troops and supporting our 
military, to nobody. But we also understand that you can't say you are 
doing that; you have got to actually do it. You can't fight a war 
abroad, short-fund our troops there and be left with degraded National 
Guard units at home. It is time for accountability, for oversight. It 
is time for a different direction, and that is precisely what the Blue 
Dogs are going to insist on.

I thank the gentleman for recognizing me.