---
---

# EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH II AND HIS ROYAL  HIGHNESS, PRINCE PHILIP, DUKE OF EDINBURGH, FOR THEIR STATE VISIT TO  THE UNITED STATES
## `2fa94ea935fad3c5d922c46a07fe22da`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 5 June 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) for authoring the 
resolution before us; and I rise in support of his resolution, 412, 
which expresses gratitude to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and His 
Royal Highness Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, for their recent state 
visit to the United States and reaffirms the friendship that exists 
between the United States and the United Kingdom. Queen Elizabeth's 
visit reminded us of the shared values that underpin the unique 
friendship and partnership of the United States and the United Kingdom.

The extent to which the United States and the United Kingdom today 
share common goals in their foreign and defense policies as well is 
also quite remarkable. There is no other bilateral relationship that 
the United States has with another country that is routinely referred 
to as ''the special relationship.''

In the time that Queen Elizabeth has reigned, more than half a 
century, America and Britain have continually strengthened their 
partnership and collaborated on threats to world peace and security, 
both large and small. That important collaboration continues today, as 
President Bush noted in his remarks in the dinner he held at the White 
House in the Queen's honor, when he stated the following: ''together we 
are supporting young democracies in Iraq and Afghanistan . . . 
confronting global challenges such as poverty and disease and 
terrorism, and together we're working to build a world in which more 
people can enjoy prosperity and security and peace.''

Mr. Speaker, I should note as well the significance of how closely 
the economies of the United States and the United Kingdom are linked. 
The United Kingdom is the fourth largest market for exports, such 
exports totaling more than $36 billion in the year 2004 alone. Just as 
significant, the United States and the United Kingdom are each other's 
biggest foreign investors.

This resolution gives us an opportunity to reflect upon the strength 
and the value of a trans-Atlantic relationship that has proven critical 
to safeguarding the community of democracies in Europe and, indeed, 
throughout the world.

I encourage my colleagues to support this resolution, expressing 
appreciation to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip for their 
recent visit and the bonds that tie our two nations together.

Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the author of the 
resolution, Mr. Boozman of Arkansas.