---
---

# HOPE OFFERED THROUGH PRINCIPLED AND ETHICAL STEM CELL RESEARCH ACT--
## `2facad86c652075137d5c13d8a800988`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 11 April 2007`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the 
emotional, divisive, and often confusing issue of stem cell research. 
Let me start by expressing why I believe we should focus our scarce 
resources on adult and umbilical cord stem cells rather than on 
embryonic stem cells.

Given the tremendous results that have come from adult and umbilical 
cord stem cell therapy in the areas of oncology and orthopedics--and, 
more recently, in cardiology and neurology--I am further encouraged by 
the possibilities these noncontroversial, adult stem cells have to 
offer. In this tight budgetary environment, in which there is a choke 
hold on our domestic discretionary spending, we must be vigilant in the 
way we appropriate taxpayer dollars and concentrate our resources on 
those lines of medical research that hold the greatest potential.

Furthermore, in recent years, scientists have made tremendous strides 
in designing methods to obtain fully pluripotent stem cells that have 
the flexibility of embryonic stem cells, while avoiding the destruction 
of human embryos. The potential to extract these versatile stem cells 
in an ethically sound manner, coupled with my interest in seeing 
further research in the area of adult and umbilical cord stem cells, is 
why I rise to support S. 30, the HOPE Act.

Before I delve into a discussion of the two bills this body is 
considering, let me clarify that there are two different categories of 
stem cells--and, thus, of stem cell research. The first, embryonic stem 
cells--as their name suggests--are derived from human embryos developed 
from eggs that have been fertilized at an in vitro fertilization 
clinic. Alternatively, adult stem cells are undifferentiated cells 
found among differentiated cells in tissues or organs. These cells can 
renew themselves and eventually develop into a specific cell in the 
body. What is notable, however, is that these undifferentiated adult 
stem cells can be gathered by scientists without any harm to the 
individual donor.

Umbilical cord blood derived from a mother's placenta following the 
birth of a newborn baby is now also included in this category of adult 
stem cells. In fact, with the arrival of my seventh grandchild, I 
learned a great deal about the benefits of preserving cord blood stem 
cells. What at one time was considered medical waste and discarded 
after birth is now recognized as a rich supply of stem cells and has 
been used to treat a number of blood and immune-system diseases, 
cancers, and other physical disorders.

I was introduced to the promise of adult and umbilical stem cell 
research by experts at the National Center for Regenerative Medicine in 
my hometown of Cleveland, OH. Several institutions make up the center, 
including Case Western Reserve University, the Cleveland Clinic, 
University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Athersys, Inc., and the Ohio 
State University. Together they have created an outstanding medical 
facility that is leading the Nation in the use of nonembryonic stem 
cells to regenerate new tissues in diseased organs rather than using 
drugs or devices to improve the function of the organs.

Since 1976, researchers at the center have been studying nonembryonic 
stem cells, and they performed their first stem cell transplant as 
early as 1980. Today, the center is capable of conducting clinical 
trials with cord blood stem cells for gene therapy and for heart and 
blood vessel repair. Investigators at the center are now able to cure 
leukemia and lymphomas with nonembryonic stem cell transplantation, as 
well as repair unstable bone fractures and treat genetic disorders.

I have had the chance to meet several patients whose lives have been 
transformed by this new medicine. Elisabeth, who was a patient at the 
National Center, was in a motorcycle accident and had compound 
fractures in her right femur and right tibia. Even though she was 
rushed into emergency surgery after the accident, her bones did not 
heal properly, and she was told she would never walk again. Elisabeth 
sought out a second opinion from a doctor at the National Center who 
operated a second time, using some of his adult stem cell gel. This gel 
takes on the characteristics of the surrounding bone cells and helps 
with the healing of broken bones. I am happy to report, Elisabeth is 
now walking, living a healthy life, and pursuing a future in physical 
therapy at the Ohio State University.

Elisabeth is not alone.

I recently visited the National Center for Regenerative Medicine, and 
I had the chance to meet Ashley. Ashley is 8 years old and was 
successfully treated for her leukemia at Rainbow Babies and Children's 
Hospital of University Hospitals Case Medical Center. She was first 
diagnosed with acute lymphatic leukemia, ALL, in January 2006, and she 
underwent a stem cell transplant from an unrelated donor in June 2006. 
But since her transplant, Ashley has done wonderfully.

Even more encouraging is the potential for scientists to leverage all 
this great medicine into new fields, including cardiology and 
neuroscience. Researchers at the National Center for Regenerative 
Medicine are hopeful that in the not so distant future they will make 
inroads in the treatment of degenerative arthritis, will decrease the 
severity of graft versus host disease after stem cell transplantation, 
and will allow physicians to use a patient's own stem cells to repair 
heart damage following congestive heart failure, as


well as use their own neural stem cells to improve function after 
spinal cord damage.

I am concerned, however, that not enough Americans are aware that 
some of the most advanced medicine today can be attributed to adult--
and not embryonic--stem cells. What I find even more disturbing is that 
many supporters of embryonic stem cell research have been kept in the 
dark about the advances of umbilical and adult stem cell treatments and 
have been over-sold on embryonic stem cell research, which is still in 
its infancy.

I want to remind my colleagues who support the Stem Cell Research 
Enhancement Act that embryonic cells have not been successfully used to 
treat even one disease yet I have had the opportunity to meet numerous 
people whose lives have been saved by adult stem cell therapy. In fact, 
adult stem cells have been used to treat 72 diseases, including breast 
cancer, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, sickle cell anemia, 
spinal cord injuries, and others. That is why I continue to be 
encouraged by the possibilities adult stem cells have to offer.

In recent years, medical research has made tremendous strides, and it 
is now widely believed that new technology can lead to methods of 
obtaining fully pluripotent stem cells that have the flexibility of 
embryonic stem cells without destroying potential life. That is why I 
rise today to support S. 30, the HOPE Act.

Despite all this progress, scientists around the world agree that 
there is still a great deal that remains unknown about the potential 
for stem cell therapy. That is why I support this legislation 
introduced by my colleagues from Minnesota and Georgia that can help us 
tap even more potential cures and therapies.

The HOPE Act would continue to encourage Federal research on adult 
and umbilical cord stem cell therapies that are already proving 
successful, while requiring the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
to develop techniques to identify and derive pluripotent stem cells 
that have the flexibility of embryonic stem cells without destroying a 
human embryo. There is evidence that these alternative methods may make 
it easier for scientists to genetically match patients with therapies 
and could reduce the complications, like tumor formation, that have 
been seen with embryonic stem cells.

The HOPE Act would also require the Secretary to prioritize stem cell 
research that will reap near-term clinical benefit and take into 
account the findings of the President's Council on Bioethics along with 
other appropriate techniques and research. It is my hope that this type 
of progress will help eliminate the controversy surrounding embryonic 
stem cell research without any compromise of scientific advancement. 
This legislation paves a path forward for Federal scientists, while 
respecting the principles and morals of millions of taxpayers.

I believe it is my moral responsibility to direct the Federal 
Government's dollars toward research that has the greatest near-term 
potential to help the largest number of Americans.

Over the past several years, Congress has increased total NIH funding 
for medical research--including increasing the amount of money 
available for stem cell research--from $15.1 billion in fiscal year 
1999 to $28.9 billion in 2007. However, in recent years the cost of 
fighting the war in Iraq, defending our homeland, and protecting 
against natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina has left very few 
resources for domestic discretionary spending. In fact, today, the 
Federal Government spends only one-sixth of its annual budget on 
nondefense discretionary spending, and I am afraid that exploding 
entitlement spending threatens to soak up every Federal dollar, leaving 
no revenue for things like scientific research. There is a tremendous 
need to pursue treatments for many diseases, but we face a reality of 
limited funding.

We have to be smart about spending our money. In the current budget 
environment, I have concerns that increasing funding for research on 
embryonic stem cells will take away opportunities for research in areas 
like adult and umbilical research that has proven its ability to save 
human lives--or even for new techniques to help us remove pluripotent 
stem cells without destroying human embryos.

I have the greatest sympathy for patients and their families who 
continue to struggle with a wide range of fatal diseases. I understand 
what it is like to watch a loved one suffer and the tragedy of losing a 
member of your family--especially a young child. I lost my father to 
diabetes and my young nephew C.T.--who was only 14--to bone cancer. 
Like many here today, I have been a witness to the devastating effects 
of Alzheimer's, arthritis, and many other debilitating diseases. That 
is why I am sympathetic with my colleagues' efforts to seek out a 
panacea. But I fear that too often proponents of embryonic stem cell 
research make exaggerated claims about this line of research and offer 
false promises when the evidence is just not there.

I read a great op-ed in The Washington Post by Charles Krauthammer--
who has long supported legal abortions and doesn't believe that life 
begins at conception--in which he issued a stern warning against 
pursuing embryonic stem cell research. As he said, he has a very 
healthy respect for ''the human capacity for doing evil in pursuit of 
good.'' And, that is exactly what I see happening in this Chamber 
today. Too many of my colleagues are focused exclusively on embryonic 
stem cell research, and they are missing potential that is right under 
their noses.

I am reminded of Aesop's fable, ''The Stag at the Pool,'' in which a 
stag stops at a spring to drink some water. He looks down at his shadow 
reflected in the water and greatly admires the size and shape of his 
beautiful horns, all the while thinking that his feet are too slender 
and too weak. Just as he is looking at his reflection, a lion appears 
at the pond. The stag sees the lion in the water and runs as fast as he 
can to safety. As he enters the woods, though, his horns get tangled in 
the tree branches, and the lion catches up to him. Finally, at that 
moment, the stag realizes that it was his feet that could have saved 
him and his antlers that led to his demise.

The moral of the story is: What is most truly valuable is often 
underrated. I think the same is true on the subject of stem cell 
research. We have been so focused on what we perceive to be the future 
of medical research that we have been willing to overlook successful 
treatments and therapies that are already taking place right under our 
noses.

In light of all the advances and results science has provided with 
adult and umbilical cord stem cells, I urge my colleagues to direct 
Federal funding toward research that will have the greatest near-term 
impact on human life.