---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2fb04357f64773b6935a8fe622510e14`
`Mr. INHOFE — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, let me, since we don't have the time I 
thought, explain why this is unique. We already voted on the Webb 
amendment. I don't see that there is any difference here. There is 
something that hasn't been talked about since I mentioned this last 
Monday and that is that this President inherited a situation that was a 
personnel crisis. We are dealing with that now--a personnel crisis. I 
remember back during the 1990s, we were cutting down--I am not 
criticizing anybody, but we had this euphoric attitude that the Cold 
War was over, and we didn't need a military anymore. They cut back our 
modernization program and our personnel and defense spending.

Let's look at this chart. If you look at this and put it into 
perspective as to why we should not try to micromanage this thing and 
let the military do it, this is where we were. During the early 1990s--
the Clinton administration--this black line represents the baseline 
from 1993 and where we would be in 2001, or at the end of that 8-year 
period, had we spent the amount of money we were spending from the 
baseline that was established in fiscal year 1993. If you take that and 
take what the President requested--the red line down here--fortunately, 
we were able to get some above that, but it still meant we were $313 
billion less than we should have been.

That is what put us into the position we are in today. It was a 
personnel crisis. So now we are going to have to get the maximum use. 
We are not going to be able to have mandated deployments and returns 
and be able to prosecute this or any other war. If we were not in this 
position, I would still oppose the idea of Congress micromanaging a 
war. That is what the military chiefs in the field are supposed to do 
and what they are trained to do.

This shows you why we have the crisis today, and we are trying at the 
same time to rebuild a military that was torn down during the 1990s, 
and we should not have found ourselves in this position.

This President has done a lot. We increased the number of Active Duty 
in the Army and Marine Corps, reducing the stress on the deployable 
Active-Duty personnel. Help is on the way. The increase would shorten 
deployment length and give soldiers and marines more dwell time at 
home, but it is not mandated from us. It is going to come from the 
resources we are expecting and anticipating we will have.

While many units are close to a 1-to-1 deployment dwell-time 
schedule, certain units have been extended to 15-month tours. Look, all 
of us have Reserve units at home and Guard units, and we have our 
regular services going. We know the deployments are strained. This is 
why they are strained. We are trying to make up for the losses we 
sustained back during the 1990s. If we continue to do what we are doing 
now, the move we are making will allow the Army to ensure that Active-
Duty units have at least 12 months at home. We are prepared to do that 
now. All of the services are rebalancing force structure and cross 
components to ensure they have the right types of units with the right 
skills in the greatest demand.

These are some of the actions that have been taken now. If we leave 
this alone and in the hands of the chiefs, we have right now the great 
General Petraeus in a position where he is trying to get this thing 
done. I have to tell you that my 14th trip to the AOR showed me that 
things are working very well. If you remember what the President said 
back on January 10, he said we are going to have to win this war from 
the bottom up, not from the top down. That is what is happening now. 
These efforts have gotten the clerics in Iraq into a position where 
they are no longer having anti-American messages, and we are winning 
this thing from the bottom up. It is brand new.

In all my trips there, I have never seen such a dramatic change as I 
did prior to this last trip. We actually have people going out now and 
doing what we do in neighborhood watch programs throughout America. We 
are now getting the Iraqis to do this. We have Iraqi civilians with 
spray paint cans painting circles around the undetonated IEDs. We have 
them doing these things. We have our troops going out, and instead of 
going back to the green zone, they are living with the Iraqi security 
forces in their homes. This is what we call the bottom up. It is 
working. We have monitored the clerics and what they were doing in 
their mosques in their weekly presentations. Prior to January, 85 
percent of the presentations were anti-American. Since April, we have 
not had anti-American presentations. What is happening right now is the 
clerics realize we could cut and run on them and then the terrorists 
could come back in and they will be in control. They don't want that. 
This is a bottom-up type of support that we have at the present time.

We have to continue this. The President said back on January 10 that 
we had to do this from the bottom up. That is what we intend to do. How 
much more time do I have?