---
---

# OPPOSE THE SECOND CHANCE ACT
## `2fc35414c433b3d6cd303ee4494379ce`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. I thank my former judge friend. You brought up about our 
soldiers going door-to-door in Iraq looking for the three soldiers that 
are missing, how critical intelligence is.

Now, I know the gentleman from Texas, my friend, the gentlelady from 
Tennessee, you both recall, though none of us were in Congress, I 
recall, because I was in the Army, and when President Carter started 
making Draconian cuts in our intelligence, and started cutting out 
critical areas of intelligence that would help us in the military, it 
hurt.

Now, when you are in the military, you cannot say anything derogatory 
about your Commander in Chief, that is a court martialable offense.

But we took up an intelligence bill, and, of course, as we know, some 
of the information that we have to go up and review in a classified 
setting, in a top secret setting, and things we learned cannot be 
revealed and will not be disclosed and divulged, but something that has 
been discussed on this floor in that intelligence bill is we cut some 
vital programs. We cut some vital eyes and years information that would 
help our military to have what they need to know where the enemy is, 
where they are coming from, what they are doing, those kinds of things.



And to help look for global warning evidence, to look for global 
warming evidence. I don't know about you all, I was seeing just this 
week some information about the polar ice caps melting, how devastating 
that can be, how that can bring about the end of the world, and we have 
to cut CO2 emissions. But the polar ice caps I am talking 
about were on Mars.

Now, how are our CO2 emissions on Earth, staying in our 
atmosphere, causing the Mars polar ice caps to melt? Gee, could it have 
something to do with maybe just more sunspots? In any event, that is a 
whole different matter.

The Constitution says we are to provide for the common defense. And 
when you cut programs that will help with eyes and ears to our 
military, I don't see how you can go home feeling too good about what 
we have done.

I yield to my friend from Tennessee.