---
---

# None
## `2fd2dc97302e65bfa2ecb5911217affe`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Altmire, I want to thank 
you first.

First of all, Mr. Speaker, let me just say this: let me tell you, as 
I was walking to the Chamber, I saw that the Speaker's vehicle was 
still here in the Capitol. I saw that the majority leader's vehicle was 
still here at the Capitol. This is now a little bit before 10 p.m. 
within the closing days of Congress. We have worked day in and day out. 
We are here away from our families, many of you away from your 
families, days before Christmas, to be able to work on behalf of the 
American people.

I think it's important for us to understand that we would not even be 
having the discussion about who got what if it wasn't for the 
transparency that this Democratic Congress brought to this process 
first. So for Republicans to come to the floor and start talking about 
who got what, it never would have happened, Mr. Murphy, if it wasn't 
for what we have done. It never would have happened if it wasn't for 
your class and Mr. Altmire's class coming and saying we want 
transparency, that we want the American people to see what we are 
doing, that we want to take more rollcall votes than any other Congress 
in the history of the United States. We want ethics; we want 
responsibility; we want fiscal responsibility; we want to make sure 
that the Veterans Affairs get more money than they have ever had in 
history, the veterans health care system, in the history of the 
Republic.

We want accountability as it relates to Iraq, and we want this 
President to know that this is not a rubber-stamp Congress. If it was 
not for you, Mr. Speaker, including yourself, asking for the kind of 
accountability the American people have been calling for, that have 
been yearning for, voting for and they finally got it, for the minority 
party to come to the floor and start criticizing things, where they 
make over 20-plus earmarks, to come to the floor and criticize, that's 
why I'm so glad, Tom and Tasha and Michael, that we are here tonight, 
Mr. Speaker, to make sure that we set the record straight.

We talked about the hypocrisy of the democracy. This is a perfect 
example of what happens when things go unchecked. I am so glad that we 
exist. I'm so glad we have air within our bodies to be able to come to 
the floor.

I yield to Mr. Altmire.