---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5136, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `2ff1c737675cd6fd85d98db9cb42d1f2`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 27 May 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Mr. Speaker, I will be brief in my closing, but 
I want to say this is a major piece of legislation, and its effects 
will be felt across the country.

I am extremely proud of this body today, as I know we will be poised 
to finally repeal the issue we have had so much discussion about this 
morning, that is, Don't Ask, Don't Tell. This has had a lengthy 
process. Fourteen thousand members of the military who have served this 
country honorably have been forced to leave strictly because of their 
own personal status.

This is a long process. It will not be changed until the Secretary of 
Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff have had time to certify it will 
not disrupt the military, as we have heard from some of our colleagues.

This has happened in many other countries, whether it's Israel or 
Australia or even the United Kingdom. If they can do it, so can we as 
well.

I am proud to know that my colleagues are debating this topic, as 
well as making sure today that we remember, on top of everything else, 
to respect our military, to thank them for their service and to make 
sure they are well compensated.

I want to thank Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon and all my 
colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for all their tireless work.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on the rule.

Ms. GIFFORDS, Mr. Speaker. I rise today in support of the underlying 
bill and to highlight a number of very important provisions related to 
DoD's energy usage.

Last year, the Department of Defense consumed nearly 6.9 billion 
barrels of oil to power everything from bases to fighters. But every 
day, the services are proving that this dependence no longer needs to 
tether us to supply lines.

In the last year, thanks in large part to efforts by the Armed 
Services Committee, the military has begun to take aggressive action.

At Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in my District, the Air Force 
completed construction of the largest solar community in America.

Last month the Navy flew a fighter jet for the first time on biofuel.

The Army continues testing battlefield energy solutions at Fort 
Irwin.

And today, we will have an opportunity to move forward with 
additional responsible energy language I have worked with the services 
to develop and with the Committee to move forward.

The Defense bill requires DoD to develop a testing and certification 
plan for the operational use of aviation biofuels.

I have also added language that integrates the hybrid drive platform 
that the Army developed for Future Combat Systems over the last decade 
into the vehicles of today.

We included $130 million for Energy Conservation projects at bases 
across the country that save the military and the American taxpayer 
millions of dollars.

In theater, we reduce basic energy consumption by cutting waste. 
During a DoD pilot program to spray foam insulate facilities in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, fuel consumption was reduced by nearly 75% on average. 
These projects had a return on investment of less than six months. The 
Defense bill seeks to expand this program by seeking a comprehensive 
review of all facilities to identify low cost, energy-saving solutions.

New Energy Performance Goals, new implementation plans and new 
studies of how to more effectively supply the force make the energy 
provisions in this bill stronger than in any previous year.

The NDAA specifically addresses many of the battlefield energy 
challenges our servicemembers face in-theater every day. And the 
overwhelming bi-partisan support these provisions received at the 
Committee level validates the continued need for aggressive, smart and 
responsible solutions.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and join me in passing the 
Defense Authorization bill.