# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `2ff3bba664e0e9845c0df4d7676b1ef6`
`Mr. MOLLOHAN — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. MOLLOHAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

The gentleman alludes to the Defense Department. He could save a lot 
more than $2 million for the United States Government if he turned his 
attention to the Defense Department and some of the contracting 
activities that are certainly going on in Iraq. And perhaps that's 
something he will want to look at.

But let me say with regard to the textile-designated funding in this 
bill, I don't know a project that has actually had more scrutiny, or 
more broad-based support than this project. And in a time when our 
industries are competing internationally, the textile industry is 
particularly under siege around the world. This initiative has probably 
saved the textile industry that continues to struggle to exist in this 
country. To the extent that this program has been able to save it, the 
research and development that has come out of the textile industry's 
research can largely take credit for that.

I want to commend the Members who represent these areas. And it's not 
one area. It's not two areas. There are eight universities involved in 
this, focusing on this and being ahead of the problem enough in order 
to be able to fund, promote, and facilitate the research that has 
allowed the textile industry to be as competitive as it is around the 
world. It is only research, it is only new discoveries, it is only new 
materials, new ways of manufacturing


that have allowed the textile industry in this country to survive. So 
actually, these gentlemen are to be commended, each and every one of 
them for their foresight in supporting this project. I think I heard 
the textile industry has 60,000 employees across this country, and is a 
$60 billion industry. This is really a small amount of money which has 
had a huge pay-off for the textile industry and the economy of the 
country. It's a good project, Mr. Chairman.

I yield back the balance of my time.