# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `2ff835d2de2be51b6839c2245e115742`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I will make a comment. I see my friend 
from Rhode Island. I would like to make a brief comment on the 
amendment of Senator Cornyn and a brief comment on our amendment. Then 
I hope the Senator from Rhode Island will speak to it.

It is always interesting to listen, when we are talking about the 
immigration bill, to those who go back to the 1986 bill. I remember it 
very clearly. I voted against it. That was an amnesty. That was a real 
amnesty. We hear a great deal in the public about what is amnesty, what 
is not amnesty. That was amnesty. This legislation is not amnesty. That 
effectively said those people who were undocumented, who came here, 
were forgiven. They followed the basic recommendations of a report by 
the distinguished president of Notre Dame, the Hessberg Report. I 
remember it clearly.

There were enforcement provisions in there. They were completely 
inadequate. I might remind my friend from Texas, from 1986 to 1992, we 
had a Republican administration, a Republican President, and they 
didn't enforce it, as they have not enforced the recent legislation. 
They have had three investigations in terms of investigating 
undocumented aliens--three. They are the great defenders of the 
American border? Great defenders about immigration reform?

Please.

We always have to go through the little dance about the 1986 bill and 
the enforcement. I wish, during that period of time--1986, 1987, 1988, 
1989--I wish all during those years we had the enforcement. But we did 
not. So we are where we are today. The real question is, is this 
legislation that we have now the downpayment on national security, on 
security internally? Does it provide the opportunity for those who are 
here to pay the fine, go to the back of the line, demonstrate a good 
working relationship and be able to emerge out of the shadows--the 
AgJOBS bill, the DREAM Act, and other provisions of the temporary 
worker program?

With regards to the Cornyn amendment, we have an immigration program 
in this legislation that is strong, practical, and fair. One of the 
essential elements is to bring the 12 million men, women, and 
children--hard-working families--out of the shadows into the sunlight 
of America. We know we are not going to conduct massive roundups and 
deport 12 million people. We don't have the means to do it. It would 
disrupt our economy, inflict untold hardships on millions of hard-
working people. It is estimated it would cost more than $250 billion. 
We would have buses all the way from Los Angeles to New York and back 
to trying to do this, if it were even possible.



But the Cornyn amendment would make vast numbers of these families 
ineligible for our program. We are trying to deal with a key element of 
the program and that deals with the families who are here. It would 
keep them in the shadows, where employers abuse and underpay them. That 
hurts the immigrants, but it hurts American workers, too, by depressing 
wages.

That is what we see that is out there now, with undocumented--the 12 
million with a work record which is even better, in terms of 
percentages, than native born Americans, people who are willing to work 
and want to work hard. But there is exploitation of those individuals 
because every one of them knows all the boss has to do is go down and 
call the immigration service.

Work 80 hours a week.

Well, I don't want to.

Well, I'm going to call the immigration service and you're deported.

They do that. That individuals are exploited in this country is well 
understood. We are trying to free ourselves from that kind of a 
condition. But the Cornyn amendment would still make vast numbers of 
these families ineligible for our programs, keep them in the shadows 
where employers abuse and underpay them, which hurts the immigrants but 
it hurts American workers, too, by depressing their wages.

The Cornyn amendment does this by classifying an array of common 
garden variety immigration offenses as crimes that would make them 
ineligible for the program. For example, the Cornyn amendment says that 
if you come here, have been ordered out of the country by immigration 
authorities, but if you fail to leave or you come back, you are 
ineligible. That is exactly what has been going on with our broken 
immigration system; people have come to work, employers want them to 
come, and they have benefitted our economy.

Immigration officers may find them and order them home, but our 
employers beg them to come back. Our broken borders make that possible.

Cornyn says: If you have used false identification, you may be found 
inadmissible and may be deported. But in our broken system, the people 
who have wanted to work have been forced to use the false 
identification. That is the reality of where we are today. Cornyn says 
he wants to be tough on gang members, sex offenders, individuals 
convicted of domestic violence. So do we. We have addressed any 
provisions not covered by the current law. Our amendment goes even 
further than the bipartisan compromise bill.

He wants to exclude gang members. Our amendment does that too. Nobody 
who has engaged in illegal activity as part of a criminal gang will be 
allowed to enter or stay in this country. He says we should bar sex 
offenders from coming here. Our amendment does that. Any convicted sex 
offender who fails to register will not be allowed back in the country; 
if already here, then those offenders will face deportation.

Cornyn says immigrants who commit acts of domestic violence or 
endanger their families should be punished. Our amendment does that. He 
says drunk drivers should be deported. Our amendment does that. Any 
immigrant with one felony conviction for drunk driving will not be 
allowed to enter this country. If convicted here, then the drunk driver 
will be deported.

He says there should be consequences for individuals engaging in 
fraud. Our amendment does that. Our amendment punishes anyone who 
commits perjury or makes false statements when seeking immigration 
benefits. If any person lies on their application, then this individual 
will be prosecuted and subject to criminal penalties.

He says we should go after immigrants convicted of firearms offenses. 
Our amendment does that, too. Who are the people we want to apply under 
our program? Who are the people the Cornyn amendment would condemn to 
the shadows of abuse? We know that the vast majority of the families 
who have come over here are hard-working people who care for their 
children, go to church, and contribute to their communities.

In America, we respect hard work. Hard work built America. So our 
program says: If your only offense is that you came here to work, you 
came here to provide for your family, we will proceed in a way that you 
can atone for that offense and earn the right to stay and work legally. 
If you are a criminal, then we will arrest you. If you are a threat to 
our national security, a terrorist, then we will lock you up. If you 
try to cheat your way into the program through fraud, we will deport 
you. But if you came here to work and build a life, then you can stay. 
But first you have to meet the tough requirements: You have to pay the 
$5,000 fine, show a steady work history, learn English, get to the back 
of the line to get your green card, behind all those who have been 
waiting legally to get theirs.

The Cornyn amendment creates harmful barriers for refugees fleeing 
persecution. In America, we have had a long and proud tradition of 
providing refuge to people who have faced persecution and oppression in 
their lands, whose lives are at risk because they stood up for their 
beliefs.

We took in refugees from Cuba and from Vietnam as they fled 
communism. We have helped people from Somalia and Bosnia and other 
areas of conflict and oppression. Now we are beginning to help people 
whose lives are at risk because they helped our troops in Iraq.

But often these persecuted refugees have no choice but to cooperate 
with their oppressors in order to save their families' lives and enable 
their escape. The Cornyn amendment says: If you do that, if you provide 
what is called material support to these oppressors and terrorist 
groups, then we are not going to rescue you from the hands of your 
oppressors. You have to take your chances and hope your oppressors do 
not persecute you or even kill you or your family.

Consider the case of Helene from Sierra Leone, Revolutionary United 
Front rebels attacked her home, hacked one of her family members to 
death with a machete; they set her son on fire, leaving him near dead 
with severe burns. They held her family captive, raping her and her 
daughter and forcing them to cook, forcing her to cook and wash their 
clothes.

The Cornyn amendment would bar legitimate refugees who were forced to 
assist their oppressors under duress. Under the Cornyn amendment, 
Helene would be ineligible to come to America as a refugee because she 
cooked for the rebels and washed their clothes. Under the Cornyn 
amendment, she and her family are ineligible because they provided 
material support for a terrorist group.


If that is not bad enough, the Cornyn amendment says she can be 
excluded based on secret evidence, evidence that neither she nor anyone 
else outside the Government can see. She may never know why she was 
excluded. The Cornyn amendment even bars her from going to court to 
explain her situation and appeal the denial of her case. The decision 
of the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General is final.

Helene would never get her day in court to explain the tragic 
circumstances of her case. The door to freedom in America would be 
closed shut, end of the discussion, you go back into the hands of your 
persecutors.

Madam President, surely by now, we have learned that closed 
proceedings conducted by executive branch officials based on secret 
evidence without any possibility of court review are inconsistent with 
American traditions and inconsistent with the search for justice; let's 
not go down that road again.

The amendment makes all of its changes retroactive. They apply to the 
past and future conduct. The Cornyn amendment would change the rules in 
midstream. That is frowned on in American jurisprudence; it is 
unconstitutional in criminal law and disfavored elsewhere. People whose 
conduct would not have affected their immigration status at a time it 
was committed, will suddenly suffer severe consequence. The 
retroactivity provisions simply bring home the punitive nature of this 
amendment. It is not designed to contribute to creation of a tough but 
fair and practical system of immigration, it is designed to be harshly 
punitive.

This amendment would exclude hundreds of thousands from benefits of 
this bill and undermine the bipartisan compromise that members of this 
body worked so long and so hard to produce. We will have an opportunity 
to vote for an alternative, the amendment I have offered. The amendment 
expands the


already tough criminal gang provisions contained in the bill.

If you are associated with a gang, and that gang is known to be 
engaged in violent crimes, drug crimes, crimes involving firearms or 
explosives, alien smuggling or trafficking, you are not going to 
qualify for benefits. If you are associated with a gang and the gang 
has been engaged in crimes of violence, including murder, arson, 
possession, kidnapping, bank robbery, sexual exploitation, abuse of 
children, obstruction of justice, witness tampering, burglary, 
racketeering, among other crimes, you are not going to be entitled to 
receive lawful status in this country, and you are not going to qualify 
for benefits.

This amendment expands the already tough grounds of inadmissibility 
and the criminal penalties in the current immigration law. We target 
essentially the same provisions as Senator Cornyn but in many instances 
go further. This amendment bars the admission of sex offenders who 
don't register as required and makes them subject to deportation as 
well.

It ensures that wife beaters, child abusers, stalkers, and others who 
prey on the vulnerable are inadmissible to the United States. It 
ensures that a drunk driver who is sentenced to 1 year of prison cannot 
be admitted to the United States and can be removed as well. Our drunk 
driving provisions, which require only one felony conviction, are even 
more restrictive than Senator Cornyn's, which requires three 
convictions before a drunk driver becomes inadmissible. We increase the 
penalties for illegal entry. We ensure that immigration fraud is 
subject to perjury charges. We toughen the penalties for firearm 
offenses. We are tough, but we are practical too. That is where this 
side by side differs from Senator Cornyn. His provisions are bright-
line rules. He turns many of these criminal offenses into aggravated 
felonies. That is ''immigration speak'' for: You will never, ever be 
forgiven.

For many offenses, such as murder, that is more than a reasonable 
consequence. Murderers should not become U.S. citizens. Under the 
current law, they can never become a citizen. But most immigrants are 
not murderers, they are people who have entered the United States 
illegally. Under the Cornyn amendment, they could be aggravated felons 
too.

As a practical matter, Senator Cornyn does not want us to distinguish 
between murder and illegal entry; but that is not practical, nor does 
it reflect our criminal justice system. So it is true that we build in 
some small but important waivers that in extraordinary circumstances 
would give someone a second chance, not murderers but someone who had 
long ago made a mistake.

This week, I received a letter about a young man named Adrian, a 
former gang member in Massachusetts who has turned his life around. 
Adrian went from a life of juvenile delinquency to that of a dedicated 
student; one who works full time now in hopes of going to college. 
Adrian's principal and his teachers praise him for his hard work, his 
commitment to family, his newfound motivation to go to college. They 
want him to have a chance to stay in this country.

The author of the letter then says: ''It is a very, very hard thing 
to leave the gang life behind. There are other Adrians out there as 
well who have made the same decision regardless of difficulty. Is the 
message this country wants to send them, that what they have done is 
unforgivable regardless of whatever changes they may have courageously 
made? Wouldn't the country gain by having an incentive in law that 
might attract young people to leave gang life and move their lives 
forward a very different way? Wouldn't it be helpful to the country to 
have a waiver that a person could apply for if they can prove they have 
left a gang and provided evidence on how they have moved on?''

Every change in our immigration law represents a statement about whom 
we are as a country. Are we a country that takes individual 
circumstances into account or are we a country that punishes with no 
regard for individual circumstances? We can be tough on crime and yet 
retain a level of discretion in our immigration laws? This is the crux 
of the difference between what I am suggesting to the Senate and what 
Senator Cornyn has proposed.

That a measure of discretion is every bit as much a tool of law 
enforcement as the strictest ban. I see my friend who has been waiting 
here. I yield time.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. McCaskill.) The Senator from Texas.