# None
## `2ff94079d20ff4b79c306b89c9f8d31c`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, on December 21, 2007, I 
had the privilege and honor to visit Marine Corps Base Albany, Georgia 
to witness firsthand the compassion of the United States Marine Corps.

I am extremely grateful to the United States Air Force for making it 
possible for me to take part in a visit that was so special, I can 
hardly describe it in words. On that day, the Jerome Lee family of 
Quitman, Mississippi, was able to adopt their son's canine partner, 
Lex, who was released from his duty as a military working dog.

Jerome and Rachel Lee's son, Corporal Dustin Jerome Lee, was a United 
States Marine Corps dog handler who was killed in action on March 21, 
2007, in Fallujah, Iraq. Corporal Lee and his canine partner Lex, a 7-
year-old German shepherd, were a highly trained explosive detection 
team. Lex, who was due for retirement after his combat tour in Iraq, 
suffered shrapnel wounds from the same enemy-fired rocket-propelled 
grenade that took Corporal Lee's life.

Following Corporal Lee's death, the Lee family began seeking to adopt 
their son's canine companion who was with their son during his last 
moments on Earth. However, after filing the necessary paperwork, the 
Lee family was told that Lex had been medically evaluated and, although 
injured, he was fit for duty and not yet eligible for adoption.

After learning their story, I spoke with Corporal Lee's father, 
Jerome Lee, by phone on several occasions. Mr. Lee continued to express 
the joy and comfort that caring for Lex would bring to him and his 
family, and he requested my assistance in securing their adoption of 
Lex.

I am so grateful to the United States Marine Corps and Commandant 
James


Conway for helping me ensure that the Lee family's request was granted. 
I am also very grateful to Brigadier General Michael Regner and Major 
General Robert Dickerson for their role in enabling this adoption to 
proceed. I know that Dustin is in heaven, and happy that his family now 
has Lex. Allowing the Lee family to adopt Lex was a fitting thank you 
to parents who gave the ultimate gift of their son for this country.

The United States Marine Corps has demonstrated its tremendous 
compassion and understanding by making this adoption a reality for the 
parents of one of our Nation's fallen heroes. Again I extend my deep 
condolences to Mr. and Mrs. Lee, as well as all those in this country 
who have lost a loved one fighting in Iraq or Afghanistan.

Although Lex will never replace their son, welcoming Lex into the Lee 
family and home will keep a big part of Corporal Lee's life alive for 
their family. Lex loved and protected Corporal Lee on the battlefield, 
and Corporal Lee's family is now able to love and protect Lex in the 
peaceful surroundings of their home in Mississippi.

May God bless the United States Marine Corps and all of our men and 
women in uniform, and may God continue to bless America.
