# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `2fffd818274ab4ddf861b1093e3ed1bf`
`Mr. DODD — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President. I want to take a few brief moments to 
explain why I supported the Feingold-Reid-Dodd amendment this morning, 
and why I opposed the other two amendments offered before this body.

While I would have preferred a stand-alone vote on the Feingold-Reid-
Dodd bill, as I think we owe the American people and our brave men and 
women in uniform unequivocal support for changing our mission in Iraq, 
I am nonetheless still pleased that we at least had a cloture vote on 
this amendment.

As my colleagues know, the language in this amendment was almost 
identical to the language in the stand-alone Feingold-Reid-Dodd bill, 
which I strongly endorsed. This amendment would have mandated that the 
phased redeployment of U.S. combat forces from Iraq begin within 120 
days, and set a deadline of March 31, 2008 for the completion of that 
redeployment. It allowed for continued counter-terrorism operations, 
force protection, and training and equipping of Iraqi security forces. 
Reid-Feingold represented the only responsible way to force the 
President to change his flawed policy in Iraq.

I deeply respect Senator Warner and the leadership that he has 
demonstrated for many decades in the Senate, but I could not in good 
conscience vote for his amendment. The Warner amendment would have done 
nothing to force a change in mission, it would not have held the Bush 
administration or the Iraqi Government accountable, and it would not 
have started the process of redeploying our forces from Iraq. Instead, 
it would have allowed the President to waive any restrictions, just as 
he has waived the advice from the Baker-Hamilton Commission, and just 
as he has ignored the will of the American and Iraqi people.

I had absolutely no objection to the resolved clauses of Senator 
Cochran's amendment, which stated that ''It is the sense of the Senate 
that Congress should send legislation to the President providing 
appropriations for Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring 
Freedom in a manner that the President can sign into law by not later 
than May 28, 2007.'' In fact, Congress already sent President Bush a 
robust supplemental funding bill and the President chose to veto it. 
Moreover, the Feingold-Reid-Dodd amendment provided funding for these 
critical missions and was wholly ''in a manner that the President can 
sign it into law by not later than May 28, 2007.''

But, in Senator Cochran's amendment, this language was preceded by 
inaccurate statements. These statements claim that ''funds previously 
appropriated to continue military operations in Operation Iraqi Freedom 
and Operation Enduring Freedom are depleted.'' This is simply not true. 
The Congressional Budget Office estimates, and the Pentagon confirms, 
that there is enough funding to last through mid-summer.

It is my hope that in the coming days, the Senate will continue to 
seek meaningful ways to bring about a responsible and urgent change in 
the President's failed policy in Iraq. I look forward to working with 
my colleagues to do just that.

I thank the Chair.