---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3000b4dc610a3bf8689870a908db8117`
`Mr. LUGAR — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, along with Senator Bond and Senator 
Coleman, I will offer an amendment that addresses an issue about which 
there has been much news reporting and hearings in both House and 
Senate subcommittees; namely, the situation facing Iraqi and Afghani 
interpreters and translators who are bravely working on the front lines 
with our soldiers and diplomats. Such work is vital to our efforts in 
these two conflicts, yet it often makes them and their families targets 
for insurgents. This past week, Mr. George Packer wrote a lengthy piece 
in


the New Yorker on this that I commend to my colleagues.

My interest in this issue, like many of my colleagues, began last 
summer when I received e-mails from a first lieutenant in the Indiana 
National Guard who had recently returned from a tour in Iraq and from a 
sergeant in the Army who was at the time serving in a combat support 
hospital, also in Iraq.

Aaron Inkenbrandt wrote:




 During my year in Iraq, I served as a military Transition 


 team member. As such, I lived exclusively with Iraqi forces 


 and acted as a mentor and advisor to them. My team and I did 


 much to build and train these forces under very difficult 


 circumstances. However, we could not have achieved success 


 without our Iraqi interpreters. I believe that our Nation 


 must reciprocate the loyalty proved by these men by offering 


 to them sanctuary in the United States.



 Iraqi interpreters are an outstanding group of people. 


 These men not only act as our communicators but also our 


 cultural advisors and our friends. Our interpreters share 


 with us the dangers of combat and the rigors of military 


 life. While interpreters are generally well paid, the risks 


 associated in assisting Coalition forces are extraordinary. 


 Both at work and at home, interpreters fear for their lives. 


 This fear is often so great that they cannot tell even their 


 closest relatives what they do for a living.



 The insurgency in Iraq has made clear that they will murder 


 any Iraqi caught assisting Coalition Forces. Interpreters are 


 especially prized by insurgents who often pay high bounties 


 for their killings or capture. Iraqis not associated with the 


 insurgency are also hostile toward interpreters. Many Iraqis 


 believe, though wrongly, that interpreters are snitches or 


 traitors. Such hostility makes life very difficult for Iraqi 


 interpreters.''



 The withdrawal of Coalition Forces will likely increase 


 rather than decrease the danger posted to interpreters. 


 Without our protection, former interpreters will be left 


 defenseless before their enemies and subject to persecution 


 by their friends. In my opinion, [it] would be immoral and 


 contrary to the precepts of our Constitution to abandon these 


 brave patriots in light of the vast sacrifices that they have 


 made in the cause of freedom. Therefore, I implore you to 


 advocate preferable immigration status to all Iraqi 


 interpreters whose loyalty we reasonably ascertain.


The e-mails, and a cable that our then Ambassador to Baghdad, Zalmay 
Khalilzad, released regarding the life-threatening conditions our 
Foreign Service Nationals were facing prompted me to write to the 
Secretary of State last July about the issue. I encouraged her to 
develop a policy to address these various situations and suggest 
legislative language. The United States has experience and tradition in 
this respect from past wars that provide precedent and guidance.

The amendment I am offering today with Senator Bond and Senator 
Coleman is not a conventional amendment for an emergency supplemental, 
but because it has a direct impact on the missions in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we are hopeful this can be included in the package.

By virtue of a provision crafted by former Congressman John 
Hostettler of Indiana, the 2006 Defense authorization bill established 
a program to allow 50 Iraqis and Afghans who have worked for the U.S. 
military as translators for at least 12 months to come to the United 
States on a special visa. The program has been underway now for just 
over a year and has been met with success and approval by all of the 
agencies who work with it.

Since instatement, 445 applications have been received. 377 have been 
approved, 10 denied and 58 are pending. Under the current cap of 50 per 
year, it will take until 2016 to admit those currently in the queued--
and their families--for entry to the United States.

In order to help reduce this wait-time, my colleagues and I have 
crafted an amendment that expands the program to 300 admissions per 
year and also makes some other technical changes. We change the 
language to include interpreters as well as translators--as that is the 
proper term for those who translate conversation while translators work 
on documents. We also authorize the U.S. Ambassadors in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to nominate non-Department of Defense personnel under this 
program, and we exempt those admitted under this program, and their 
families from the numerical cap of immigrants who enter in this same, 
so-called 4th Preference category. Finally, we wish to sunset the 
program after 3 years.