---
---

# PAST AND PRESENT CHALLENGES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
## `3002f785fd263baab171486eaa159b72`
`Mr. REID — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, August was a time for us to leave Washington 
for a while, spend time listening to and reconnecting with our friends, 
neighbors, and constituents back home. Someone this morning on the 
telephone asked me what I remember most about the August recess, and I 
said I think it is best represented in an extended conversation I had 
with someone on the telephone at my home in Searchlight. You can look 
out my windows and see for miles. There is a range of mountains called 
Timber Mountains. They do not match the Rockies or the Sierras, but to 
me they are important. During the summertime, there are storms there 
all the time. They do not last very long, but they are beautiful to 
see. I was telling my friend that is what I remember most, talking on 
the telephone and trying to explain to my friend what I saw out there. 
We call them cloudbursts. It rains so hard you can't see the mountains, 
and the lightning is coming frequently. It is beautiful to watch. It is 
what nature is all about, and that is what I remember most about my 
trip home this August.

But it certainly was a chance for me, and for all of us, to ignore 
the pundits and hear from the people of the State we represent. I 
traveled this past month to many places in Nevada, and the message I 
heard was very clear: Nevadans want us to do something about the high 
cost of energy and start reversing the damage that nonrenewable fuels 
are causing our environment. They want us to help them find affordable 
health care solutions so low-income kids can get regular checkups, so 
senior citizens can pay for their medicine, and everyone, rich or poor, 
can afford health insurance. We are pushing 50 million people with no 
health insurance. They want us to fight the skyrocketing cost of a 
college education.

Above all, Nevadans want us to finally bring the war in Iraq to a 
responsible end. They want us to take our brave troops out of another 
country's intractable civil war so we can rebuild and refocus our 
military on the grave and growing challenges we face throughout the 
world. These concerns are, of course, not unique to Nevada. I know my 
colleagues are hearing the same warnings in every corner of our 
country, the same concerns I have heard and more. I want to share with 
my friends in Nevada and all Americans that we hear you. We share your 
concerns and your sense of urgency, and we are working every day to 
reach these goals.

When this new Congress began in January, we knew the challenges ahead 
of us, but the expectations were even greater than the challenges. We 
started the year with an ambitious agenda for introducing 10 bills on 
the first day. Now, as we begin our busy fall calendar, we have made 
progress on almost every one of those. Coming into the previous work 
period, we have already sent to the President the first raise in the 
Federal minimum wage in more than 10 years; the recommendations of the 
9/11 Commission, after having been pushed aside for years; the toughest 
ethics and lobbying reform in history, which today is on its way to the 
President. We passed a bill to give the hope of stem cell research to 
millions of Americans who suffer, and we will soon attempt once again 
to override the President's veto. We believe we are only one vote short 
of being able to override that veto.

We passed disaster relief for the gulf coast, western wildfires, and 
farmers who have suffered drought and other disasters. We provided 
funds for our troops and National Guard with the equipment they need, 
for example, the Mine Resistant Combat Vehicles, to do their jobs more 
safely. We passed a bill to finally hold the administration accountable 
on Iraq with real benchmarks for progress.


We have been able to do a number of important things dealing with 
Iraq, even with Senator Johnson ill. We were sometimes in a minority. 
One of our colleagues, who is one of the most loyal Democrats we have 
and have ever had, our nominee for Vice President, the distinguished 
Senator from Connecticut, Senator Lieberman, votes with the President 
on the Iraq matters most every time, even though he votes with us on 
everything else. We were many times in the hole 49 to 50. So what we 
were able to do was certainly very good. I applaud the few Republicans 
who helped us. We were able to pass a bill to send to the President 
that he had to veto.

We also passed a balanced budget which restores fiscal discipline and 
cuts taxes for working people. Of course, we wish we could have done 
more in Iraq, but we did the best we could, with a pay raise and better 
health care for our troops, who are being asked to shoulder a larger 
burden than ever before.

This past work period we added to that list other accomplishments: 
passing the Energy bill, which included, among other things, raising 
CAFE standards, fuel efficiency, for the first time in 25 years. We 
haven't sent that to the President yet because we need to work out our 
differences with the House.

We reauthorized the Higher Education Act to give Americans the 
largest expansion of student financial aid since the GI bill. As I 
indicated in my opening statement, we are going to finish that this 
week and send it on to the House.

Beginning debate on the Defense authorization bill on September 17, 
we will make critical investments to address troop readiness problems 
in the military caused by what we believe is mismanagement of our Armed 
Forces.

These legislative accomplishments will make a real difference for 
working families, students, senior citizens, and those who protect us 
at home and abroad. Our progress makes one thing clear: when you put 
partisanship aside, we can do great things for the American people. But 
when partisanship divides us, our work suffers.

For all our success so far this year, we have done more than people 
ever expected. Now, we could have done a lot more than that, but 
Republicans have sought to block our progress, it seems sometimes at 
all costs. We could have reduced the cost of prescription drugs, but 
Republicans filibustered that. We could have passed comprehensive 
immigration reform, but we only got 12 Republican votes. We could have 
ensured our troops received sufficient rest and time home between 
deployments--that was the Webb amendment--but once again we were 
blocked by most of the Republicans.

The minority has forced 42 cloture votes already this year, many on 
legislation that wasn't even controversial. I hope the delay and 
stalling is in the past, and that the minority has proven they can make 
us go to cloture but it hasn't accomplished anything. I hope we can 
move forward in a less burdensome manner.

Our progress has been in spite of those efforts. When we have worked 
together across the aisle, the record speaks for itself. We know it can 
be done because we have done it already. Today, I reach out to my 
Republican colleagues on every piece of legislation. I hope and expect 
the minority will reciprocate so we can move beyond hyperpartisanship 
and obstruction to keep making the kind of progress the American people 
deserve. We must do this because the issues we now confront deserve 
nothing less.

The Senate Appropriations Committee has reported 11 of the 12 annual 
appropriations bills. We plan to devote


considerable time this work period to these bills. I have indicated we 
are going to do three before we take our break for the Jewish holidays. 
We have already done Homeland Security appropriations. If we do that, 
we would wind up doing a third of all the bills we need to do, which is 
progress.

So in the next 2 weeks, it is my hope we can complete the bills I 
have talked about. Each of these bills was reported out of the 
committee unanimously, or nearly unanimously, and I hope bipartisan 
cooperation continues on the floor.

We must move forward on a number of other issues. The Children's 
Health Insurance Program is a bill that received wide bipartisan 
support in the Senate. I hope we can complete that. It is important 
that we do that. I know just a few people can cause a lot of trouble 
here. Both the distinguished Republican leader and I realize that.











Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 976


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate receives 
a message from the House on H.R. 976, the CHIP legislation, the Senate 
disagree to the House amendment, if appropriate, and insist on its 
amendment, request a conference with the House on the disagreeing votes 
of the two Houses, and that the Chair be authorized to appoint 
conferees on the part of the Senate.