---
---

# None
## `3012a352f550dea392f19aa34cea281c`
`Mr. DREIER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I had one Member who was hoping to come 
over, and I do not see him here. So I'm going to yield myself the 
balance of the time.

Mr. Speaker, we all know how painful the war in Iraq has been. As I 
said in my opening remarks and throughout this debate, no one is trying 
to paint a rosy picture of the situation there.

My very good friend from Wisconsin, distinguished Chair of the 
Appropriations Committee, has just told us that we should be fighting 
the war in the right place. Well, Mr. Speaker, one of the things that 
we have found tragically over the past several years is that al Qaeda 
can be found almost anyplace on the face of the Earth.

It was just a few months ago that we saw a successful effort by the 
Ethiopians going into Mogadishu, Somalia, to liberate that capital from 
the forces of al Qaeda. We know very well that on September 11, 2001, 
al Qaeda attacked us here in the United States, and we regularly go 
through the litany of the actions of al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah: the 
bombing of the two embassies, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and Nairobi, 
Kenya; the USS Cole; the Khobar Towers; the World Trade Center in 1993.

We can go on and on and on about al Qaeda and other terrorist 
organizations. And guess what, Mr. Speaker, virtually everyone has 
acknowledged that the front line in the battle against al Qaeda is 
where they are mostly, and that is in Iraq.

Now, I just reported the great statement that came from our new 
ambassador, Ryan Crocker, in Iraq who has talked along with General 
Petraeus about the success that we have seen in the al Anbar province, 
in Ramadi in particular, one of the most dangerous spots on the face of 
the Earth until we saw this alliance develop among Sunni, Shia and 
American forces standing up against al Qaeda because, Mr. Speaker, al 
Qaeda is there in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I truly believe that fighting al Qaeda in Iraq plays a 
big role in preventing them from attacking us right here in the United 
States of America, which is obviously their goal. They have done it 
before, and they would love to do it again.

This process around which we are considering this measure is very 
unusual to say the least. In fact, my good friend from Rochester, 
distinguished Chair of the Rules Committee, described this rule as one 
of the most complicated that we have ever seen.

Now, my good friend again, the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, just talked about the fact that we are going to give the 
President his chance to see this. Well, here is what we are going to 
give the President. We are going to give the President a bill that 
potentially calls for cut-and-run and immediate withdrawal within 90 
days, beginning a pullout of our troops in Iraq; number two, a 
supplemental appropriations bill that has all of this redeployment that 
creates fits and starts, beginning and reduction, just incrementally 
putting it out, which has been harshly criticized by the Secretary of 
Defense, Mr. Gates; General Petraeus; Ambassador Crocker and others. So 
that is included in this measure, and then the agricultural 
appropriations provision.

Now, my friend from Wisconsin just asked how many Members will stand 
up and be supportive of the effort that I laud in dealing with 
something that we were not able to deal with in the last Congress as we 
struggled with the appropriations process, that, among others, being 
this agricultural appropriations issue, with the disasters that we have 
faced. And of course, there will be Members on our sides of the aisle 
who will support that.

But, Mr. Speaker, I think we need to recognize that this is the most 
convoluted process because we are not allowing it to stand on its own. 
What we are doing with this rule is we are taking all three of these 
very separate items, linking them up, and sending them to our 
colleagues on the other side of the Capitol in the United States 
Senate, where the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, the one who's 
already announced that we've lost the war in Iraq, he said there's very 
little chance of success there.

That's why I have always considered myself, I like to have that 
Jeffersonian spirit of a healthy skepticism, as opposed to a corrosive 
cynicism, which sometimes we have seen more than a few people slip to 
around here. But I can't help but be skeptical. I'm not going to be 
cynical, Mr. Speaker, but I can't help but be a little skeptical as we 
look at the one, two, three punch of vote after vote after vote when we 
know full well it will most likely die in the Senate; and if it by 
chance, as this last bill did, ends up getting to the President, it's 
going to be vetoed by the President.

So as I said earlier, it allows our colleagues to stand up, as so 
many have, during this debate saying they support the troops, but at 
the same time they want to get out immediately and not provide the 
troops with the kind of consistency and support that they need for us 
to be victorious.

Again, one of the interesting things that we hear, as we juxtapose 
the debate that emanates from our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle and ours, is that we regularly talk about victory. We regularly 
talk about being victorious in this battle against Islamic extremism, 
the battle which we all united to fight on September 11, 2001. It is 
tragic that we have gotten to the point where we are not united on 
this.

And I will acknowledge that there were some who tried to exude the 
image that Iraq was involved on September 11, and I never said that and 
most people I know never claimed that Saddam Hussein was involved in 
command and control of what happened on September 11, 2001; but, Mr. 
Speaker, I will say this: Saddam Hussein had the exact same goal for 
the future of the United States as al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden, and 
that's why we need to be prepared to fight them at any spot whatsoever.

I am going to offer when, I say ''when'' because I am going to be an 
eternal optimist, when we defeat the previous question, I am going to 
offer the amendment that I was speaking about earlier.

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that just before the vote on the 
previous question that the text of my amendment that I am going to be 
submitting when we defeat the previous question be made in order, and I 
ask unanimous consent that that be included in the Record, Mr. Speaker.