# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `302653fa2e8eebbd9c297d7e399ba612`
`Mr. MICA — 26 September 2008`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for 
publication in the Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received 
as part of H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance 
and Continuing Appropriations Act. I have requested $2.4 million in the 
FY 09 Defense Appropriations bill, Research, Development, Test And 
Evaluation, Navy, account for Electronic Warfare Associates. The entity 
to receive funding for this project is Electronic Warfare Associates, 
250 International Parkway, Suite 240, Lake Mary, Florida, 32746. The FY 
2009 funding will develop the necessary software tools for coordinated 
mission planning and mission rehearsal, common training tools, and 
consistent concepts of operations and tactics to ensure Marines are 
fully integrated between air and ground and can seamlessly operate in 
any theater with any service or coalition partner.

Results from operations in Afghanistan and Iraq all point to the 
critical need to better fuse data and coordinate action between Marine 
Corps air and ground EW elements. The necessity for integrated action 
and the essential nature of coordinated and uniform application of EW 
assets has become a focal point for the Marine Corps. The plan to 
resolve this serious shortfall is known as MAGTF (Marine Air Ground 
Task Force) EW 2020.

The basic Marine Corps fighting organization is a MAGTF. A MAGTF is 
sized according to the mission and can vary from a battalion to an 
entire division. It is a complete fighting unit that includes all 
combat elements--air, ground, and support. Electronic warfare is 
integral. The EA-6B Prowler provides airborne EW while Radio Battalions 
provide ground EW via equipment such as CESAS (Communication Emitter 
Sensing and Attacking System). They are supported by various planning 
and processing capabilities, such as TEAMS (Tactical EA-6B Mission 
Planning System) and TERPES (Tactical Electronic Reconnaissance 
Processing and Evaluation System). Despite being integral to a MAGTF, 
the current coordinated and standardized training, tactics, procedures 
and integration of the air and ground USMC EW elements is rudimentary, 
as is coordination with Air Force and Navy EW units.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. I have requested $450,000 in the Homeland Security 
Appropriations bill FEMA Predisaster Mitigation Account for the 
retrofitting of Crescent City High School in Putnam County. The entity 
to receive this funding is Putnam County located at 410 St. Johns Ave., 
Palatka, FL 32177. These funds will be used to retrofit the high school 
to serve as an emergency shelter during a hurricane, and to provide the 
school with the necessary generator to ensure that the shelter has the 
needed power during and following a storm.

With Florida's unique tendency of experiencing frequent hurricanes, 
wildfires and other natural disasters, there is currently no way to 
sufficiently accommodate Northeast Florida residents who have lost, or 
are forced to evacuate, their homes. When these catastrophes occur, 
emergency management services are forced to create temporary means to 
house, feed and provide the basic necessities of life for those who 
have been rendered helpless. The local high school in Crescent City is 
used as a shelter but is not a certified hurricane shelter. The only 
way to evacuate the area northbound is over a bridge on U.S. Hwy 17 
that the FDOT closes when winds exceed 40 mph. As a result many of the 
most vulnerable people who live in mobile homes are stranded. In 2008 
Putnam County was rated by the State of Florida to have a shelter 
deficit.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. I have requested $300,000 in the Homeland Security 
Appropriations bill FEMA State and local Programs Account for the town 
of Pomona Park Emergency Operations Center. The entity to receive this 
funding is the Town of Pomona Park located at 109 Worcester Street, 
Pomona Park, FL 32181-0001.

The funds for this project will be used to expand the current fire 
station which serves as the Emergency Operations Center in Pomona Park 
in order to make room for new equipment and provide room for emergency 
service coordination during a severe storm.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. I have requested $800,000 for the Mobile Medic 
Training Program which I requested be included in the FY 09 Defense 
Appropriations bill, Research, Development, Test And Evaluation, Army, 
account for Engineering and Computer Simulations. The entity to receive 
funding for this project is Engineering and Computer Simulations, 7770 
S. Hwy. U.S. 1 Suite H, Bunnell, FL 32110. The funds appropriated in 
this bill will be used entirely for the research and development of a 
training simulation tool that will enhance the overall effectiveness of 
combat medical training by providing realistic casualty information 
through the utilization of a hand held PDA.

The Mobile Medic Training Program, through the utilization of a hand 
held PDA, will provide realistic casualty information that allows the 
combat medic to practice medical treatments, thus bridging the gap 
between virtual and live environments.

This training simulation tool will enhance the overall effectiveness 
of combat medical training by providing realistic casualty information 
through the utilization of a hand held PDA. Currently, mobile computing 
technology, in the form of a hand held PDA that offers advice on 
diagnosis and treatment, provides medical reference material and tracks 
soldier treatment, is being used by combat medics. The Mobile Medic 
Training Program, through the utilization of a hand held PDA, will 
provide realistic casualty information that allows the combat medic to 
practice medical treatments, thus bridging the gap between virtual and 
live environments.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. I have requested $4.8 million for the Gateway 
System in the FY 09 Defense Appropriations bill, Navy Procurement 
account for the Gateway System manufactured by Ocean Design, Inc., 
located at 1026 North Williamson Boulevard in Daytona Beach, Florida 
32114. The funding would be used for the Navy's procurement of the 
Gateway System.

This project benefits the constituents in my district. This system 
has been developed for the Navy to provide a ''system of systems'' 
approach to seeing and sensing the ocean floor; subsurface and surface 
of the littorals. The Gateway System is a fiber and electrical cable 
interconnect system that provides any number of electro-optical inputs 
and outputs to static or dynamic subsea assets such as acoustical 
sensors, detection sensors, video cameras and power docking stations. 
The Gateway acts as a hub for information and/or power centric activity 
in the underwater battle space and acts as an underwater networking 
tool that allows different units to communicate and share information. 
The system will be instrumental in enhancing maritime domain awareness 
and securing maritime approaches.
