---
---

# FIRST 100 DAYS OF OBAMA PRESIDENCY
## `3027735355629c41617927ceb258b78f`
`Mr. CARTER — 27 April 2009`

---


Mr. CARTER. Mr. Speaker, we celebrate today, shortly, I think in 2 
days, we celebrate 100 days of President Obama's Presidency. His 
rankings are way up there, and we all respect him on his first 100 
days, but I am going to talk about those 100 days because I have a 
little bit different viewpoint than others might. I highly respect the 
man but, in turn, you can view the world differently, and I certainly 
view the world differently than Mr. Obama and the majority party.

I am going to talk, and I hope I will be joined by some of my 
colleagues, a little bit about the way I look at the last 100 days and 
actually farther back than 100 days, the way I look at the last 6 
months of what's going on in this country and where we are going and 
what concerns I have.

Now, I want to make it very clear that I am not doing this to get on 
Ms. Napolitano's hit list. I am just doing this to express my opinion.

The first thing, when you start trying to look at this new 
administration and the direction we are taking the country, you have 
got to start, I think, with our foreign policy. And I think, literally, 
the first thing or almost first thing that the President of the United 
States did when he became President of the United States was to order 
the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to be closed down and, of 
course, we are now having the debate as to what we are going to do with 
the prisoners that were there.



As a result of putting the spotlight on Gitmo, we put a spotlight on 
the argument of whether or not certain behavior is torture or not 
torture. And, clearly, this is a matter of opinion. And then we, as of 
yet, have not had official release of documents that tell us what 
resulted from these various procedures like waterboarding, as far as 
information gained by our intelligence folks.

But the argument is that this was a great thing to do, to close down 
Guantanamo Bay. I disagree. I actually think it was almost the perfect 
place for us to keep those folks because, quite frankly, I haven't seen 
anyone, certainly none of our European allies have stepped up yet and 
said that they were willing to take them. We have had a few that 
stepped up and their political leaders said, whoa, time out, we are not 
going to do that.

A fellow has got a private prison somewhere in the country said this 
morning he would take them, and then--I am not sure who the official 
was, who said, oh, no, you are not going to take them. So right now we 
don't have anyplace to put them.

I would volunteer the Williamson County jail, because I know that 
they would wish they were back at Gitmo, but I don't think they are 
willing to take them. So we are at a dilemma on that, and we are at a 
dilemma on whether or not what has happened to these folks that are in 
this detention facility is, in fact, torture.

I think that the general consensus in the press is that it is. But 
did it result in something that saved the lives of Americans, that's a 
good question.

Hopefully that information will be released in the very near future. 
I know the President and Senate requested it. And I hope that we get 
that full information so we, as Americans, can get a good picture of 
whether or not this is really a good thing that we did.

We certainly closed down something that was all over the news, it was 
all over the talking points of the Democratic Party. And, of course, 
that being the President who was elected from the Democratic Party, and 
as he says, he won, and he gets the opportunity to do that, and that's 
the first thing that he did.

Other things in foreign affairs that he has done, he has made some 
trips overseas to Europe, was very, very warmly received by our allies 
in Europe, and they cheered for him and patted him on the back.



But they didn't give him what he asked for. He asked for some help, 
some real help, in Afghanistan.

Let me say, I just came back from a meeting with the EU myself, and 
there are a lot of folks over there that certainly are standing in 
harm's way in Afghanistan. Most of those are Eastern European 
countries, but there are a few, like Great Britain, who certainly stand 
in the gap. But the President didn't get what he was looking for in the 
way of assistance over there, and, quite frankly, I think the Europeans 
should step up for him.

I do support their participation, and not just the participation, as 
I told them when I was over there. The way we look at it where I come 
from, when you are making ham and eggs, the chicken is involved, but 
the pig is committed, and we are looking for some folks that are 
committed. That means, if necessary, they will go there without 
restrictions in their ability to perform, as some of our allies have 
done when they have gone to the battle areas that we are fighting 
terrorists in.

Oh, by the way, one of the things that the Obama administration has 
done through Mrs. Napolitano is we are not supposed to call these folks 
''terrorists'' anymore, but I have a hard time remembering what I am 
supposed to call them, so I am going to call them that until I can 
remember what the new politically correct term she invented is.

The President went to visit with the Central and South American 
leaders. He has opened the doors, or is attempting to open the doors, 
to a regime that has been a very, very evil regime since I guess I was 
a freshman in high school, and, believe me, that is a long time ago.

Fidel Castro, we all thought he was going to be the savior of mankind 
when he came to the United States in, what was it, '56 or '57, until we 
got to know him and realized he was nothing more than what all 
dictators seem to be and they are, and that is a tyrant who totally and 
completely persecuted any opposition that might arise in his country of 
Cuba. He has slaughtered innocents for 50 years, and his brother 
doesn't seem to be moving in any other direction but backing up Fidel.

Yet we have opened the doors now to Cuba. We are saying we are going 
to let tourists go down there. We are going to work with these people. 
Of course, we asked them if they would release the political prisoners 
down there, some of whom have been there forever, and President Obama 
thought that he heard Fidel Castro say yes, he thought we could work 
something out. But now they have come out and officially said they 
thought maybe the President misunderstood what Fidel said, so we didn't 
get anything out of that. But let's hope that maybe this will be good 
for us.

But I always have a problem that when you acknowledge tyranny and you 
legitimize tyranny, then how do you fight against tyranny? It is an 
interesting dilemma to be in as a leader.

We have got Hugo Chavez, who has been probably the biggest hater of 
this country since he came into power of anybody in my remembrance. I 
don't believe that the dictators of the Second World War that we fought 
against said as many bad things about the United States of America as 
Hugo Chavez has said.

He has written a book called ''Open Veins of Latin America,'' which 
is a venomous attack on the United States blaming every woe that 
Central and South America has ever had on the United States of America. 
I think he gave an autographed copy of that book to the President of 
the United States when he was there, and they shook hands in agreement, 
not about the book, I am sure, about acceptance of the book.

From a foreign policy standpoint, I don't think we laid a good 
foundation there, not a foundation of being the voice for freedom in 
the world. But then good men of good character can disagree, and I 
certainly think that the President of the United States disagrees with 
that position, and certainly he is an American citizen and is 
rightfully able to do so, just like I am.

When the President, when we had visitors here from Great Britain, it 
was about the time we sent the bust of Winston Churchill back to 
England, which was supposed to be a permanent gift to this country, but 
somehow it got sent back. The President met the Queen. He shook her 
hands with both hands, and then bowed to the leader of Saudi Arabia, 
King Abdullah. The view of the world is just different from the heights 
that the President views it and from the lowly position here in 
Congress that we view it, at least from my standpoint.

That is enough to talk about the foreign policy. But the truth is we 
are trying to be open and we are trying to reach out to folks and we 
are asking them to let's all be friends, and hopefully we all will be.

If there is one thing that you have to look at this 100 days that the 
President has been President, that defines this 100 days more than any 
other thing, it is the new way we are going to handle an old problem 
that has been in the economic cycles of this country, that has been 
coming up for many, many years, and that is the idea of a recession and 
the possibility of a depression and how do you handle it.

The best guidance that some think we have ever had is the guidance 
that was given to us by Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who was elected in 
1932 and served the longest of any President of the United States, 
which brought about the limiting amendments that we have had that 
limited us to two terms for President. He served many more than two 
terms for President, but he served from 1932 until basically 1940 when 
the world and the whole subject matter of the world at that time was 
the Great Depression.

The Great Depression, however, got overshadowed by the German 
invasion of Poland in 1939 and the beginning of the Second World War. 
So the periods as you define the Presidency of Franklin Roosevelt, you 
take the Great Depression, '32 to '40, and then the next phase in which 
the American soldier did an excellent job and the American President 
did an excellent job of defeating tyranny around the world.



I guess going back to a little bit of the history of the Great 
Depression, the interesting thing was that in 1932 the unemployment 
rate, and I am not good at getting figures, but it was double digits, 
somewhere in the 20s or 30s, something like 25 or 30 percent of the 
population was unemployed. In 1940, that same number was still 
unemployed. Yet we had gone on, we had adopted the Keynesian version of 
economics and we had leaped forward with the Keynesian version, and the 
biggest spending spree in the history of the country took place from 
1932 to actually 1946.

But this administration has managed to have spent more than all of 
that and more than all the other Presidents combined in the first 100 
days. Now, I don't want to be totally unfair, because part of that came 
at the tail-end of the Bush administration with the Democrat Congress, 
and so I don't think it is completely fair to lay all that off on 
President Obama. But the facts are just that the President's budget is 
going to create the largest single deficit a budget has ever created in 
the history of the Republic.

You know, one of the things that we discussed, there is a long 
debate, it was debated out pretty heavily in the Presidential election, 
was whether or not we were going to have earmarks. We still debate to 
this day in this Congress what is an earmark, is it good, is it bad. 
Everybody has got an opinion. We haven't resolved the issue. But the 
President said he would veto any bill that had an earmark in it, 
because he didn't believe in earmarks, and he is in a large crowd of 
people that continues to believe that way. And we have this debate on 
this floor, in committee, and elsewhere right now we have this debate. 
It goes on continuously. But the President did sign the omnibus 
spending bill, and he signed it with 9,000 earmarks in it. So as we 
look at this 100 days, we have got some promises, promises made and 
promises kept that we need to look at, and there is just a lot of 
different ways to view what is going on.


I will say this. I will tell you that the President has got as good a 
popularity rating as anybody that has ever held the office in the first 
100 days, so I will give him absolute credit for that. He certainly 
knows how to be popular, and he is popular. But, you know, we had 
thousands of people take to the streets, I guess it was last weekend, 
the weekend before last, with the TEA parties, and although it was 
probably targeting the Congress as much as it was targeting anybody, 
but they were certainly not happy with the state of affairs in the 
United States.

We signed the stimulus bill with $787 billion. Obama's inauguration 
cost the taxpayers $49 million, which was triple the amount of money 
that was spent on the Bush administration's first inauguration. There 
is still a $50.5 million budget shortfall on the Democratic convention 
in Chicago. So spending has become something that identifies this 
Presidency; $1.5 trillion is this year's budget. Now we are looking at 
a new budget, $3.6 trillion. We talked about $1 trillion before on the 
floor of the House; $1 trillion is a stack of brand new $1,000 bills 
somewhere between 63 and 65 miles high. That is a whole lot of money, a 
whole lot of money.

So as we look at this 100 days, you can look at it in different ways. 
I will say this: The President has certainly kept his cool. He is an 
excellent speaker. He dazzles our allies and he makes people feel 
comfortable, and that is a lot that we need in this country.

My problem that I have with President Obama most of all is that I 
fear the kind of overwhelming expenditure that we have to deal with 
from the Obama administration. We are getting so far in debt that our 
great-great-grandchildren are going to have problems paying this bill.

I see I am joined by one of my colleagues, Kevin Brady. He is one of 
the people that I look up to in this building because he has always got 
good things to say. I will yield to the gentleman.