---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES CORPORAL MATTHEW JOSEPH STANLEY
## `3027c396f4f1ad7770bdb24401171b53`
`Mr. GREGG — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to pay special tribute to U.S. 
Army CPL Matthew Joseph Stanley of Wolfeboro, NH. Tragically, on 
December 16, 2006, this courageous young soldier and two of his 
comrades gave their last full measure for our Nation when their Army 
vehicle struck an improvised explosive device in Taji, Iraq, north of 
Baghdad. At the time of this hostile action Corporal Stanley, a cavalry 
scout with C Troop, 1st Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry 
Division, based in Fort Hood, TX, was serving his second tour in Iraq 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Matthew was a 2002 graduate of Kingswood Regional High School where 
he was wellknown and liked by his teachers and fellow students. 
Classmates remember Matthew as fun, always laughing and having a smile 
on his face. Family and friends say he was one of the nicest guys you 
would ever want to meet and remember his fondness for hunting and 
fishing.

Sensing a call to duty, and because of his desire to protect his 
country, in December 2003, Matthew joined the U.S. Army. Upon 
completing basic training at Fort Knox, KY, in the spring of 2004, he 
reported to Fort Hood, TX. The awards and decorations that Corporal 
Stanley received over the succeeding months are a testament to the 
strong character of this man. They include the Bronze Star Medal, 
Purple Heart, two Army Commendation Medals, Army Good Conduct Medal, 
Combat Action Badge, National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, 
Overseas Service Ribbon, and Expert Rifle Qualification Badge. He was 
posthumously promoted to the rank of corporal.

Patriots from the state of New Hampshire have served our Nation with 
honor and distinction from Bunker Hill to Taji--and U.S. Army CPL 
Matthew Stanley served and fought in that same fine tradition. During 
our country's difficult Revolutionary War, Thomas Paine wrote ''These 
are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine 
patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; 
but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and 
woman.'' In these turbulent times Matthew stood with the country he 
loved, served it with distinction and honor, and earned and deserves 
our love and thanks.

My sympathy, condolences, and prayers go out to Matthew's wife Amy, 
his parents Lynn and Richard, his brothers and sisters, and to his 
other family members and many friends who have suffered this most 
grievous loss. All will sorely miss Matthew Stanley, a 22-year-old 
patriot who was proud of his family, proud of where he lived, and proud 
of what he did. In the words of Daniel Webster--may his remembrance


be as long lasting as the land he honored. God bless Matthew Joseph 
Stanley.












 corporal jonathan e. schiller
