---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `302c37605473cff8079c36c038b928b7`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I just want to rise to close this debate from our side and say how 
impressed I have been by the debate that I have heard today. It has 
been about 11 hours. We are going to have tomorrow and debate on Friday 
and Thursday, and this is the first real serious debate we have had 
about the President's policies in Iraq since the vote in October of 
2002.

This week the House is considering a bipartisan resolution introduced 
by Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, Tom Lantos of California, 
and Walter Jones of North Carolina, which supports our troops and 
opposes the President's plan to add 21,500 more combat troops in Iraq.

People have talked quite a lot tonight about the size and the scope 
of the resolution, but it is elegant and it is certainly spare in the 
fact that it is about 100 words, but it is significant because of what 
it says.

The resolution is very straightforward. It says:

''Resolved by the House of Representatives that:

''(1) Congress and the American people will continue to support and 
protect the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving 
or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq; and

''(2) Congress disapproves of the decision by President George W. 
Bush announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 
additional United States combat troops to Iraq.''

Those supporting this bipartisan resolution strongly support our 
troops and our veterans. Let us be clear on this one fundamental 
principle. We are honoring the service of our troops by asking the 
difficult questions about this war. In conducting this debate, we must 
be ever mindful of the sacrifices our military personnel and their 
families are making during this war and the toll it is taking on them 
and their families and our veterans. Each Member must determine for 
themselves, in a manner worthy of our troop's sacrifice, whether the 
President's plan will succeed in making Iraq more stable.

I, for one, do not believe it will, and I strongly believe and hope 
that my colleagues will support this resolution and the debate that is 
coming forth in the next 2 days