---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `302c3406766cb43e44929750c50b9778`
`Mr. REID — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I was in college a number of years ago. One 
of the things we studied was George Orwell's ''1984,'' which is a 
classic. It is a classic because George Orwell points out a futuristic 
society as he sees it. One of the things that has become known as 
Orwellian thought is where someone says something and the opposite is 
true. That is what George Orwell's book was all about. What we have 
heard now from my friend, the distinguished Republican leader, is 
Orwellian. His words were: Democrats are slowing things down. I mean, 
if there were ever anything in the world that is Orwellian, referring 
back to the book ''1984,'' it is that Democrats are slowing things 
down.

As a result of the envy of Republicans for losing the elections last 
November, they have done everything they can to slow this body down so 
we would look bad. We have had to file cloture many times, 43 times. 
Never, ever in the past history of this country has that been done. I 
have been in the minority, and I have held leadership positions in the 
minority. For years past, people picked their fights on relatively few 
issues where cloture would have to be filed. Not with the Republicans--
on everything we have done. They are filibustering things they support 
now. So ladies and gentlemen of the jury, which is America, understand, 
we have heard Orwellian speak here this morning: Democrats are slowing 
things down.

Yesterday marked 6 months from the day that President Bush introduced 
his temporary troop escalation plan to the American people. Six months 
ago President Bush implicitly acknowledged the Iraq policy he had been 
pursuing for nearly 4 years had failed. He asked the American people to 
overlook those 4 years of failure and trust his new plan to place tens 
of thousands of additional American troops in the middle of an 
intractable civil war, and it would bring about success. Six months 
ago, nearly 4 years after taking us into a war based on deception and 
falsification, including there being no weapons of mass destruction, 
the President asked us for trust. Despite his failure to convince other 
countries to share the burden of war with us, forcing our own brave 
troops to shoulder the burden of war virtually alone, he asked us for 
trust.


After nearly 4 years of strategic blunders and tragic mismanagement 
that left our troops without either the equipment they needed or the 
strategy for success they deserved, he asked us for trust. At a time 
when more than 3,000 American lives have already been lost, tens of 
thousands more wounded, and Iraq in flames, President Bush asked us for 
more trust so he could put tens of thousands of additional American 
troops in harm's way. Since then, 6 months, 600 more dead Americans, 
and $60 billion, that is where we are. Sectarian violence has not 
diminished. Importantly, the Iraq Government has failed to take 
meaningful steps to begin taking responsibility for its own country's 
future. Still, President Bush and his Republican allies ask us for more 
patience, more trust, more time.

They say that after more than 4 years of incompetence and 
mismanagement, they finally think they are entitled to more trust. I 
don't think so. That is akin to a quarterback throwing three 
interceptions--one, two, three interceptions--comes to the coach and 
says: Coach, trust me. I am not going to change anything, but trust me. 
Leave me in the game.

There is no evidence that the escalation is working. They refer to 
Anbar Province, and there are some good things happening there, but 
everybody knows that the bubble is being squeezed and terrible things 
are happening in other places. They are no longer bombing police 
stations only and health clinics and markets. They are now destroying 
villages. Three days ago they set off a 5-ton bomb and blew up a town. 
The town is gone.

Conditions are deteriorating and more lives are being lost every day. 
The days of trust have long since passed. Some would rather wait until 
September before forcing the President to change course. If there were 
real signs of progress or real reason for hope, that might make sense. 
If the real costs being borne by our troops and their families were not 
so high, perhaps we could afford more patience and more trust. If we 
wait until September, more Americans will die, more Americans will be 
wounded; a third of the troops being wounded are wounded grievously; 
our treasure will be more depleted; and the Middle East will become 
ever more destabilized. Our efforts to focus on the real war on terror 
will be impeded.

What do we have in the Middle East now? We have a civil war raging in 
Lebanon. The Palestinians are fighting among themselves. There is civil 
war. We have ignored Israel. We have Iran thumbing their nose at us and 
a conflagration in Iraq.

If the real costs being borne by our troops and their families were 
not so high, we could afford more patience and more trust. But the 
costs are high. Waiting until September is not the answer. Holding out 
hope, blind hope, blind trust that progress will appear out of thin air 
for reasons no one is able to articulate is not the answer. This 
Department of Defense authorization bill and the amendments that will 
be offered to it are the next chance we have to chart a responsible new 
course


out of Iraq. The American people demand the new course. Democrats 
demand it. Republicans demand it. Independents demand it. They deserve 
it.

Our brave men and women in uniform also deserve it. They deserve more 
than speeches expressing disapproval or dismay with the current course. 
Our votes, not our voices, will determine whether we heed the call for 
a new course. Our votes, not our voices, will demonstrate whether we 
reject President Bush's failed policy. Our votes, not our voices, will 
prove whether our resolve is firm and whether we are prepared to lead.

We will work hard this week and next week to pass a Defense 
authorization bill that reflects a resolve to pursue a responsible and 
binding new policy. That is going to require Republican support. 
Already we are seeing some Republicans speak out against the 
President's Iraq policy. We hope that they and other Republicans will 
put their words into action by not just saying the right things but 
voting the right way. That can start today. We have an amendment before 
us that is critical for the strength of our military and the well-being 
of our troops. Regardless of where we stand on this ill-advised war, I 
would hope we stand as one in our commitment to keeping our military 
the strongest in the world. We should all agree we can't sustain that 
strength if our men and women in uniform are not being given the 
protection and care they need.

That is not a Democratic talking point or a Republican talking point. 
It is common sense. That is why I rise to support the amendment offered 
by my friend and colleague, Senator Jim Webb of Virginia, and 
cosponsored by dozens of others. It is also why I am so surprised the 
Republican leadership has decided to block this amendment, and that is 
what they are doing. They are blocking the amendment, once again, to 
stand for obstruction and stand against progress. I fear it is a sign 
of what is to come from the minority party in the tough votes ahead.

In the Roll Call publication this morning, the Republican leader is 
quoted as saying there will be a 60-vote requirement on anything we do 
on this bill.

Senator Webb's readiness amendment begins the critical and long 
overdue process of rebuilding our badly overburdened military. Who 
better to offer this amendment than the top two cosponsors: Senator Jim 
Webb of Virginia. I say to these young people who are pages, you are 
seeing on the Senate floor a real American hero, a Marine captain at 
age 23, a Naval Academy graduate about whom books have been written for 
his heroism, two Bronze stars, a couple Purple Hearts, Silver Star, 
Navy Cross.

Chuck Hagel is the other cosponsor. One of the great stories I have 
heard in my life is a story of Chuck Hagel and his brother. You go to 
his office and there is a picture of Chuck Hagel and his brother in 
Vietnam, arm in arm, as soldiers. Chuck Hagel saved his brother's life 
in Vietnam.

These are the two cosponsors of this amendment. Do they know what it 
means to go to battle, do they know what it means to go to battle 
unprepared and unrested? Yes, they do.

Also, Senator Webb has another little niche I would like to talk 
about, and that is his son Jimmy is also a Marine who just got back 
from fighting in Iraq. The Marine Jim Webb knows the consequences of 
overburdening the military and knows that ours is stretched nearly to 
the breaking point. Senator Jim Webb knows the consequences of 
overburdening the military, and he knows that ours is stretched nearly 
to the breaking point. So does Chuck Hagel.


Here are a few signs--and there are many--of that burden: Among the 
Army's 44 active combat brigades, all but one has served at least one 
tour in Afghanistan. Thirty-one of them have had two or more tours. 
Among the National Guard and Reserves, more than 80 percent have been 
deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan, with an average of 18 months per 
deployment.

This week, the Army announced that recruitment has fallen short by 15 
percent for the second month in a row. The qualifications they are 
looking for have been so written down. Now you do not have to graduate 
from high school. Now you can have committed crimes before joining the 
military.

Last year, the active Army was 3,000 officers short, and that is only 
projected to increase. So much of the equipment and supplies meant for 
Guard and Reserve use here at home has been sent to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and now only about 30 percent of essential equipment 
remains. That shortfall is costing an estimated $36 billion--just one 
of many hidden costs of this war.

We have all heard of the heavy personal costs this overburdening of 
the military is causing: higher rates of post-traumatic stress 
disorder. Eighty percent of the married men and women coming home from 
Iraq are divorcing.

Our troops are not machines. They are human beings. They are parents 
missing Little League games, spouses missing anniversaries, children of 
mothers and fathers who wait and worry for their safety. These 
honorable men and women wearing our uniform need and deserve time off 
from the trauma of war. War is trauma, and no war has been more 
traumatic than this war, where there is a faceless enemy blowing up 
streets.

Could we have order, Mr. President.