---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2007
## `303726fd414b680ffb407547fc0559c3`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
3997, the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act. I am 
especially pleased that this bill includes a crucial provision from 
H.R. 3736, the Combat Pay Tax Flexibility Act, which I recently 
introduced to permanently allow members of the Armed Forces to treat 
combat pay as earned income in calculating their Earned Income Tax 
Credit (EITC).

Because income earned while serving in a combat zone is exempt from 
income taxes, many low-income military families recently faced the loss 
or reduction of their EITC, as deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan 
shifted their income to nontaxable combat pay. While Congress acted to 
fix this problem by providing troops the option of calculating combat


pay for the EITC, without further Congressional action this tax credit 
will expire at the end of the year.

I introduced the Combat Pay Tax Flexibility Act to ensure that this 
tax savings provision is always there for the military families that 
need it. Soldiers who serve in hostile places make a great sacrifice 
for our country, and the least we can do is help them make the most of 
the tax savings available to them.

I would like to thank Chairman Rangel for working with me to 
incorporate the Combat Pay Tax Flexibility Act into the legislation 
before us today, and for moving this legislation swiftly. I urge all of 
my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 3997 today to ensure that our 
troops have the financial resources they need throughout the cycle of 
deployment.