# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `30388d2980edcc9fc3491319b4e9cd3c`
`Ms. CASTOR — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Chairman, I am proud today to stand with this 
Congress as it affirms its commitment to the brave men and women who 
are part of our active and retired military services. Their collective 
sacrifice and service has been phenomenal, and we must do all we can to 
ensure that they receive the medical care that they have earned as a 
result of the sacrifices they have made in service to America. The bill 
before us provides an historic, substantial boost to the Veterans' 
Administration, allocating $43.2 billion--$3.8 billion more than the 
President's request and $6.7 more than the FY 07 allocation--to 
properly fulfill America's obligation to our servicemen and women and 
their families.

As a representative of the State with the second highest population 
of military retirees and veterans--nearly 2 million people--I know many 
Florida families stand to benefit greatly. The extra funding for the VA 
to double its benefits personnel in order to reduce the backlog of more 
than 400,000 benefit claims will do much to improve health care and 
efficiency for benefits that are due to many Florida families. The top 
two busiest VA Health Care centers, Bay Pines in St. Petersburg and 
Haley VA in Tampa, serve residents in my district. I have walked the 
halls of both facilities, and encountered active and retired military 
personnel looking for the best care possible for them and their 
families. This bill provides resources adequate to the enormously 
important task of supporting our veterans and their families as they 
transition back into civilian life. It also expands access to vital 
services in the areas of greatest concern for veterans of Iraq and 
Afghanistan: traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, 
treatment for burns, and amputation. Haley VA has the distinction of 
being one of a handful of poly-trauma centers, with special designation 
to handle traumatic brain injuries, and with its partner, the 
University Of South Florida College Of Public Health, has been on the 
forefront of discovering the best roads to effective treatment for 
those suffering with TBI.

Also, this bill represents the recognition that we must confront, not 
shy away from, the serious issues in veterans care brought to light by 
the Walter Reed scandal. $4.1 billion dollars, $508 million above and 
beyond the President's request, is set aside for the ongoing 
maintenance and renovation of existing facilities to make certain they 
remain capable of delivering our veterans the treatment they deserve 
and need. It also heavily invests in information technology to better 
track health records, so that no American is allowed to fall through 
the cracks.

I urge this Congress to back up the talk about supporting our troops 
with concrete actions. We have an unwavering obligation as a country to 
do right by our servicemen and women, whether it be in the solemn 
purpose with which we must always send them off to war, or in providing 
the necessary care for them and their families upon their return. Their 
sacrifice must be respected not just with our words, but with our 
actions.