---
---

# NATIONAL REHABILITATION COUNSELORS APPRECIATION DAY
## `30553ff2fb723921006db2aa3267b1b3`
`Mr. EHLERS — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. EHLERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 
247, which expresses support for designating March 22, 2009, as 
National Rehabilitation Counselors Appreciation Day.

I am surprised by the number of individuals who do not understand 
what rehabilitation counselors do, and they might be well advised to 
read the Doonesbury comic strip where, for the past 6 months or more, 
there's been an ongoing discussion on how to rehabilitate veterans, and 
describes the work of rehabilitation counselors.

Nearly one in five Americans lives with some type of long-lasting 
condition or disability that requires extensive rehabilitation. 
Rehabilitation counselors help people deal with the personal, social 
and vocational effects of disabilities. They counsel individuals with 
disabilities resulting from birth defects, illness or disease, 
accidents or other causes. They evaluate the strength and limitations 
of individuals, provide personal and vocational counseling and arrange 
for medical care, vocational training and job placement. All of these 
are invaluable to those who need the help.

Rehabilitation counselors interview people with disabilities and 
their families, evaluate school and medical reports and confer with 
physicians, psychologists, occupational therapists, and employers to 
determine the capabilities and skills of the individual.



They develop rehabilitation programs by conferring with clients, 
which also includes training to help clients develop job skills. 
Rehabilitation counselors also work toward increasing the client's 
capacity to live independently. These professionals work with 
individuals, professional organizations and advocacy groups to address 
the social barriers that create obstacles for people with disabilities. 
They are instrumental in building bridges between the often-isolated 
world of people with disabilities and their families, communities, and 
school and work environments. They empower individuals to make informed 
choices so that they can become productive members of society.

Rehabilitation counselors are employed in private practice, by 
community health organizations and hospitals, and in State and Federal 
Government positions. There are approximately 141,000 rehabilitation 
counselors in the United States, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics. That number is expected to grow rapidly as medical advances 
help people survive serious injury or illness, including veterans 
returning from both the Afghanistan and Iraqi wars.

Rehabilitation counselors provide a great service to the millions of 
Americans with disabilities. They encourage people with disabilities to 
participate as active citizens within their communities. These highly 
trained professionals help many disabled Americans cope with their 
life-altering situations, and today we recognize them for their hard 
work and dedication.

I ask for my colleagues' support of this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.