---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `3060b54a9de2fe527d26cb1942f4cf83`
`Mr. McCAIN — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I thank the chair. I, again, thank my 
friend, the distinguished chairman, for proposing this amendment. I 
thank the distinguished chairman for being the sponsor of this 
amendment. It is a privilege to work with him on this as well as many 
other issues.

This amendment is probably the most impactful amendment I have seen 
in this body on almost any issue, much less the issue of defense. It 
boils down to whether we are going to continue the business as usual of 
once a weapons system gets into full production it never dies or 
whether we are going to take the necessary steps to reform the 
acquisition process in this country.

The F-22, in itself, is $1.75 billion. That is an impressive number 
anyplace outside the beltway. But more important than that, it is a 
signal that we are not going to continue to build weapons systems that 
are plagued with cost overruns, which outlive their requirements for 
defending this Nation and, very frankly, starts to gain control of the 
acquisition process which is completely out of control.

The Government Accountability Office recently concluded that there 
were over $295 billion in cost overruns in the last several years--$295 
billion in cost overruns. Recently, a close friend of mine and great 
leader and former Secretary of the Navy wrote an article in the Wall 
Street Journal. He stated:




 When John McCain was shot down over Hanoi in 1967, he was 


 flying an A-4 sky hawk. That jet cost $860,000.


By the way, I didn't know that cost to the taxpayers I had caused. 
But the jet cost $860,000.




 Inflation has risen by 700 percent since then. So Mr. 


 McCain's A-4 cost $6.1 million in 2008 dollars. Applying a 


 generous factor of three for technological improvements, the 


 price for a 2008 Navy F-18 fighter should be $18 million. 


 Instead, we are paying about $90 million for each new 


 fighter. As a result, the Navy cannot buy sufficient numbers. 


 This is disarmament without a treaty.



 The situation is worse in the Air Force.


Then Secretary Lehman says:




 In 1983, I was in the Pentagon meeting that launched the F-


 22 Raptor. The plan was to buy 648 jets beginning in 1996 for 


 $60 million each. . . .


That was in 1983 dollars.




 Now they cost $350 million apiece and the Obama budget caps 


 the program at 187 jets.


Then he adds:




 At least they are safe from cyberattack since no one in 


 China knows how to program the '83 vintage IBM software that 


 runs them.


He then goes on to cite other problems, including Navy shipbuilding 
fiascoes, et cetera.



 . . . the Army's Future Combat System that was meant to re-


 equip the entire Army, the 400 percent cost overrun of the 


 new Air Force weather satellite . . .


And similar cost overruns.

It is out of control, I say to my colleagues. I will match my 
commitment to equipping the men and women in the military with that of 
anyone in this body, but it has to stop, and this vote on the F-22 will 
determine whether it is business as usual with the earmarking and pork-
barreling of billions of dollars which has bred corruption--we have 
former Members of the Congress residing in Federal prison--or whether 
we are going to finally get it under control.

Who better to be a spokesperson, in my view, than our Secretary of 
Defense? I have known and admired many Secretaries of Defense. I know 
of no one whom I admire more than Secretary Gates. He gave a very 
important speech, on July 16, at the Economic Club of Chicago--a 
remarkable speech. I hope all my colleagues would have the chance to 
read it. In part of it he says, about the problems we are having in 
defense spending:




 First, there is the Congress, which is understandably 


 concerned, especially in these tough economic times, about 


 protecting jobs in certain states and congressional 


 districts. There is the defense and aerospace industry, which 


 has an obvious financial stake in the survival and growth of 


 these programs.



 And there is the institutional military itself--within the 


 Pentagon, and as expressed through an influential network of 


 retired generals and admirals, some of whom are paid 


 consultants to the defense industry, and some who often are 


 quoted as experts in the news media.


Secretary Gates goes on to say:




 As a result, many past attempts by my predecessors to end 


 failing or unnecessary programs went by the wayside. 


 Nonetheless, I determined in a triumph of hope over 


 experience, and the President agreed--


I wish to emphasize my strong support and appreciation for the 
President's stand on this issue.



 --and the President agreed, that given the urgency of the 


 wars we are in, the daunting global security environment we 


 will inhabit for decades to come, and our country's economic 


 problems, we simply cannot afford to move ahead with business 


 as usual.


Then, later on, he talks about the F-22.




 Air superiority and missile defense--two areas where the 


 budget has attracted the most criticism--provide case 


 studies. Let me start with the controversy over the F-22 


 fighter jet. We had to consider, when preparing for a future 


 conventional state-on-state conflict, what is the right mix 


 of the most advanced fighter aircraft and other weapons to 


 deal with the known and projected threats to U.S. air 


 supremacy. For example, we now have unmanned aerial vehicles 


 that can simultaneously perform intelligence, 


 reconnaissance--


Et cetera.



 The President's budget would buy 48 of the most advanced 


 UAVs. We also took into consideration the capabilities of the 


 newest manned combat aircraft program, the stealth F-35 Joint 


 Strike Fighter. The F-35 is 10 to 15 years newer than the F-


 22.


He goes on to say how important the F-35 is, and then he says:







 The F-22 is clearly a capability we do need--a niche, 


 silver-bullet solution for one or two potential scenarios--


 specifically the defeat of a highly advanced enemy fighter 


 fleet. The F-22, to be blunt, does not make much sense 


 anyplace else in the spectrum of conflict.


I ask my colleagues, would you ask yourselves why the F-22 has never 
flown over Iraq or Afghanistan. It has been in production for nearly 5 
years. It has never flown over Iraq or Afghanistan. And I want to 
emphasize that I think it is an important fighter. We are building 187 
of them. The question before this body is why we continue to build 
more, whether we continue to build more, or the F-35, the Joint Strike 
Fighter, which goes to the Marine Corps and the Navy and the Air Force. 
Is this the weapons system we need to balance our entire capability of 
manned aircraft?

I would ask my colleagues, since the F-22 was on the drawing boards 
and moved into production, look at the advancement in unmanned aerial 
vehicles. I say that as an old pilot. The unmanned aerial vehicles have 
been performing a magnificent job both in Iraq and Afghanistan. They 
have been a critical element sometimes on the battlefields. And this 
President's budget understands that and gives extreme priority to that.

So as we go on, in light of these factors, Secretary Gates goes on to 
say:




 With the support of Air Force leadership, I concluded that 


 183--the program of record since 2005, plus four more added 


 in the FY 09 supplemental--was a sufficient number of F-22s 


 and recommended as such to the President.



 The reaction from parts of Washington has been predictable 


 for many of the reasons I described before. The most 


 substantive criticism is that completing the F-22 program 


 means we are risking the future of U.S. air supremacy. To 


 assess this risk, it is worth looking at real-world potential 


 threat and assessing the capabilities that other countries 


 have now or in the pipeline.


The fact is, in the view of the President of the United States, the 
Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and most any objective observer of the 
military scene, they believe the F-22 is important, we need to have 
what we have, but it is now time to move on to the F-35, the Joint 
Strike Fighter.

So this amendment really means, are we going to look at the real and 
compelling needs we have to have in order to win the war in 
Afghanistan, continue our success in Iraq, and put our funds into that 
kind of equipment and weapons systems or are we going to continue?

Finally, I have great sympathy for the Senator from Georgia and other 
Senators who have come to the floor. I understand the sincerity of 
their views. I respect them. I would also point out, though, that to 
argue we should build weapons systems in the name of jobs is not what 
we should be about. What we should be about is procuring and building 
the best weapons systems to ensure our national security and how we can 
best equip the men and women who are in harm's way all around the world 
today.

So I understand the economic impact, particularly in these hard 
times. My sympathy goes out to the communities that are dependent on 
the contracts for the F-22 aircraft. All I can say to them is we will 
do everything we can to help you and your families and make the 
adjustments, and there will be--we continue to increase spending on 
defense. We hope that we will be able to provide you with the necessary 
jobs and manufacturing that would be devoted to what we have 
ascertained as our national defense weapons systems procurement 
priorities, I say with sympathy to my colleagues who are deeply 
concerned about the loss of jobs in these difficult economic times. But 
this is not the way to provide jobs. Our obligation is to defend this 
Nation.

So I think this amendment is overdue. I think it will be a 
significant, a very significant amendment, as I said before, as to 
whether we will get our priorities straight and listen to our esteemed 
Secretary of Defense, our President, our Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, and other military leaders in whose hands we entrust to make 
the tough decisions. I understand the final decision is here in 
Congress, but I also don't think we should dismiss the arguments that 
have been made by I think one of the finest men to ever serve this 
country, and that is Secretary of Defense Gates.

I yield the floor.

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Who yields time to the Senator from Utah?