# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `306502486669b556fab1f4e2ce341dd3`
`Mr. GREGG — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and a deep 
sense of gratitude to pay tribute to Cpl Michael Ouellette of 
Manchester, NH, for his service and the sacrifice he paid for his 
country.

Michael exhibited willingness and enthusiasm to serve and defend his 
country after visiting hurricane-ravaged New Orleans in 2005. He 
subsequently joined the U.S. Marine Corps and served two tours of duty 
in Iraq before deploying to Afghanistan. Tragically, on March 22, 2009, 
Michael paid the ultimate sacrifice. In support of his brothers in arms 
and the country he loved, Michael was killed by an improvised explosive 
device in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Corporal Ouellette will live 
on as a decorated hero and the epitome of a patriot.

Michael graduated from Manchester Memorial High School in 1999. A 
beloved member of the Manchester community, Michael was the embodiment 
of selflessness. With the same sense of altruistic integrity that led 
him to help an unfamiliar and unsuspecting Memorial High classmate fix 
a flat tire; Michael answered the call to help his country.

In giving his life to protect our freedoms, Michael personified our 
greatest attributes as citizens. His hard work and dedication was 
paramount to his unit's success and places him among the great heroes 
and citizens our state has known. Michael was regularly recognized for 
his courageous actions in Afghanistan and Iraq, receiving the 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Combat Action Ribbon, the Global War on 
Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, the Iraq Campaign Medal, and 
the National Defense Service Medal. He will always be remembered for 
his courage, kindness, and unwavering devotion.

My thoughts, condolences, and prayers go out to Michael's family. I 
offer them my deepest sympathies and heartfelt thanks for Michael's 
service. We will keep his memory alive knowing that his efforts have 
made us safer and have preserved the liberties we enjoy every day. God 
Bless Michael Ouellette.
