---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3073450e1480abe00b40509f749985b7`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 17 November 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor of LCpl Irvin M. 
Ceniceros, 21, of Clarksville, who died on October 14, 2010, while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan.

My heart goes out to the family of Lance Corporal Ceniceros, who made 
the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. Along with all 
Arkansans, I am grateful for his service and for the sacrifice he and 
his family have made. I am committed to ensuring that all of our 
veterans always have the full support they need and deserve, and I can 
assure our brave soldiers and their families that our grateful Nation 
will not forget them when their military service is complete.

More than 11,000 Arkansans on active duty and more than 10,000 
Arkansas Reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 
11, 2001. These men and women have shown tremendous courage and 
perseverance through the most difficult of times. As neighbors, as 
Arkansans, and as Americans, it is incumbent upon us to do everything 
we can to honor their service and to provide for them and their 
families, not only when they are in harm's way but also when they 
return home. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.

Lance Corporal Ceniceros was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 5th Marine 
Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.












Staff Sergeant Carlos A. Benitez
