---
---

# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `3083a9bc9353813c4e76582a36232051`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding 
and appreciate the chance to say a few words. I was over making phone 
calls in my office and clicked on C-SPAN and saw what you guys were 
talking about and thought I would come over and maybe just share a few 
things.

For those who are advocating that we just up and leave, that our 
military come home, that concept scares me to death because of the 
message. And I know you have talked about this some here on the floor 
this evening. The message that sends to the people who want to do us 
harm and want to do people harm all over the planet is a dangerous 
message and it scares me to death.

And I am reminded of, if folks will remember, shortly after the 9/11 
attacks, that terrible day, where the President gave several speeches, 
where he talked about the fact that if you are a country that harbors 
terrorists, finances terrorists, trains terrorists, and are looking to 
produce weapons that are going to cause great harm to a great number of 
people, if you are doing those things, we, the United States of 
America, are putting you on notice that we are not going to tolerate 
that. And it was amazing that shortly after those speeches that Moamar 
Kadafi, a guy who hadn't necessarily been a great leader around the 
world and not necessarily a good guy, how quickly after those speeches 
Mr. Kadafi suddenly found the Lord and saw the light and said, wait a 
minute, I want to cooperate with the United States of America now in 
their fight against terrorism around the world. He saw the message. He 
got the message. Now, if we do what some are advocating in the Out of 
Iraq Caucus, some are advocating that we just up and leave and not win 
in Iraq, not succeed in our mission, for those who are advocating that, 
think about the message that sends to the Kadafis of the world and how 
dangerous that message is for the credibility of the greatest Nation in 
history, the United States of America.

That is what scares me to death about those on the other side and 
what they are pushing not only in this supplemental but what they have 
been talking about for several months now. That is a scary, scary 
message when it comes to our foreign policy and the success of our 
mission and the safety of our men and women in uniform who have been 
fighting the good fight, defending those principles and values that 
make this country great. That scares me to death.

And that is a simple point I want to make, but I think it never hurts 
to reinforce that point, which is so fundamental and why we are still 
engaged in


this struggle and why I think it is so important that we win and we 
continue to do what the Commander in Chief and General Petraeus want us 
to do over there in Iraq today.