# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `3084b37105cfa5c0c352a8c570e797f3`
`Mr. McCAIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I rise to oppose the amendment offered 
by the chairman and the Senator from Rhode Island that would mandate a 
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq.

Again, we find ourselves on the floor of this Chamber debating an 
amendment that is nearly identical to one that failed 2 months ago. The 
pending amendment would mandate a withdrawal of U.S. combat forces 
within 90 days of enactment, leaving a smaller force authorized only to 
carry out narrowly defined missions. And the Senate faces, once again--
faces again--a simple choice: whether to build on the successes of our 
new strategy and give General Petraeus and the troops under his command 
the time and support needed to carry out their mission or to ignore the 
realities on the ground and legislate a premature end to our efforts in 
Iraq, accepting thereby all the terrible consequences that will ensue.

Many Senators wished to postpone this choice, preferring to await the 
testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. Last week, these 
two career officers reported unambiguously that the new strategy is 
succeeding in Iraq. Knowing what we now know--that our military is 
making progress on the ground, and that their commanders request from 
us the time and support necessary to succeed in Iraq--a measure of 
courage is required, not the great courage exhibited by those brave men 
and women fighting on our behalf but a smaller measure, the courage 
necessary to put America's interests before every personal or political 
consideration.


It is important that as we proceed with consideration of this 
amendment, we spend a few moments reviewing the current state of 
affairs in Iraq. We see today that after nearly 4 years of mismanaged 
war, the situation on the ground in Iraq shows demonstrable signs of 
progress. The final reinforcements needed to implement General 
Petraeus's new counterinsurgency plan have been in place for over 2 
months, and our military, in cooperation with the Iraqi security 
forces, is making significant gains in a number of areas.

General Petraeus reported in detail on these gains during his 
testimony in both Houses and in countless interviews. The No. 2 U.S. 
commander in Iraq, LT GEN Ray Odierno, said today the 7-month-old 
security operation has reduced violence in Baghdad by some 50 percent, 
car bombings and suicide attacks in Baghdad have fallen to their lowest 
level in a year, and civilian casualties have dropped from a high of 32 
per day to 12 per day. His comments are echoed by LT GEN Abboud Qanbar, 
the Iraqi commander who said that before the surge began, one-third of 
Baghdad's 507 districts were under insurgent control. Today, he said: 
''Only 5 to 6 districts can be called hot areas.'' Anyone who has 
traveled recently to Anbar, Diyala or Baghdad can see the improvements 
that have taken place over the past months. With violence down, 
commerce has risen, and bottom-up efforts to forge counterterrorism 
alliances are bearing tangible fruit.

None of this is to argue that Baghdad or other regions have suddenly 
become safe or that violence has come down to acceptable levels. As 
General Odierno pointed out, violence is still too high and there are 
many unsafe areas. Nevertheless, such positive developments illustrate 
General Petraeus's contention last week that American and Iraqi forces 
have achieved substantial progress under their new strategy.

It is instructive to reflect on how far some areas have come. One 
year ago, in September of 2006--1 year ago, September 2006--The 
Washington Post ran a story titled: ''Situation Called Dire in West 
Iraq; Anbar is Lost Politically, Marine Analyst Says.'' After an 
offensive by U.S. and Iraqi troops cleaned al-Qaida fighters out of 
Ramadi and other areas of western Anbar, the province's tribal sheiks, 
disgusted by the brutality and blatant disregard for human life 
exhibited by their aggressors, broke formally with the terrorists and 
joined the coalition side. As a result, Anbar, which last year stood as 
Iraq's most dangerous province, is now one of its safest.

By the way, many critics of the war say that change would have 
happened without the surge. That is patently false. The fact is, when 
the sheiks decided to come over to our side, a brave colonel named 
MacFarland immediately sent 4,000 marines to protect them, and General 
Petraeus has testified that if they hadn't had those troops, then we 
probably would not have seen Anbar in the condition that it is in 
today.

I asked General Petraeus, and he said the following:




 The success in Anbar Province, correctly, is a political 


 success--


By the way, something we all seek----




 But it is a political success that has been enabled, very 


 much, by our forces who have been enabled by having 


 additional forces in Anbar Province.


Ambassador Crocker added:




 Such scenes are also unfolding in parts of Diyala and 


 Ninewa, where Iraqis have immobilized with the help of 


 Coalition and Iraqi security forces.


So as we all know, without military security, there is no political 
progress, and that political progress is only enabled by the 
substantial military presence that was provided by the surge.

As in Anbar and elsewhere, where local populations have turned on al-
Qaida's brutal methods, there are reports of Shia extremists 
encountering a similar reception. Recent attacks by the Mahdi Army on 
worshipers in the holy city of Karbala prompted a public backlash that 
led Muqtada al-Sadr to


order a suspension of all military actions by his followers against 
Iraqi and coalition forces.

In Baghdad, the military, in cooperation with Iraqi security forces, 
continues to man joint security stations and deploy throughout the city 
in order to bring violence under control. These efforts have produced 
positive results. Sectarian violence has fallen since the beginning of 
the year. The total number of car bombings and suicide attacks 
declined, and the number of locals coming forward with intelligence 
tips has risen.

None of this is to suggest the road in Iraq remains anything but long 
and hard. Violence remains at unacceptable levels, the Maliki 
Government remains paralyzed and unwilling to function as it must, and 
other difficulties abound. No one can guarantee success or be certain 
about its prospects. We can be sure, however, that should the Congress 
succeed in terminating the strategy by legislating an abrupt withdrawal 
and a transition to a new, less effective and more dangerous course--
should we do that, then we will fail for certain.

Let's make no mistakes about the costs of such an American failure in 
Iraq. Many of my colleagues would like to believe that should the 
amendment we are currently considering become law, it would mark the 
end of this long effort. They are wrong. Should the Congress force a 
precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it would mark a new beginning, the 
start of a new, more dangerous effort to contain the forces unleashed 
by our disengagement. If we leave, we will be back in Iraq and 
elsewhere. That is not just my view but that of General Jones and 
others, in many more desperate fights to protect our security and add 
an even greater cost in American lives and treasure.

In testimony before the Armed Services Committee last week, General 
Petraeus referred to an August Defense Intelligence Agency report that 
stated:




 A rapid withdrawal would result in the further release of 


 strong centrifugal forces in Iraq and produce a number of 


 dangerous results, including a high risk of disintegration of 


 the Iraqi security forces, a rapid deterioration of local 


 security initiatives, al-Qaida-Iraq regaining lost ground and 


 freedom of maneuver, a marked increase in violence, and 


 further ethno-sectarian displacement and refugee flows; an 


 exacerbation of already challenging regional dynamics, 


 especially with respect to Iran.


Those are the likely consequences of a precipitous withdrawal, and I 
hope the supporters of such a move will tell us how they intend to 
address the chaos and catastrophe that would surely follow such a 
course of action.


No matter where my colleagues came down in 2003 about the centrality 
of Iraq to the war on terror, there can simply be no debate that our 
efforts in Iraq today are critical to the wider struggle against 
violent Islamic extremism. Earlier this month, GEN Jim Jones testified 
before the Armed Services Committee on the effects of such a course.

The supporters of this amendment respond that they do not by any 
means intend to cede the battlefield to al-Qaida. On the contrary, 
their legislation would allow U.S. forces, presumably holed up in 
forward-operating bases, to carry out targeted counterterrorism 
operations. But our own military commanders say this approach will not 
succeed and that moving in with search-and-destroy missions to kill and 
capture terrorists, only to immediately cede the territory to the 
enemy, is the failed Rumsfeld strategy of the past nearly 4 years. We 
should not and must not return to such a disastrous course.

It has become clear by now that we cannot set a date for withdrawal 
without setting a date for surrender. Should we leave Iraq before there 
is a basic level of stability, we invite chaos, genocide, terrorist 
safe havens, and regional war. We invite further Iranian influence at a 
time when Iranian operatives are already moving weapons, training 
fighters, providing resources, and helping plan operations to kill 
American soldiers and damage our efforts to bring stability to Iraq. If 
any of my colleagues remain unsure of Iran's intentions in the region, 
may I direct them to the recent remarks of the Iranian President who 
said:




 The political power of the occupiers is collapsing rapidly. 


 Soon, we will see a huge power vacuum in the region. Of 


 course, we are prepared to fill the gap.


If our notions of national security have any meaning, they cannot 
include permitting the establishment of an Iranian-dominated Middle 
East that is roiled by a wider regional war and riddled with terrorist 
safe havens.

The hour is indeed late in Iraq. How we have arrived at this critical 
and desperate moment has been well chronicled, and history's judgment 
about the long catalog of mistakes in the prosecution of this war will 
be stern and unforgiving. But history will revere the honor and 
sacrifice of those Americans who, despite the mistakes and failures of 
both civilian and military leaders, shouldered a rifle and risked 
everything so the country they love so well might not suffer the many 
dangerous consequences of defeat.

That is what General Petraeus and the Americans he has the honor to 
command are trying to do--to fight smarter and better in a way that 
addresses and doesn't strengthen the tactics of the enemy and to give 
the Iraqis the security and opportunity to make the necessary political 
decisions to save their country from the abyss of genocide and a 
permanent and spreading war. Now is not the time for us to lose our 
resolve. We must remain steadfast in this new mission, for we do not 
fight only for the interests of Iraqis, we fight for ours as well.

In this moment of serious peril for America, we must all of us 
remember to whom and what we owe our first allegiance--to the security 
of the American people and the ideals upon which our Nation was 
founded.

This is the same amendment that was rejected 2 months ago. In the 
intervening 2 months, our opposition to this amendment has been 
validated by the progress on the ground of the military strategy which 
General Petraeus designed and our brave young Americans who are serving 
have implemented. So we are here 2 months later with tangible success 
on the ground and addressing the same amendment. The effect of this 
amendment would return us to the failed strategy of nearly 4 years ago. 
If there was any doubt the last time in anybody's mind about whether we 
should go back to that failed strategy of the past or we should 
continue with this successful strategy, I think the events of the last 
2 months, since we rejected this amendment the last time, should 
convince the objective observers.

So I hope my colleagues will understand this debate and this 
amendment is very important, and it is very important to the security 
of the United States of America, the region. We must never forget that 
if we fail--if we fail--Americans will be called back sooner or later 
and called upon to make greater service and sacrifice.

I yield the floor.