# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `3086ab9f022b6d3324804d692118e491`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I will make a few remarks about what is 
perhaps the most contentious issue in this supplemental funding bill, 
and that is the issue we have been discussing throughout the day, and 
that is how to handle the United States detention facility at 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

In the last few days, we have seen a flurry of amendments relating to 
this issue, some Republican and others from Democrats. Indeed, it seems 
that this issue has overshadowed the necessary focus on the ongoing 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the way forward in each. I am afraid 
this bipartisan expression of concern and surge of legislative activity 
has a single cause: the decision by President Obama in one of his first 
acts after his inauguration to announce that he would close Guantanamo 
Bay 1 year after taking office, without presenting a plan for the 
disposition of the prisoners there. By announcing Guantanamo's closure 
without first conducting an in-depth review of the difficult issues 
posed by the Guantanamo detainees, we are left today arguing over the 
wisdom of shuttering the prison in the absence of any plan for what 
comes next.

With the administration unable to propose and seek support for a 
comprehensive plan that encompasses all aspects of detainee policy, the 
Congress has been understandably reluctant to fund the closure of 
Guantanamo as the President requested in this supplemental. In fact, 
the Democratic chairmen of the Appropriations Committee in both the 
House and Senate have now stripped funding for closing Guantanamo from 
their respective supplemental funding bills. The Senate majority leader 
now says his party will not proceed in the absence of a comprehensive 
plan for Guantanamo's closure.

It didn't have to be this way. During the past election, I too 
supported closing Guantanamo and pledged to do so. I continue to 
believe it is in the interest of the United States of America to close 
Guantanamo. But all policymakers must understand how essential it is to 
gain the trust of the American people on this sensitive national 
security issue. We cannot simply proceed without explaining to the 
American people what the plan is for how these prisoners will be 
handled in a way that is consistent with American values and protective 
of our national security. The American people deserve a detailed 
explanation of what will take place the day after Guantanamo is closed, 
and they must be certain their Government will execute its most 
fundamental duty, which is to keep America and its citizens safe.

When the President announced his decision last Friday to restart 
military commissions to try Guantanamo detainees for war crimes, I 
applauded that decision. I have long believed that military commissions 
should be the chief venue for trying alleged war crimes violations 
committed by Guantanamo detainees. There is no doubt that the 
coordination, complexity, and massive scale of the 9/11 attacks that 
left over 3,000 innocent people dead constitute war crimes. There is 
also no doubt that al-Qaida and its supporters were then, and continue 
to be today, committed to the destruction of our values and our way of 
life and our values in a fashion that bears no resemblance to the acts 
of common criminals.

But while I applauded the President for restarting military 
commissions, I also pointed out that the President's overall 
decisionmaking on detainee policy has left more questions than it has 
provided answers. The numerous unresolved questions include: where the 
Guantanamo inmates will be held and tried; how we will handle those who 
cannot be tried but are too dangerous to release; how we will deal with 
the prisoners held at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, some of whom were 
captured off the Afghan battlefield.

I point out to my colleagues--and most of them know, and many 
Americans know--that we have already had the experience of around 10 
percent of those detainees who were released return to the battlefield. 
One of them is a high-ranking al-Qaida operative in southern 
Afghanistan and another in Pakistan. So this is a real threat.

The lack of a comprehensive, well-thought-out plan led to a 
predictable political backlash to any movement on Guantanamo. Instead 
of unifying Americans behind a plan that keeps us safe and honors our 
values, the administration's course of action has unified the 
opposition to moving forward--and move forward we must. National 
security issues of this dimension require more than announcements and 
future promises. They require full detailed explanations of a proposed 
course in order to gain the support of the American people and their 
elected leadership in Congress. That is what will be required for 
success in closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay.

I know we will hear arguments during this debate that we should deny 
funding to close Guantanamo until we see a plan on what to do with the 
detainees, and we will also probably see amendments to deny detainees 
any sort of entry or asylum into the United States, whether it is for 
trial, post-trial incarceration, long-term preventive detention, or 
administrative detention pending deportation. We will


do the best we can to deal with these issues, with the information from 
the administration that is available to us.

I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle on this issue. But most important, I again say to the President 
that I will work with him to forge a bipartisan solution to this very 
difficult problem that faces all of us. I urge again that we address 
all the detainee policy issues in a comprehensive fashion and lay out a 
plan that will keep us safe and honor our values. I strongly believe a 
comprehensive plan will lead to success, while a piecemeal approach, 
without addressing the legitimate concerns of the American public and 
Congress, will continue to divide us.

I yield the floor.