---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `3087b784dfb40230fa89bf0318454cd1`
`Mr. SAXTON — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. I want to thank Mr. Hunter for yielding time and just say 
to my friend, Mrs. Tauscher, that I very much understand and appreciate 
the goals that she has in bringing this legislation forward, but, at 
the same time, I think there are some realities that we have to face 
relative to the subject that the bill addresses.

The problem here is twofold. Number one, there is the issue of 
command flexibility. As Mr. Hunter pointed out just a few minutes ago, 
we learned in previous wars that making decisions on tactical 
activities in a war should not probably be made at the White House and 
probably should even less likely be made here by 435 Members of 
Congress.

So while I very much appreciate and agree with the goal of making 
sure that every soldier and Marine and every member of the four 
services gets time to recharge their batteries between deployments, 
having a law which stipulates how precisely that is to be done is a 
very unwise thing to do.

Secondly, let me say that this problem involves the total number of 
people that we have in the service. We make decisions from time to 
time, and sometimes those decisions are right, hopefully most of the 
time those decisions are right, but sometimes they are not.

In 1991 and 1992, when we started to hear about the ''peace 
dividend,'' we decided, collectively, all of us together, some in 
disagreement, that it would be okay to reduce the size of the Army from 
about 18 divisions to the equivalent of 10. We collectively decided to 
reduce the number of people in the Army significantly, almost by half. 
So today we are operating with the equivalent of 10 divisions, made up 
in a different structure, a brigade structure; and today 20 of those 
brigades, Army and Marine brigades, are deployed in Iraq.

When the Commander in Chief and his military commanders in the field 
decide they need to make changes, they make them based on need, based 
on threat, and based on operational plans and operational capabilities. 
That flexibility must in this situation, in my opinion, be preserved.

So, while those of us on this side of the aisle certainly share the 
goals of the gentlewoman from California, this bill is most unwise and 
will do, as Mr. Hunter said, much more harm than good to our troops in 
the field.