---
---

# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `3087486b1c38a56003f03c85bd1d8872`
`Mr. BERMAN — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

I rise in strong support of the bill. The United States has an 
enormous stake in the security and stability of Pakistan. We can't 
allow al Qaeda or any other terrorist group that threatens our national 
security interests to operate with impunity in the tribal regions or 
any other part of Pakistan, nor can we permit the Pakistani state and 
its nuclear arsenal to be taken over by the Taliban.

To help prevent this nightmare scenario, we need to forge a true 
strategic partnership with Pakistan and its people, strengthen 
Pakistan's democratic government, and work to make Pakistan a source of 
stability in a volatile region.

I'm pleased to bring to the floor S. 1707, the Enhanced Partnership 
With Pakistan Act of 2009, a bicameral, bipartisan compromise between 
H.R. 1886 and the original Senate version of this legislation. As in 
the House bill we passed in June, S. 1707 provides funding to 
strengthen the capacity of Pakistan's democratic institutions, 
including its Parliament, judicial system and law enforcement agencies. 
It calls for increased assistance to Pakistan's public education system 
with an emphasis on access for women and girls.

S. 1707 also provides critical security assistance to help the 
Government of Pakistan in its fight against the extremists that 
threaten the national security of both Pakistan and the United States. 
Finally, the compromise text requires that beginning in fiscal year 
2011, military assistance may only be provided to Pakistan if the 
President determines that the Government of Pakistan is continuing to 
cooperate with the United States in preventing a proliferation of 
weapons of mass destruction and has both demonstrated a sustained 
commitment to combating terrorist groups and has made significant 
efforts towards that end.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to quote from the letter from Secretary of 
Defense Gates and Admiral Mullen in reference to this legislation. This 
is a letter sent last Friday: ''This bill would support U.S. national 
security interests in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Department of 
Defense strongly supports moving this bill to final passage by the 
House and Senate as expeditiously as possible.'' Or as Secretary 
Clinton said just yesterday, this bill ''will be an essential tool in 
support of our national security interests.''

I want to congratulate Senators Kerry and Lugar, the sponsors of this 
bill, for their hard work and determination in passing it. And I thank 
them for the open and cooperative spirit that they and their staff 
showed in crafting this bicameral, bipartisan compromise. I also want 
to thank my good friend from Illinois (Mr. Kirk) and my good friend 
from my home State of California (Mr. Royce) for their support in 
crafting this legislation and supporting the compromise. I particularly 
want to thank the ranking member of the committee, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
for her contributions and her help in reaching this point in passing 
this legislation.

Following is an explanation of the S. 1707, the Enhanced Partnership 
with Pakistan Act of 2009. The text reflects an agreement reached by 
the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Senate Committee on 
Foreign Relations on the text of S. 962, based on the text contained in 
the bill as passed by the Senate, and the text of H.R. 1886, as 
contained in titles I to III of Division B of H.R. 2410 and passed by 
the House of Representatives.

















Summary




 S. 1707, the Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act of 


 2009, establishes a legislative foundation for a sustained 


 partnership between the United States and Pakistan, based on 


 a shared commitment to strengthening democracy and the rule 


 of law, improving the living conditions of the people of 


 Pakistan through sustainable economic development, and 


 combating terrorism and violent extremism. S. 962 seeks to 


 transform the relationship between the United States and 


 Pakistan into a deeper, broader, long-term strategic 


 engagement. The legislation aims to properly balance the 


 relationship between United States and Pakistan by 


 acknowledging and supporting the national security interests 


 of the United States as well as Pakistan's economic and 


 geopolitical interests. United States assistance for Pakistan 


 enhances our mutual security while helping to build economic 


 and political stability in a country that is both regionally 


 and strategically important. Economic assistance is as




 critical an element to stabilizing Pakistan as strengthening 


 the capacity of the Pakistan military to counter terrorism, 


 especially for projects that provide direct and concrete 


 benefit to Pakistani citizens as a whole. The overall level 


 of economic assistance authorized would be raised 


 substantially by this legislation, with the bulk of this aid 


 intended for projects such as schools, roads, medical 


 clinics, and infrastructure development.












Section-by-Section Analysis










 Sec. 1. Short Title; Table of Contents




 The Amendment maintains the title of S. 962 as the Enhanced 


 Partnership with Pakistan Act of 2009 and contains an amended 


 table of contents.















Sec. 2. Definitions




 Section 2 contains definitions for the Act, drawing from 


 provisions in both S. 962 and Division B of H.R. 2410.
















Sec. 3. Findings




 Section 3 combines findings from both S. 962 and Division B 


 of H.R. 2410.












Sec. 4. Statement of Principles




 Section 4 maintains the structure of Division B of H.R. 


 2410's Section 4, Declaration of Principles, and draws upon 


 S. 962's Statement of Policy. The Section is intended to 


 describe the principles for which the U.S.-Pakistan 


 relationship is governed. It includes the expectations of 


 Congress with regard to the bilateral relationship.

 Title I--Democratic, Economic, and Development Assistance for Pakistan












Sec. 101. Purposes of Assistance




 Subsection (a) provides for the purposes of assistance 


 until title I. The central purpose of assistance under title 


 I is to demonstrate unequivocally the long-term commitment of 


 the United States to the people of Pakistan. The specific 


 purposes in section 101 draw from both S. 962 and Division B 


 of H.R. 2410: (1) to support the consolidation of democratic 


 institutions; (2) to support the expansion of rule of law, 


 build the capacity of government institutions, and promote 


 respect for internationally-recognized human rights, 


 including building the capacity of law enforcement forces in 


 Pakistan to combat terrorism and violent militancy and 


 expeditiously investigate, arrest, and prosecute alleged 


 criminals, consistent with the rule of law and due process; 


 (3) to promote economic freedoms and sustainable economic 


 development in order to improve the living conditions of the 


 people of Pakistan, especially in areas of direct interest 


 and importance to their daily lives and to strengthen 


 regional ties by offering assistance for issues of mutual and 


 social concern; (4) to support investments in people, 


 including increasing literacy, expanding opportunities for 


 vocational training as well as broad-based general 


 baccalaureate education, helping achieve an appropriate 


 national curriculum for schools across Pakistan, increasing 


 access to basic health care, including services for women to 


 address Pakistan's high maternal mortality rates, providing 


 assistance to those displaced in ongoing counterinsurgency 


 operations; and (5) to strengthen public diplomacy, including 


 expanding people-to-people engagement between the United 


 States and Pakistan through increased educational, technical, 


 and cultural exchanges and other methods.



 Subsection (b) includes further detail regarding programs 


 which Congress believes should be implemented to satisfy the 


 purposes described in subsection (a). In the area of 


 fortifying democratic institutions, programs should include 


 support for the establishment of constituency offices and 


 support for efforts by the Government of Pakistan to promote 


 local experimentation with methods of transition from the 


 Frontier Crimes Regulation, considered outdated by most 


 Pakistanis, to other governing codes. In the area of 


 enhancement and strengthening of the judicial system and law 


 enforcement, programs should include support for a more 


 responsive and sufficiently staffed bench and professional 


 training of judges, public defenders, and prosecutors; 


 support for strengthening the role of civilian law 


 enforcement agencies, such as the Intelligence Bureau in the 


 Ministry of Interior, with enhanced coordination with 


 judicial processes, enhanced forensics capability, data 


 collection and analysis, financial intelligence functions, 


 and maintenance of data systems to track terrorist or 


 criminal activity; support for the development of an elite 


 rapid reaction police force; and support for the improving 


 counterterrorism and counterinsurgency coordination 


 between local government officials, the police, 


 paramilitary, and military leaders.



 In the area of support to increase local capacity, programs 


 should include support to governmental institutions at all 


 levels through providing technical assistance to all 


 ministries to improve transparency and the ability to respond 


 to the needs of the people of Pakistan; support for the 


 promotion of fiscal and personnel management, including 


 revenue tracking and expenditure systems; support for 


 training and education to local nongovernmental and civil 


 society organizations on ways to identify and improve the 


 delivery of services to the people of Pakistan; and support 


 for promoting local ownership and participation, including 


 encouraging communities to contribute a percentage of the 


 value of United States projects and activities carried out 


 under this title in the form of labor, in-kind materials, or 


 other provisions.



 In the area of supporting economic freedom and economic 


 development and supporting investments in people, the 


 Department of State should work with the Department of Labor 


 to provide educational remediation to victims of the worst 


 forms of child labor. In addition, programs on microfinance 


 and microenterprise activities should include programs to 


 improve the lives of women aimed at addressing the root 


 causes of exploitative child labor and to enable their 


 children to attend school.



 In the area of public education more generally, programs 


 should include support for schools that incorporate basic 


 subjects, such as math, science, literature, and history; 


 important additional training in human rights awareness, and 


 where appropriate basic agricultural education and training 


 as well as support for civic education programs focused on 


 political participation, democratic governance and 


 institutions, and tolerance of diverse ethnic and religious 


 groups; where appropriate funding to the Government of 


 Pakistan to use to improve teacher salaries and to recruit 


 and train teachers and administrators, as well as develop 


 formalized salary scales with merit-based increases; 


 construction and maintenance of libraries and public schools, 


 including water and sanitation, perimeter walls where 


 necessary, and consideration for recreation areas; provision 


 of textbooks and other learning materials as well as food 


 assistance for student meals where warranted; and provision 


 of software to educational institutions and students at the 


 lowest possible cost, specifically targeting universities 


 that specialize in information technology, liberal arts, and 


 women's colleges and women's secondary schools. It is 


 intended that programs continue to enable and expand 


 institutions of higher education in partnership with the 


 Pakistan government and other private-public partnerships, 


 specifically for non-sectarian, co-educational institutions 


 such as Forman College in Lahore. It is further intended that 


 an assessment of American Universities abroad be made to 


 determine the value and opportunity for such an institution 


 in Pakistan at this time.



 In the areas of support for human rights, programs should 


 include support for programs designed to end traditional 


 practices and punishments that are inconsistent with 


 internationally recognized human rights' norms and 


 protections, such as honor killings and other forms of cruel 


 and unusual punishments; and technical, legal, and law 


 enforcement assistance for the investigation of past 


 disappearances of individuals in Pakistan and the development 


 of national database of such individuals. In the area of 


 support for healthcare efforts, programs should include 


 support for the repairing and building of healthcare 


 infrastructure, including purchase of equipment and training 


 of health professionals, to ensure adequate access to 


 healthcare for Pakistan's population, especially among poor, 


 marginalized, and disadvantaged segments; and promotion of 


 efforts by the Government of Pakistan to reduce maternal 


 mortality, including through the provision of maternal and 


 newborn health services and development of community-based 


 skilled birth attendants.



 Subsection (c) provides that no less than $150,000,000 


 should be made available for police professionalization, 


 equipping, and training for fiscal year 2010; authorizes up 


 to $10,000,000 for each fiscal year for administrative 


 expenses of civilian department and agencies in the U.S. 


 Government in connection with title I assistance; encourages 


 the President to use Pakistani organizations, including the 


 use of host country contracts, to work with local leaders to 


 provide assistance associated with this section; requires 


 direct expenditures be paramount in providing assistance; 


 provides that a Chief of Mission Fund of up to $5,000,000 for 


 each fiscal year may be made available to address the urgent 


 needs or opportunities on the ground, as determined by the 


 Secretary of State; and expresses the Sense of Congress that 


 counterinsurgency operations being carried out by the 


 Government of Pakistan should be designed to minimize 


 civilian casualties and collateral damage to the people of 


 Pakistan and to provide security for the delivery of 


 humanitarian assistance to the affected population, that the 


 Administrator of the United States Agency for International 


 Development should support the development objectives, and 


 that the United States should have a coordinated strategic 


 communications strategy.



 Subsection (d) mandates the President to notify Congress no 


 later than 15 days before obligating any assistance under 


 title I to budget support.









Section 102. Authorization of Appropriations




 Subsection (a) authorizes $1,500,000,000 of assistance to 


 Pakistan for fiscal years 2010 through 2014.



 Subsection (b) restricts the availability of such funds to 


 the submission of the Pakistan Assistance Strategy Report no 


 later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act to 


 Congress. It further restricts that no more than $750,000,000 


 of the amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization in 


 subsection (a) may be available each year thereafter until 


 the President's Special Representative to Afghanistan and 


 Pakistan certifies that there is reasonable progress achieved 


 in the principal objectives of the United States assistance, 


 as outlined in the Pakistan Assistance Strategy Report.



 Subsection (c) allows the Secretary of State to waive the 


 limitations of subsection




 (b) if the Secretary determines and certifies that it is in 


 the national security interests of the United States to do 


 so.



 Subsection (d) expresses the Sense of Congress that there 


 should be authorized to be appropriated up to $1,500,000,000 


 for each fiscal years 2015 through 2019 for the purpose of 


 providing assistance to Pakistan, contingent upon an 


 improving political and economic climate in Pakistan.



 It should also be noted that bilateral assistance is not 


 the only mechanism for supporting Pakistan's economic and 


 political situation. To the extent that Pakistan continues to 


 evolve toward civilian control of the government and to 


 develop and implement comprehensive economic reform programs, 


 the President should take the lead in mobilizing 


 international financial institutions, in particular the 


 International Monetary Fund and affiliated institutions in 


 the World Bank group, to provide timely and appropriate 


 resources to help Pakistan. The President should also, in 


 conjunction with other governments and international 


 financial institutions (including the International Monetary 


 Fund), support the implementation of a plan by the Government 


 of Pakistan to attack structural economic problems, address 


 pressing social problems, carry out comprehensive economic 


 reform, and relieve immediate and urgent balance of payments 


 requirements in Pakistan. Finally, the President should 


 provide leadership in supporting multilateral agreements to 


 provide government-to-government loans for currency 


 stabilization in Pakistan if the loans can reduce inflation 


 and thereby foster conditions necessary for the effective 


 implementation of economic reforms.














 Section 103. Auditing




 Subsection (a) explains that the Inspectors General of the 


 Department of State, the United States Agency for 


 International Development, and other federal departments 


 other than the Department of Defense, shall audit, 


 investigate, and oversee the obligation and expenditure of 


 such amounts in this title. It is appropriate and essential 


 that the significant increase in assistance be matched with 


 sufficient oversight and accountability. The Inspectors 


 General of the respective agencies are expected to achieve a 


 higher level of coordination and cooperation in their 


 oversight. Congress expects the Secretary of State in 


 consultation with other U.S. government agencies to ensure 


 oversight efforts and support for those efforts are no less 


 robust than those for the Special Inspectors General created 


 for Iraq and Afghanistan.



 Subsection (b) authorizes the aforementioned Inspectors 


 General to establish in-country presence through field 


 offices in Pakistan, as necessary.



 Subsection (c) authorizes up to $30,000,000 for each fiscal 


 year to be made available for auditing, in addition to 


 amounts otherwise available for such purposes.











 Title II--Security Assistance




 Title II draws from title II of Division B of H.R. 2410 and 


 sections 5 and 6 of S. 962.












Sec. 201. Purposes of Assistance




 Section 201 declares the purposes for which U.S. security 


 assistance to Pakistan is to be used. It provides that U.S. 


 security assistance to Pakistan be used (1) to support 


 Pakistan's paramount national security need to fight and win 


 the ongoing counterinsurgency within its borders in 


 accordance with its national security interests; (2) to work 


 with the Government of Pakistan to improve Pakistan's border 


 security and control and help prevent any Pakistani territory 


 from being used as a base or conduit for terrorist attacks in 


 Pakistan, or elsewhere; (3) to work in close cooperation with 


 the Government of Pakistan to coordinate action against 


 extremist and terrorist targets; and (4) to help strengthen 


 the institutions of democratic governance and promote control 


 of military institutions by a democratically elected civilian 


 government.







 Section 202. Authorization of Military Assistance




 Subsection (a) authorizes such sums as may be necessary for 


 fiscal years 2010 to 2014 for International Military 


 Education and Training (IMET) programs for Pakistan, 


 including expanded IMET. Subsection (a)(2) provides that a 


 ''substantial amount'' of such funds should be used to pay 


 for courses of study and training in counterinsurgency and 


 civil-military relations. For this purpose, a substantial 


 amount should be considered approximately 30 percent.



 Subsection (b)(1) authorizes such sums as may be necessary 


 for fiscal years 2010 to 2014 for Foreign Military Financing 


 (FMF). Subsection (b)(2)(A) provides that a significant 


 portion of such amounts shall be used for the purchase of 


 defense articles, defense services, and military education 


 and training for activities relating to counterinsurgency and 


 counterterrorism operations in Pakistan. For purposes of this 


 subsection, such articles, services and education and 


 training may include, but are not limited to, the following:



 Aviation maintenance and logistics support for United 


 States-origin and United States-supported rotary wing 


 aircraft and upgrades to such aircraft to include modern 


 night vision and targeting capabilities.



 Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) ground 


 and air manned and unmanned platforms, including sustainment.



 Command and control capabilities.



 Force protection and counter improvised explosive device 


 capabilities, including protection of vehicles.



 Protective equipment, such as body armor and helmets, night 


 vision goggles, and other individual equipment, including 


 load-bearing equipment, individual and unit level first aid 


 equipment, ballistic eye protection, and cold weather 


 equipment.



 Appropriate individual and unit level medical services and 


 articles for the Pakistan Army, the Pakistan Frontier Corps, 


 and other appropriate security forces.



 Assistance to enable the Pakistani military to distribute 


 humanitarian assistance and establish a tactical civil-


 military operations capability, including a civil affairs 


 directorate.



 Subsection (b)(2)(B) provides that it is the Sense of 


 Congress that a significant majority of funds made available 


 to carry out this subsection for a fiscal year should be used 


 for the purpose described in subparagraph (A). For this 


 purpose, a significant majority should be considered 


 approximately 70 percent of the amounts made available 


 pursuant to the authorization.



 Subsection (b)(3) provides that FMF can be provided in 


 fiscal years 2010 and 2011 notwithstanding any other 


 provision of law other than sections 3 and section 102 of the 


 Arms Export Control Act and annual restrictions relating to 


 assistance to a country that has had a duly-elected head of 


 government deposed by a military coup. The purpose of this 


 provision is to allow greater flexibility in the delivery of 


 FMF in FY2010 and 2011 to Pakistan. This authority 


 complements flexibility provided in the Pakistan 


 Counterinsurgency Fund and the Pakistan Counterinsurgency 


 Capability Fund, both of which will allow the United States 


 in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to provide urgent 


 counterterrorism and counterinsurgency assistance to 


 Pakistan. The Department is encouraged to use the flexibility 


 in FMF to likewise ensure rapid delivery of counterterrorism 


 and counterinsurgency assistance.



 Subsection (c) provides that the United States should 


 facilitate Pakistan's establishment of a program to provide 


 reconstruction assistance, including through Pakistan's 


 military, as appropriate, in areas damaged by combat 


 operations.



 Subsection (d) establishes a new exchange program to foster 


 civilian rule of military institutions. This program would 


 have civilian and military officials from NATO governments 


 and from governments determined by the Secretary of State to 


 be going through a transition to democracy to provide insight 


 and experience to their counterparts in Pakistan.










 Section 203. Limitation on Assistance




 Subsection (a) provides that beginning in fiscal year 2011, 


 no security-related assistance may be provided to Pakistan in 


 a fiscal year until the Secretary of State, under the 


 direction of the President, makes the certification required 


 under subsection (c) for such fiscal year.



 Subsection (b) provides that beginning in fiscal year 2012, 


 no Letter of Offer and Acceptance to sell major defense 


 equipment to Pakistan may be issued pursuant to the Arms 


 Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) and no license to 


 export major defense equipment to Pakistan may be issued 


 pursuant to such Act in a fiscal year until the Secretary of 


 State, under the direction of the President, makes the 


 certification required under subsection (c) for such fiscal 


 year.



 Subsection (c) provides for a certification by the 


 Secretary of State, under the direction of the President, to 


 the appropriate congressional committees on three separate 


 matters. Paragraph (1) requires a certification that the 


 Government of Pakistan is continuing to cooperate with the 


 United States in efforts to dismantle supplier networks 


 relating to the acquisition of nuclear weapons-related 


 materials, such as providing relevant information from or 


 direct access to Pakistani nationals associated with such 


 networks.



 Subsection (c)(2) requires a certification that the 


 Government of Pakistan during the preceding fiscal year has 


 demonstrated a sustained commitment to and is making 


 significant efforts towards combating terrorist groups. In 


 making this certification, the Secretary shall take into 


 account the extent to which the Government of Pakistan has 


 made progress on matters described in subparagraphs (A), (B), 


 and (C).



 Subsection (c)(3) requires a certification that the 


 security forces of Pakistan are not materially and 


 substantially subverting the political or judicial processes 


 of Pakistan.



 Subsection (d) provides none of the funds appropriated for 


 security-related assistance for fiscal year 2010 and each 


 fiscal year thereafter, or any amounts appropriated to the 


 Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund established under 


 the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-


 32), may be obligated or expended to make payments relating 


 to certain contracts described in paragraphs (A), (B), and 


 (C) of subsection (d)(1), which the Government of Pakistan 


 has committed to pay for using its own national funds. 


 Subsection (d)(2) provides for an exception related to 


 certain construction costs related to such contracts.



 Subsection (e) provides that the Secretary of State, under 


 the direction of the President, may waive the limitations 


 contained in subsections (a), (b), and (d) for a fiscal year 


 if the Secretary of State determines that is important to the 


 national security interests of the United States to do so, 


 and provides for a notification prior the exercise of the 


 authority under this subsection.





 Subsection (f) includes definitions for this subsection.






Section 204. Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund




 This section authorizes the Pakistan Counterinsurgency 


 Capability Fund (PCCF) and applies to any funds in the PCCF. 


 It provides, in part, that funds transferred to the Pakistan 


 Counterinsurgency Fund (PCF), which resides in the Department 


 of Defense, be merged with the funds in the PCCF, except that 


 the funds would still be subject to the limitations in 


 section 203.



Section 205. Requirements for civilian control of certain assistance




 This section provides that any direct cash security-related 


 assistance or non-assistance payments by the United States to 


 the Government of Pakistan may only be provided or made to 


 civilian authorities of a civilian government of Pakistan. 


 It also provides that the Secretary of State, in 


 coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall ensure 


 that civilian authorities of a civilian government of 


 Pakistan have received a copy of final documentation 


 provided to the United States related to non-assistance 


 payments provided or made to the Government of Pakistan. 


 The purpose of this provision is to support Pakistan's 


 democratic civilian government and to ensure the increased 


 transparency of such assistance or payments by requiring 


 that the civilian authorities have the documentation 


 related to such assistance or payments and that civilian 


 authorities actually receive the funds related to such 


 assistance or payments. It should be noted that subsection 


 (c), which contains a number of exceptions to the 


 application of this section, was added in an abundance of 


 caution to ensure that certain programs were not 


 interpreted to be included as being affected by subsection 


 (a). This subsection should not be construed in any way as 


 defining the meaning or scope of ''security-related 


 assistance'' (a defined term under the Act) or ''non-


 assistance payments.''.

 Title III--Strategy, Accountability, Monitoring, and Other Provisions




 Title III draws from title III of Division B of H.R. 2410 


 and section 5 and 8 of S. 962.













 Sec. 301. Strategy Reports




 S. 962 contained a provision that would require not later 


 than 45 days after the enactment of this Act the Secretary of 


 State to submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 


 report describing United States policy and strategy with 


 respect to assistance to Pakistan. Division B of H.R. 2410 


 contained no such requirement. Reflecting the approach in S. 


 962, section 301(a) requires that not later than 45 days 


 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 


 State shall submit a report describing United States policy 


 and strategy with respect to assistance to Pakistan. The 


 report shall include, among other items, a description of 


 principal objectives of United States assistance to Pakistan 


 to be provided under title I of this Act; a general 


 description of the specific programs, projects, and 


 activities designed to achieve the purposes of section 101 


 and the respective funding levels for such programs, 


 projects, and activities for fiscal years 2010 through 2014; 


 and a plan for program monitoring, operations research, and 


 impact evaluation research for assistance authorized under 


 title I of this Act. The purpose of this report is to ensure 


 proper oversight and accountability over economic assistance 


 to Pakistan.



 H.R. 2410 contained a provision (section 302) that would 


 require the President to establish and implement a program to 


 assess the effectiveness of assistance provided under title I 


 of this Act through impact evaluation research on a selected 


 set of programmatic interventions, operations research in 


 areas to ensure efficiency and effectiveness of program 


 implementation, and monitoring to ensure timely and 


 transparent delivery of assistance. S. 962 contained no such 


 provision. That requirement has been included in the 


 reporting requirement of subsection (a). The monitoring 


 requirement in the Pakistan Assistance Strategy Report is 


 intended to encourage the President to establish a monitoring 


 program. The President, in developing performance measurement 


 methods under the impact evaluation research, operations 


 research, and program monitoring, should consult with the 


 appropriate congressional committees as well as the 


 Government of Pakistan.



 Subsection (a)(7) requires an analysis for the suitable 


 replacement for existing Pakistani helicopters, including 


 recommendations for sustainment and training. The purpose of 


 this reporting requirement is to identify and formulate plans 


 to replace the AH-1F and AH-1S Cobra attack helicopters 


 currently used by the Government of Pakistan for 


 counterinsurgency operations.



 Subsection (b) requires the President to develop a 


 comprehensive interagency regional strategy to eliminate 


 terrorist threats and close safe havens in Pakistan and 


 submit a report on the strategy to Congress. The report is 


 premised on the belief that coordination among India, 


 Pakistan, and Afghanistan, along with countries neighboring 


 or closely aligned with the region such as Iran and Saudi 


 Arabia, where appropriate, will be necessary if the United 


 States is to create a viable strategy for sustainable peace 


 and security in this critical region. Subsection (c) requires 


 the President to submit to Congress a report on the strategy 


 not later than 180 days after the enactment of the Act. 


 Subparagraph (3)(B) provides that the report shall include 


 specification of goals and proposed timelines and budgets for 


 implementation of the strategy.



 Subsection (c) mandates that not later than 180 days after 


 the date of the enactment of the Act, the Secretary of State 


 shall submit a plan for the proposed use of amounts 


 authorized for security-related assistance for each of the 


 fiscal years 2010 through 2014, as well as how funds in the 


 PCCF fit into such a plan. The purpose of this requirement is 


 to encourage long-term planning regarding security assistance 


 to Pakistan and to facilitate Congressional oversight over 


 such assistance.












Section 302. Monitoring Reports




 Subsection (a) provides that not later than 180 days after 


 the submission of the Pakistan Assistance Strategy Report and 


 every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall 


 submit a report that describes the assistance provided under 


 title I of the Act, along with related assessments of the 


 extent to which the Government of Pakistan exercises 


 effective civilian control of the military; whether 


 assistance provided to Pakistan has directly or indirectly 


 aided the expansion of Pakistan's nuclear weapons program; 


 and the counterterrorism efforts undertaken by the Government 


 of Pakistan.



 Subsection (b) provides that the Comptroller General of the 


 United States shall submit reports that contain a review of, 


 and comments addressing, the Pakistan Assistance Strategy 


 Report; recommendations relating to any additional actions 


 the Comptroller General believes could help improve the 


 efficiency and effectiveness of United States efforts to meet 


 the objectives of the Act; a detailed description of the 


 expenditures made by Pakistan pursuant to grant assistance 


 under section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act; and an 


 assessment of the impact of the assistance on the security 


 and stability of Pakistan. Subsection (b) further requires 


 the Comptroller General to conduct an independent analysis of 


 the certification described in section 203(c) and submit a 


 report containing the results of the independent analysis to 


 Congress.



 Subsection (c) provides that the Secretary of State may 


 submit the reports required by this section in conjunction 


 with other reports relating to Pakistan required under other 


 provisions of law. The intent of this provision is to 


 streamline the numerous reporting requirements of this Act 


 and other Acts, including sections 1116 and 1117 of the 


 Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32). 


 Reports under these and other provisions of law may be 


 combined and submitted together as long as all elements of 


 each report are included, and the timelines for each 


 provision of law requiring such a report are respected.


I urge all my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.