# COMMENDING AGRI-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TEAMS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD FOR  THEIR EFFORTS IN WAR-TORN COUNTRIES
## `308afa8ad4c1ecdf6be13766118c3380`
`Mr. SKELTON — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I rise in strong support of H. Res. 1075, a resolution commending 
the Agri-business Development Teams of the National Guard; and I thank 
the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Luetkemeyer) for introducing this 
resolution.

The Agri-business Development Teams, often called ADTs, are one of 
the unsung successes of the mission in Afghanistan. Agriculture makes 
up about 45 percent of Afghanistan's gross domestic product and employs 
over 70 percent of its population. Although Afghanistan once supplied 
food for the region, 30 years of war has degraded the agriculture 
economy of Afghanistan so much that substantial assistance is required 
to rebuild it and ensure that Afghanistan has food security.



The first Agri-business Development Team was from the great State of 
Missouri, and I have particular pride in the great work that they do. 
These teams are made up of National Guard members who have expertise in 
agriculture from their civilian lives. These volunteers spend 1 month 
training for deployment in Indiana and then they are sent to 
Afghanistan for 11 months. Each team has about 58 personnel, with 12 
agriculture experts, although all members of the team have some level 
of agriculture expertise. Right now there are teams from nine States 
deployed, including one from Missouri.

Mr. Speaker, I might mention that the Thanksgiving before last I 
spent with the Missouri Agriculture National Guard team in Afghanistan. 
And I must tell you that they did a fantastic job. I am very proud of 
them. I was proud to have visited with them, break bread with them on 
Thanksgiving Day, and tell them that we in Missouri are downright proud 
of them.

From the start, the Missouri National Guard has been a leader in the 
program, and the fourth Missouri team is now preparing to go. I have a 
list of the Missouri Guard members who have gone to Afghanistan and 
returned, and I would ask that their names be included in the Record.











Missouri Agri-Business Team One




 Allen, Jon Matthew, E3.



 Allen, William Noel, Jr., E4.



 Allison, James Gregory, O5.



 Brandt, Curtis Herbert, E6.



 Briscoe, Aaron David, E4.



 Bruce, William Eugene, E5.



 Bunch, Billy Wayne, E4.



 Choate, Richard Austin, E4.



 Dignan, Kyle Patrick, E5.



 Douglass, Earl Brian, E4.



 Dunlap, Douglas Kevin, O3.



 Elkin, William Anthony, O2.



 Garner, Nathan Lee, E4.



 Gideon, Chad Ryan, E4.



 Godsey, Larry David, E8.



 Gustin, Brian Eugene, E7.



 Hall, Shannon DeWayne, E5.



 Harper, Stephen Timothy, O1.



 Hoaglin, Robert Lee, Jr., E5.



 Holderieath, Jason Jacob, E4.



 Huitt, Mark Douglas, E6.



 Kellison, Aaron Curtis, E3.



 Kidd, Jimmy Wade, E4.



 Lyons, Jeffry Joseph, E7.



 Murray, Rickie Dean, E5.



 Neher, Jeremy Lee, E4.



 Norman, Michael Timothy, E4.



 Oyer, Chad Edward, E4.



 Pennington, Nicholas Ryan, E3.



 Peterson, Erik Sven, E4.



 Pettibon, Matthew Travis, E4.



 Pierce, Russell Wayne, E7.



 Richards, Clayton Shawn, E6.



 Roth, Robert Edward, O3.



 Rufener, Damon Carl, E6.



 Salmon, Joshua Nathan, E6.



 Saunders, Berry James Allen, E5.



 Seek, Michael Lee, O3.



 Simmons, Randall Scott, E8.



 Stegmann, Matthew Herman, E7.



 Sutton, Darrell Craig, E4.



 Thornborrow, William Jose II, E5.



 Vesco, David James, E4.



 Vogel, William Joseph, Jr., E9.



 Wagner, Ted Curtis, E4.



 Williams, David Roy, E6.



 Winston, Bryan Joseph, E4.



 Wymore, John Darren, E6.











Missouri Agri-Business Team Two




 Ashton, Daniel James, O2.



 Banuelos, Scott Alexander, E5.



 Bennett, Alan Lee, O3.



 Boyle, David Lee, O5.



 Brainard, Jonathan Gregory, E5.



 Branson, Timothy, E3.



 Brody, John Anthony, E4.



 Brown, James Edward, E4.



 Coplin, Richard Keith, W1.



 Cunningham, Heather May, E4.



 Dam, Russell Jens, E6.



 Davenport, Zachary Dale, E4.



 Davidson, Sean Michael, E4.



 Dipley, Jennifer Lindsay, E5.



 Flaxbeard, Zachary Thomas, E3.



 Frink, Richard Allen, E8.



 Funken, Jennifer Ann, E6.



 Green, John Allen, E5.



 Green, Ronald, E7.



 Hafner, Gerald Wesley, E5.



 Hartman, Timothy Ray, O5.



 Hill, Scott Douglas, E6.



 Hill, Timothy Michael, E4.



 Jones, Anton Claxton, E6.



 Keilholz, Nicholas Allen, E1.



 Lane, Andrew Christian, E4.



 Larsen, John Kenneth, E4.



 Latour, Andrew Dennis, E4.



 Ledbetter, Jason Robert, E5.



 Lee, Daniel, E1.



 Litherland, Sean Nicholas, W2.



 Love, Richard Anthony, E4.



 Matlock, Kyle, E4.



 Mullins, Matthew Dean, E9.



 Olson, Julie Ann, E4.



 Patty, Ryan Heith, E4.



 Percy, Jacob, E4.



 Powell, Nathaniel Elliot, E3.



 Reppert, Michael Leslie, E3.



 Sears, James Grant III, E1.



 Smith, Stephen Ryan, E4.



 Steinbrook, Michael Lee, E6.



 Stewart, David Liekweg, O2.



 Thomas, Michael, E3.



 Trigg, Timothy William, E6.



 Udovich, Anthony Steven, E5.



 Walters, James Wilson, Jr., E9.



 Wilkinson, Denise, O4.



 Wilmoth, Scott Allen, E4.



 Wilson, Tony Lynn, Jr., E4.



 Withrich, Jason Allen, E7.



 Wunderlich, Janet, O3.



 Beaver, Jonathan A., SSG.



 Brandau, Scott W. SRA.



 Herring, Adam S., SRA.



 Jacobs, Matthew E., SRA.



 Mackey, Seth E., SSG.



 Moe, Eric J., SRA.



 Pearce, Douglas D., SRA.



 Polley, Terry P., TSG.



 Robison, Richard C., SSG.



 Salcedo, Daniel A., SSG.


Mr. Speaker, I would also like to include an exchange of letters in 
regard to House Resolution 1075.





















 House of Representatives,


















 Committee on Foreign Affairs,


















 Washington, DC, March 16, 2010.


 Hon. Ike Skelton,


 Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to you concerning House 


 Resolution 1075, ''Commending the members of the Agribusiness 


 Development Teams of the National Guard for their efforts, 


 together with personnel of the Department of Agriculture and 


 the United States Agency for International Development, to 


 modernize agriculture practices and increase food production 


 in war-torn countries.'' As you know, this measure was 


 referred to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 


 to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 


 subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 


 consideration of such provisions as fall within the 


 jurisdiction of the committee concerned.



 This resolution contains provisions within the Rule X 


 jurisdiction of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the 


 interest of permitting your Committee to proceed 


 expeditiously to floor consideration of this important 


 resolution, I am willing to waive this Committee's right to 


 mark up this resolution. I do so with the understanding that 


 by waiving consideration of the resolution, the Committee on 


 Foreign Affairs does not waive any future jurisdictional 


 claim over the subject matters contained in the resolution 


 which fall within its Rule X jurisdiction.



 Please include a copy of this letter and your response in 


 the Congressional Record




 during consideration of the measure on the House floor.





 Sincerely,
























 Howard L. Berman,


 Chairman.