---
---

# None
## `30933c4b7d0955d8e49d8c40158d5819`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. The Senator from Illinois--and this is growing a little 
wearisome, it really is. The fact is, 60 votes have been invoked by the 
minority time after time after time, whether it be a district judge or 
an appellate court judge, or most any other issue that is 
controversial. The Senator from Illinois knows that, and that is why it 
is very disappointing to see him using this kind of rhetoric when he is 
willing to have 60 votes be required for some judge but somehow feels--
which they did invoke when they were in the minority--and yet feels 
that it is not appropriate to have 60 votes on an issue of this 
importance.

The Senator from Illinois talks about beginning the withdrawal in 120 
days, beginning the withdrawal in 120 days. The day that is signed into 
law would be the day--would be the day, in the view of every military 
expert, that al-Qaida would sit back and wait until we left.

The Senator from Illinois continues to call it a civil war. There is 
sectarian violence. There is very little doubt in the minds--of course, 
perhaps the Senator from Illinois and others know more than literally 
every expert I know. It has become, in the words of General Petraeus, a 
center for al-Qaida and a central front in the war on terror, according 
to our leading generals.



Now, I resent a little bit this comment by the Senator from Illinois 
about he has heard the generals before. I heard the generals before, 
and I disagreed with the generals, and that is our right to do. But to 
denigrate their opinion I don't think is appropriate to people who 
spend their lives in the service of the military, defending this 
Nation. General Petraeus, it is my understanding, has been wounded 
three times in different wars fighting for this Nation. I think he 
deserves respect rather than being dismissed by saying: Well, I have 
heard the generals say that before. We should pay attention to the 
generals. We should have paid attention to the generals at other times 
in our history, including those who disagreed with the former Secretary 
of Defense, Secretary Rumsfeld.

Again, I repeat, since we seem to be going in a certain circularity, 
conditions in Iraq today are terrible, but they become way worse as the 
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, a career foreign service 
officer, recently told the New York Times. I am quoting from the 
Washington Post editorial of just a few days ago:




 The generals who have devised--


The generals whom the Senator from Illinois derides--




 The generals who have devised a new strategy believe they 


 are making fitful progress in calming Baghdad, training the 


 Iraqi Army, and encouraging anti-al-Qaida coalitions. Before 


 Congress begins managing rotation schedules and ordering 


 withdrawals, it should at least give those generals the 


 months they ask for to see whether their strategy can offer 


 some new hope.


Why do you think the Washington Post and literally most every 
national security expert feels that this ought to be given an 
opportunity, remembering that the last part of it has just been put in 
place a short time ago? Because the consequences of failure, as I have 
just quoted from many military experts, are a catastrophe.

General Lynch says:




 What the Iraqis are worried about is our leaving. And our 


 answer is: We are staying, because my order from the Corps 


 Commander is that we don't leave the battle space until we 


 can hand over to the Iraqi security forces. Everybody wants 


 things to happen overnight, and that is not going to happen.


So when the amendment of the Senator from Illinois and the Senator 
from Rhode Island and the Senator from Michigan is passed, then the 
word is spread and General Lynch can no longer say to the Iraqis we are 
staying, because we will be leaving.

General Odierno says:




 My assessment right now is, I need more time to understand 


 how the current offensive targeting al-Qaida and Iraq 


 terrorists is working and how it could lead to political 


 progress in the months ahead.


Odierno said:




 I am seeing some progress now here in Iraq. We have really 


 just started what the Iraqis term ''liberating'' them from 


 al-Qaida. What I've got to determine is what do I need in 


 order to continue that progress so that the political peace 


 can take hold and Iraqi sources can hold this for the long 


 term.


I want to point out to my colleagues that I am not guaranteeing 
success. I wish it had gone better. I think there are areas, 
particularly as far as the government is concerned, where dramatic 
improvement has to take place. But I do know the consequences of 
failure, and that view of setting a date for withdrawal is a clear 
recipe for a much larger conflict with much greater involvement in the 
region over time.

So when the Senator from Illinois and my friends on the other side of 
the aisle talk about how this won't be withdrawal if this is passed, I 
say: My friends, this is withdrawal. This is the message to those 
people who have to remain in the neighborhood: We are leaving and you 
are going to have to make adjustments to the neighborhood and the new 
big guys on the block.

Again, I wish we could take up this issue in September. I wish we 
could pass the necessary legislation to care for the men and women who 
are wounded. I wish we could pass the necessary legislation in order to 
take care of the needs of the men and women in the military. If we pass 
this bill this week--I tell my colleagues we are going to be going into 
the August recess. We will be coming back in September with probably a 
very contentious conference with the House. The chances right now of us 
getting final passage and the President's signature on this bill by the 
first of October is not good. So the sooner we get this bill off the 
floor and to the President, the better off we are going to be.

I certainly hope we will take into consideration the great needs that 
are existing in the military today.

I yield the floor.