---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `30a6451add0f4d844c17cebf2bbd8b88`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I spoke yesterday in favor of the 
resolution introduced by Senator Reid, S.J. Res. 9. By bringing the 
current open-ended military mission to a close and requiring the 
funding of U.S. troops, the Reid resolution takes a significant, 
binding step toward ending our involvement in the war in Iraq. I am 
pleased that the Senate will have the opportunity to vote on that 
resolution shortly.

The Senate will also be voting, as the Senator from Louisiana just 
pointed out, on another resolution regarding Iraq sponsored by the 
senior Senator from New Hampshire. Unfortunately, this resolution is 
badly flawed, and I strongly oppose it. My chief objection is simple. 
The resolution rejects the idea of Congress using its power of the 
purse to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq. Moreover, it does so in 
a manner that can only be described as inaccurate and almost 
intellectually dishonest. By warning against ''the elimination or 
reduction of funds for troops in the field,'' the resolution fully 
embraces the misleading rhetoric the White House has used to try to 
prevent serious discussion of Congress ending the war. Those who engage 
in such rhetoric pretend that cutting off funds for the war is the same 
as cutting off funds for the troops. They raise the specter of troops 
somehow being left on the battlefield without the training, equipment, 
and resources they need.

Obviously, nothing could be further from the truth. Every Member of 
Congress agrees we must continue to support our troops and give them 
the resources and support they need. Not a single Member would ever 
vote for any proposal that would jeopardize the safety of our troops. 
Using our power of the purse to end our involvement in the war can and 
would be done without in any way impairing the safety of our brave 
servicemembers. By setting a date after which funding for the war will 
be terminated, as I have proposed, Congress can safely bring our troops 
out of harm's way.


How can I say this with such confidence? There really is plenty of 
precedent for Congress exercising its constitutional authority to stop 
U.S. involvement in armed conflict.

I recently chaired a Judiciary Committee hearing entitled 
''Exercising Congress's Constitutional Power To End a War.'' Without 
exception, every witness--those called by the majority and those called 
by the minority--did not challenge the constitutionality of Congress's 
authority to end a war. Lou Fisher with the Library of Congress, one of 
the foremost experts on separation of powers issues, pointed out that 
Congress does not simply have the power, it has a responsibility, to 
exercise it when it is needed. He said:




 The question to me, always remember, Congress, is the 


 continued use of military force and a military commitment in 


 the Nation's interest? That is the core question. Once you 


 decide that, if you decide it is not in the national 


 interest, you certainly do not want to continue putting U.S. 


 troops in harm's way.


The argument that cutting off funding for a flawed policy would hurt 
the troops, and that continuing to put U.S.


troops in harm's way supports the troops, makes no sense. By ending 
funding for the war, we can bring our troops safely out of Iraq.

Walter Dellinger of the Duke Law School made this point when he 
testified about my proposal:




 There would not be one penny less for the salary of the 


 troops. There would not be one penny less for the benefit of 


 the troops. There would not be one penny less for weapons or 


 ammunition. There would not be one penny less for supplies or 


 for support. Those troops would simply be redeployed to other 


 areas where the armed forces are utilized.


So instead of allowing the President's failed policy to continue, 
Congress can and should use its power of the purse to end our 
involvement in the Iraq war, safely redeploying the troops while 
ensuring, as I do in my bill and as the Reid resolution permits, that 
important counterterrorism and other limited operations are still 
carried out.

Now, for those who don't believe this has ever been done or for those 
who say it can't be done, let me cite an example from not that long 
ago. In October of 1993, Congress enacted an amendment sponsored by the 
senior Senator from West Virginia cutting off funding--cutting off 
funding for military operations in Somalia effective March 31, 1994, 
with limited exceptions. Seventy-six Senators voted for that amendment. 
Many of them are still in this body, such as Senator Cochran, Senator 
Domenici, Senator Hutchison, Senator Lugar, Senator McConnell, Senator 
Specter, Senator Stevens, and Senator Warner.

Now, did those eight Senators and many Democratic Senators who joined 
them act to jeopardize the safety and security of U.S. troops in 
Somalia? By cutting off funds for a military mission, were they 
indifferent to the well-being of our brave men and women in uniform? Of 
course not. All of these Members recognized that Congress had the power 
and the responsibility to bring our military operations in Somalia to a 
close by establishing a date after which the funds would be terminated.

Now, on that same day with regard to Somalia, several Senators, 
myself included, supported an even stronger effort to end funding for 
operations in Somalia. The amendment offered by Senator McCain on 
October 15, 1993, would have eliminated funding for Somalia right away, 
except for funds for withdrawal, or in the case of American POWs, MIAs 
not being accounted for. Thirty-eight Senators opposed a measure to 
table that amendment. I was joined by many Republican Senators in 
supporting the amendment, including none other than the current sponsor 
of S. Con. Res. 20, Senator Gregg. Senator Gregg suggests in that 
resolution that eliminating funds for troops would undermine their 
safety. Was he voting 14 years ago to do that? Obviously, he would not 
do that. In 1993, was he committing the same egregious offense that he 
so strongly opposes in 2007? Could he have been so cavalier about the 
safety of our troops? Not the Senator I know. He would never have been 
indifferent to their need for guns or ammunition or food or clothing, 
nor would I, nor would any other Member of this body. Of course not.

Senator Gregg knew, as did I, that Senator McCain was proposing an 
appropriate, safe, responsible way to use our power of the purse to 
bring an ill-conceived military mission to a close without in any way 
harming our troops.

Unfortunately, the new Gregg resolution seems to have forgotten this 
point. I hope that my colleagues will think better of efforts such as 
that proposed by Senator Gregg today. All Senators, including the 
distinguished senior Senator from New Hampshire, are, of course, 
entitled to their opinions, and all Senators are certainly entitled to 
oppose my efforts to end funding for a disastrous war. But by putting 
forth misleading and baseless arguments, by suggesting that ending 
funding for the war is tantamount to ending funding for the troops, 
they are making it that much harder to have the open, honest, and 
essential debate about the Iraq war that this body and the American 
people so badly need.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.