---
---

# None
## `30ad8e566e4fc1e1f7533d77fa909587`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Altmire, I can tell you, it is a breath of 
fresh air. I want to differ with you all just for a minute.

I don't mind our colleagues on the Republican side giving 
misinformation. I don't mind it, because American people have a lack of 
trust in what they say and very little understanding of what they do.

We speak here in the 30-Something Working Group, Ms. Clarke, about 
fact, not fiction. We spend a lot of time working with the Speaker's 
staff, working with our personal staffs to make sure we are accurate 
when we come to the floor, because it does mean something when you come 
to this floor and share with your colleagues about what we should be 
doing, how we should be doing it, and what we have done. And I am glad 
you focused on what we have done.

When I was in the State legislature, there was a gentleman by the 
name of Alzo Reddick that represented Orlando, Florida; I represented 
Miami, Florida. And I will never forget, I was like in my second year 
of public service or something and all of this debate is going on in 
the legislature; it was a great melting pot of opinions.

We were going back and forth, and folks were spending a lot of time 
describing the problem. And he got up and he said, ''I just want to 
remind the members that we were not only elected to describe the 
problem, but mainly to do something about it. Okay? And now we are 
trying to do something about it with this bill.'' And he went on from 
there.

And it was very profound, because I have a lot of folks in my 
district who spend a lot of time describing problems, and a lot of them 
I run into when I am at the grocery store or what have you, and there 
are a lot of folks who are on the sideline who don't want to get in the 
game. This is a contact sport in many ways in this legislative body. 
And when we were in the minority, we talked about what we would do if 
we had the opportunity. Remember that, Mr. Ryan? And I know that you 
all remember it because you were watching and a part of it and running 
for office at the time. So you were out there echoing ''what I would do 
once I get there.'' And I am glad you talk about that, because there 
was a laundry list. And, Mr. Speaker, you know prior in this hour we 
talked and I talked about some of the accomplishments we have made. And 
we have done it, Ms. Clarke, in a bipartisan way.

We don't stand up here and dance in the end zone and say where are 
Democrats only passed this piece of legislation. There has been some 
legislation


that Republicans have not seen eye to eye and it has become law. And we 
don't want to dance in the end zone on that, because the American 
people want to win.

So I say all of that to say this. I very seldom make reference to 
what my colleagues say on the other side, because as far as I am 
concerned, I don't want to echo inaccurate information. But we do need 
to clarify it so that folks don't get concerned and start saying, ''Oh, 
my gosh. Do you mean to tell me that's true? Is it really true?'' So 
we're trying to build faith, because right now Congress is not where it 
should be as it relates in the minds of the American people that they 
feel good and warm and fuzzy. Polls have shown that they do feel more 
comfortable with Democratic leadership in Congress than Republican 
leadership in Congress. But as an institution and as a government, I 
guarantee you that Suzy whoever and Johnny whoever would like to see a 
government that works in a cohesive way toward the common good.

The gentlewoman, Yvette Clarke, came to the floor with a purpose 
today. She came to the floor with the purpose of talking about the 
realities of life. And you know that we have Members here thinking that 
our commitment and our loyalty to the military comes in the form of 
smart bombs, guns, and some sort of grenade. But, guess what, it also 
comes in the form of thinking about their families.

We just can't use and abuse and just say, well, we don't want to deal 
with that part that is after the fact; that is dealing after. Because 
when I was at Camp Pendleton, I stayed on base, as I do when I went to 
MacDill Air Force Base, as I do when I go to any location. I have been 
down to Norfolk, Virginia and big Navy. I stay on base so we can hear 
the stories from these families of what they are going through. And 
they say, well, we understood a Member of Congress is on base, and you 
bump into them: Sir, I just want to let you know how I feel as an 
individual. And that is important. And we have taken that, because we 
have had hearings in the Armed Services Committee, we have taken that 
into consideration in the Appropriations Committee. Mr. Murtha has done 
an excellent job by making sure that we pump dollars in on the family 
side and doing some of the things in our MILCON appropriations trying 
to do things to help those kids deal with the shock and the trauma of 
dad or mom coming home screaming in the middle of the night and they 
don't understand what is going on.

So when we look at these issues, I am glad that we are addressing 
those issues, but we have to look at retooling this whole Iraq debate 
and how we got into this in the first place, because we are going to 
have Ambassador Crocker here, we are going to have General Petraeus 
that we have met with, we have met with all of these individuals before 
in the past. We want the real deal from them. But, as Members of 
Congress, we have got to stand up on behalf of the American people, be 
they Democrat, Republican, or Independent.