---
---

# HONORING CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER THREE MATTHEW WAGSTAFF
## `30bbc456df773a3cad208d86939311b2`
`Mr. CHAFFETZ — 24 September 2010`

---


Mr. CHAFFETZ. Madam Speaker, Americans lost one of our finest early 
Tuesday morning when the Blackhawk helicopter carrying Chief Warrant 
Officer Three Matthew Wagstaff of Orem, Utah, went down in Afghanistan.

His family released a statement that reads, in part: ''Matt died 
doing what he loved to do, and that was to fly. He was a tremendous 
husband, son, brother and uncle, and he served his country well.''

He was just married to his wife Tiffany in January, and was 
anticipating a visit home next month to Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where 
he was based. His wife and parents, Ronald and Suzanne Wagstaff, flew 
to Dover Air Force base in Delaware Wednesday morning to receive him 
and return him home for burial.

At 34 years old, CW3 Wagstaff had served for ten years as a Blackhawk 
helicopter pilot and was an active-duty member of the Army's 101st 
Airborne Division. He had recently re-enlisted knowing he would most 
likely be called up for a second tour in Afghanistan, having already 
served a third overseas tour in Iraq.

A friend of the family shared that CW3 Wagstaff joined the military 
with a passion to fly helicopters, and that he was one of several 
pilots asked to fly Blackhawks in the original ''Transformers'' movie 
in 2007. He flew his helicopter in the action scenes in Los Angeles 
over Dodger Stadium, through alleys, and over rooftops. The friend went 
on to say that CW3 Wagstaff ''felt like he was making a difference,'' 
adding that his missions in Afghanistan included bringing injured 
soldiers out of combat zones.

A graduate of Orem High School and Utah State University, CW3 
Wagstaff was among nine NATO service members killed in the crash near 
the town of Qatal in Zabul province. The soldiers were aboard an 
International Security Assistance Force helicopter. The cause of 
Tuesday's crash was not immediately known.

Our hearts and prayers as Americans go out to the Wagstaff family for 
their willingness to send their husband, son, and brother to serve us 
all. We honor and appreciate him for his service, and his unselfishness 
in offering the ultimate sacrifice for his country and those whose 
lives he blessed both in and out of uniform. May God bless him, his 
family, and all those who join us now in mourning his passing.
