# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `30c00ca454bb95598e951c6879085ead`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

You know, the things that are being said today, if George Washington 
had had television and radio and newspapers, would have been said about 
him. Several of his generals wanted him out because he wasn't winning 
battles and things were going wrong. Even in the Congress of the United 
States, Lee of Virginia led the charge to try to get rid of George 
Washington during the Revolutionary War.

Abraham Lincoln, McClellan, one of his chief generals, who wouldn't 
fight, ran against him for President, and Lincoln was going to be 
defeated if Sherman hadn't taken Atlanta.

War is not a popular thing. It's a horrible thing. Chairman Lantos 
was a survivor of the camps during the Holocaust during World War II. I 
would like to ask you a question: What would have happened if we hadn't 
won that war? How many more Jewish people would have been killed in 
those camps? Millions more. Six million died, but many millions more 
probably would have died if Hitler had prevailed. But we had Winston 
Churchill, who was willing to go to the mat to make sure that they 
didn't win and that he was going to defeat Hitler.

If we pull out unilaterally like they're talking about right now, we 
leave those people over there who voted and held their fingers up, we 
leave those people to their fate with these people who are radicals, 
who are going to take over.

Iran has camps. Senator Lieberman talked about that. They have 
training camps right there along the border. They are sending 
terrorists in to help augment the terrorists in Iraq. And if we 
unilaterally pull out, just like you're talking about, those people who 
voted for freedom and democracy, many, many, many of those will die, 
maybe even more than who have been dying in Darfur, and you have been 
talking about how important it is that we do something in Darfur.



A vacuum will be created, and Iran will fill it. They will not stop 
their nuclear development program, and we will be imperiled down the 
road from their nuclear development program because they'll have a real 
jumping-off point throughout the Middle East, not just in Iran but in 
Iraq and possibly Afghanistan, if many of you have your way.

I don't know why we're not waiting on General Petraeus' report. We 
just gave him authority and gave him the money to pursue this until he 
reports back in September. I don't understand why we're jumping the gun 
and trying to force withdrawal right now when General Petraeus, who 
talked to all of us, has not had a chance to succeed.

Mr. Speaker, 61 million people died in World War II, 6 million Jews; 
61 million. In this nuclear age, if we pull in our horns and let Iran 
run wild over there, which they will, and they develop their nuclear 
program, how many millions could die in this country as well as around 
the world? I submit it probably would be more than 61 million.

In the United States, if we pull out like you're talking about, we'll 
probably have to go back in to stop them from developing that nuclear 
capability and stop them from training these people to go in and 
terrorize not only Iran and also Iraq and other places in the Middle 
East. That is a tinderbox over there and we have to make the right 
decision.

Every President who has been in a war has been criticized by Congress 
at one time or another. Every single President, unless it was a very 
short war where you were in for 5 or 6 days or a couple of months. This 
is no exception.

Have mistakes been made? You bet. Were mistakes made in World War II? 
Eight hundred guys drowned in a mock Normandy invasion off the coast of 
England. If we had television then and the newspapers we have today, we 
would never have invaded Normandy because they would have stopped it 
just like that because of criticism of those 800 guys drowning to 
death. They would have said it wouldn't have worked; it wasn't 
feasible.

This is a very, very important issue we are talking about. Our brave 
soldiers are doing their job over there. And they watch on television 
right now, and what are they hearing? Pull out, pull out, pull out. 
They are asking, What are we fighting for if the Congress is going to 
jerk us out right now? We have heard from a lot of them who say, hey, 
we're doing the job, and we're doing better right now.

I just think we ought to think very long and hard about what we're 
doing. It could effect a world war. We're in a world war against al 
Qaeda right now, but it could be a much more devastating war if we 
don't make the right decisions. I would like to say to my colleagues 
that I think it's extremely important that you think long and hard 
about what you're trying to do. Nobody likes war. Nobody likes war.