---
---

# None
## `30c9a3cfb26fd8e7c02685c5f3685e24`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the chairman for his 
great work on this issue. He has been the champion on these issues and 
responsive to the needs of our borders.

Border security is one of my highest priorities. I represent 785 
miles of the Mexican border, more border with Mexico than any other 
Member of Congress. As the vice chairman of the Homeland Security 
Appropriations Committee, we have made making our border more secure a 
high priority.

Earlier this month, the House passed a supplemental appropriations 
bill that continued funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
in addition included $701 million in much-needed border security 
funding. This is funding that our men and women on the border are 
asking for and need to get the job done. We all know the violence in 
Mexico has escalated. We need to ensure the U.S. borders are not left 
vulnerable.

This new version is much smaller than the previous one cut by the 
Senate. This bill does not have the funding for Operation Stonegarden, 
a much-needed program supported by many bipartisan Members. 
Nonetheless, I support the chairman on his effort and thank him for his 
leadership.

This bill will target funds just as the previous House-passed 
supplemental did. This includes an additional 1,000 Border Patrol 
agents and 250 additional officers at our land ports of entry, which 
are critical and important at this point in time. This is a significant 
step towards securing our border, and I want to thank the chairman for 
his leadership in this area and ensuring that the border becomes a 
priority.