# None
## `30d7af762490f83747abe55e557e2052`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I begin today by saying that I oppose 
the Levin-Reed amendment, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. I 
oppose the


amendment for three important reasons: First of all, I believe the 
amendment unconstitutionally usurps the power of the Commander in 
Chief. Secondly, the amendment tells our enemies when they can take 
over in Iraq. Thirdly, the amendment is the wrong approach at the wrong 
time.

Also, I wish to focus on what we are missing by spending unnecessary 
time last night and today debating this amendment. We have had a 
Defense bill pending before the Senate now for a week and a half and 
have yet to discuss this bill in substance.

The bill which we have yet to make any real progress on does the 
following things for our men and women in uniform: First of all, it 
authorizes a 3.5-percent pay raise for our men and women in the armed 
forces. It authorizes additional tools for combating post-traumatic 
stress disorder and traumatic brain injury and provides improved health 
care benefits for our injured warriors. It takes new steps to recognize 
the contributions of our Reserve Forces through increased retirement 
benefits and robust reintegration programs. It tightens our acquisition 
processes, our contracting policies, and increases benefits to our 
civilian personnel. It increases the amount of leave our military 
personnel can carry over, a provision which DOD strongly advocates as a 
way to increase the morale of our troops. It authorizes $4 billion for 
mine-resistant vehicles and critical MRAP vehicles that we need so 
desperately to protect our men and women. It authorizes $135 billion 
for allowances, bonuses, death benefits, and permanent change of 
station moves. It authorizes payment of over 25 types of bonuses and 
special pays aimed at encouraging enlistment, reenlistment, and 
continued service by Active-Duty as well as Reserve military personnel. 
It fully funds the President's budget request for the Army's future 
combat systems and adds $90 million for the Armed Robotic Vehicles. It 
authorizes $775.1 million for reactive armor.

I could go on for a long time cataloging the good things in this bill 
that we are not talking about. We are not focusing on them because of 
the time we have spent yesterday, last night, as well as today, 
focusing on this amendment, which we could have dealt with several days 
ago. This side of the aisle has been prepared to vote and we have been 
asking for that vote, yet that vote has not taken place.

I think it is important to keep in mind the people who are on the 
receiving end of the decisions we make and the votes we take in this 
body; that is, the American soldier, sailor, airman, and marine who is 
out there doing what we have asked them to do in service to our 
country.

I appreciate the comments last night of the Senator from Connecticut, 
Mr. Lieberman, regarding my good friend, General Lynch, who commands 
the 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Stewart, GA, and Task Force Marne in 
Baghdad. General Lynch and his troops are in harm's way as we speak--
right now--executing the duties and the responsibilities the American 
people have asked of them. General Lynch recently commented that the 
addition of thousands more surge troops in the recent weeks has enabled 
him to clear insurgents in 70 percent of his territory south of 
Baghdad. I would like to share a few of General Lynch's comments 
regarding his mission and the work in which his troops are involved.

Regarding the effects of ceasing the current strategy now in place, 
General Lynch has said the following:




 You'd find the enemy regaining ground, reestablishing 


 sanctuary, building more roadside bombs, and the violence 


 would escalate. It would be a mess.


Regarding the current mindset of the Iraqi people that he encounters, 
General Lynch has said:




 What they are worried about is our leaving, and our answer 


 is: ''We're staying.''


Regarding our need to stay and keep doing what we are doing, General 
Lynch has said the following:




 We need these surge forces. They came in for a reason. They 


 are being used for the reason they were sent to be used for.


These comments by General Lynch and the perspective he shares from 
Iraq is that it would be a mistake to give up on the President's 
strategy now. That is why I oppose the Levin- Reed amendment.

Months ago, some in the media declared Al Anbar Province lost. Ramadi 
was declared by AQI--al-Qaida in Iraq--as the capital of AQI. Today, it 
is clear that they were wrong and that the President's new strategy has 
effectively turned Al Anbar around.

I was in Al Anbar 2 months ago, and I have to say I was significantly 
impressed by the job General Gaskins and his folks are doing. We were 
able to take a convoy ride to the middle of downtown Ramadi. We were in 
a safe and secure setting for the first time in years, in that 
community. We saw children returning to schools. We saw markets open. 
We saw people walking on the streets for the first time in years. 
People now felt safe and secure because al-Qaida has now been cleared 
out of Ramadi and out of virtually every inch of Al Anbar Province. The 
surge is working in Al Anbar Province and in the self-declared capital 
of al-Qaida.

The last elements of the troop increase that the President proposed 
back in January became operational in Iraq on June 15. Let me quote 
retired Vice Chief of Staff of the Army Jack Keane, who has been 
critical in the right ways and positive as well as other ways about 
Iraq--a good man, a good soldier. Here is what he said:




 It is my judgment the security situation is making steady, 


 deliberate progress and it will continue to make progress as 


 we go on through the rest of the summer and into the fall. 


 The thought of pulling out now or pulling out in a couple of 


 months makes no sense militarily in terms of what we are 


 trying to achieve, and that is providing security and 


 stability for Iraq so that we can make some political 


 progress.


If there is one strategy that does not make sense at this point 
either militarily or politically, it is signaling to the enemy, during 
a time when we are making early progress in establishing security and 
laying the grounds for reconciliation, that we are leaving and that 
they can have the country. This is an extremely ill-advised approach 
for which the United States, the Middle East, and especially the Iraqi 
people will pay dearly for decades to come.

I have never been more convinced that waiting for General Petraeus's 
report in September was more right than yesterday afternoon when two 
young Georgia veterans, Tripp Bellard and Ruben Maestre, visited my 
office. I wish every Member of this body could have heard the passion 
and the emotion and the strength in their voices. Their resolve was 
clear, yet they were humble and forceful at the same time. I say to my 
colleagues, these men implored me to speak out. They said that America 
needed unwavering leadership now more than ever. They could not have 
been more clear when they said that pulling out of Iraq now would mean 
chaos and would have implications for our troops and for the Nation 
that would be beyond horrific. These were men who had been deployed to 
Iraq more than once and not for a few months. These were men who have 
been on the ground and who fervently echoed what I have heard without 
exception on every single trip I have taken to Iraq, from my first trip 
several years ago to my last one just 2 months ago. I have heard it 
from privates, and I have heard it from generals--that we must not 
leave prematurely and that we must not act prematurely.

I wish to relate another anecdote about a conversation I had with a 
young female Army soldier. I had lunch with her in Ramadi. She is a 
Georgian with whom I had a very delightful conversation about a number 
of issues. But I asked her: Why in the world did you join the Army 3/1/
2/ years ago in the face of the ongoing conflict in Iraq? She said: 
Senator, my life was not--I was not accomplishing in my life what I 
wanted to accomplish. I needed to head in a different direction. I felt 
like serving my country was something that I could do. She then said: 
Senator, I signed up in the face of Iraq knowing that I would go to 
Iraq. This is not my first trip to Iraq; it is my second tour of duty 
in Iraq. I know I am here for the right reason. I know the mission we 
have to accomplish. I am prepared to accomplish that mission because it 
is necessary and it is the right thing to do. As I visit with the 
people of Iraq here in the streets of Ramadi on a daily basis, I am 
reminded of what freedom is all about.

Boy, you talk about emotion. You talk about a great young American. 
Those folks are truly great Americans.

There is no better commentary on the status in Iraq than the men and


women who are on the ground, and they are all telling us loudly and 
clearly that now is not the time to leave, nor is it the time to judge 
the strategy. The right time to evaluate the strategy is September, and 
the right time to give our forces what they deserve, by passing the 
National Defense Authorization Act, is now.

I yield the floor.