---
---

# None
## `30da8ab4da61b39c0512a12b32baa9d2`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Meek, you are very right. And I am 
glad those quotes are going to be on the 30-Something Web site because 
it really is a cross-section of this Chamber, the people who have been 
really


speaking out and asking the President to revisit this plan to escalate 
the war. You have dozens of Republicans, more every day, that are 
coming out and suggesting that there has got to be a plan C, right? 
Plan A we know didn't work; we are now debating plan B, which everyone 
from foreign policy experts to the President's own military advisors 
suggest won't work.

And we hope that some of the folks watching us on C-SPAN right now 
caught some of the hearings, Mr. Meek, before the Armed Services 
Committees and other relevant committees because you have heard some 
remarkable testimony from the President's own military leaders 
expressing grave doubts about this plan to put new troops into Iraq and 
into Baghdad.

So we have got both sides of the aisle coming together and saying, 
listen, let's sit down and talk about plan C, because that is what this 
is about. This is not about just standing up here in front of TV 
cameras and telling people the President's plan doesn't work; it has 
got to be about setting another way. And there are other ways. We can 
talk about the redeployment of troops. We can talk about starting to 
rebuild our credibility in the world.

The President talked last night, Mr. Meek, about the unification of 
the world's communities around the President's strategy. Well, that 
certainty doesn't comport with reality, it doesn't comport with what we 
are seeing; but it doesn't mean that the opportunity is lost, it 
doesn't mean that we still can't go back to the world community and 
say, let's together build a new strategy to get ourselves out of Iraq 
in a way that leaves that country as stable as we can.

And, Mr. Meek, I don't know about you, but I think we can still do 
that. And I am actually interested. The President is going to speak to 
our issues conference in a week and a half, and I know there is some 
grumbling about that, but I am actually looking forward to him coming 
to us so that we might be able to have another chance to persuade him 
to work with both sides of the aisle here on this floor to come up with 
a new strategy that will allow us to lend stability to that country and 
rebuild the world community, and do it in a way that doesn't put more 
and more troops of ours in harm's way. And I know, Mr. Meek, of other 
Members who have been here much longer than I believe that we can do 
that together.