# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-62)
## `30e8a554a720780050e5aa928e90dbf0`
`Ms. PELOSI — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and 
thank him for his tremendous work on


behalf of health care for all Americans in our country and in this case 
for our children. I commend Mr. Pallone for his leadership as well, and 
the distinguished chairmen, Mr. Rangel and Mr. Dingell.

I salute the bipartisan vote that we had in the Congress to send the 
SCHIP legislation to the President of the United States. It was strong 
and bipartisan. It was about the children. And I also salute the strong 
vote in the United States Senate. I commend Senators Hatch and Grassley 
for lending their weight and bipartisanship to this important 
legislation. They joined Senators Rockefeller and Baucus on this 
important issue.

Madam Speaker, as we all know and has been spoken already, today the 
President of the United States missed an opportunity to say to the 
children of America your health and well-being are important to us, so 
important that we are making you a priority. Today, the President said 
''no'' to bipartisan legislation that would have extended health care 
to 10 million American children for the next 5 years.

The President said ''no'' to giving assurances to America's working 
families that if they work hard and play by the rules, we are their 
partners in raising the next generation of Americans and investing in 
the future.

In his speech and his veto statement, the President indicated we were 
doing something in this bill that we were not, that we were expanding 
eligibility. No, we were just enrolling all of the children who are 
eligible. In fact, we didn't have enough money to enroll all of them, 
but as many as could be afforded by a bill that could receive 
bipartisan support.

The President said that we are moving toward socialized medicine and 
that he supports private medicine. Well, so do we, and this is about 
private medicine. It is about children being able to get insurance so 
they can have health care. The fact is that 72 percent of the children 
on SCHIP receive their health care through private insurance programs.

I think the strongest indication of the President's commitment to 
this initiative came when he was Governor of Texas. At that time the 
State of Texas ranked 49th in its participation in SCHIP in meeting the 
needs of the children of Texas.

SCHIP started as a bipartisan initiative with a Democratic President, 
President Clinton in the White House and a Republican Congress which 
came together in a bipartisan way in order to provide for the needs of 
our children. Once again with the reauthorization of the bill, we have 
come together in a bipartisan way to provide for the needs of our 
children.

Sadly, following true to form, this form in Texas, 49th in the 
country, and how could Texas be 49th in the country with all of the 
pride that Texas takes in its stature, its size, its commitment to the 
future, its large number of beautiful and diverse children, that it 
would allow 48 States to be ahead of them in meeting the health needs 
of America's children from poor working families.

What I know will happen today is that we will vote for a time certain 
in 2 weeks for us to bring up the override of the veto. At that time I 
hope that with the 43 Governors across the country, Democrats and 
Republicans alike, with bipartisan overwhelming support in the House 
and Senate, with every organization from AARP to YMCA and everything 
alphabetically in between, including the Catholic Hospital Association, 
Families USA, and the American Medical Association talking about 
private medicine, and the list goes on, that Members will listen, at 
least listen to those who care about children, who have standing in 
caring about children because I believe every person in this Congress 
cares about children, and I think it would be important for us to hear 
the voices of those who on a day-to-day basis try to help families who 
need some assistance in meeting the health needs of their children.

So, my colleagues, this is, as Mr. Hoyer said, a defining moment for 
the Congress of the United States. The President has said ''no.'' This 
Congress must not take ''no'' for an answer, and I urge my colleagues 
to vote ''aye'' on a time certain when we can take up the override of 
the President's veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, 
an initiative to provide 10 million children health care, health 
insurance for 5 years. The difference between us and the President is 
41 days in Iraq. For 41 days in Iraq, 10 million children can receive 
health care for 1 year.



Let's get our priorities in order. Let's recognize that the strength 
of our country, in addition to being defined by military might, is 
defined by the health and well-being of the American people, starting 
with our children.