# RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2009
## `30f7972115cfc5114030a4baa96badb5`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 18 November 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in 
support of the Reserve Officers Association Modernization Act. As a 
member of the Homeland Security Committee, I understand the role of the 
brave men and women of the National Guard and the Reserves and I 
strongly support legislation that facilitates their ability to continue 
to provide an excellent service to the United States.

The Reserve Officers Association was founded in 1922 by several 
hundred military officers, many of whom were veterans of World War I. 
The Association was concerned that in the wake of World War I, the 
complacency and isolationism that was sweeping across the political 
landscape would lead to a return to America's pre war unpreparedness. 
In June 1950, President Truman signed the Reserve Officers 
Association's charter into law. Today, over 80 years after the 
Association's founding, the complacency that its founders feared is 
long gone, yet the Reserve Officers Association remains committed to 
its mission: ''. . . [to] support and promote the development and 
execution of a military policy for the United States that will provide 
adequate National Security.''

Today, the Reserve Officers Association is organized into 55 
departments with one department in each of the 50 states, and 5 
additional departments located in Latin America, Puerto Rico, Europe, 
the District of Columbia and the Far East. Each department is further 
divided into chapters. There are over 550 chapters around the world.

The Reserve Officers Association helped to establish the bipartisan 
Reserve Component Caucus in the House of Representatives, of which, of 
course, I am a member, to provide congressional oversight of Reserve 
issues and programs.

Since the events of September 11, 2001, our country has relied more 
heavily on the National Guard and the Reserves than at any other time 
in recent history. The National Guard and the Reserves play a 
significant role in the United States military, national security and 
disaster relief efforts. The Reserves and the National Guard have 
stepped forward to answer the call of duty in both Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Furthermore, they have each played pivotal roles in 
homeland security and disaster relief. These new, demanding 
responsibilities of the National Guard and the Reserves require an 
update of policies, and of the Reserves Officers Association charter.

This legislation is designed to update the Reserve Officers 
Association's Federal Charter to reflect the current operations of the 
Association. The bill extends the Association's National Executive 
Committee, its governing body, to include the Association's president-
elect. It also names the president-elect as an officer of the 
Association. Furthermore, it provides for the possibility of having 
more than 3 national executive committee members as officers and on the 
National Executive Committee. The bill also provides for one vote for 
each member of the Committee except the president elect and the 
executive director. The bill also provides for certain officers to be 
decided in accordance with the Association's Constitution.

It is our responsibility to provide for the needs of the National 
Guard and the Reserves. They each contribute to our Nation's military, 
our national security and disaster relief efforts. I am proud and 
honored to support the brave men and women of the Reserves and the 
National Guard by endorsing this legislation. I encourage all of my 
colleagues to vote in support of this bill to bring the Reserve 
Officers Association Federal Charter up to date so that the 
organization can continue to provide a valuable and honorable service 
to the United States of America.
