---
---

# None
## `310832a2455a1942b6e480ae718b6a24`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

As a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I am pleased to join my colleague in the consideration of H.R. 
3308, which names a postal facility in Atwood, Indiana, after Lance 
Corporal David K. Fribley.

H.R. 3308, which was introduced by Representative Mark Souder on 
August 1, 2007, was reported from the Oversight Committee on September 
20, 2007, by voice vote. This measure has the support of the entire 
Indiana congressional delegation.

Madam Speaker, Marine Lance Corporal David K. Fribley was killed in 
action on March 23, 2003, near Nasiriyah, Iraq. He was assigned to the 
1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade, 
Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.

Mr. Fribley earned a degree from Indiana State University in 
recreation and sports management. He was working at a retirement home 
in Fort Myers, Florida, a job he loved, when the terrorist attacks 
occurred on September 11, 2001. Mr. Fribley joined the Marines. He 
wrote in a letter to his parents: ''Right now, I'm sure I'm where God 
wants me to be.''

Lance Corporal Fribley served his country with honor and distinction. 
He gave the ultimate sacrifice, and America is eternally grateful.

I commend my colleague, Representative Mark Souder, for introducing 
this legislation and urge its passage.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.