---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `310af9ee3b4ceab04fd5a0860b58935e`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as members of the Appropriations Committee began the 
process of writing this legislation, I was hopeful that the House would 
return to its traditional approach to considering appropriations bills 
under an open rule on the House floor. Unfortunately, that is not the 
case today.

There are Members of both political parties who have thoughtful and 
well-intentioned amendments that ought to receive the consideration of 
the full House. An open rule would ensure that each and every Member 
has the right and the opportunity to make a good bill even better. But 
Members on both sides are once again being denied this precious right.

There is one exception to this rule, however. To cover itself 
politically on a highly sensitive national security issue, the majority 
leadership has included an amendment offered by my chairman, David 
Obey, that is self-executed into the rule on this bill. However, the 
Obey amendment only pays lip service to protecting our citizens from 
the release of known terrorists from Guantanamo into the United States.

Mr. Wolf, who is perhaps the most knowledgeable Member of the House 
on this issue, offered an amendment in the full committee last week 
which was defeated on a straight party-line vote. Yesterday, Mr. Wolf 
testified on his amendment at the Rules Committee and he was denied the 
opportunity to even offer his amendment today on the floor.

I don't say this lightly, but on this issue the majority leadership 
of the House appears to be more sensitive to the rights of known 
terrorists than the rights of duly elected Members of this body. What a 
shameful exercise this has become.

House Members were initially led to believe that this legislation 
would be kept at the President's original level of $84 billion to fund 
only the critical needs of the global war on terrorism. As presented 
today, however, this legislation has grown to $96.7 billion since it 
was submitted to the Congress 5 weeks ago.

The Members know that we face many crises around the world deserving 
our attention and thoughtful deliberation. It was President Kennedy who 
a generation ago reminded us that, when written in Chinese, the word 
''crises'' is composed of two characters: one represents danger; the 
other represents opportunity.

If there is any doubt about what we are doing, let us be mindful that 
the supplemental provides the necessary resources for our soldiers and 
civilians to wage a successful battle on multiple fronts in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and Pakistan. We know that the Taliban is now increasingly 
emboldened and the situation on the ground in Pakistan is, at best, 
fragile.

Closer to our shores, the potential closure of Guantanamo has become 
a symbol of best intentions colliding head-on with political reality. 
Chairman Obey's decision to withhold funding for Guantanamo is the 
clearest indication to date that the Obama administration still has no 
plausible plan to deal with this complex national security issue.

The President owes it to the American people and this Congress to 
provide a detailed plan for the potential


relocation of detainees prior to any funds being appropriated for this 
purpose and prior to any detainees being transferred to our shores.

As presently written, the legislation does absolutely nothing to 
prevent the release of detainees from Guantanamo into the United 
States, into our neighborhoods and communities, after October 1 of this 
year. These detainees, many of them well-known terrorists, trained by 
al Qaeda, would be released with no security risk assessment or even 
the prior notification of Members of Congress.

Congressman Wolf and Congressman Tiahrt each had amendments 
addressing this critical national security issue, and both were denied 
the opportunity to offer their amendments on the floor. As a result, it 
is now only a matter of time before known terrorists will be brought to 
the United States on a permanent basis.

Today, it is less clear, not more clear, what rights they will be 
afforded when they arrive and under what judicial system they will be 
tried. And, indeed, in many ways we will be treating them as though 
they were citizens of the United States.

The insistence of the majority leadership to consider this 
legislation under a closed rule is disappointing because the bulk of 
this emergency supplemental was put together with very serious 
bipartisan cooperation. It is one of the rare instances in recent times 
when Republicans and Democrats have largely set aside partisan 
differences to do what is best for our country and what is best for our 
troops.

I am deeply concerned about legitimate national security questions 
taking a back seat to political partisanship. But we must pass this 
legislation, even in its presently flawed form, to ensure that funds 
continue to flow to support our efforts to bring peace and stability 
around the world. I urge an ''aye'' vote on this legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.