---
---

# None
## `31179875b7fcbf2af8e2b6a238950d2f`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, unlucky or not, 13 is the number before 
us. That's how many predominantly Sunni nations in the Middle East have 
declared in the past year that they want nuclear power. We know that 
Iran is building a nuclear capacity which it claims will be used solely 
for power generation. Iran is predominantly a Shiite nation. While both 
are Muslim, Sunni and Shiite are different. At the grass-roots level, 
everyday people intermarry and get along just fine, until the 
governments in power decide they want religious ideology to govern 
everyone.

Sunni-Shiite dominance was behind the Iran-Iraq war two decades ago 
when Don Rumsfeld went to Iraq to pledge U.S. support to Saddam 
Hussein. Today the Iraq war has inflamed Sunni-Shiite passions and U.S. 
forces are in the middle of it, fighting and dying in a fight that we 
shouldn't be in. There's been a lot in the news about Iran's nuclear 
program, including threats by the Vice President that Iran will never 
be permitted to acquire nuclear capacity. In other words, the 
administration's international diplomacy with Iran begins with an order 
from the U.S. military to lock and load. A military strike directly 
ordered by the administration, or indirectly sanctioned by the 
administration, is considered a foregone conclusion by many in the 
Middle East.

Given this, let's renew the bidding, because 13 other nations in the 
Middle East are not being threatened by the administration. In fact, 
quite the opposite is true. A recent article in the Christian Science 
Monitor lays out the fact. I submit it for the Record.






 [From the Christian Science Monitor, Nov. 1, 2007]


 Middle East Racing to Nuclear Power--Shiite Iran's Ambitions Have 


Spurred 13 Sunni States to Declare Atomic Energy Aims This Year















(By Dan Murphy)




 Cairo.--This week Egypt became the 13th Middle Eastern 


 country in the past year to say it wants nuclear power, 


 intensifying an atomic race spurred largely by Iran's nuclear 


 agenda, which many in the region and the West claim is cover 


 for a weapons program.



 Experts say the nuclear ambitions of majority Sunni Muslim 


 states such as Libya, Jordan, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia are 


 reactions to Shiite Iran's high-profile nuclear bid, seen as 


 linked with Tehran's campaign for greater influence and 


 prestige throughout the Middle East.



 ''To have 13 states in the region say they're interested in 


 nuclear power over the course of a year certainly catches the 


 eye,'' says Mark Fitzpatrick, a former senior 


 nonproliferation official in the U.S. State Department who is 


 now a fellow at the International Institute for Strategic 


 Studies in London. ''The Iranian angle is the reason.''



 But economics are also behind this new push to explore 


 nuclear power, at least for some of the aspirants. Egypt's 


 oil reserves are dwindling, Jordan has no natural resources 


 to speak of at all, and power from oil and gas has grown much 


 more expensive for everyone. Though the day has not arrived, 


 it's conceivable that nuclear power will be a cheaper option 


 than traditional plants.



 But analysts say the driver is Iran, which appears to be 


 moving ahead with its nuclear program despite sanctions and 


 threats of possible military action by the U.S. The Gulf 


 Cooperation Council, a group of Saudi Arabia and the five 


 Arab states that border the Persian Gulf, reversed a 


 longstanding opposition to nuclear power last year.



 As the closest U.S. allies in the region and sitting on 


 vast oil wealth, these states had said they saw no need for 


 nuclear energy. But Fitzpatrick, as well as other analysts, 


 say these countries now see their own declarations of nuclear 


 intent as a way to contain Iran's influence. At least, 


 experts say, it signals to the U.S. how alarmed they are by a 


 nuclear Iran.



 ''The rules have changed on the nuclear subject throughout 


 the whole region,'' Jordan's King Abdullah, another U.S. 


 ally, told Israel's Haaretz newspaper early this year. 


 ''Where I think Jordan was saying, 'We'd like to have a 


 nuclear-free zone in the area,' . . . [now] everybody's going 


 for nuclear programs.''



 Though the U.S. has been vociferous in its opposition to 


 Iran's nuclear bid, particularly since the country says it's 


 determined to establish its own nuclear fuel cycle, which 


 would dramatically increase its ability to build a nuclear 


 bomb, it has generally been tolerant of the nuclear ambitions 


 of its friends in the region.



 ''Those states that want to pursue peaceful nuclear energy 


 . . . [are] not a problem for us,'' State Department 


 spokesman Sean McCormack said in response to Egyptian 


 President Hosni Mubarak's announcement on Monday.



 Henry Sokolski, executive director of the Nonproliferation 


 Policy Education Center in Washington and a former Defense 


 Department official focused on containing the spread of 


 nuclear weapons, says he finds that hands-off approach of the 


 Bush administration alarming.



 ''I think we're trying to put out a fire of proliferation 


 with a bucket of kerosene,'' he says. He said he recently 


 spoke with a senior administration official on the matter, 


 who argued that it was better for the U.S. to cooperate with 


 Egypt and other countries since, in the official's view, 


 nuclear power in these countries is ''inevitable'' and it's 


 better to be in a position to influence their choices and 


 monitor the process.



 Egypt has had an on-again, off-again nuclear program since 


 the 1950s. In the 1960s, Egypt threatened to develop a bomb 


 largely out of anger over Israel's nuclear pursuit. Under Mr. 


 Mubarak, who has ruled since 1981, the country has been 


 consistent in saying it does not want nuclear weapons, and 


 Egypt has been at the forefront of diplomatic efforts to 


 declare the region a nuclear-weapons-free zone--a strategy it 


 uses to target Israel's nuclear weapons.



 Today, the country has a 22-megawatt research reactor north 


 of Cairo that was built by an Argentine company and completed 


 in 1997. A drive to develop a power plant in the 1980s 


 stalled after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in Russia.



 In a nationally televised speech Monday, Mubarak said 


 nuclear power is an ''integral part of Egypt's national 


 security'' while also promising that the country would not 


 seek the bomb. Other Egyptian officials say the country is 


 planning on having a working reactor within a decade, though 


 analysts say that's an optimistic time line.



 Egypt's nuclear plans have been reinvigorated in recent 


 years, with Mubarak's son, Gamal, widely seen in Egypt as his 


 father's favored successor, calling for the building of a 


 reactor. Mubarak discussed nuclear power cooperation on state 


 visits to Russia and China last year.



 ''They feel politically threatened by Iran's nuclear 


 program, they've pointed out rightly that Israel [hasn't 


 been] a member of [nonproliferation] treaties for many 


 years,'' says Jon Wolfsthal, a nonproliferation expert at the 


 Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 


 ''Of course there is economic logic: If they can sell 


 whatever oil they have for $93 a barrel instead of using it, 


 that's attractive . . . but it shouldn't be assumed that it's 


 all benign.''



 For Egypt, the allure of nuclear power is apparent. Its oil 


 consumption is growing and electricity demand is growing at 


 about 7 percent a year.



 ''Egypt can absolutely make a legitimate case for nuclear 


 energy,'' says Mr. Fitzpatrick. ''Its reserves are dwindling, 


 it needs the oil and gas for export, and it needs to 


 diversify its energy resources.''



 Even major oil producers such as Saudi Arabia are, along 


 with Iran, arguing that they need nuclear power. They say 


 it's better to sell their oil than to burn it at home.



 But some analysts argue that nuclear power remains an 


 economic loser. Mr. Sokolski says that when state subsidies 


 to nuclear power are removed, nuclear plants are not 


 economically viable. ''If it was, private banks would be 


 financing nuclear plants without loan guarantees. They can't 


 do it and make money yet.''



 Of course whenever the topic of nuclear power comes up, 


 particularly in the Middle East, concerns about the possible 


 spread of nuclear weapons are not far behind. Experts who 


 follow the nuclear weapons question say assurances of only 


 pursuing peaceful objectives, as have been given by all the 


 countries pursuing nuclear power, Iran included, shouldn't be 


 taken at face value.



 ''Although Egypt does not feel directly threatened by Iran, 


 it does feel its own power and influence in the region 


 threatened by a resurgent nuclear armed Iran,'' says 


 Fitzpatrick.



 ''There are a lot of countries in the region who have 


 expressed interest in nuclear power, and I think there are 


 good reasons to be concerned about this interest and the 


 timing of this interest,'' says Mr. Wolfsthal. ''Nuclear 


 power has had economic arguments in its favor for a decade, 


 but the fact is these programs are only coming to a head in 


 light of the Iranian program.''



 Wolfsthal says the key issues in the coming years will be 


 whether Egypt contracts a turn-key plant from a foreign 


 company--which would minimize the amount of skill and 


 technology transferred to Egyptian engineers--or if it will 


 pursue nuclear partnerships that broaden its knowledge and 


 skills bases.



 Will they pursue their own nuclear fuel cycle, which, he 


 says, would make little economic sense and would be a clear 


 ''red flag'' of intent to develop a weapon, or will they




 buy nuclear fuel from abroad? ''If you are interested in 


 having the capability of building a nuclear weapon, the best 


 way to start is by building up your nuclear power 


 infrastructure,'' he says. ''The same people that help you 


 design and build nuclear reactors have many of the skill sets 


 you will need if you are going to build a nuclear weapon.''



 Fitzpatrick agrees that if Egypt promises not to develop a 


 nuclear fuel cycle and would agree to more intrusive 


 inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency, there 


 would be little reason for concern, though he doubts those 


 commitments will be made. ''Egypt won't take those steps 


 because it says its hands can't be bound anymore while 


 Israel's hands are unbound. They already resent the nuclear 


 asymmetry with Israel, and a nuclear armed Iran on top of 


 that adds too much for them.''

The conclusion is clear: a nuclear Iran is not acceptable, but a 
nuclear Israel, a nuclear Egypt, a nuclear India, a nuclear Pakistan, a 
nuclear Yemen, a nuclear Saudi Arabia and nuclear all the others, well, 
that's a different story.

There was a time when world leaders hoped for a nuclear-free zone in 
the Middle East. Instead, while we try to shoot our way to peace in 
Iraq, other world leaders are watching the creation of a nuclear excess 
zone in the Middle East. We threaten Iran, while we encourage the 
others.

The President has used two terms to implement a nuclear double 
standard. Today's U.S. friends can have nuclear power because they 
really only intend to use it for power generation. But today's U.S. 
foes must be stopped from acquiring nuclear power because they might 
use it in a bad way.

Today's friend is the President's standard for supporting the 
proliferation of nuclear capacity in the world.

Timing is everything. Not many years ago, Iran was our friend. Under 
the Shah of Iran, maybe they should have started their nuclear work 
sooner because that would have met the President's definition for a 
nation deserving of nuclear power.

But let's not forget Rumsfeld's meeting with Saddam. He may not have 
been our friend that day, but we sure acted like it.

Today Pakistan is in political crisis. And we know they have nuclear 
weapons, not just nuclear power. What will the President do about it? 
His State Department spokesman said the other day the administration 
doesn't have a problem with nations developing peaceful nuclear energy. 
That's diplomatic-speak for today's U.S. friends get to develop nuclear 
energy, while today's U.S. foes get threatened with bunker-buster 
bombs. The administration has been drumbeating for months against Iran, 
but how much have we heard about the other 13 nations who intend to 
develop nuclear capacity?


A double standard is no standard at all. And history shows that in 
the Middle East, today's friend can be tomorrow's foe. What kind of 
policy is that?

The President has destroyed the philosophy, the practicality, and the 
prudence of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. Instead he has 
embarked on a new policy that will guarantee, that will guarantee, that 
we live in a much more dangerous world.

So much for security from this administration.
