# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `312cbbaf674c3df13626b20edc2558a7`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

One of the things that really doesn't often get discussion here on 
this floor with respect to a war is the specifics about how it affects 
people back home. And because I come from Cleveland, I just want to 
share with you some things just about my community.

Cleveland, as some of you may know, was the epicenter of the subprime 
mortgage meltdown. Predatory lenders descended on neighbors in our 
community and were able to take people into contracts that eventually 
led them into foreclosure and losing their homes.

Now, I don't think that even the most powerful camera would be able 
to pick up the sea of red dots across our metropolitan area that 
represents foreclosures, but you get an idea that we have a desperate 
need not only in Cleveland but across the country for helping to keep 
people in their homes. And yet more and more, our priorities are to 
spend money not just on these wars but to increase the Pentagon budget.

I would like to point out that just with respect to the amount of 
money that is being spent, allocated by congressional districts--this 
is the National Priorities Project that I am quoting which includes the 
fiscal 2010 budget. They point out that taxpayers in the 10th 
Congressional District that I represent will pay $591.9 million for 
total Afghanistan war spending, counting all the spending since 2001.

And they go on to say, Here's what that money could have been spent 
for instead. It could have been used to provide 209,812 people with 
health care for 1 year. Or it could have been used to provide 13,404 
public safety officers for 1 year, or 9,063 music and arts teachers for 
1 year, or 68,299 scholarships for university students for 1 year. Or 
it could have been spent for 106,658 students receiving Pell grants of 
$5,550. Or it could have been spent to provide for 5,521 affordable 
housing units. It could be have been spent for providing 355,972 
children with health care for 1 year, or 92,161 Head Start places for 
children for 1 year, or 9,433 elementary school teachers for 1 year, or 
662,950 homes with renewable electricity for 1 year.



When we spend money on wars and we spend money expanding the budget 
for military spending, we may say we are making things safer at home, 
but there is plenty of evidence to suggest that the shift in allocation 
of funds and the shift for spending towards wars, which were off-budget 
for quite a while, have put our country in a position where we are not 
really able to meet our needs.

When you look at this, this is from the Friends Committee on National 
Legislation, they say for each dollar of Federal income tax we paid in 
2009, the government spent about 33 cents for Pentagon spending for 
current and past wars; 27 cents supporting the economy, which is the 
recovery and the bailouts; 17 cents for health care; 11 cents 
responding to poverty; 9 cents for general government, and of that 7 
cents goes for interest on the public debt; 2 cents for energy, science 
and environment; and a penny of the Federal dollar for diplomacy, 
development, and war prevention.

We are setting our priorities here constantly. When we remain silent 
about war spending, we actually have put ourselves in a position where 
we go headlong. And the headlong momentum that occurs from being silent 
about a war just carries us into all these reshaped priorities, whether 
we realize it or not. That is why I have asked this resolution to be 
brought forth, so we could talk about this.

I reserve the balance of my time.