---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3138b34d9c1b603b600af04449b63b9d`
`Mr. CASEY — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, yesterday I filed amendment No. 740, which 
allows dairy farmers in Pennsylvania to receive a one-time emergency 
assistance payment of $2.50 for every hundredweight of milk they 
produced over the past 6 months. Because the Senate invoked cloture on 
this spending bill and we are quickly wrapping up our work to get 
funding to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, I will not have the 
opportunity to offer my amendment today. I will, however, continue to 
pursue this critical emergency funding for our dairy farmers.

Dairy farmers in my home State and other Northeastern States are at 
the end of their rope. They have cut corners and pared their operations 
down to the absolute necessities, but they simply cannot make ends 
meet. Prices for feed and fuel have more than doubled over the past 
year and a half, but the price farmers get for their milk has not kept 
pace. Consequently, dairy farmers in Pennsylvania are losing about $5 
on every hundredweight of milk they produce. For a small dairy farmer 
with 75 or so cows, this could mean a loss of around $20,000 year.

During the last congressional recess, I toured two dairy farms in 
different regions of Pennsylvania and talked to dozens of farmers. I 
heard stories about draining savings accounts, trying to patch repair 
broken equipment, leaving bills unpaid, and selling cows just to keep 
the farm going. Our farmers are doing everything in their power to keep 
their businesses going. Unfortunately, many of them are now faced with 
their last option--to sell everything and shut down the farm. I want to 
be sure colleagues understand that this is happening right now, today. 
The prospect of mass closings of dairy farms is not something off in 
the distant future. Pennsylvania is losing 250 to 350 dairy farms every 
year. Today, dairy farmers in my home State are sitting down with their 
families and making tough decisions about the future of their farms. 
Many of them won't be able to stay in business while they wait for 
Congress to finish work on the new farm bill.

The result would be devastating. Dairy is Pennsylvania's top 
agricultural commodity, contributing $4.2 billion annually to the State 
economy


and employing 40,000 people. This is what we stand to lose if we stand 
by and watch as our dairy farmers close down. I am not willing to risk 
it.

I also want to point out that the impacts of the loss of 
Pennsylvania's dairy industry will be felt throughout rural 
communities. As farmers go out of business, feed stores, fertilizer 
stores, and milk haulers go out of business, feed stores, fertilizer 
stores, and milk haulers go out of business. Without the economic 
engine provided by dairy, people are left out of work and our rural 
towns and counties will crumble.

I will do everything in my power to prevent that from happening.

I am committed to finding short-term relief to keep Pennsylvania 
dairy farmers in business while we make long-term fixes in Federal 
dairy policy in the next farm bill. I hope that all of my colleagues 
will support our hard-working dairy farmers and work with me to find 
commonsense solutions to avert an impending crisis in rural America.