---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `313c110b10c1f42b5fa10038da43df1a`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 4 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, first I want to make a comment about the 
process that has been underway on immigration. We sometimes think about 
what is the most important thing we are given as Senators. What is the 
privilege we get to exercise on behalf of the American people in 
representing our States? We get to work on issues of enormous 
importance to civilization, to the United States, and to our respective 
States in this country. But one of the decisions that is made here by 
the majority leader is what kind of time is going to be allocated on 
what kinds of issues.

Well, this majority leader, Senator Reid, said 2 months ago he would 
set aside May, some time in May, for us to deal with the issue of 
immigration. He did the right thing, because what he did is he held 
peoples' feet to the fire to deal with this issue that some people 
would rather not deal with at all. He said for us in the Senate, the 
100 Members of this Chamber would be spending a significant amount of 
time in May and now into June dealing with this issue. But the amount 
of time we spent working on the issue of immigration goes far beyond 
the current effort we have on this bill.

Last year, through the Judiciary Committee hearing that lasted for 
weeks prior to a markup and then for almost a month here on the floor 
of the Senate, we labored hard day and night to come up with a 
comprehensive immigration reform package. When all was said and done, 
some 35 votes were cast on that legislation, and there were over 60 
votes in the Senate to move forward with comprehensive immigration 
reform. That was a month of struggle in this Chamber, trying to come up 
with a solution to deal with the very significant challenges we face 
with immigration.

The group that has been working with Senator Kennedy, Senator Kyl, 
Senator Specter, the Presiding Officer, and others who have spent so 
much time in trying to come up with a comprehensive bill that would 
allow us to deal with this issue and move it forward worked very hard 
over the last several months. So we have been on this legislation for a 
very long time. We were on this legislation for all of last week. There 
were 13 amendments that were made to the legislation during the week we 
had on this legislation last week.

At this point there are 14 pending amendments. We hope we will begin 
to vote on those amendments tomorrow morning and will continue through 
the rest of the day and through the rest of the week. It is my hope at 
the end of the day we will have an immigration reform package that is 
adopted by the Senate, and will then move forward.

I wish to make a comment on one of the attacks that has been made on 
this legislation by many Members around the country where they said 
what we are trying to do is give people amnesty. Well, when I looked up 
the definition of amnesty in the Merriam Webster on-line dictionary, it 
says essentially amnesty is a pardon. Amnesty is a pardon.

This is not a pardon. What we are calling for in this legislation is 
a far


cry from a pardon. This is a probationary status people are being put 
in.

I come from a law enforcement background. I spent 6 years as attorney 
general. I helped put thousands and thousands of people behind bars. I 
prosecuted gangs and white-collar crime, and made sure that murderers 
were serving their time in the prisons of my State. That is a part of 
what I did as a prosecutor, as a member of law enforcement.

In law enforcement we say: If you do the crime, you got to do the 
time; you got to pay the fine. Well, what is it we are asking people 
here to do? We are asking them to do a tremendous amount of work and 
activity to demonstrate that they are, in fact, entitled at some point 
down the road to a green card.

The first thing you are asking people to do under the new program we 
are setting up is that they have to come out of the shadows into the 
sunlight of society, and to register with the Government. That is not a 
requirement we make of any citizen in the United States, but it is a 
requirement we are going to make to have undocumented workers here in 
America, that they have to register with the Government and they have 
to do that and then go into a probationary period that is going to last 
for a very long period of time.

At the time they register, they have to pay a fine. Now, it is not a 
$5 fine, a $25 fine, a little slap on the wrist. You are talking about 
an accumulation of fines and processing fees and impact fees that at 
the end of the day is probably going to be somewhere in the 
neighborhood of $7,500 to $8,000 per person.

At the time they pay their penalty, they have to pay $1,000. After 
they pay their penalty of $1,000, they have to pay $1,500 dollars to 
get their Z card application, and then 3 years later they have to pay 
another $1,500, at 8 years of going through this purgatory where we 
require them during those 8 years to take English classes, to make sure 
they stay out of trouble with the law, to make sure they are gainfully 
employed. If they survive that 8-year period of purgatory, at that 
period of time they have to pay an additional amount of money in order 
to get their green card.

When you add up all of that money they have to pay, you are talking 
about somewhere in the neighborhood of $8,000. That is not amnesty. 
That is people having to pay a very significant fine and take on a very 
significant number of affirmative actions that ultimately, after 
waiting for a period of 8 years, might qualify them to get a green 
card.

For those who cry the word ''amnesty'' when we talk about immigration 
reform, they are continuing to play into the hands of those who want to 
make a political debate with no end. They believe if you label people 
who are for comprehensive immigration reform with the word ''amnesty,'' 
somehow it will never get done. That is the do-nothing crowd. In fact, 
that is what happened in the House of Representatives last year, when 
in this body, in a bipartisan vote, Democrats and Republicans coming 
together, passed comprehensive immigration reform. The other body, the 
House of Representatives, then decided they did not want to take it 
up--not because of the national security issues that are at stake; not 
because of the economic security issues which might be dealt with in 
this legislation; not because of the human and moral issues which are 
at stake in the immigration reform debate, they did not want to take it 
up in the House of Representatives, the then Republican majority did 
not want to take it up in the House of Representatives simply because 
of the fact that they thought it was their trump card to keep the 
majority in the November elections.

So those who parade around the country with the shrill cry of 
''amnesty'' are doing the American people a great disservice. What they 
are doing is they are playing politics and having politics trump the 
national interests. The national interests, which we are trying to 
serve in this legislation, to me are important, fundamental, simple, 
but they are interests which we cannot escape as the leaders of this 
country.


They are first securing our country. We came here as Members of the 
Senate because we want to protect America. We all say we want to 
protect America. Well, what more can we do to protect America than to 
make sure the borders of our country are, in fact, being secured? This 
legislation we now have in this Chamber will, in fact, secure our 
borders.

Those of us who come here to the Senate also say we need to do 
something to enforce our laws. One of the values we have as the people 
of America is we say we are a nation of laws.

What makes us different today than the circumstances we see happening 
in places such as Iraq, such as Lebanon, and other places? What makes 
us different here in the United States of America is we are a nation of 
laws. We enforce our laws. We pass laws here in the Senate, the House 
of Representatives, that are signed by the President, and then we have 
an executive branch that enforces the laws of America.

Well, they haven't been enforced very well. In fact, I think in the 
last several years we have seen the lowest number of enforcement cases 
that have been taken against employers who have hired people who were 
not authorized to be in this country.

What we have set up in this legislation is a program that will, in 
fact, make sure we are enforcing the laws of our Nation, and that that 
value of being a nation of laws is something we can celebrate.

Certainly the legislation before us as well deals with the reality of 
the 12 million undocumented workers who are here. We deal with the 
other issues that are part of the economic challenges we face in 
America. The 12 million people who are here working with undocumented 
status are providing very valuable assistance to the American people.

For every American who is watching the debate on immigration, they 
ought to ask themselves: Who is it that is cleaning your yard? Who are 
the landscapers of America today? Who is it that is working out in the 
meat-packing plants making sure you have the meat and produce that ends 
up on your table for your evening dinner? Who is it that is working 
out, in resort areas, making sure that not only your landscaping is 
being taken care of but the needs of your household are being taken 
care of? Who is out working in the homes of America making sure that 
the children of America are being taken care of? Who is it out there in 
America today making sure that the nurses' aides working in homes of 
Americans taking carry of our elderly are there?

Many of them are the undocumented workers of America. Most of those 
people today live very much in the shadows of our society. They live in 
the shadows of our society. They often are subject to exploitation. 
Often when they come from whatever country, they are subject to the 
kind of exploitation that is very un-American. What we are trying to do 
is move our immigration system from a system that does not work, from a 
system that is a system of lawlessness, of broken borders, to a system 
that is a lawful and orderly program for immigration in our country.

At the end of the day, my hope is as we debate the issues on 
amendments the rest of the week, that we in this Chamber, in this 
Senate, will move forward and we will say we are going to move with an 
immigration reform legislation that will address the issues of national 
security, that will address the economic security issues here in our 
country, that realize the human and moral issues that are very much at 
stake.

Let me conclude, before I yield to my colleague from Arizona, by 
reminding people about the moral issues which are very much at the 
heart of this debate issue. Last year when we opened the debate on 
immigration reform in the Senate, Senator McCain, who has been an 
advocate for comprehensive immigration reform, talked about the number 
of people who had died in the desert in his State. He said at the time 
there had been 400 people who died in 2004. I believe 600 people died 
in 2006. He said: These are not just statistics; those are people who 
were found dead in the desert.

If I remember correctly, he talked about a young mother who was found 
dead in the desert holding her child, who also died, in her arms.

In my own church in the State of Colorado, our archbishop, Archbishop


Chaput, has often spoken out about the moral issues which are at stake 
with respect to the immigration debate. He wrote a column that was 
widely published in the Catholic Register last year which he titled 
''Dying to Live.'' What he meant to say in that title, what he said in 
his article, is that people who are coming here to live the American 
dream were actually dying in our deserts as they came here to live the 
American dream.

It seems to me what we can do as a Senate, working with the House of 
Representatives, working with the President, is come up with a system 
of law and order that will give people an understanding of how our 
immigration system works, that will make sure our borders are secure, 
that will make sure we enforce our laws in the United States of 
America, and that will make sure we end the immorality that has been 
very much a part of our system of lawlessness and chaos we have made 
with immigration in our country.

I hope my Democratic and Republican colleagues will help us move 
forward as we address amendments through the rest of the week and to 
produce legislation that we can move forward to the House of 
Representatives.

I yield the floor.