---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `313ea976b39aa1f9f026fdafb6c09c26`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, this legislation, the third 
supplemental bill we have considered this year, has many merits. 
However, I am extremely disappointed that it does not include a plan 
for phased redeployment of our troops. It is past time that we chart a 
new path in Iraq.

I have supported the previous versions of this legislation because 
they required that the White House demonstrate milestones of success 
and progress in Iraq with an explicit timeline for troop removal. But 
to now give the President a blank check would be unacceptable. We have 
spent hundreds of billions of dollars on this war and have yet to see 
even the beginning of the dividends of democracy promised to us by the 
President. Additional funding must include sufficient requirements for 
evidence of success. We also need an understanding of how much longer 
we will be in Iraq.

It is significant that the new Democratic leadership in Congress has 
ensured that appropriations funding bills are now focused on the 
soldiers and I am pleased to see that this bill includes funding for 
the armor and equipment needed. Nevertheless, this bill, with its 
absence of a plan for phased regional redeployment of American troops, 
will only further ensure that we stay in Iraq with no end in sight. The 
best way to support our troops is to give them the tools to do their 
job, and to change our policy to bring them home as safely and quickly 
as possible.

I believe this President must be held accountable for the 
deteriorating situation in Iraq and for lacking a plan to succeed. I 
believe it is the role--and the right--of Congress to be substantially 
involved in the direction of our foreign policy. And I believe that our 
men and women in uniform deserve better leadership. For these reasons, 
I cannot, and will not, support continuing to fund this war without a 
distinct time line for redeployment, and I will be voting ''no.''