---
---

# THE ACCOUNTABILITY CONGRESS: THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `313f21590732b89f2bd2de351ad9b772`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Sure. I listened to Congressman Murphy, and I 
listened to veterans in my home district of Broward and Palm Beach 
Counties, and whether it was World War II, the Korean War or the most 
recent conflicts we are involved in, these are brave men and women that 
put their lives on the line, and they deserve to be supported, both on 
the ground and when they come home.

I thank you for your service, and I certainly thank your colleagues 
over in Iraq and the men and women that are fighting and protecting our 
freedoms all over the world.



You know, when I think about September 11, which was a dark day for 
our country, and what happened in our country with the failures that 
allowed these terrorists to attack us, and the deaths, the needless 
deaths that occurred in our major cities, it was an awakening for this 
country. But it was also a time when we had an opportunity to really 
take stock of where our shortcomings were. Where were the intelligence 
failures? Where were the communication failures? Where were the 
vulnerabilities in our airports and our seaports and all these other 
places where people came in from other countries to harm us and kill 
our people in this country?

And there was a man named Osama bin Laden who is still out there. 
Hard to believe today. When you think about what our number one 
strategy should have been was to find the perpetrator and the 
perpetrators of this terrible, terrible tragedy, and he is still out 
there today. That needs to be rectified.

But beyond that, I think we all recognize things that came together 
after that; and there was this 9/11 Commission report, which was 
probably one of the most prestigious, important, qualified incredible 
groups that came together, Democrats, Republicans, professionals which 
said, let's figure this out. This isn't a Democrat/Republican issue; it 
is an American issue, and protecting our territory, our homes, our 
streets. And they came up with this 9/11 report. Which, if you haven't 
had a chance to take a look at it, it is not just reading you read 
before you go to bed and it will put you to sleep. This is gripping. 
This is really a very thorough analysis of what we need to do.

Unfortunately, it was a number of years that passed. Some things were 
adopted from that plan, but many were not. And I don't think it was 
anybody questioning the fact that this was a priority, but it wasn't 
passed. Many of the items weren't passed.

So one of the things that we said in our campaigns and we took up 
right away, and we are still obviously waiting for the process in 
Washington to be finished, but the House quickly took up the rest of 
the 9/11 Commission report and passed it. And I just want to highlight 
a few key elements.

We know that there were problems with aviation security. Those 
elements, those recommendations have been adopted. We know that there 
were port problems and port security issues. Most containers that come 
in, substantially most of the containers that come into our ports are 
not inspected. I come from southeast Florida. We have Port of Palm 
Beach and Port Everglades. Port Everglades is a main oil terminal among 
cargo and container in great bulk. Tremendous risk if you happen to be 
anywhere near those areas and something, God forbid, comes in in the 
form of nuclear materials or biohazardous materials or anything else 
that comes into those ports. And this is all over the United States. 
Ownership of the ports. We all know about the Dubai Port issue. That 
has been straightened out through our legislation.

Certainly the idea of preventing terrorists from even getting into 
this country, visa changes, rules changes, all these things are so 
important. And not to mention the people that are on the ground 
fighting for us every day, our firefighters, our emergency responders, 
our police officers. Every one of us feels very strongly about them. 
And as we grew up and you wanted to be a fireman or you wanted to be a 
policeman, not everybody chose that profession, but, boy, on September 
11 did we as Americans have a newfound respect for what they did for 
us.

But what we needed to do that wasn't done was to give them the tools, 
the communications tools like they needed in New York and other places 
so they can make sure that they can communicate with each other, and 
that local and State and National Federal intelligence agencies can 
properly share that information. These things have now been passed by 
the House of Representatives, and it was one of the first things we 
did. And that is the right thing to do. And whatever it costs, that 
should be at the top of our budget. People say, well, it is expensive. 
You know something? You prioritize. You say, what is first? Homeland 
security, protecting our troops, making sure they are properly funded. 
And I know that Congressman Yarmuth is going to talk about the 
incredible great work we have done for our veterans.

These are the things that are our Nation's priorities. These are 
American


values and America's priorities. And I am very proud that we as the 
freshman class participated with the rest of the Congress, and mostly 
Democrats, and Republicans, came together that said, yes, we are going 
to take care of the American people first. So I just wanted to share 
those elements with you.