---
---

# BRIEFING ON ``SAUDI ARABIA: FUELING RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION AND  EXTREMISM''
## `3140a5f134839ce7bf605ac9036d01ee`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Madam Speaker, I would like to submit the 
following for the Record:

 Remarks of Maria McFarland, Deputy Washington Director, Human Rights 
















 Watch




 In the last couple of years, Saudi King Abdullah has 


 received praise in some circles for having taken a few 


 cautious steps in support of religious tolerance through his 


 Interfaith Dialogue Initiative. But that initiative has been 


 limited to international settings.



 Within Saudi Arabia, repression of religious freedom 


 continues unabated, particularly with respect to Shia 


 Muslims. Saudi textbooks, including those used abroad, 


 include material that promotes hostility toward the Shia 


 creed and other religions and may in some cases justify 


 violence. The right of non-Muslims to worship in private is 


 subject to the whims of the local religious police. Public 


 worship of faiths other than Islam remains prohibited as a 


 matter of policy.



 Shia Saudis, who make up an estimated 10-15 percent of the 


 population, are the group most affected by repression of 


 religious freedom. Shia face systematic exclusion in 


 employment, as well as discrimination in religious education 


 and worship.



 In some cases, this discrimination amounts to persecution. 


 Professing Shia beliefs in private or in public may lead to 


 arrest and detention. Saudi Shia visiting the holy shrines in 


 Mecca and Medina regularly face harassment by the Wahhabi 


 religious police. A government promise to update the vague 


 law outlining religious police jurisdiction and powers has 


 remained unfulfilled for three years.



 In al-Ahsa' province, the governor, Prince Badr bin Jilawi, 


 has repeatedly had Shia citizens arrested and detained on his 


 authority and in violation of Saudi criminal procedure law 


 simply for praying together in private or publicly displaying 


 banners or slogans or wearing clothing associated with 


 certain Shia rituals. In late January or mid-February, six 


 young Shia of al-Ahsa', between 19 and 24 years old, were 


 detained on Prince Badr's orders because of their peaceful 


 exercise of their religious beliefs. As of mid-September, 


 they remained in detention without charge or trial despite a 


 limit of six months for pre-trial detention under the Saudi 


 criminal procedure code. The Saudi government has yet to take 


 meaningful steps to stop these abuses or bring to justice 


 those responsible.



 Shia face officially sanctioned discrimination in the 


 judicial system too. There has been no progress in affording 


 Shia outside of the Eastern Province with courts for personal 


 status matters to conclude marriages and adjudicate divorces, 


 inheritances, child custody disputes, and such matters. This 


 affects the so-called Nakhawila, Twelver Shia in Medina, and 


 the Ismailis in Najran province as well as a small group of 


 Zaidi Muslims in Jizan and Najran provinces. There is no 


 separation of secular from religious law in Saudi courts, and 


 all Shia, including in the Eastern Province where they have 


 their own personal status courts, must follow Sunni law as 


 interpreted in Saudi Arabia. Shia are sometimes not allowed 


 to testify in court.



 Saudi officials who engage in anti-Shia speech rarely face 


 any reprimand for doing so. For example, on December 31, 


 2009, Shaikh Muhammad al-'Arifi, the government-paid imam of 


 the Buradi mosque in Riyadh, as well as Salih bin Humaid, 


 Saudi chief judge, visited frontline troops in southern Saudi 


 Arabia fighting Yemeni Huthi rebels, who belong to a branch 


 of Shiism, albeit different from that of most Saudi Shia. Al-


 'Arifi can be seen in photos wearing camouflage, firing 


 weapons, and preaching to soldiers. Press reports said al-


 'Arifi stressed the necessity of jihad (holy war) and 


 commended the soldiers for performing their national and 


 religious duty. Upon returning to Riyadh, al-'Arifi, in a 


 sermon on Friday, January 1, 2010 condemned the Huthi rebels 


 and called Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani--an Iranian living in 


 Iraq, who is the highest religious authority for many Saudi 


 Shia-an ''obscene, irreligious atheist.''



 Meanwhile, Saudi authorities have taken steps to silence 


 Shia critics. Saudi domestic intelligence agents have been 


 holding Munir al-Jassas, a Shia who criticized state 


 repression against the Shia online, in detention without 


 charge for over a year. On June 22, 2008, authorities 


 arrested Shia cleric Shaikh Tawfiq al-'Amir, after he spoke 


 out in a sermon against a May 30 statement signed by 22 


 prominent Saudi Wahhabi clerics, in which they called the 


 ''Shia sect an evil among the sects of the Islamic nation, 


 and the greatest enemy and deceivers of the Sunni people.'' 


 Of the 22 signatories, II were current government officials 


 and 6 were former government officials.



 In its annual reports on religious freedom on Saudi Arabia, 


 the United States Department of State has consistently and 


 accurately documented severe repression of religious freedom 


 and systematic violations against certain groups, including 


 especially the Shia. Yet, while the United States has for 


 years designated Saudi Arabia as a Country of Particular 


 Concern, it has failed to take meaningful steps to promote 


 reform in Saudi Arabia. The United States has continually 


 waived sanctions provided under the law, and aside from 


 issuing the annual report, has remained mostly silent in 


 public on the subject.



 The United States has also applauded King Abdullah's 


 Interfaith Dialogue Initiative (IDI) as evidence of greater 


 promotion of religious tolerance. Cynical observers would see 


 the IDI as a promotional tour of Western countries designed 


 to soften Saudi Arabia's image of an exporter of religious 


 hatred. Uncritical supporters of the initiative claim it as 


 evidence that the kingdom is opening up.



 Whatever its motivation, the fact remains that this 


 initiative abroad has had no policy repercussions at home. 


 Saudis recognize domestic state-controlled media reporting on 


 the IDI as an official campaign, and it only serves to 


 highlight the stark contrasts between ideals upheld abroad 


 and the harsh reality of repression at home. If the United 


 States is serious about promoting religious tolerance in 


 Saudi Arabia, it cannot remain content to publish a report 


 once a year about religious repression or to praise Saudi 


 Arabia for symbolic commitments to religious tolerance. 


 Instead, it must take a clear, public stance on Saudi 


 Arabia's systematic repression of religion and press the 


 Saudi government to undertake effective institutional reforms 


 to end discrimination and repression on the basis of religion 


 in that country.








 Remarks of Mansour Al-Hadj, Editor, Aafaq




 At the outset, I would like to say that my paper is based 


 on my personal experience as someone who was born and grew up 


 in Saudi Arabia, and has always been concerned about Saudi 


 Arabia--since it's my homeland and also since I have been 


 monitoring the Saudi media closely for the last four years as 


 co-founder of the liberal Arabic-language website Aafaq, of 


 which I am currently editor-in-chief.



 There is great conflict and tension between liberals and 


 conservatives in Saudi Arabia--but it is unfortunately a fake 


 war, because both sides are working for the government--that 


 is, the House of Saud. Both the liberals--who are actively 


 writing articles for government-owned newspapers or appearing 


 on government-owned TV channels--and the conservatives--who 


 are active in mosques and on websites and who are also 


 appearing on government-owned TV channels--are well aware of 


 their limits and of the red lines that they must not cross.



 The one red line that neither conservatives nor liberals 


 dare to cross is talking or writing anything about political 


 reform or the rights of religious minorities. Those who 


 refuse to follow these limits are banned from writing in 


 Saudi newspapers, and many of them are imprisoned and/or 


 prohibited from leaving the country.



 Saudi liberals are very hesitant to question the illegal 


 arrest and persecution of reformers. One such case, that went 


 completely unreported in Saudi Arabia, is that of Hadi Al-


 Mutif, an Ismai'i Shi'ite who has been imprisoned since 1993, 


 serving what is by now the longest prison sentence ever in 


 Saudi Arabia for insulting the Prophet Muhammad. Also, not a 


 single Saudi newspaper reported on the arrest of Mokhlif Al-


 Shammari, a Saudi human rights activist accused of annoying 


 others for posting online articles criticizing radical 


 sheikhs who call for the eradication of the Shi'ites.



 Saudi liberals have never advocated for the reformers who 


 openly demand political and constitutional reform--such as 


 Ali Aldumaini, Matrook Al-Faleh, and Abdallah Al-Hamid, who 


 are officially banned from writing in Saudi newspapers and 


 from traveling outside the country. The liberals do not dare 


 to question the brutal punishments of beheading, amputation 


 and flogging carried out by the Saudi authorities. They avoid 


 writing about the plight of the Shi'a minorities whose 


 mosques are repeatedly shut down and whose imams are arrested 


 for conducting prayers in their homes. They never dare to 


 call for a new and modern interpretation of the Koran, never 


 dare to advocate for gays' and lesbians' right to not be 


 punished or even killed for something they could not choose. 


 All of these issues are on the other side of the red line 


 that they cannot cross.



 Last month, Saudi women's rights activist Wajeha al-


 Huwaider was interviewed by the LBC (Lebanese Broadcasting 


 Corporation)




 ''No Censorship'' show, with airing scheduled for October 


 2010. However, the show has not yet aired. Observers said 


 that a high-level Saudi official ordered LBC not to broadcast 


 Wajeha's interview, in which she talked about women's right 


 to drive cars in Saudi Arabia, the plight of the Shi'a 


 minorities in the country, the male guardian system, and the 


 unjust punishment of Saudi reformers. Wajeha is banned from 


 writing in Saudi newspapers.



 Last week, the Saudi daily Al-Jazirah refused to publish an 


 article by female university professor Fawziyah Abdallah Abu 


 Khaled. In her article, Abu Khaled called the government to 


 allow those who oppose its policies to be part of society and 


 for it to stop persecuting and criminalizing them. She wrote: 


 ''Peaceful opposition is part of the social power of any 


 society, and it should not be handled with hostility, 


 eradication, or constant persecution.''



 The only people who enjoy freedom of expression are the 


 radicals--as long as they do not call for Jihad against the 


 House of Saud. Sheikh Abdel Rahman Al-Barak has called many 


 times for the killing of Shi'ites and many Saudi liberals, 


 and issued a new fatwa stating that the U.S. is the real 


 enemy of the Muslims and that Jihad cannot be superseded by 


 international conventions.



 You might ask, what about the launch of the Saudi national 


 dialogue, the establishment of King Abdullah University of 


 Science and Technology, the appointment of the first female 


 vice minister for women's education, the municipal election, 


 the interfaith conferences organized by the Saudi government 


 to which Christians and Jews were invited, and the recent 


 ruling restricting the right to issue fatwas to senior 


 religious leaders.



 The national dialogue has accomplished nothing; the new 


 university is a closed and isolated institution for 


 international students and a very few Saudis that is aimed at 


 producing Saudi engineers and doctors, not at encouraging 


 unfettered research, and certainly not to produce new and 


 modern interpretations of the Koran that are peaceful and 


 that respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This 


 university is one of dozens of Islamic universities in Saudi 


 Arabia. The appointment of Noura Al-Fayz as the first female 


 member of the Saudi Arabia Council of Ministers means 


 nothing--she still cannot drive a car, travel by herself, go 


 jogging or engage in other sports, choose her own husband, or 


 receive decent child support if she divorces. Regarding the 


 election, we all know that women were not allowed to vote; 


 and the interfaith conferences will remain meaningless until 


 a church is built in Saudi Arabia and Christians are allowed 


 to worship freely. As to the restriction on fatwas, no one 


 pays any attention at all; new fatwas are issued on a 


 daily basis.



 The House of Saud has used its oil wealth to control 


 people's lives. Whether conservative or liberal, ultimately 


 people need to put food on the table, and as long as almost 


 everything in the kingdom is controlled by the government, it 


 will be very difficult to both cross red lines and make a 


 living. That is how the House of Saud maintains its game of 


 balance.



 I understand this on a very personal level; I have seen how 


 people struggle to swim upstream under totalitarian regimes. 


 What I cannot understand, however, is how a country like the 


 U.S. that has always championed human Rights and religious 


 freedom has been unable to free a young man who has been 


 imprisoned for 17 years because of his religious belief as an 


 Isma'ili Shi'ite. I can only hope that the House of Saud is 


 not aiming to play the game of balance internationally--


 because I have heard that a $60 billion arms deal is in the 


 works.

Remarks of Nina Shea, Director, Hudson Institute's Center for Religious 
















Freedom




 Last Sunday, a December 2009 cable that was cited by the 


 New York Times but has not yet been posted by Wikileaks says 


 that Saudi donors remain the chief financiers of Sunni 


 militant groups such as Al Qaeda.



 America's top financial-counterterrorism official, Treasury 


 Undersecretary Stuart Levey, believes there's a strong link 


 between education and support for terror. As he wrote in the 


 Washington Post last June, to end support for such terror, 


 among other steps: ''we must focus on educational reform in 


 key locations to ensure that intolerance has no place in 


 curricula and textbooks. . . . [U]nless the next generation 


 of children is taught to reject violent extremism, we will 


 forever be faced with the challenge of disrupting the next 


 group of terrorist facilitators and supporters.''



 Saudi Arabia is one such ''key location.'' The kingdom is 


 not just any country with problematic textbooks. As the 


 controlling authority of the two holiest shrines of Islam, 


 Saudi Arabia is able to disseminate its religious materials 


 among the millions of Muslims making the hajj to Mecca each 


 year. Such teachings can, in this context, make a great 


 impression. In addition, Saudi textbooks are also posted on 


 the Saudi Education Ministry's website and are shipped and 


 distributed free by a vast Sunni infrastructure established 


 with Saudi oil wealth to many Muslim schools, mosques and 


 libraries throughout the world. In his book The Looming 


 Tower, Lawrence Wright asserts that while Saudis constitute 


 only 1 percent of the world's Muslims, they pay ''90 percent 


 of the expenses of the entire faith, overriding other 


 traditions of Islam.'' Others estimate that, on an annual 


 basis, Saudi Arabia spends three times as much in exporting 


 its Wahhabi ideology as did the Soviets in propagating 


 Communism during the height of the Cold War. From the 


 Netherlands and Bosnia, to Algeria and Tunisia, to Pakistan 


 and Afghanistan, and to Somalia and Nigeria, nationals of 


 these countries have reported that over the past twenty to 


 thirty years local Islamic traditions are being transformed 


 and radicalized under intensifying Saudi influence. The late 


 President of Indonesia Abdurrahman Wahid wrote that Wahhabism 


 was making inroads even in his famously tolerant nation of 


 Indonesia.



 To understand why Jim Woolsey and other terrorism experts 


 call Wahhabism as it spreads through the Islamic diaspora 


 ''kindling for Usama Bin Laden's match,'' it is important to 


 know the content of Saudi textbooks. They teach, along with 


 many other noxious lessons, that Jews and Christians are 


 ''enemies,'' and they dogmatically instruct that that it is 


 permissible, even obligatory, to kill various groups of 


 ''unbelievers''--apostates (which includes Muslim moderates 


 who reject Saudi Wahhabi doctrine), polytheists (which can 


 include Shias and Sufis, as well as Christians, Hindus, and 


 Buddhists), Jews, and adulterers. The texts also teach that 


 the ''punishment for homosexuality is death'' and discusses 


 that this can be done by immolation by fire, stoning or 


 throwing the accused from a high place.



 Under the Saudi Education Ministry's method of rote 


 learning, these teachings amount to indoctrination, starting 


 in first grade and continuing through high school, where 


 militant jihad on behalf of ''truth'' has for years been 


 taught as a sacred duty. The ''lesson goals'' of one of the 


 text books is to have the children list the ''reprehensible'' 


 qualities of Jewish people and another, that Jews are pigs 


 and apes.



 Reformist Muslims can also be labeled as ''apostates,'' and 


 thus they can be killed with impunity. In the opening fatwa 


 of a Saudi government booklet distributed to educate Muslim 


 immigrants in 2005 by the Saudi embassy in the United States, 


 the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia (a cabinet level government 


 post) responded to a question about a Muslim preacher in a 


 European mosque who said ''declaring Jews and Christians 


 infidels is not allowed.'' The Grand Mufti accused the 


 unnamed European cleric of apostasy: ''He who casts doubts 


 about their infidelity leaves no doubt about his own 


 infidelity.''



 The intellectual pioneer of takfiri doctrine is the 


 medieval Islamic scholar Ibn Tamiyya. He is cited as a moral 


 guide in the Saudi textbooks--including in the newly edited, 


 heavily redacted texts used in the Islamic Saudi Academy, a 


 school operated in Fairfax County, VA, by the Saudi embassy. 


 Students of Saudi high school textbooks are instructed to 


 consult his writings when they face vexing moral questions. 


 West Point's Center for Combating Terror found that Ibn 


 Tamiyya's are ''by far the most popular texts for modern 


 jihadis.''



 Saudi foreign-affairs officials and ambassadors do not 


 dispute the need for education reform. Their reactions, 


 though, have alternated over the years between insisting that 


 reforms had already been made and stalling for time by 


 stating that the reforms would take several years more to 


 complete, maybe banking on the hope that American attention 


 would drift.



 Four years ago, the Saudis gave a solemn and specific 


 promise to the United States. Its terms were described in a 


 letter from the U.S. assistant secretary of state for 


 legislative affairs to Sen. Jon Kyl, then chairman of the 


 Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism and 


 Homeland Security: ''In July of 2006, the Saudi Government 


 confirmed to us its policy to undertake a program of textbook 


 reform to eliminate all passages that disparage or promote 


 hatred toward any religion or religious groups.'' 


 Furthermore, the State Department letter reported that this 


 pledge would be fulfilled ''in time for the start of the 2008 


 school year.''



 Saudi Arabia has failed to keep its promise to the United 


 States. One Wikileak cable from the U.S. embassy reports that 


 Saudi education reform seems ''glacial.'' In its newly 


 released 2010 annual report on religious freedom, the State 


 Department itself asserted, albeit with diplomatic 


 understatement, with respect to Saudi Ministry of Education 


 textbooks: ''Despite government revisions to elementary and 


 secondary education textbooks, they retained language 


 intolerant of other religious traditions, especially Jewish, 


 Christian, and Shi'a beliefs, including commands to hate 


 infidels and kill apostates.'' (emphasis added.)



 Meanwhile, Saudi royals have stepped up their philanthropy 


 to higher education around the world, for which they have 


 garnered many encomiums and awards. Hardly a month goes by 


 without a news report that one of the princes is endowing a 


 new center of Islamic and Arabic studies, or a business or 


 scientific department, at a foreign university. The king 


 himself recently founded a new university for advanced 


 science and technology inside Saudi Arabia.



 These efforts have bought the royal family much good will, 


 but they should not distract our political leaders from the 


 central concern of the Saudi 1-12 religious curriculum. This 


 is not the time for heaping unqualified praise on the aging 


 monarch for promoting ''knowledge-based education,'' 


 ''extending the hand of friendship to people of other 


 faiths,'' promoting ''principles of moderation tolerance, and 


 mutual respect,'' and the like (phrases with which our 


 diplomatic statements on Saudi Arabia are replete).





 The State Department needs to begin regular and detail 


 reporting on the remaining objectionable and violent passages 


 in Saudi government textbooks and to press in a sustained 


 manner for the kingdom to keep its 2006 pledge to us 


 regarding textbook reform. As USCIRF recommends, the 


 administration should also lift the indefinite waiver of any 


 action pursuant to the designation of Saudi Arabia as a 


 ''Country of Particular Concern'' under the International 


 Religious Freedom Act--the only ''CPC'' to receive an 


 indefinite waiver.



 In one of the Wikileaks cables written earlier this year on 


 Saudi King Abdullah to Secretary Clinton, U.S. Ambassador 


 James Smith makes the following observation: ''Reflecting his 


 Bedouin roots, he judges his counterparts on the basis of 


 character, honesty, and trust. He expects commitments to be 


 respected and sees actions, not words, as the true test of 


 commitment. . . .''



 Bedouin or not, we should start demanding the same from 


 him.




Remarks by R. James Woolsey, Former Director of the Central 













Intelligence Agency




 I met on several occasions with the late President of 


 Indonesia, Abdurrahman Wahid, after his Presidency but while 


 he was leading the world's largest libertarian Muslim 


 organization, Nandlatul Ulama. What a truly magnificent man 


 he was. Nandlatul Ulama's members, as is the case for the 


 vast majority of Indonesia's Muslims, espouse essentially the 


 Enlightenment's embrace of reason and in particular it's 


 separation of the spiritual and secular realms. Indonesia's 


 traditions in this regard harken back hundreds of years, and 


 this country that contains more Muslims than any other does 


 not call itself a Muslim nation.



 There are hundreds of millions of such truly moderate 


 Muslims in the world, including a very substantial share of 


 those in the U.S. They should be regarded as our colleagues 


 and friends in trying to build a peaceful and prosperous 


 modern world. To use a very rough analogy to the Cold War 


 years, such truly moderate Muslims are something like the 


 Social Democrats and Democratic Socialists--George Orwell, 


 Helmut Schmidt--who were our colleagues in winning the Cold 


 War against a communist empire that called itself 


 ''socialist'' but whose essence was totalitarian.



 Of course terrorists, whether Muslim or not, are not our 


 colleagues and friends but our enemies through and through, 


 just as were the communists' instruments of violence such as 


 the Spetznaz. But some have come to believe that in the world 


 of Islam today these two groupings--moderate Muslims and 


 terrorists--are the only ones that exist. Sadly such is not 


 the case.



 During the Cold War there were non-violent totalitarians--


 such as many members of the American Communist Party--who 


 fervently worked for the triumph of communism and the 


 establishment of a dictatorship of the proletariat but 


 utilizing non-violent means. So also today there are some 


 Muslim groups and individuals who work hard to replace our 


 Constitution with the totalitarian socio-political doctrine 


 that Islam calls shariah. Shariah has as its objective the 


 establishment of a world-wide caliphate--a theocratic 


 totalitarian state. Along the way to this objective adherence 


 to shariah entails accepting a set of doctrines that calls 


 for: death to apostates and homosexuals, brutal treatment of 


 women, rejection of democracy (and indeed all man-made law), 


 anti-semitism, and much else.



 In order to bring about the caliphate--the complete 


 rejection of Article VI of the Constitution--it is not always 


 tactically wise to utilize violence, or violent jihad. 


 Sometimes what Muslim Brotherhood writers call ''civilization 


 jihad'' is a shrewder tactic. It is well-defined in a 


 document, ''An Explanatory Memorandum: On the General 


 Strategic Goal for the Group'' entered into evidence in the 


 2008 case, United States v. Holy Land Foundation. The 


 document was written by Mohammed Akram, a senior Hams leader 


 in the U.S. and a member of the Board of Directors of the 


 Muslim Brotherhood in North America. The document makes it 


 clear that what is involved is a ''settlement process'' lead 


 by the Muslim Brotherhood that constitutes a ''grand jihad in 


 eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from 


 within and 'sabotaging' its miserable house by their hands 


 and the hands of the believers so that it is eliminated. . . 


 .''



 In the Holy Land Foundation case, which dealt with 


 terrorist financing, it was established that a number of 


 Muslim Brotherhood organizations such as CAIR and ISNA, 


 though not indicted, were part of the terror-financing 


 conspiracy.



 In short, as during the Cold War, we need to understand 


 that the central distinction is between those who accept 


 democracy and the rule of (man-made) law and those who do 


 not. We were on the same side during the Cold War as 


 socialists George Orwell and Helmut Schmidt and both the Red 


 Army and Gus Hall were on the other. Today we can make common 


 cause with all Muslims who are neither planning to blow up 


 airliners nor working on ''eliminating and destroying the 


 Western civilization from within.''



 But we must not ignore those who are making such efforts or 


 be deterred from dealing with them just because they engage 


 in name-calling, such as labeling those who call them to 


 account as ''Islamophobes.'' Those who bravely stood up 


 against the Spanish Inquisition--whether Muslims, Jews, or 


 Christians--were not ''Christianophobes.'' We need to find 


 Constitutional means--drawings on our experiences during the 


 Cold War--to thwart the Islamist sabotage called for by the 


 Muslim Brotherhood document and to do so in such a way as to 


 protect the rights of those Muslims who are not engaged in 


 either violent jihad or ''civilization jihad'' against us.



 This will require us to think clearly about how to deal 


 with Saudi Arabia, our ally on some aspects of fighting 


 terrorism, but also the principal source of funding of a 


 major share of the terrorists who attack us and the teaching 


 of hatred that fuels the civilization jihad as well.



 Above all, we cannot begin to deal with these issues unless 


 we speak clearly. It is time to end the euphemisms and the 


 verbal dancing. One is hot accusing all Christians of burning 


 women at the stake if one examines how the Salem witch trials 


 grew out of some Puritan thinking. So too with totalitarian 


 offshoots of any religion, including Islamism. Islamists' 


 efforts to establish a caliphate and sabotage our 


 Constitution have to be called what they are--they are not 


 random acts of ''violent extremists.'' They are, for 


 Islamists, jihad. And they must be defeated.
