---
---

# None
## `3144f953ce24b96d1f1d71e273b217e1`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 15 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Anyway, to get back to the matter at hand, Mr. 
Meek referred to the fact that the 30-something Working Group was 
probably expected to shrivel up and die, to blow away after we won the 
majority, to just not re-emerge because one might think that there was 
no point in our continuing to exist. However, because the United States 
Congress and because we believe Democrats are responsible in the 
leadership of this Congress for accountability, we absolutely need to 
make sure that we use multiple facets of opportunity available to us to 
hold people accountable.

We had an opportunity the last number of years to use this forum to 
hold our good friends on the other side of the aisle accountable, yet 
we still need to hold this administration accountable. And Lord knows 
that they certainly need it, as they continue to demonstrate every 
single day.

And I just want to move on a little past the whistleblower act and 
the 104 hearings that we have had on this war in Iraq that have been 
scheduled since we took over the leadership of this Congress to the 
Attorney General, the U.S. Attorney firings that occurred in the last 
10 days or so.

I just came from a House Committee on the Judiciary meeting in which 
we adopted legislation that will ensure that we reassert the Congress', 
on the Senate side, role in confirming U.S. Attorneys and restore the 
check and balance that used to be in place before a provision was 
inserted in the dead of night by the Republicans in the conference 
committee without any committee reviewing it whatsoever. They 
completely changed the way the U.S. Attorneys were confirmed. They 
politicized that process without any Member being able to have the 
opportunity to debate it in the light of day.

And clearly we can see as a result of the actions of Attorney General 
Gonzales and the fact that he has chosen to throw a staff person under 
the bus rather than have the buck stop with him, seems to be a pattern 
in this administration, i.e. Scooter Libby. We need to make sure that 
Congress reasserts our oversight role, and that is exactly what we just 
did in the Judiciary Committee.

But let's just recap what happened with the U.S. Attorneys. Eight 
U.S. Attorneys were fired. Now, the U.S. Attorneys serve at the 
pleasure of the President, and we certainly don't deny that. However, 
when asked, when an inquiry was made, as is the Congress' 
responsibility, as to why those eight U.S. Attorneys were fired, the 
answer that we got was, well, the eventual answer we got was that it 
was performance related. Well, of course the eight U.S. Attorneys took 
umbrage at that and some of them came forward and suggested that there 
were actually some lawmakers, our good friends on the other side of the 
aisle specifically, that called and inquired about the progress of 
cases against Democrats in their jurisdiction. And then coincidentally, 
a few weeks later those that had gotten called that weren't responsive 
enough seemed to have been let go.

Now, in the wake of all of this, in the wake of the Attorney General 
being less than factual in front of a committee of this body and in the 
wake of the clear difference in what he said and what actually 
happened, you have the chief of staff to the Attorney General who has 
resigned. Last week you had another individual responsible for 
overseeing the U.S. Attorneys resign. Now, they say that he was on his 
way out anyway.

But it is time, and thank God we are able to now exercise Congress' 
oversight role and make sure that we have some fairness, make sure that 
we have justice administered in the way that Americans expect it to be, 
and that we are not politicizing the Department of Justice or the legal 
process that U.S. Attorneys oversee in each of their jurisdictions. 
Without us pointing that out, it would normally have just been swept 
under the rug. The administration would have just tried to ride it out 
and weather the storm. But now that we have a Democratic Congress, they 
can't do that anymore.