# None
## `315ee9573799e68808cbef04c593ad2b`
`Mr. HUNTER — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman. And I do want to say there is a 
gentleman here who's got more knowledge than I have on this defense 
bill, and he just spoke. I want to give my thanks to Chairman Skelton 
for doing a great job of putting together an excellent bill which 
passed unanimously out of the Armed Services Committee.

He followed very strongly what I call the two tracks that we're on. 
The first track is to provide for the warfighters in the theaters that 
are currently in progress in Afghanistan and Iraq and around the world, 
where we're fighting the global war against terror. We do so very well 
in this bill in terms of putting in lots of extra money for MRAPs, for 
force protection, for defense against mortars, against roadside bombs, 
and all the other things that are important aspects and dimensions of 
force protection.

Then we also provide for what I call over the horizon. That means 
that we've provided, with the very able chairmen of the subcommittees 
and the ranking members, for continued equipment buys in critical areas 
and put in extra money for submarines, which we will have low numbers 
in the next 5 to 10 years, but are a very important part of American 
leverage in foreign policy and a very important component of 
warfighting. Putting in extra money for C-17s, for that airlift that is 
so critical, for giving a good solid buy on F-22s this year and Joint 
Strike Fighter.

Also the report that I've received back from the Marines is that the 
first V-22s are now in theater in Iraq and that they're working very 
well. The Marines like that doubling of speeds that they now have over 
the CH-46 helicopters. That's accruing to their benefit in lots and 
lots of operations.

The chairman and the chairmen of the subcommittees and the ranking 
members I think have done a great job of filling out both tracks of 
both the near term and the long term in this bill.

I thank Mr. Skelton for his kind words. Let me tell you, one of the 
real blessings in serving in this body is to be able to serve with a 
great partner, whether you're the chairman or the ranking member. The 
chairman has done a wonderful job in putting this bill together. The 
man from Missouri is an outstanding leader in national security, and I 
applaud him for his great career.

I know we also have two members retiring, Mr. Saxton, who for many 
years chaired the Special Operations Subcommittee, very important 
subcommittee, is now ranking on Air Land. And Mr. Everett, who is 
ranking on Strategic. Jim Saxton, I have watched him go around the 
world visiting with our special operators, ensuring that they had what 
they needed.