# VETERANS GUARANTEED BONUS ACT OF 2007
## `31624a28376dd635888f4d844f4812ab`
`Mr. STEARNS — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill that 
corrects a desperately ill-advised regulation hurting our Nation's 
heroic men and women in uniform. This Defense Department policy has 
resulted in several veterans being denied their full bonuses or being 
asked to repay funds they are entitled to, simply because their 
injuries prevented them from serving out their full term of service.

Unfortunately, this is not a new problem. Back in October of 2004, 
Brian Ross of ABC News reported that Army Specialist Tyson Johnson, who 
was injured by an exploding mortar round in Iraq, later received a 
letter demanding repayment of his enlistment bonus while he was still 
recuperating in the hospital.

Two months ago, National Public Radio highlighted the story of Army 
Specialist Ronald Hinkle, who suffered a traumatic brain injury after 
an IED explosion cut short his military career. Not only was Specialist 
Hinkle owed $2,500 in back salary, but two months after NPR's story 
aired, he was notified that a $3,000 enlistment bonus would not be paid 
because he ''failed to fulfill his contract.''

In yet another case, Tommy Guinn, who is a respected 14-year Army 
veteran, ended his term of service early when a helicopter accident in 
Pakistan left him paralyzed. Thank God he made it home safely to his 
family, but the military kept $1,000 out of his re-enlistment bonus.

This is not the treatment our returning warriors deserve. I am proud 
to support this bill that finally changes this flawed policy. The 
Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act makes the bonus payments automatic and 
requires the Secretary to pay any remaining portion of bonus payments 
within 90 days of medical discharge. During this season of Peace on 
Earth and goodwill towards men, let us show goodwill to those on the 
frontlines protecting our peace. I urge my colleagues to support this 
bill.
