---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `316bd59f806dc969f0872fb53adfdf88`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, earlier this week I spoke about the need 
to act expeditiously to consider the supplemental appropriations bill 
to fund ongoing operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the global war on 
terrorism. I don't know that I could add any more persuasive reasons 
why we must approve the President's request for supplemental 
appropriations.

In a hearing earlier this week before our Appropriations 
subcommittee, Secretary of Defense Gates testified that the military 
personnel account that pays our soldiers and the operations and 
maintenance accounts which fund readiness, training, and the salaries 
of civilian employees across the Defense Department will run dry over 
the next few weeks. Secretary Gates can forestall this depletion of 
funds for a short period of time, but if he does so, it will disrupt 
ongoing programs that are critical to our operations in theater and to 
our national defense generally.

Delay in providing funds for our troops has already disrupted 
operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Admiral Mullin, the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified before the Appropriations Defense 
Subcommittee also about a recent visit he had with soldiers on the 
front lines. Those soldiers told Admiral Mullin that they were unable 
to allocate additional funds from the Commander's Emergency Response 
Program because essentially all the money had been allocated for the 
quarter. We are two-thirds of the way through the fiscal year, and yet 
Congress has provided less than one-third of the funds requested for 
this emergency response program.

Secretary Gates characterizes this initiative as:




 The single most effective program to enable commanders to 


 address local populations' needs and get potential insurgents 


 in Iraq and Afghanistan off the streets and into jobs.


I will not repeat my statement from earlier this week on the urgent 
need to move this process forward, but it is clear that when Congress 
finally began to act, it did so using convoluted procedures designed to 
shut out individual Members in the Senate and in the other body. Yet, 
this morning, it remains highly uncertain whether an adequate and 
signable supplemental funding bill will be sent to the President before 
Memorial Day. There are rumors--conversations--about a short-term, 1-
month supplemental being drafted by the majority.

Mr. President, that is really not what we need. It is one thing to 
extend the aviation bill or the farm bill or other programs for short 
periods of time while Congress completes its work on long-term 
legislation, but to begin stringing out our military and our diplomatic 
corps on a month-by-month


basis during a period of military conflict is a dereliction of our 
duties.

I worry that the Congress is becoming an impediment to the efficiency 
and the capability of our Government, and to our Department of Defense 
in particular. We are not acting to protect the security of our troops 
who are putting themselves in harm's way and embarking on dangerous 
missions or providing for others whom we are trying to train to prepare 
to take over the responsibilities for national security. We need to get 
together now.

The time for dragging our feet is long past. We need to find a common 
ground so that we can provide our men and women in the field with the 
necessary resources and the support that is necessary to conduct 
successfully the mission assigned to them by our United States 
Government. We need to do this without any further delay. I urge my 
colleagues to do it now.

I yield the floor.