# HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL JAMES G. ROUDEBUSH
## `31a71a6b7937caa719f88b38e602a0dd`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY â€” 8 September 2009`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
Lieutenant General James G. Roudebush. As his 34-year career in the 
United States Air Force draws to a close, I would like to draw 
attention to some of his significant accomplishments and enduring 
contributions to our great Nation.

Lieutenant General James G. Roudebush is the Surgeon General of the 
Air Force, headquartered in Washington, D.C. Educated at the University 
of Nebraska at Lincoln, he received a direct commission in the Medical 
Service Corps upon completing his master's degree from the University 
of Nebraska College of Medicine in 1975. In his distinguished


career, he served as the Vice Commander at the Human Systems Center and 
the Command Surgeon General for United States Central Command. 
Lieutenant General Roudebush also served as the Command Surgeon for 
Pacific Air Forces Command, United States Transportation Command and 
Air Mobility Command. His commands include the 36th Tactical Fighter 
Wing Hospital at Bitburg Air Base, Germany, and 89th Medical Group, 
Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland. Prior to his current assignment, 
General Roudebush was the Deputy Surgeon General at the U.S. Air Force 
Headquarters.

In his career, General Roudebush has been awarded the Distinguished 
Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal with one oak leaf 
cluster, the Legion of Merit with one oak leaf cluster, the Meritorious 
Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, and the Air Force 
Commendation Medal. He holds a Chief Flight Surgeon rating with more 
than 1,100 flight hours in fourteen different aircraft including the C-
5 Galaxy, F-15 Eagle and KC-135 Stratotanker.

General Roudebush has served his career with dedication and honor in 
the service of his country. He significantly transformed the role and 
impact of the Air Force Medical Service. The breadth of his enormously 
positive impact on the Air Force--medical readiness; pre- and post-
deployment physical and mental health assessments; suicide prevention 
initiatives; and the successful aero-medical evacuation of tens of 
thousands of wounded service members from Iraq and Afghanistan--are key 
pillars of his contributions to government service. As the architect 
for the Surgeon General's Force Development Flight Path, each of the 
five Corps--Medical, Medical Service, Dental, Biomedical Services, and 
Nurse--now have a career pathway for all medical officers from 
lieutenant to general specific to their Corps.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in commending 
Lieutenant General James G. Roudebush for his lifetime of dedication 
and self-sacrifice in the service of our great Nation.
