# MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE
## `31abea5ffcd8d351e719783dfa59d7d4`
`Mr. REID â€” 12 September 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is good that we are debating the Defense 
authorization bill. It is appropriate we are debating this bill at a 
time when certainly America's security is at risk.

As I indicated, we are debating the Defense authorization bill, which 
ensures America's military capabilities are strong and focused on the 
major threats to our great country.

We live in a dangerous and unpredictable world. It is a world where 
North Korea's leader has fallen ill. This illness could put a nuclear-
armed regime at risk of implosion because there is no successor named 
or thought of, to our knowledge, in North Korea.

We live in a world where Latin American regimes throw out U.S. 
Ambassadors without notice, where an unchecked Russia can undermine 
young democracies from West to East.

I was recently in Bolivia. I had not too long ago been in Georgia. I 
met with part of their Government today a few feet from this Chamber. 
So we have to be concerned about an unchecked Russia.

Our dangerous world calls for leaders with sound judgment, not those 
with temperament prone to recklessness.

As we debate the Defense bill this week, we must consider the most 
important national security question facing the Nation today: Will we 
stick with the same failed, out-of-touch foreign policy of George Bush, 
Dick Cheney, and John McCain, which military experts and historians 
call the worst foreign policy in our Nation's history or will we change 
course to a more tough, responsible foreign policy that will make us 
more secure?

The choice could not be more important, but the answer could not be 
clearer. Senator Obama and Senate Democrats stand for responsible 
change. We believe we must end the war in Iraq and bring the war on 
terror to where the terrorists actually live and where they plot. We 
know our focus must return to Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan and wherever they might be.

This approach stands on the right side of the American people and the 
right side of history. According to recent press reports, even the Bush 
administration has begun to align its actions with this policy.

Take Pakistan, for example. For years, Senator Obama and Senate 
Democrats have been calling on the Bush administration to hunt down 
Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaida network, wherever they may be located. 
As it became clear that al-Qaida had made Pakistan the central focus of 
its operation, Democrats called on the President to make Pakistan a 
central focus of our war to defeat al-Qaida.

Here is what Senator Obama said last year:




 . . . Let me be clear. There are terrorists holed up in 


 those mountains who murdered 3,000 Americans. They are 


 plotting to strike again. . . .If we have actionable 


 intelligence about high-value terrorist targets and [the 


 Pakistani leadership] won't act, we will. I will not hesitate 


 to use military force to take out terrorists who pose a 


 direct threat to America.


While Senator Obama sounded the alarm about the al-Qaida threat in 
Pakistan and called for a forceful and comprehensive strategy to fight 
this threat, George Bush and John McCain chose, stunningly, to ignore 
it. The President kept the bulk of our ground troops and our special 
operations forces and our intelligence assets tied down in Iraq in a 
war that had nothing to do with Osama bin Laden and the terrorists who 
attacked.

Republicans, led by John McCain, attacked Obama's approach to 
forcefully go after al-Qaida in Pakistan. Senator McCain even had the 
bad judgment on the campaign trail this past February to call the Obama 
approach naive.

Here we stand a year later. The al-Qaida threat in Pakistan has grown 
far more dangerous. The need for tough action, as Senator Obama called 
for last year, is even more urgent. Barack Obama was right; George 
Bush, Dick Cheney, and John McCain were wrong.

Then, yesterday, the newspapers reported that senior Bush 
administration officials had begun doing what Obama


called for a long time ago: go after al-Qaida safe havens in Pakistan, 
reportedly including military operations against terrorist camps. That 
is precisely the Obama approach McCain called naive. But news reports 
indicate we are already starting to see results.

Given the known history of Bush-McCain foreign policy mistakes that 
we have all suffered through for the past 8 years, I have concerns and 
questions about the Bush administration's actions. It is one thing to 
take Obama's playbook, but it is another thing to call the right plays.


I think we should all ask tough questions and demand the White House 
explain their Pakistan strategy in greater detail to give us confidence 
that they will get the job done right.

The Bush administration's adoption of the Obama plan came months too 
late but, nevertheless, better late than never. The shift is not just 
limited to Pakistan. Across the globe, the Bush administration is 
quietly acknowledging that Senator Obama's vision has been right all 
along.

On Afghanistan, where for years Senator Obama and Senate Democrats 
have been demanding more resources and a new strategy, things are 
changing. Senator McCain, on the other hand, said: ''Afghanistan is not 
in trouble because of our diversion to Iraq.''

Listen to that again. McCain said: ''Afghanistan is not in trouble 
because of our diversions to Iraq.''

That is a direct quote.

After years of resisting, Republicans in recent weeks have been 
inching toward the Obama plan for reinforcing Afghanistan. On Iran, 
where Bush and McCain criticized Obama's vision for tough and effective 
face-to-face diplomacy, even as they quietly agreed to face-to-face 
diplomacy and started sending State Department officials to 
negotiations with the Iranians. And on Iraq, where Bush has finally 
begun to slowly inch toward the Obama plan for holding the Iraqis more 
accountable by putting in place a timeline for change in the military 
mission and the redeployment of our troops. But, of course, not John 
McCain.

Our country deserves more than token shifts and lipservice to change. 
It will take decisive leadership to reverse 8 long years of tragic 
foreign policy mistakes. That is exactly what Senator Obama and Senate 
Democrats offer: real responsible change.

Senator McCain and his supporters are dead set against changing the 
Bush administration's failed policies. They have no plan for ending 
conflict, no plan for securing our country, no plan for bringing our 
troops home.

Republicans talk a lot about experience. But when you are the author, 
architect, and enabler of 8 years of devastating foreign policy 
mistakes, that is not experience; it is very bad judgment.

In the coming days, as we wrap up debate on the Defense authorization 
bill, Senators on both sides of the aisle will have ample opportunity 
to make their positions known on these critical national security 
issues that will chart our course in the world for years to come.

It will also give the American people the opportunity to see who 
stands with failed policies of the past and who is ready to lead us to 
the change we need.

Senator Levin and Senator Warner announced yesterday that today they 
would be happy to listen to what anyone had to say about amendments 
they wish to offer on this bill. The same applies to Monday. We need to 
move beyond where we are. There are some who want us to get virtually 
nothing done on this Defense authorization bill.

There are so many reasons why it is important we get this bill done. 
It would be the first time in five decades that this body has not 
passed a Defense authorization bill. This bill is loaded with 
provisions that are good for the security of our Nation, good for the 
maintenance of a military that is strong and vibrant, and make our 
troops happier--a 3.9-percent pay raise, among other items, they 
deserve and they need.

I have informed the two managers of the bill I think it is 
appropriate at this time that we file a cloture motion in an effort to 
bring this matter to a conclusion. We are going to have a vote on 
cloture on this most important bill sometime on Tuesday. I am going to 
work with the managers of the bill and Senator McConnell to find out 
what their wishes are. But we must move on. It would be a shame if we 
do not pass this legislation.

Having said all that--and I could a say a lot more--one of the 
reasons we should pass this bill is because of Senator Warner. I am 
sure the State of Virginia has had great legislators over the years. I 
don't know them all. I have served with a number of them. But I have to 
say that in my experience in Government, you don't run very often into 
somebody of the caliber of John Warner. The Commonwealth of Virginia 
has been so well served by this great American patriot, and he has 
devoted so much time--I was trying to come up in my mind on a 
percentage basis how much of his time has been spent on the defense 
duties he has.
