# None
## `31afd4a8b13dee9c59990ca6fe6aa30e`
`Mr. DORGAN — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, in just another couple of minutes, there 
is an amendment I believe has been filed to the underlying housing 
bill. I want to make a comment on it. It is an amendment that would 
extend the renewable energy tax credits. It is a very important 
amendment. I wish we would extend the renewable energy tax credits for 
a lengthy period of time. I am not sure if that amendment will be 
considered germane. If it is, we need to pass it. But I want to make 
this point.

This country has a history now going back to 1992 with respect to 
renewable energy for wind energy through the production tax credit and 
things we put in place to encourage renewable energy. We have a history 
of kind of a pathetic and anemic response to all this.

Let me describe what we did with oil. Once we decided we wanted to 
encourage people to look for oil and gas, we were at it. In 1916, 
Congress put in place deep, aggressive tax credits and incentives for 
people to go drill for oil and gas. So for almost 100 years our 
country's policies have been for going out to drill for oil and gas. 
God bless you, we are going to give you some big tax breaks. We want 
you to do that. That has been America's policy: find more oil and gas.

In 1992, the Congress put in place a provision that said: Now we want 
to encourage renewable energy. With oil we put in place permanent, 
robust tax incentives that have lasted almost a century. What did we do 
with renewables? When it came to renewable energy, it was kind of a 
pathetic, lackluster response. It was temporary and short term. We 
would extend it a little bit here and then we let it expire. We have 
extended it five times, and let it expire three times. What a pathetic 
response.

What this country has an obligation to do with respect to wind and 
solar energy and the basic renewables is to say to this country and 
developers: Look, here is where America is headed. For the next decade, 
here is where we are going, and you can count on it because this is 
America's policy. We ought to do that.

We are doing 1 year, 2 years, or 3 years at a time, but the 
production tax credit ought to be extended for 10 years. We should say 
here is where we are headed, and you can count on it. We are not going 
to want to be 2 years, 5 years, or 10 years from now 70 percent 
dependent on the Saudis and Kuwaitis and Iraqis and Venezuelans for our 
oil. That makes no sense. Yet the only way we are going to get out of 
this box is to say we are going to begin providing renewable energy in 
a very aggressive way. But we don't do that with the incentives we put 
in place. We just start and stop, stutter-start, stop, and every time 
we stop for a year, the whole investment cycle blows off. It goes to 
zero. So you have all kinds of projects on the shelf that sit there and 
never get deployed.

In solar, for example, we are way behind in solar because you can't 
do solar and put a tax incentive in for 1 year. You can't do that. It 
takes a number of years to get a solar project up and running. You can, 
if you get a short-term


wind turbine up perhaps. You can have a shorter time line on that. But 
even with that, it seems to me that for wind or solar or any number of 
these renewable technologies, this country has a responsibility to get 
serious about becoming less dependent on Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and 
Iraq and all those countries.

The Lord did something really interesting: He put oil over there 
under the soil and put all the demand over here, with the blessings of 
a country that expanded and produced a great economy. You know we put 
little straws in this Earth every day and we suck oil out. We suck 84 
to 85 million barrels of oil a day out of this Earth, and we use one-
fourth of it here in the United States, 21 million barrels a day, and 
60 percent of it comes from off our shores. If you don't think that is 
a dangerous dependency, then there is something wrong. I think that is 
dangerous and we have to fix it. How do you fix it? You make a 
commitment to renewable energy. My colleague from the State of 
Washington was on the floor, Senator Cantwell, who has dedicated a lot 
of her time and effort to this subject, and I commend her for it.

You know, you have to focus around here on so many things. Senator 
Cantwell has focused substantially on these issues. I wished to work 
with her. I want whatever she is proposing to succeed. We are working 
together in the Energy Committee. I am also the chairman of the Water 
and Energy Appropriations Subcommittee.

We need to do a lot. But, most importantly, we need to get this 
Congress on the side of policy that this country can be proud to say: 
We are going to make a commitment for the next decade, here is where we 
are headed in America. We are in support of renewable energy. You can 
count on us because we are going to put policies in place that will 
tell you we are in support of it.

We cannot keep doing what we have been doing. It is unfair, unfair to 
this country. So my hope is that when we consider this amendment, that 
we can approve it. But my hope is we will go much further this year. 
The minimum we should do on the production tax credit is a 5-year 
commitment--minimum.

I have a bill that says we ought to provide the PTC for 10 years. You 
know, it is one thing to talk about these things, it is another thing 
to be serious and enact public policies that demonstrate to the country 
and the world you are serious. We have not done that on renewable 
energy. It is time, long past time we do it. I hope perhaps we will 
support with the first step tomorrow.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.