# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `31b72849bc0a8e63e686209cbdae1c20`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand the difficulties Senator 
Levin has, but we are moving to final passage. Cloture has been filed. 
It is important that this amendment be considered. I get a little 
nervous when things are not moving along in a way that I think they 
should or at least in a way that could cause this amendment not to be 
considered. I wish to speak briefly about it so it will be clear what 
it is we are talking about.

The amendment I sought to bring up would preempt any Federal 
Executive, that is Presidential, requirement that our troops in the 
field, in Afghanistan and Iraq, read Miranda warnings to al-Qaida 
terrorists whom they capture.

The amendment would also clarify that nothing in Federal law requires 
that our soldiers read Miranda warnings or give any other kind of 
warning to captured terrorists, and it preempts any efforts to enforce 
such a requirement through an exclusionary rule. That is, denying 
admissibility of evidence if it does not occur.

Miranda is the warning, as most watchers of television detective 
programs know, in which an individual who is detained by a police 
officer in the United States on suspicion of some crime is told they 
have a right to remain silent and they have a right to have a lawyer, 
or have one appointed for them.

The question is, How did we get to the point that we are now having 
soldiers in the field being asked to give Miranda warnings?

One person, I think, who would agree with me--although recent 
activities cause me concern--is our Commander in Chief, President 
Obama. In a recent interview on the TV show ''60 Minutes,'' he was 
asked about the terrorist detainees, and this is what President Obama 
said:




 Do these folks deserve Miranda rights? Do they deserve to 


 be treated like a shoplifter down the block? Of course not.


''Of course not.'' I couldn't have said that with more clarity 
myself. Of course, we should not be giving Miranda warnings to captured 
terrorists on the battlefield. Unfortunately, not all of the 
subordinates in the current administration seem to understand this 
message.

A recent article in the magazine the Weekly Standard describes why 
the amendment is necessary. As this article explains, the current 
administration appears to be requiring our soldiers to read Miranda 
warnings to terrorists whom they capture in the field in Afghanistan. 
And the article further notes, according to former CIA Director George 
Tenet, who was appointed originally by President Clinton and served 
under President Bush, that we would not have obtained the valuable 
information we did from Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the planner of the 9/11 
attacks, if he had been given his Miranda rights--or been given Miranda 
rights, not his, because we have never given Miranda rights to captured 
soldiers in any kind of conflict in the history of the Republic.


The following is from the Weekly Standard:




 When 9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammed was captured on 


 March 1, 2003, he was not cooperative. ''I'll talk to you 


 guys after I get to New York and see my lawyer,'' he said, 


 according to CIA Director George Tenet. Of course, Khalid 


 Shaikh Mohammed did not get a lawyer until months later, 


 after his interrogation was completed, and Tenet says that 


 the information the CIA obtained from him disrupted plots and 


 saved lives. ''I believe none of these successes would have 


 happened if we had had to treat KSM like a white-collar 


 criminal--read him his Miranda rights and get him a lawyer, 


 who surely would have insisted that his client simply shut 


 up.


That was Mr. Tenet's view as stated in his memoirs just a couple of 
years ago.

If Mr. Tenet is right, it is a good thing KSM was captured before 
President Obama became President, for the Justice Department has 
quietly ordered the FBI to read Miranda rights to high-value detainees 
captured and held at U.S. detention facilities in Afghanistan.

According to a senior Republican on the House Intelligence Committee:




 The administration has decided to change the focus to law 


 enforcement. Here's the problem. You have foreign fighters 


 who are targeting U.S. troops today--foreign fighters who go 


 to another country to kill Americans. We capture them, and 


 they're reading them their rights--Mirandizing these foreign 


 fighters.


That was a quote from Representative Mike Rogers, who recently met 
with the military and intelligence and law enforcement officials on a 
factfinding trip to Afghanistan.

Rogers, a former FBI special agent and a U.S. Army officer, says the 
Obama administration has not briefed Congress on the new policy. He is 
quoted as saying:




 I was a little surprised to find it taking place when I 


 showed up because we hadn't been briefed on it. I didn't know 


 about it. We're still trying to get to the bottom of it, but 


 it is clearly a part of this new global justice initiative.


Representative Pete Hoekstra, the ranking Republican on the House 
Intelligence Committee, said this:




 When they Mirandize a suspect, the first thing they do is 


 warn them that they have the right to remain silent. It would 


 seem the last thing we want is Khalid Shaikh Mohammed or any 


 other al-Qaida terrorist to remain silent. Our focus should 


 be on preventing the next attack, not giving radical 


 jihadists a new tactic to resist interrogation--lawyering up.


According to Mike Rogers, that is precisely what some human rights 
organizations are now advising detainees to do. He says:




 The International Red Cross, when they go into these 


 detention facilities, has now started telling people--''Take 


 the option. You want a lawyer.''


And Rogers adds:




 The problem is you take that guy at 3 in the morning off of 


 a compound right outside of Kabul, where he's building bomb 


 materials to kill U.S. soldiers, and read him his rights by 


 4, and the Red Cross is saying take the lawyer, you have now 


 created quite a confusion amongst the FBI, the CIA and the 


 United States military. And confusion is the last thing you 


 want in a combat zone.


This is from Congressman Rogers, a former FBI agent and a former Army 
officer.

So one thing is clear: A detainee who is not talking cannot provide 
information about future attacks. Had Khalid Shaikh Mohammed had a 
lawyer, Tenet wrote in his book, '' . . . I am confident that we would 
have obtained none of the information he had in his head about the 
eminent threat against the American people.''

Mr. President, one thing we have to get straight in our minds is that 
we are in a state of war against al-Qaida types and others around the 
world, and that calls for an entirely different approach to dealing 
with the people you capture. In fact, before you capture them, you have 
the authority to shoot them and kill them. We have the ability to drop 
bombs on them, which results in death. You don't do that in law 
enforcement situations against drug dealers or against white-collar 
criminals. These are not criminals, they are unlawful enemy combatants. 
They are not lawful because they do not operate according to the rules 
of war.

The Geneva Conventions require that a lawful combatant, an enemy 
soldier, or any kind of soldier from any country wear their uniform so 
that you can identify them by their uniform and do not target civilian 
personnel gratuitously. Among other requirements, these are some of the 
rules of war. But they have never been given the rights of a common 
criminal.

So I feel strongly about this issue. And I would note parenthetically 
that the Supreme Court has not held that Miranda is even a 
constitutional requirement. They passed it as a prophylactic policy to 
help police officers do a better job, the Court thought, in doing their 
work. It is not a requirement. So


it is a big mistake. I believe it is a road we should not go down, 
requiring these warnings, and if we do, it is an absolutely clear 
signal that we are confused about the nature of the deadly enterprise 
in which we are engaged, which is defending this country and our allies 
from attack by a violent, determined enemy.

I thought after 9/11 there was a consensus in this body that 
terrorists and enemy combatants were different from criminals. I 
thought the 9/11 Commission went into that, and I thought there was a 
bipartisan consensus on that. So I am concerned about it. It suggests 
to me that we are confused about the nature of this life-and-death 
struggle we are in. We are confused about the risk our soldiers are 
being subjected to every day on the battlefield. And they ought not to 
be placed in a situation where an additional burden is put on them that 
is not justified by law or common sense.

So I hope we get a vote on this, and I hope we are able to send the 
message that this is not the right policy and we need to make sure we 
stop it and nip it in the bud.

I thank the Chair, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.