---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `31b8a7ace5f8fc3d6a96be0da0d82e65`
`Mr. BERMAN — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Chairman, the United States now confronts the most 
complex array of threats in many decades, if not the entire history, of 
our Nation.

Afghanistan and Pakistan, Iran, North Korea, terrorism, nuclear 
proliferation, drug trafficking and climate change all pose major 
challenges to our national security. And we must confront these threats 
in the midst of a global financial crisis with enormous ramifications 
both at home and around the world.

Our brave men and women in uniform are making unbelievable sacrifices 
to


protect our security interests around the globe. They and their 
families deserve our deepest respect and gratitude. But we should not 
expect the military to shoulder the entire burden.

The State Department and our other civilian foreign affairs agencies 
have a critical role to play in protecting U.S. national security. 
Diplomacy, development, and defense are the three key pillars of our 
U.S. national security policy. By wisely investing resources to 
strengthen our diplomatic capabilities, we can help prevent conflicts 
before they start and head off conditions that lead to failed states.

For years we have failed to provide the State Department with the 
resources it desperately needs to pursue its core missions. With the 
expansion of U.S. diplomatic responsibilities in the 1990s, and the 
more recent demands of Iraq and Afghanistan, the Foreign Service has 
been strained to the breaking point. Sixteen percent of all positions 
are currently unfilled. One in nine positions overseas is vacant.

As Secretary of Defense Robert Gates recently stated: ''It has become 
clear that America's civilian institutions of diplomacy and development 
have been chronically undermanned and underfunded for far too long.''

The legislation before us today, Mr. Chairman, takes an important 
first step in correcting that situation. It supports President Obama's 
request for funding to hire over 1,000 new staff, including at least 
750 Foreign Service officers; 332 of these positions will be used to 
immediately expand our diplomatic presence in Afghanistan, Pakistan and 
other strategic areas. A further 213 positions will be dedicated to 
improving and expanding training in critical needs languages such as 
Arabic, Chinese, Hindi, and Urdu.

The bill also provides resources requested by the administration for 
significant numbers of new public diplomacy officers, arms control 
experts, counterterrorism specialists.

And the bill has important provisions to promote more strategic 
thinking in the State Department and help the Foreign Service 
transition from traditional diplomatic framework to a more 
expeditionary one.

To help ensure the Department can continue to attract the best and 
brightest and retain these professionals over the long term, H.R. 2410 
closes the pay gap that currently results in a 21 percent pay cut when 
junior Foreign Service officers leave Washington on assignment.

The bill also authorizes funds to pay our full dues and all 
recognized arrearages to the United Nations.

The legislation supports a significant expansion of the Peace Corps, 
an increase in international broadcasting activities, a vigorous public 
diplomacy effort, and a strengthened arms control and nonproliferation 
bureau at the State Department, which will soon be under the head of 
our dear colleague, Mrs. Tauscher.

In addition, the bill creates a new foundation to significantly 
increase the number of American students studying abroad, enhances U.S. 
efforts to help Mexico and other Latin American countries reduce drug 
violence, and addresses a number of key human rights and democracy 
issues around the world.

H.R. 2410 also reforms our system of export controls for military 
technology, improves oversight of U.S. security assistance, and 
requires a report to Congress on actions taken by the United States to 
maintain Israel's qualitative military edge.

This legislation is supported by a wide range of organizations, from 
the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of 
Manufacturers, on one hand, to Human Rights Watch and Amnesty 
International on the other. From the Aerospace Industries Association, 
the Satellite Industry Association, on one hand, to CARE, Oxfam, the 
Peace Corps Association, Refugees International, and the Genocide 
Intervention Network on the other, the Save Darfur Council, Church 
World Service, and the American Council on Education, a coalition of 
all the major public and private universities in this country all 
strongly support this legislation.

I urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this 
important legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.