---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3326,  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF  HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 64, FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL  YEAR 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4314, PERMITTING CONTINUED  FINANCING OF GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS; FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE  AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2847, JOBS FOR MAIN STREET ACT, 2010
## `31bc8ac76c60c72c323e7607dc8d48c6`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 16 December 2009`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Madam Speaker, House Resolution 976 provides for the consideration of 
the Senate amendment to H.R. 3326, House Joint Resolution 64, H.R. 
4314, and the Senate amendment to H.R. 2847.

For the Senate amendment to H.R. 3326, the rule makes in order a 
motion to concur in the Senate amendment with the House amendment, 
provides 1 hour of debate controlled by the Committee on 
Appropriations, and waives


all points of order against consideration of the motion except those 
arising under clause 10 of rule XI.



The rule provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 64 under a closed 
rule. It provides for 1 hour of debate controlled by the Committee on 
Appropriations. It provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. It waives all points of order against consideration of 
the joint resolution except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule 
XXI, and it waives all points of order against provisions in the joint 
resolution.

The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 4314 under a closed rule. 
It provides for 1 hour of debate controlled by the Committee on Ways 
and Means. It provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. It waives all points of order against consideration of 
the bill except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI, and it 
waives all points of order against provisions in the bill.

For the Senate amendment to H.R. 2847, the rule makes in order a 
motion to concur in the Senate amendment with the House amendment. It 
provides 1 hour of debate on the motion controlled by the Committee on 
Appropriations, and it waives all points of order against consideration 
of the motion except those arising under clause 10 of rule XXI.

The rule provides that in the engrossment of the House amendment to 
the Senate amendment to H.R. 2847, the Clerk shall add the text of H.R. 
2920 as passed by the House.

The rule also provides that measures may be considered under 
suspension of the rules at any time during the remainder of the first 
session of the 111th Congress.

The rule waives the requirement of a two-thirds vote to consider a 
rule on the same day it is reported from the Rules Committee for the 
remainder of the first session of the 111th Congress.

The rule provides that the Chair of the Committee on Appropriations 
may insert in the Congressional Record explanatory materials on the 
Senate amendments and the motions regarding H.R. 3326 and H.R. 2847.

The rule provides that, on any legislative day before January 12, 
2010, the Speaker may dispense with organizational or legislative 
business.

The rule provides that, before January 12, 2010, the Chair may 
declare the House adjourned.

The rule provides for pro forma sessions until the House adjourns 
sine die.

And finally, the rule provides that, on any legislative day of the 
first session of the 111th Congress, the Speaker may declare the House 
adjourned.

Madam Speaker, the rule before us today allows the House to consider 
the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, 
which is the last appropriations bill for this fiscal year.

The conference agreement on H.R. 3326 provides over $363 billion 
towards protecting our troops abroad and taking better care of their 
families at home. To help protect our troops, this bill provides 
increased funding for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle Fund 
and for the procurement of new Humvees and of new heavy and medium 
tactical vehicles. This is particularly important given the casualty 
rate and the difficulties our soldiers are experiencing in Afghanistan.

H.R. 3326 increases pay for all servicemembers by 3.4 percent, and it 
fully funds the requested end strength levels for active reserve and 
selected reserve personnel. The bill provides over $29 billion for top-
of-the-line medical care, including $120 million for traumatic brain 
injury and psychological health, and it increases funding for the 
wounded, the ill and injured warrior programs.

The conference agreement also includes over $472 million for family 
advocacy programs, and it fully funds the family support and yellow 
ribbon programs. The bill also includes $20 million for the Army 
National Guard family assistance centers and reintegration programs; 
but this bill cannot provide for the common defense without a common 
effort.

In my home State of Maine, there are men and women who work every day 
to help in this effort. The funding in this bill would have been wasted 
if it weren't for the efforts of the welders, designers, and metal 
workers of the Bath Ironworks; of the skilled factory workers and 
assembly men at Vintech in Biddeford, Maine; of the world-class 
machinists and engineers at Pratt and Whitney in North Berwick; or of 
the dedicated laborers and nuclear engineers at the Portsmouth Naval 
Shipyard.

This is a clear example of why the bills before us today are so 
interconnected. Our economic security and our national security are 
inextricably linked, and our economic security is still in dire 
straits.

Madam Speaker, if you were sitting at a boardroom table on Wall 
Street today, you might hear the employees with Goldman Sachs 
discussing their $1 billion in profits or bonuses or you might hear 
employees of Citibank discussing raises for their top executives. You 
might also hear that the stock market has gone up 60 percent since the 
spring. You might even hear terms like ''economic recovery'' or 
''rebound.'' So, if you are sitting at that boardroom table on Wall 
Street, you might think that the economy has fully bounced back and 
that we are out of the woods. You may start to believe that there is 
nothing but smooth sailing ahead.

Yet, if you were at a kitchen table on Main Street in my home State 
of Maine, you would hear a very different story. Rather than talk of 
large profits, you would hear families discussing a savings account 
that has all but disappeared. Instead of listening to talk of raises or 
bonuses, you would hear families debating cutbacks on food or cutbacks 
on health care. Instead of hearing phrases like ''economic recovery'' 
or ''rebound,'' you would hear terms like ''high unemployment'' and 
''mounting debt.''

For the big banks on Wall Street, the economic recovery may be at 
hand, but for the millions of unemployed workers and for the thousands 
of small businesses that are struggling to get by, the economic 
recovery is still a long way off. In my State and all across the 
country, there are millions of Americans who want to get back to work, 
but they need us to lend the same helping hand that we gave to Wall 
Street in its time of need.

Madam Speaker, the rule before us today allows for the consideration 
of the Jobs for Main Street Act, which will move us down that road. 
This legislation invests in our Nation's infrastructure, and it puts 
more Americans back to work by providing $48 billion to rebuild and 
repair our national transportation system. This investment provides a 
measurable return, not only by creating and preserving jobs but by 
literally building the foundation for a long-term economic recovery. 
This bill will also preserve the jobs of teachers, of police officers, 
and of firefighters. For those who have already lost their jobs, the 
Jobs Act extends unemployment benefits for 2 months, and it maintains 
the current COBRA subsidy.

These programs--these investments, the economic lifelines--have a 
real impact. Just this week, I heard from a constituent of mine who 
said these words: Something needs to be done. There are less than 4 
weeks left for my husband's unemployment. After that, we won't be able 
to pay the rent, and we will be out on the streets with a child under 2 
years old. Every day, I wonder what is going to happen next, and I even 
have nightmares. You bail out these large banks which then only raise 
our interest rates and lower our credit lines--and for what? That 
doesn't help the little guy like us. Do something to help us.


Madam Speaker, we have the opportunity and we have the obligation to 
take the bailout money that was used as a lifeline to Wall Street and 
to give that money back to the American people and to those who have 
been hit the hardest by these tough economic times. The COBRA subsidy 
we passed this spring began expiring a few weeks ago. If we don't act 
now, it will completely disappear by January 1. In my State, full 
payment for COBRA uses up nearly 90 percent of the average unemployment 
benefits. That means out-of-work Mainers end up with only about $150 a 
month left after paying the full cost of their health insurance.

We need to act now, and we need to act fast to ensure that Main 
Street recovers. If we do not act, we will have only assured that Wall 
Street keeps


their bonuses while American families lose their benefits. We will have 
only watched Wall Street get rid of their debt while watching small 
businesses take on more.

Madam Speaker, we have already put more than enough into shoring up 
Wall Street. Now we need to focus on creating jobs for the average 
American that will rebuild our economy from the bottom up.

I reserve the balance of my time.