---
---

# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `31bd52a3f6de9d3fef5a08c9c99868a1`
`Mr. HODES — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. As I hear the stories that you are telling me from the 
folks back home in your district in Wisconsin, it literally breaks my 
heart to think, as a Member of Congress, we are having to fight, we are 
having to fight hard for the people of this country to override a 
Presidential veto which says we are going to spend money on a failed 
war instead of spending money on health care for our people. Health 
care for our people. We would rather spend the money over there on 
something that isn't working. But questioning whether or not we are 
being wise about making a basic investment in the health care for kids 
with a program that has worked well to help lift kids out of poverty 
and into health, because when kids are healthy, they can learn. When 
the kids are learning and productive, their families are working 
better. Those are the kinds of things that the American people expect 
us to be spending our money on.

They are asking those questions. Why are we spending so much money in 
the sands of Iraq and with so little to show for it and why aren't we 
investing for kids at home. And they may not even know where all that 
money is going because the numbers are so big; $191 billion, what does 
that mean to anybody? When I carry around a $10 bill in my wallet, I 
can handle those sums. But $191 billion, what is it going for? What is 
it paying for? What kind of value are the taxpayers getting for what 
they are spending?