---
---

# None
## `31cb84054b4194e071160f10293636a8`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. We just need to, I think, look back, and I say this 
with the utmost respect, Mr. Speaker, because the President basically, 
yesterday, in his press conference, I think it was yesterday or maybe 
today, in his press conference basically was making fun of Congress for 
holding hearings, making fun of us. But when you look at what we're 
holding hearings on, we're trying to fix problems that we have in the 
country. So we're having hearings on FEMA and the disaster that we all 
saw on TV at the gulf coast. We're having hearings on Iraq, the unbid 
contracts, the problems that we're having there, the wasteful spending, 
the billions of dollars that the Pentagon doesn't know where it is. 
We're trying to have hearings to find out what's going on. Hearings on 
toys. I mean, we're trying to figure out how do we fund this, how do we 
have enough consumer product safety workers here in the country to make 
sure that our people are safe when you're dealing with products or 
food. I mean, when the administration then continues to make light of 
these very serious concerns, it's troubling to us to somehow say that 
we're holding hearings, which is our constitutional duty. Article I, 
section 1 of the Constitution created this body.

So, again, we have Katrina, we have the war, we have toys, we have 
passports, FEMA, we have all of these issues that we're dealing with in 
this country. I'm sorry if we're trying to solve these problems.

I yield to my friend.