# CONDEMNING 1994 ATTACK ON ARGENTINE JEWISH CENTER
## `31cd4ac7cc19459fe6f91609c8d84f55`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I join my colleagues in condemning the 
attack on the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
in July of 1994. Those responsible for the destruction and loss of 
human life that resulted from this attack must be held accountable. I 
believe that anyone who acts to destroy innocent life, regardless of 
their position in society or the country they are from should be 
subject to international scrutiny for their actions, and that includes 
our own officials.

In the past I have voted in favor of similar resolutions that 
condemned the attack on the AMIA Jewish Community Center and sought to 
hold accountable those responsible for this deplorable and heinous act. 
Accordingly, today I once again support all aspects of this resolution 
that calls for justice on behalf of the 85 people murdered and 300 
wounded.

However, H. Con. Res. 385 is not without problems in its current 
form. First, the final ''Whereas'' clause of the resolution contains 
information that is speculative rather than factual. The resolution 
appears to draw this clause from an ABC News report from June 19, 2008, 
which provides no hard evidence to support the stated claims. Second, 
the resolution claims in the penultimate ''Whereas'' clause that Iran 
''in recent years'' has opened ''nearly a dozen embassies in Latin 
America.'' In recent years, Iran has opened two embassies in Latin 
America, one in Colombia in 2007 and one in Nicaragua in 2007. These 
events brought the total of Iranian embassies in Latin America to 
eight. According to experts at the Congressional Research Service, CRS, 
the


other six Iranian Embassies in Latin America have been around for a 
long time and include those in Cuba, Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, 
Mexico, and Venezuela.

As such, I do not agree with the decision by the U.S. House of 
Representatives to treat this resolution as noncontroversial. The bill 
could unwittingly place this Congress in the position of promoting an 
attack on the country of Iran through its attempt to draw parallels 
between Iran and those responsible for the attack on the AMIA Jewish 
Community Center. Instead of using speculative and factually inaccurate 
information which is clearly included in this bill, the resolution 
should be redrafted and kept to readily ascertainable facts about the 
unconscionable attack on the AMIA Jewish Community Center in 1994.

This body must not allow an attack on innocent people be used as a 
pretext for an attack on more innocent people. Indeed, we have done 
this once with disastrous results. I believe this House is better 
served by demanding sensible and responsible diplomatic foreign policy 
initiatives. This body should demand that the administration engage 
Iran immediately in high-level diplomatic negotiations without 
preconditions. By neglecting this duty and employing tactics that 
maintain an ongoing condemnation of Iran, without opening diplomatic 
channels, this body is systematically destroying every available route 
to restoring peace and security in the Middle East, which could have 
devastating consequences for Israel, as well as our troops in Iraq.