# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `31de836e33ad67fdacf1be4116ea8e08`
`Mr. CALVERT — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the 
resolution offered by the majority expressing the disapproval of 
President Bush's decision to deploy more than 20,000 additional troops 
to Iraq.

This resolution, in my opinion, is nothing but politics. Opposition 
to a plan is not a plan. This resolution is using our service men and 
women in a debate that does not address policy. If this was an earnest 
debate about the administration's proposal, then the majority would 
have offered a bill that answers two pertinent questions: What is 
success, and how do we achieve it?

Instead, we stand here debating a bill that opposes sending 
reinforcements to Iraq. There are no amendments allowed, and there is 
certainly no plan offered in this bill.

In fact, this debate is incredibly ironic since many of those on the 
other side of the aisle were calling for more troops not too long ago. 
Once again, the debate was not about success, but about opposition to 
the administration's vision.

Let us talk about policy. First, nostalgic thoughts and longing for 
the times before the U.S. entered Iraq are not useful nor can they be 
used as a vision for the future. We are in this war. We must win. 
Anything less than an honest discussion on how to proceed forward is a 
disservice to this Nation and to our military.

Second, if our policy is to support a stable Iraq, then we must 
employ a strategy to achieve that goal. The President and our military 
commanders have stated that in order to fulfill that policy objective, 
Baghdad must be secured. In order to secure Baghdad, the Iraqi security 
forces need more American troops to reinforce their operations. 
President Bush agreed to this on the condition that the Iraqis lead the 
fight and that the Iraq Government take more responsibility for 
securing their country.

If the majority party disagrees with this policy objective and the 
strategy to achieve it, then I ask them, what is their policy 
objective, and how do they plan to achieve it? I have yet to hear a 
consensus from my friends on the other side of the aisle on what they 
believe our policy should be. They certainly cannot suggest that this 
resolution even faintly resembles a plan or vision for a successful 
resolution to the current conflict.

I will tell you what the debate is. It is a sound bite. It is a quick 
and easy way to feed the defeatists in this country. More than anything 
it is a disappointment. The majority would rather score political 
points than have a real discussion on the most important question of 
this generation, how to win the war against our enemies and keep our 
country safe.

We should be asking ourselves, what would failure in the Middle East 
mean?

Our enemies have stated that they believe that Western Civilization 
is rotten to the core. Unless we get out of the Middle East entirely 
and convert to Islam, we will always be their enemy. In chapter 2 of 
the 9/11 report, the authors answer what the terrorists want from 
America:

''To the second question, what America could do, al Qaeda's answer 
was that America should abandon the Middle East, convert to Islam, and 
end the immorality and godlessness of its society and culture.''

Al Qaeda is closely watching Iraq, sending fighters and weapons and 
doing most everything in its power to bring about an American retreat. 
If we leave Iraq before it is secure, what will that do to our enemy, 
an enemy who has already stated that they seek to destroy us not for 
being in Iraq but for being in the Middle East and for being non-
Muslim?

An American failure would bolster al Qaeda and every other terrorist 
organization in the world. It would give them a reason to believe that 
they can win and that it could give them confidence so they could 
surely breach our shores one day. It would let them believe that their 
plan, a plan to destroy Western culture for its godlessness, is 
correct.

As 9/11 taught us, warfare is no longer limited to the enemies within 
our region. Geographic boundaries and long distances do not keep us 
safe.



An enemy encouraged by a retreat in Iraq will be close to our heels. 
That is exactly why we must stay and confront our enemies.

So how is this enemy, who is at a military and financial 
disadvantage, seeking to win? They simply studied a little American 
history. Both Osama bin Laden and al-Zarqawi have referenced the 
Vietnam conflict in forming their strategy to defeat us.

Many in this body often rush to compare this conflict with Vietnam, 
and in one respect it is very similar: both enemies understood the way 
to victory was through American politicians. If they can weaken the 
American political will, they knew they could achieve victory. The 
majority often invokes the number of our war dead as the reason to 
leave or the fact that this conflict has gone longer than our 
involvement in World War II. These arguments play right into the hands 
of the enemy and their propaganda machine.

What people don't seem to understand is that we cannot fall into the 
trap of comparisons, or we risk losing sight of what our men and women 
in the Armed Forces need from us: they need our support. They need a 
coherent policy and strategy that does not make politics the long pole 
in the tent.

Courage to do the right thing is not always easy. I will not abandon 
those who have fought and given their lives in this conflict. I will 
not abandon the Iraqis who long for peace. Instead, I support the 
President's call for more troops. I believe it is the right thing to 
do. It is illogical to say you support the troops that are there, but 
not the reinforcements that they need.

In closing, I would like to remember those who have lost their lives 
to the acts of terrorism:

The Beirut embassy and Marine barracks bombing in 1983; the bombing 
of Pan Am 103, 1988; the first bombing of the World Trade Center in 
1993; the bombing of the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires 
in Argentina in 1994; the bombing of the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia 
1996; the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998; 
the bombings of the USS Cole in Yemen in the year 2000; the attacks on 
New York City and the Pentagon, September 11, 2001; the Madrid train 
bombings, March 11, 2004; the London bombings, July 7, 2005.

Do not doubt that if they were given the chance, our enemies would 
come in this Chamber tonight and kill us all.

This resolution is not a solution. It is nothing but doubt, fear, and 
weakness. I urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution and 
stand up for victory.