# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `31f68750fe47029d3e3573b23c4a16a1`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 2647, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2010.

As the representative of Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I am 
pleased that this bill makes important investments to support our 
national security and recognize the contributions of not only our men 
and women in uniform but also the families that support them. It 
provides for a 3.4 percent pay raise for service members and authorizes 
$1.95 billion for family housing programs. It expands support for those 
who are injured in battle, with enhancements for the medical ''mission 
to heal'' and funding to help friends and family visit or otherwise 
support recovering service members. It also expands TRICARE health 
coverage for reserve component members and their families.

H.R. 2647 improves military readiness and authorizes additional funds 
for equipment depleted by the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. It 
authorizes the president's request for 15,000 more Army troops, 8,000 
more Marines, 14,650 more Air Force personnel, and 2,477 more Navy 
sailors, and also includes funding for force protection to keep those 
troops safe in theater. It recognizes the toll on our Army National 
guard and reserves by providing new battle gear and construction 
projects in our communities.

While I am pleased that this resolution provides authorization of $50 
million for Impact Aid funding, with additional $15 million for BRAC-
affected areas, these levels are inadequate for the pressing needs our 
school districts have as they care for military-connected students. As 
the former superintendent of North Carolina's schools, I know first-
hand that we cannot provide a high-quality education without high-
quality facilities. In North Carolina, the BRAC process has swelled 
enrollment in the counties around Fort Bragg--Cumberland, Harnett, 
Johnston, and Sampson--without increasing the tax base that supports 
the local schools. Impact Aid funding has barely increased in the last 
five years. We must renew our commitment to support these students and 
give local schools the support they need to provide them a quality 
education, especially in the current economic downturn that is 
straining state and local budgets.

Mr. Chair, despite this shortfall, this is a strong bill that 
supports our men and women in uniform, and their families, and enhances 
our national security. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this legislation.
