---
---

# None
## `32009660b5f69a9630beb6cbaae391cc`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Well, I do have something to add. I just want 
to go back to the question of Foreign Affairs and the war in Iraq, and 
I want to do what I did the last time when I was talking about the 
debt, which is to lay out some of the explicit statements and promises 
that the administration made about this war and then lay out what the 
specific results have been. It's important. It's vitally important that 
the people of this country compare promises to results. This war, in my 
view, has been a catastrophe, but here is what top officials in the 
Bush administration said:

''It is unknowable how long that conflict [the war in Iraq] will 
last. It could last 6 days, 6 weeks, I doubt 6 months,'' Donald 
Rumsfeld, February 2003, a month before the war.

''There's a lot of money to pay for this that doesn't have to be U.S. 
taxpayer money, and it starts with the assets of the Iraqi people. 
We're dealing


with a country that can really finance its own reconstruction and 
relatively soon,'' Paul Wolfowitz, former Deputy Defense Secretary, 
March of 2003.

Of course, our friend from Florida has outlined the truth that the 
Iraqi money is in U.S. banks. Treasury money is going over to Iraq to 
finance things.

''My belief is we will, in fact, be greeted as liberators,'' Vice 
President Dick Cheney. How bright he was, yes. March 16, 2003.

''It's hard to conceive that it would take more forces to provide 
stability in post-Saddam Iraq than it would to take to conduct the war, 
itself, and to secure the surrender of Saddam's security forces and his 
army. Hard to imagine,'' Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz.

''I don't know where bin Laden is. I have no idea and really don't 
care. It's not that important. It's not our priority,'' President 
George Bush, Commander in Chief, March 2002.

''If we're an arrogant Nation, they'll resent us. If we're a humble 
Nation but strong, they'll welcome us [in Iraq],'' George Bush.

We know the facts. The war in Iraq has now lasted longer than the 
U.S. involvement in World War II. Four thousand one hundred fifty-five 
Americans have been killed in Iraq, and more than 30,000 troops have 
been wounded as of September 7 of this year. No weapons of mass 
destruction were ever found. That was the whole pretext that George 
Bush used to justify this war.

More than $600 billion has been spent, none of it on the books 
incidentally, all on the credit card. Some projections estimate that 
the war, when all of the expenses are paid, including what we have to 
pay to provide health care to our seriously injured soldiers, will 
exceed $3 trillion.

The Iraqi Government has now forced the Bush administration to accept 
something that many of us have been arguing for four years, a 
timetable. It took the President of Iraq to force the President of the 
United States to get real and to understand that what we can expect of 
the American taxpayer and what we can expect of the American soldier 
has its limits and that it's time to start asking the Iraqis to step up 
and to take on the burden of their own future.

America's military is stretched thin. There is just no dispute about 
this. It weakens our ability to respond to other threats. The chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Michael Mullen, has stressed that the 
need for more troops in Afghanistan is great, but due to the war in 
Iraq, they're not available. The Bush administration has grossly 
neglected Afghanistan and has failed to acknowledge that that is a 
major threat.

These are promises, the cavalier disregard for the hidden 
consequences, the consequences beyond your control when you embark on a 
war, on a thoughtless war, and disregard the need to build up alliances 
like George Bush's father did in the first Gulf war, and you cavalierly 
go off with promises, reckless promises, irresponsible promises by 
people in positions of great trust. The greatest trust that they have 
is that they have a duty to use due deliberation in the protection of 
the lives of the American people and of the American soldiers. They 
have to use due deliberation, careful thought, responsible analysis in 
committing American power abroad and in committing the lives of our 
soldiers abroad. They cavalierly made predictions. Vice President 
Cheney will go down in history as just having been totally out of 
touch.