---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `3216b65f834b7a2946d5e1f3b59d9dba`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 25 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Thank you so much, the gentleman from California. I 
rise in strong opposition to the amendment on Afghanistan offered by 
the gentleman from Massachusetts, my friend, Mr. McGovern.

In late March of this year, the President announced his comprehensive 
outline for Afghanistan and Pakistan, highlighting the threat to 
critical U.S. security interests that would arise should al Qaeda and 
the Taliban reclaim or establish safe havens in those countries. The 
President clearly outlined our goals to disrupt, to dismantle, and to 
defeat al Qaeda. I agree with him on those goals. But success requires 
a sustained commitment and sustained support for both the mission and 
the brave Americans and Afghanis carrying it out.

Our strategy is meeting with success, yet the McGovern amendment is 
already looking for an exit strategy. This amendment sends a terrible 
message about U.S. resolve to both friends and foes alike.

And we're not alone in this concern. It's precisely why the Obama 
administration also opposes the McGovern amendment, stating that the 
McGovern amendment, ''would demonstrate a lack of commitment to the new 
strategy, it will signal to our Afghan partners that the U.S. presence 
and efforts in country are fleeting, and it demonstrates to al Qaeda 
that we are not intending to see this new strategy through.''

It could hamper U.S. strategic goals in the entire region. Rather 
than focusing on an exit strategy, we should instead be focused on 
working with the Obama administration to provide the necessary 
flexibility to craft policies that offer the best chance of success, 
while ensuring congressional consultation and congressional 
notification.

The underlying bill provides this balance. And that's why Chairman 
Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon, Chairman Berman and I ask our 
colleagues to support U.S. efforts in Afghanistan and oppose the 
McGovern amendment.

