---
---

# None
## `32166205c1c2166099aeb70da49247ce`
`Mr. HARKIN — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, this week is National Suicide Prevention 
Week. In honor of the families who have lost a military family member 
to suicide, I wish to speak now about an amendment I have to this bill 
to address one of the most critical issues facing our troops right now, 
the issue of suicide. The Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention bill 
was signed into law this past November. But that has to do with 
veterans. However, the Department of Defense has reported an increase 
in suicides among Active-Duty soldiers. With extended combat tours to 
15 months from 12 months, with many servicemembers on their third or 
even fourth rotation to Afghanistan or Iraq, the psychological strains 
are enormous. The Department of Defense Task Force on Mental Health has 
stated that both the VA and the Department of Defense are not prepared 
to deal with this increase in mental health needs of Active-Duty 
service men and women.

Nearly each year of the 5-year-old war in Iraq and the 7 years of war 
in Afghanistan, the suicide rate has increased. Last year suicides 
among Active-Duty soldiers reached their highest level since the Army 
began keeping records 28 years ago. Suicide was the leading cause of 
noncombat deaths in Iraq in 2007. This trend has begun to repeat itself 
in 2008. So far there have been 62 confirmed suicides as well as 31 
deaths under investigation that are suspected to be suicides, which 
means this year's gruesome numbers could surpass the record of 115 
suicides set last year. The number of attempted suicides or self-
inflicted injuries in the Army, approximately 2,100 last year, has 
risen sixfold since the Iraq war began. These startling statistics 
should serve as a wake-up call that suicide among soldiers and veterans 
is more than a small problem. It is rapidly becoming a very big 
problem. To address this critical concern, I worked with a number of my 
colleagues to introduce the Armed Forces Suicide Prevention Act, S. 
2585, with 20 bipartisan cosponsors. The amendment I am offering to 
this bill merely adds the preventative measures from this carefully 
crafted bill, S. 2585, to the excellent underlying language that is in 
the Defense authorization bill before us.

The Defense authorization bill before us does increase mental health 
personnel and post-suicide investigations in the military. That is in 
the underlying bill. The amendment I am offering requires the 
Department of Defense to implement comprehensive suicide prevention 
programs within all branches of the military, including the National 
Guard and Reserves. Among other things, the amendment directs the 
Pentagon to conduct a servicewide campaign to reduce the stigma 
associated with mental health issues and to encourage servicemembers 
who are experiencing difficulties to seek help. It also engages 
military leadership by incorporating suicide prevention training for 
all servicemembers.


So this amendment takes the preventative measures from the bill we 
introduced with 20 bipartisan cosponsors and adds it to the underlying 
Defense authorization bill.

The language I am talking about was coordinated carefully with each 
branch of the Armed Forces, and their recommended revisions were 
incorporated. The bill complements other recent defense legislation 
such as the Wounded Warriors Act, addressing the well-being and welfare 
of our servicemembers and their families. This Armed Forces Suicide 
Prevention Act has the endorsement of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans 
of America, the Suicide Prevention Action Network, the National 
Military Families Association, and the National Alliance on Mental 
Illness.

We know these kinds of programs can make a big difference. In the 
early 1990s, one in every four deaths among Active-Duty Air Force 
personnel was from suicide. The Air Force implemented the kind of 
comprehensive suicide prevention program required by the bill we have 
introduced and by this amendment, and by 2002 the suicide rate had been 
reduced by over a third. Violent crime and family violence also were 
reduced after the preventative program was implemented.

We cannot just sit idly by and watch as these young brave Americans, 
who


are making great sacrifices, are left alone to fend for themselves, as 
they suffer the pain and anguish of post-traumatic stress disorder, the 
despair of losing friends to roadside bombs, or the depression and 
helplessness felt after multiple deployments that are stressing their 
families to the breaking point. This is not just about the armed 
servicemembers who commit suicide; it is about the deep and painful 
despair that drives them to do it. I know the Army says they have 
effective programs in place. But if that is true, where are the 
outcomes? Why do we have an ever-increasing suicide rate in the 
military?

The GAO just reported last week that the DOD--Department of Defense--
does not even know if the post-deployment health reassessment surveys 
are being completed. Now, for those who may not have heard about this 
tool, the PDHRA, as it is called, surveys health and mental health 
concerns within 90 and 120 days of deployment. Well, how can DOD say 
they are good stewards of mental health when they cannot show us they 
are even doing these screenings?

The DOD's position on this amendment I am offering is that it ''would 
establish a legislative mandate for programs already ongoing or within 
the Secretary's authority to establish. However, the administration 
supports the goals of this legislation and we look forward to working 
with Congress to address these concerns.''

Well, they may have the current authority, but the numbers do not 
bear out they are actually doing it. Frankly, my staff has met--and I 
have also--with veterans in Iowa who say that while programs like this 
are in place and working well in some units, it is not a universal 
experience for Armed Services members. Too many brave young men and 
women are falling through the cracks, and the DOD is simply not doing a 
thorough job here. One ignored soldier who has had mental health 
problems--who is stressed out, who has seen his buddies' arms and legs 
disappear from bombings or had their lives taken away, who is on 
multiple deployments, and he has kids back home--one soldier with those 
kinds of stresses who is ignored is one soldier too many.

That is why Congress has to act to make this a priority. Yes, this is 
going to be a legislative mandate, and I intend it to be that. When GAO 
tells us that DOD cannot even tell us what they are doing, then I think 
it is time for a legislative mandate.

The military does an extraordinarily good job of treating our 
warriors' physical wounds and preventing death and disability. It is 
time to place an equal priority to treating their psychological wounds, 
their emotional wounds, and preventing suicides. That is exactly what 
this amendment will accomplish.

As I have said, there is already excellent language in the underlying 
Defense authorization bill to expand mental health services for Active-
Duty servicemembers. This amendment would add suicide prevention 
training for armed servicemembers and their families. It would add 
additional postdeployment assistance and a stigma reduction outreach 
campaign to aid in those efforts--a campaign to reduce the stigma of a 
soldier who is having mental health problems from seeking help.

We all know--those of us who have been in the military--what it is 
like. You do not want to admit you are having psychological problems, 
that this, somehow, is something you are not supposed to have happen to 
you. So you have to reduce the stigma of this so these young men and 
women who are having these problems will seek help and by getting that 
help will heal their psychological wounds.

It is a simple, commonsense approach to a pervasive, disturbing 
trend, as I said, a very growing problem in the military. So I hope all 
my colleagues can join with us to support the dedicated men and women 
serving our country and support this needed amendment.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.