---
---

# HONORING U.S. ARMY SPECIALIST MARISOL HEREDIA
## `32185fbd1e0e499e6ff58670a6ab48be`
`Ms. SOLIS — 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. SOLIS. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Specialist Marisol 
Heredia who died of injuries suffered while serving in Iraq. Specialist 
Heredia was a member of the U.S.


Army's 15th Brigade Support Battalion, 1st Calvary Division, deployed 
from Fort Hood, Texas.

Specialist Marisol Heredia was from El Monte, California. She was 
born on September 16, 1987. She received a public school education and 
attended Mountain View High School, where she was a dedicated student 
who graduated half a year earlier than her class.

For love of country and out of admiration for her older sister who 
served in the U.S. military, Specialist Heredia joined the United 
States Army in July, 2005. Specialist Marisol Heredia was deployed last 
October to serve her first tour of duty in Iraq. On July 18, 2007 a 
vehicle she was fueling caught on fire in Baghdad, Iraq. She was 
evacuated to Brooke Army Medical Center in Fort Sam Houston, Texas, for 
treatment, but passed away on September 7, 2007 as a result of her 
injuries.

Specialist Heredia served this country with courage, pride and 
loyalty. She gave the ultimate sacrifice to our country and for that we 
will be forever grateful to her and her family. She was buried 
yesterday on what would have been her 20th birthday. My prayers and 
deepest sympathy go out to her family and friends.

She is survived by her 3 sisters, as well as her mother and 
stepfather who were deeply touched by her kind heart and gentle 
strength.
