# EMERGENCY EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACT OF 2008
## `322190d786a3c0b4d6adfe9a9e67d96b`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I want to thank Chairman Rangel for his leadership on behalf of the 
American people.

Every Member in the House is elected by the people, and today we're 
going to find out if Members remember who they work for.

Before us is H.R. 5749, legislation I introduced because it's time 
the government work for the people and extend a helping hand to those 
who need a break. Contrary to what you have just heard, this bill was 
heard in the committee, was voted on in the committee, and three 
members of the Republican Party voted to move it out of the Ways and 
Means Committee. It was contained in the supplemental bill, and 
everybody in the House has had an opportunity to vote on it and discuss 
it. We are repassing it for the second time.

Now, this legislation should pass without a single vote against it. 
And that's why it was put on the supplemental on the suspension 
calendar. No Member who's read a newspaper or spent any time in a 
congressional district talking to constituents lately could possibly 
miss the fact that the economy is in serious trouble and so are 
millions of Americans, and it will just keep getting worse until we 
act.

Last Friday we saw the largest one-month jump in the unemployment 
rate in 22 years. Now does anyone doubt the gravity of that situation? 
Across America the unemployment rate is rising. It's over 7 percent in 
Michigan and above 6 percent in Alaska and a half a dozen other States.

Eighteen percent of the unemployed in this country have not been able 
to find a job for at least 6 months. They have exhausted all of their 
benefits. And that is what this bill deals with. Everywhere you look, 
people are worried about their home and their family and their future. 
And no one feels safe no matter where they are.

The economy has been claimed by the Iraq war. This wasteful, needless 
war has undermined our economy and put it on a deep, steep downward 
slide. Devastating energy and food prices have made the American people 
be up against the wall when businesses are shedding jobs to cope. It's 
been this way for months, and it's time for some relief.



The White House has been fighting, and as Mr. Weller says, they've 
sent down from the administration a letter already saying they're going 
to veto it. Well, that's the administration. What do you expect out of 
that place?

This bill would provide 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits to 
all States where people have exhausted their regular unemployment. It 
gives another 13 weeks in States where the unemployment rate is above 6 
percent.

The usual UI benefit is less than $300 a week. That's poverty level 
assistance for a family struggling in an economy when gasoline is $4 a 
gallon.

There is not a congressional district in this country that isn't 
feeling the effects of this downturn. Every Member in this Chamber has 
constituents who need help, and they are the workers we are working 
for, presumably.

This bill is a lifeboat to the American people to stay afloat during 
increasingly tough economic times. Anybody who votes against this bill 
is voting against reality. They are denying it.

Now, sometimes the American people watch this session out of 
interest, but today, they're watching because there's an urgent need to 
receive some help.

This issue of the 20 weeks is being held up as the reason why I'm 
going to vote against it. The Labor Department analyzed the fact that 
that unduly affects low-wage workers and women because they work part-
time.

We hear that if you work 2 weeks you can get a year's benefits. Are 
you saying that the Governor of Illinois or the Governor of Michigan or 
the Governor of Pennsylvania is stupid and he's just throwing money out 
the window? These are qualified by the State-level people, and you know 
you can't give me one example of any place--people say Oregon, if you 
work 2 weeks in Oregon, you somehow are going to get a year's benefits 
for 2 weeks. There is no State in the Union where that is true. Give me 
one example.

I reserve the balance of my time.