---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `3232defc08918239eff1c059f1a81a86`
`Mrs. BOXER — 14 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. OK. I feel like I want to respond for a couple of minutes 
more to this amendment and say that my colleague says: Oh, my goodness, 
every 10 years you have to do more work. As I say, the Corps found that 
this is the most economical and sustainable way to resolve this 
problem. He talks about beaches--what were his words--being washed 
away. Yes, beaches will be washed away. We expect that, and every 10 
years we will restore the beach. But it is better that that happens 
than houses washing away, businesses washing away or people washing 
away. So we have looked at the other options, such as concrete 
structures, walls--all very expensive and requiring a lot of 
maintenance and so on.

So we have a situation where the city is paying for 35 percent of the 
initial part of the project, 50 percent for the rest of the project. 
The city of Imperial Beach is not looking for a handout, but it is 
sharing the burden of protecting its people.

Again, I don't quite understand the prioritization of the Senator 
from Oklahoma, or why he picks on this particular project. This is a 
project that is more cost effective than any other alternative. It is 
one of the most cost effective in the Nation. We feel very good about 
it. But just as Louisiana's wetlands restoration will lessen impacts of 
hurricanes, because the wetlands are that natural absorber of the water 
and they also lessen the power of the hurricane, we are here using the 
God-given beaches as a way to do this flood control or, better said, 
hurricane impact reduction. So we learned from Hurricane Katrina that 
we should address our flood threats before they materialize.

We are worried about this particular community. I am very pleased 
that this particular project certainly wasn't even controversial when 
we put together our package because it so clearly fits all the criteria 
we had in place. My colleague is saying don't do this until you do 
Sacramento, and it doesn't make any sense to me because we need to do 
it all. That is the point of the WRDA bill--to take care of as many 
people as we can, and that we can project with the most stringent 
criteria that we have. So this ''Russian roulette'' amendment plays 
with the fate of my community. I think Senator Coburn's other 
amendment, which would strike a blow at the tourism revival in 
Louisiana, is also an ill-fated amendment.

The reason I was so glad he came over this afternoon is I am hoping 
we can have votes on these three amendments tomorrow. If we send a 
signal that the members of the committee are sticking together on this 
in a bipartisan way and we are going to move this forward, I think it 
would be very good for the bill.

I look forward to Senator Inhofe's arrival. He has had a very 
grueling weekend in Iraq. I don't know exactly when he will arrive. At 
this point, I suggest the absence of a quorum.