# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `32424519a854051614d2292a14b7c96e`
`Mr. EVERETT â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. EVERETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank my ranking member, a combat veteran 
from Vietnam and a great American.



Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to pay tribute to my ranking 
member and chairman, and to the service of all men and women who are 
serving in the Armed Forces and those who have prior service, many who 
serve in this distinguished body. And thank goodness. I say thank 
goodness, because I find that in this body we have too few people who 
have ever worn a uniform, but we have an awful lot of opinions about 
how to wear a uniform.

We have heard from many of these Members on both sides of the aisle. 
Some served in Vietnam, some in the first gulf war, and some in the war 
that we are currently fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. They cite their 
firsthand experience in serving our country as justification for why 
they believe we cannot afford to lose the war or why we should not 
support the Commander in Chief's reinforcement proposal or, in some 
cases, why we should bring the troops home immediately and cut off 
funding.

Mr. Speaker, I respect every Member in this Chamber who has served 
our country with honor and distinction. Each of them brings a different 
perspective to the debate. However, today I would like to bring another 
perspective to the debate, and it is that of Army pilot Keith Yoakum 
from Coffee Springs, Alabama, in my district. Chief Warrant Officer 
Yoakum was killed February 2 in Iraq when the Apache helicopter he was 
flying was forced to land during combat operations in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.

While his death is a tragedy, his family is taking comfort in the 
fact that Chief Warrant Officer Yoakum was doing what he loved, 
defending the country that he loved. This Army aviator was proud of 
what he was doing in Iraq, and told his father that there was no other 
place he would rather be until the war was over.

Much of his pride came from his ability to protect our guys on the 
ground using his Apache helicopter who were executing the dangerous 
missions of ridding the neighborhoods of those who wanted to kill his 
fellow troops as well as innocent Iraqis. However, equally as important 
was Keith Yoakum's belief that he was making a difference in this fight 
to make this world a better place for his daughters to live.

Chief Warrant Officer Yoakum is not alone in his belief. The hundreds 
of soldiers that I have visited with share his view of this war. 
Whether it was during a solemn sendoff of our brave men and women or an 
emotional welcome home ceremony, the soldiers I talk to believe in this 
mission and that we must prevail in this war.

They recognize the dire consequences if we don't succeed in Iraq. If 
we withdraw prematurely, the terrorists will have an unchecked 
sanctuary from which they can launch attacks to kill more innocent 
Americans, similar to what existed in Afghanistan prior to our toppling 
the Taliban regime in Operation Enduring Freedom. To abandon our fight 
against the terrorists is to have failed to learn the lessons of 9/11 
and to revert to a policy that allowed two decades of escalating 
violence. That policy resulted in the death of thousands of Americans, 
as was so well documented by the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Saxton).

Mr. Speaker, it is imperative that we defeat this enemy, whose sole 
desire is to kill Americans anywhere, in any way they can. Today the 
theater is Iraq. But if we retreat from this war, as those on the other 
side of the aisle have advocated, then we will fight them in the cities 
and in the towns. Either way, this war will be fought.

Mr. Speaker, I have a guest essay from my hometown newspaper, the 
Dothan Eagle, from a war veteran by the name of Wayne Wood, and I would 
like this complete essay entered into the Record after I speak. But 
first I want to quote a couple of things from it. This is, as I said, 
from a former combat veteran, Wayne Wood.

''As I watch the current debate over the war in Iraq, I remember 
sitting in the day room at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, with my buddies and 
watching the collapse of South Vietnam and Saigon in 1975. I was 
thinking of, and I know my buddies were thinking of, all the guys we 
knew who'd gone over to fight for the Vietnamese who didn't come back. 
We cursed the ARVN soldiers as cowards because they would not stand and 
fight for their country. We were angry that the sacrifice of these 
good--no, great--Americans was in vain.

''It was only years later that I learned, to my dismay, that it 
wasn't the ARVN who betrayed my fellow soldiers' blood, it was their 
very own elected representatives in Congress who voted to cut funding 
for the defense of the Republic of South Vietnam.

''We are being told the Iraqi situation is unwinnable. We were told 
that we had lost the war in Vietnam.

''After Tet in 1968, Walter Cronkite, 'the most trusted man in 
America,' went on the air and said so. Americans said, 'If Walter says 
we've lost, it must be so.'

''Now, our media, and others, some in this body, ''tell us the same 
thing. We are being told of how hopeless the situation is in Iraq. What 
about the American people? What are the American people supposed to 
think?

''But the picture I got from former students who have served in Iraq 
tells another story. They are frustrated that the good things that are 
happening in Iraq aren't being shown, that the people only see the bad. 
There's a genuine fear that they won't be allowed to finish the job. 
Their sacrifice would be in vain.

''From a distance, the situation as shown looks grim. But as a 
soldier who has seen war up close, I know war is a grim business. I 
remember the words of Marine General Julian Smith, speaking of the 
Battle of Tarawa in World War II: 'We were losing, until we won.' ''

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Wood has a number of other examples here, and that 
is the reason I will include the letter for the Record.








No Comparison Between Vietnam and Iraq Wars















(By Wayne Wood)




 As I watch the current debate over the war in Iraq, I 


 remember sitting in the day room at Fort Sill, Okla., with my 


 buddies and watching the collapse of South Vietnam and Saigon 


 in 1975. I was thinking of, and I know my buddies were 


 thinking of, all the guys we knew who'd gone over to fight 


 for the Vietnamese who didn't come back. We cursed the ARVN 


 soldiers as cowards because they would not stand and fight 


 for their country. We were angry that the sacrifice of all 


 those good--no, great--Americans was in vain.



 It was only years later that I learned, to my dismay, that 


 it wasn't the ARVN who betrayed my fellow soldiers' blood, it 


 was their very own elected representatives in Congress who 


 voted to cut funding for the defense of the Republic of South 


 Vietnam.



 We are being told the Iraq situation is unwinnable. We were 


 told we had lost the war in Vietnam.



 After TET in 1968, Walter Cronkite, ''the most trusted man 


 in America,'' went on the air and said so. Americans said, 


 ''If Walter Cronkite says we've lost, it must be so.''



 Now, our media tells us the same thing. We are being told 


 of how hopeless the situation is in Iraq. What are the 


 American people supposed to think?



 But the picture I get from former students who have served 


 Iraq tells another story. They are frustrated that the good 


 things they see happening in Iraq aren't being shown, that 


 the people only see the bad. There's a genuine fear they 


 won't be allowed to finish the job. Their sacrifice would be 


 in vain.



 From a distance, the situation as shown looks grim. But, as 


 a soldier who has seen war up close, I know war is a grim 


 business. I remember the words of Marine Gen. Julian Smith, 


 speaking of the Battle of Tarawa in World War II: ''We were 


 losing until we won!''



 Yes, I get saddened when I read the casualty reports and 


 see the pictures of the dead in the Army Times. No one knows 


 better than a soldier that if a nation goes to war, it owes 


 it to the soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines to fight to 


 win so their sacrifice isn't wasted. I think of my own son in 


 uniform. I can only pray for him and be proud that he has 


 ''stepped up to the plate'' to serve his country, 


 particularly in time of war.



 Today, politicians and pundits just know we are losing in 


 Iraq. Walter Cronkite and others just knew we'd lost the war 


 in Vietnam after TET. If only we had known that Ho Chi Minh 


 and General Giap didn't know they'd won.



 They were about ready to throw in the towel after TET until 


 the anti-war people in America told them otherwise. Well, we 


 left Vietnam and millions of people died in Southeast Asia in 


 the turmoil caused by the power vacuum. Who can tell what 


 might happen if we withdraw from Southwest Asia.



 In 1975 it didn't matter to most of America. The deaths 


 were far away and the Viet Cong couldn't cross the ocean to 


 attack us. Nor did they care to.



 Unfortunately, we don't have that luxury today. We fight an 


 enemy who will stop at nothing to destroy us and our way of 


 life. If we leave Iraq, they will follow us home and it won't 


 be millions of Cambodians or Vietnamese dying in the killing 


 fields of Southeast Asia, it will be Americans in the streets




 of our cities. Can we afford to be so smug in our knowledge?



 We may not like the president. We may not like war. We may 


 not like this war or the way it has been conducted. But now 


 that we're in it, this is one war we cannot afford to lose.



 In one thing I heartily agree with U.S. Sens. Edward 


 Kennedy and John Kerry: America can certainly not afford 


 another Vietnam in Iraq.


Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues, and I urge my colleagues on the 
other side, if we are not going to cut funding from this war, then 
bring up Congressman Sam Johnson's amendment that says we will neither 
cut nor restrict funding for this war. I ask my colleagues to stand 
with Chief Warrant Officer Yoakum and the thousands of other soldiers 
who believe in their mission and want to see it through to completion, 
and vote against this resolution. It can only do harm to our troops and 
bring aid and comfort to the terrorists.