---
---

# SUICIDE IN THE ARMED FORCES
## `3245e82db3384384a0faef4c3c2ff766`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 19 March 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, today, on the sixth anniversary of the 
invasion of Iraq, I want to speak about an epidemic facing the Nation's 
Armed Forces; namely, the alarming rate of suicides in the services. 
Yesterday, the Personnel Subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee 
held an excellent hearing on this topic, and I would like to thank the 
chairman and ranking member for taking on this important issue. I would 
also like to discuss an issue that we have so far paid far too little 
attention to, and that is the way the strain on the force caused by the 
rate of deployment is compromising our ability to care for 
servicemembers struggling with mental health concerns.

We have come a long way in addressing this issue. Only a generation 
ago, Vietnam veterans struggled to get care for the long-term 
consequences of the trauma they survived during the war. They were 
trailblazers, and thanks to them the VA has revolutionized the way it 
cares for veterans. We now have, among other things, counseling centers 
where combat veterans can go to speak with experienced counselors who 
are also combat veterans about their difficulties in readjusting to 
civilian life. I commend the President for emphasizing the need for 
additional centers and have been a strong advocate for just that in the 
State of Wisconsin. But more remains to be done.

It is not sufficient to wait until a servicemember is discharged from 
the Services and transitioned to the VA to respond to the crisis. Let's 
be honest. There is a conflict between the responsibility to both 
maintain the readiness of the Armed Forces and adequately respond to 
the needs of servicemembers struggling with mental health issues. 
During this time of tremendous strain on the Armed Forces, our 
noncommissioned officer corps is under incredible pressure to ensure 
that the servicemembers under their command are ready to meet the 
demands of combat. We must create the space for them to identify those 
soldiers who are in need of extra assistance and provide a means for 
them to provide that assistance.

We must begin by asking men and women in uniform about their 
experiences and what we can do to support them. I was disappointed that 
the hearing yesterday did not include the testimony of servicemembers 
about their personal experiences, so I would like to take this 
opportunity to talk about what I have been hearing from servicemembers 
and their family members from my home State of Wisconsin.

Over 2 years ago, I was approached by a family whose son had taken 
his own life while serving in Afghanistan. After an investigation of 
the situation, I learned that the soldier was struggling to meet the 
grueling demands of his duties and had, perhaps as a result, become 
isolated from his unit. It was a tragedy for all involved.

Last year, my office was contacted by a soldier who immediately 
thereafter took his own life. A subsequent investigation revealed that 
he, too, had become isolated from his own unit. Due


to his ongoing struggle with mental illness, his leadership became 
understandably frustrated with him and repeatedly disciplined him. His 
doctors decided he was not fit to deploy with his unit which was headed 
to Iraq. This was a major blow for him. He desperately wanted to deploy 
with his unit. He became angry and isolated. He sought to be 
transferred to a wounded warrior transition unit where he could focus 
on his recovery. Unfortunately, his leadership failed to get him 
transferred in a timely manner. If they had, he might still be with us 
today.

I was recently approached by a Wisconsin veteran who lost three of 
his peers to suicide during his time in the Army. He has informed me 
that in all three instances one of the main problems was a breakdown in 
leadership. He has given me a list of recommendations for the Armed 
Forces to train our noncommissioned officers in suicide prevention. I 
will ask to have these recommendations printed in the Record.

Listening to the voices of these men and women serving in uniform, a 
consistent pattern has emerged. Our Armed Forces, which are under 
tremendous pressure due to two ongoing major contingency operations, 
are struggling to meet the needs of their members while completing 
their mission.

I suspect that the single most important thing our country can due to 
address this epidemic is to redeploy from Iraq so that we can take the 
time to care for the psychologically wounded without putting additional 
strain on those who have already completed multiple tours. Redeploying 
would also serve our national security needs by allowing us to better 
focus on the global threat posed by al-Qaida and its affiliates.

Secondly, we must review the strategy we embraced which has led us to 
rely so much on the continued sacrifice of so few. We must not make the 
same mistake again of engaging in a mistaken war of choice. We should 
not ask those who volunteer to serve their country to bear the burden 
of a 6-year war absent a compelling need. We, the civilian leadership 
of this country, owe it to the men and women in uniform to be more 
responsible stewards of our Armed Forces.

It is far past time to redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq. I am pleased 
that the President has set a course for such a redeployment. Now, we 
can turn to the task of rebuilding our Armed Forces.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have recommendations to 
which I referred printed in the Record.