# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. RES. 279, PROVIDING FOR EXPENSES OF  CERTAIN COMMITTEES OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES IN 111TH CONGRESS
## `3275546172fca320892ece1c4fefbdaa`
`Mr. DREIER — 31 March 2009`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, let me begin by expressing my appreciation 
to my very good friend from Fort Lauderdale, my Rules Committee 
colleague, Mr. Hastings, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

And let me say that the American people are hurting. We know that. 
And Mr. Hastings has alluded to some of the challenges that we have. 
We're dealing with one of the most serious economic challenges that 
we've faced in modern history.



And while the American people are facing their economic challenges, I 
think it's very important for us as an institution, especially as the 
body of the people, to realize that it's incumbent upon us to set an 
example.

We all know that the Federal Government is filled, riddled with 
tremendous waste, fraud and abuse. It's a high level of frustration for 
Americans. And regardless of political party, people regularly talk 
about the challenge of dealing with waste, fraud and abuse.

And I will say that one of our important responsibilities that too 
often is forgotten is our responsibility for oversight. We have to 
oversee the multifarious programs that have been put forward and 
established by this Congress.

Now, from my perspective, we have way too many programs. The reach of 
the Federal Government is far beyond what it should be. And as we look 
at the budget which we're going to be debating later this week, the 
notion of having this dramatic increase in spending as a percentage of 
our gross domestic product is something that I find to be 
extraordinarily troubling. And we need to get our economy back on 
track. We need to make sure that we have in place an economic policy 
that will do that.

And so the American people are clearly looking to this institution, 
they're looking to Washington, to make sure that we set policies that 
will allow them to, once again, keep their homes, meet the obligation 
of paying tuition for their children who are going to college, to pay 
their other bills. That is something that, on a regular basis, we as 
Members of Congress hear from the American people. So this issue of 
committee funding is an important one.

And I will say that there is some concern that has been voiced on 
this side of the aisle. My California colleague, the ranking member of 
the Oversight Committee, is troubled over the fact that there have been 
increases in a number of other committees, and yet the Oversight and 
Government Reform Committee has not had the kind of increase that he 
believes is important.

I also want to say that we should take our hats off to the chairman 
of the Administration Committee, Mr. Brady of Philadelphia, as well as 
my California colleague, Mr. Lungren, the gentleman from Sacramento, 
who is the ranking member. We have seen chairmen and ranking members of 
all of the committees go before their committee, and they have been 
deliberative and very thoughtful in this package that they have put 
together. But I do believe that there are, again, concerns that have 
been voiced by a number of our colleagues.

I want to say that if we look at what has happened in the last couple 
of months, one particular entity that I think needs to have very, very, 
very close scrutiny paid to it when it comes to this issue of oversight 
is the Department of the Treasury. We know there have been programs 
that began last fall with the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the so-
called TARP program, and since that period of time we've had the 1,100-
page stimulus bill, which we know has been flawed.

And I think it was demonstrated when, the week before last, we had 
the issue of trying to deal with the $167 million in bonuses that have 
been provided in the stimulus package for the executives of AIG. And so 
we have unintended consequences that stem from a dramatic expansion of 
the Federal Government. And everyone acknowledges that that's the case. 
And that's why we, on our side, are regularly trying to, again, limit 
that reach because no one knows exactly what the unintended 
consequences will be.

Now, Mr. Lungren, the ranking member, informed me yesterday that we 
are going to, in this resolution, have a scrutiny over the action of 
every committee when it comes to the issue of oversight. And I do 
congratulate the members of the Administration Committee for ensuring 
that we do have more scrutiny put into place.

I also want to mention an item that is included in this measure that 
is, I think, very, very important, and that is funding for a commission 
which I was privileged to found when we were in the majority, and now 
serve as the ranking member under our colleague, David Price, the 
gentleman from North Carolina, who has chaired this commission. It's 
known as the House Democracy Assistance Commission. And our commission 
has basically taken the challenge of building democratic institutions 
in new and re-emerging democracies around the world and worked to share 
our example of the United States Congress with these new and re-
emerging democracies. I mean, we are in Afghanistan, Timor-Leste, 
Indonesia, Haiti, Colombia, Lebanon, Liberia, Kenya, Macedonia, 
Georgia, and Ukraine. I mean, we have worked closely with the 
parliaments to try and, again, share our example of the work of the 
United States Congress.

And I regularly argue, Mr. Speaker, that we clearly don't have the 
answer, because we know that democracy is a work in progress. And I've 
often quipped that if some of these countries see the United States 
Congress in operation they may want to go back to totalitarianism. But 
the fact is we do have a 220-year example to which we can point as our 
work in progress. And this commission is, I believe, making great 
strides in trying to help build the parliaments in these countries so 
that, as we pursue economic growth and the rule of law in those 
countries, this commission is going to remain on the cutting edge of 
that very important work.

So I will say that, again, there are concerns that have been voiced 
about the level of funding, and I think that there are a number of 
issues that we still do want to ensure that we address.

But as the American people deal with the economic downturn that we're 
facing today, I think it is imperative that we, as an institution, do 
all that we can, Mr. Speaker, all that we can to ensure that we utilize 
those taxpayer dollars just as cost effectively as possible and, at the 
same time, redouble our efforts when it comes to overseeing this 
massive expansion of the Federal Government that has taken place.

I reserve the balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.

