---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `328649a9522f9a4e444e59cc88c4f5c8`
`Mr. REID — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this morning, following any time used by me 
or Senator McConnell, the Senate will resume debate on the Department 
of Defense authorization measure and then have a period of 1 hour to 
discuss the Specter-Leahy habeas corpus amendment prior to a vote to 
invoke cloture on that amendment. Members have until 10 o'clock this 
morning to file any germane second-degree amendments to this pending 
amendment.

Yesterday, there were discussions with respect to restructuring--I 
should not say restructuring, structuring the debate format for these 
Iraq amendments and the Defense authorization bill. Our staffs have 
been working. We hope something can be worked out.

Additionally, other Members have amendments on various topics dealing 
with the Defense authorization bill. We hope we can get a process going 
where we can move through these as rapidly as possible. I announced 
yesterday we would vote no later than 10:30 a.m. this Friday because of 
the Jewish holiday which begins at sundown, and some Members need that 
time to fly to their homes to be ready for Yom Kippur, which starts, as 
I indicated, at sundown. We also are going to have a vote at noon on 
Monday. Everyone should be aware of that. It is not going to be a 
judge's vote, it is going to be an important vote. I am well aware of 
the many scheduling issues facing Senators, but we have much work to do 
prior to the scheduled Columbus Day recess. We have to extend a number 
of bills because of the fiscal year ending, so I encourage Members to 
be mindful of the schedule and need for flexibility.

I ask unanimous consent the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma be 
allowed to speak for up to 7 minutes on an issue dealing with the war 
in Iraq, a fallen soldier, and that time not be taken away from the 
debate on the habeas corpus amendment.