# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3287aa495557027222172132be6a608f`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume, and I would like to state my support for this bill. As 
Chairman Murtha, has said, the subcommittee worked together without any 
regard to politics or Republican or Democrat to build a legislative 
appropriation bill that we thought would take care of training 
requirements for our military, equipment requirements for our military, 
and force protection requirements for our military; and we did the best 
we could with the money that we had available, and we did it together. 
And we did it in a totally nonpolitical way.

So I rise in strong support of this bill. There will likely be 
several amendments that we may not be able to agree with, and we'll 
talk about those a little bit later. But one thing I wanted to mention 
is, I said that we did the best we could with what we had to work with. 
We were under the President's budget request. Our 302(b) allocation was 
reduced. We're over last year by about 4 percent, so that's a plus.

It disturbs me a little bit, though, when I see that the foreign aid 
bill was 33 percent above last year's bill, and our national defense 
appropriations bill is only 4 percent above last year's bill. But still 
we did the best that we could with what we had to work with.

Now, we will have amendments that will be offered. I suspect they're 
not going to be offered tonight, though. I suspect sometime tomorrow 
they'll be offered. And there will be some disagreement on some of 
those amendments. We'll discuss those later. But one thing I wanted to 
mention is air superiority. We're not going to have enough time on the 
amendment that's offered to deal with the future of air superiority for 
the American military. Mr. Murtha and I and many of our Members have 
traveled to far-flung parts of the world where our troops were 
deployed. We have talked personally to thousands of our men and women 
in uniform, not only here at home but in places like Korea, like 
Bosnia, like Kosovo, like Afghanistan and Iraq and Kuwait and all of 
these places.

And our soldiers tell us, we'll go anywhere. We'll fight whatever 
battle we're told to fight. But please make sure that if there's an 
airplane above the battlefield, that it belongs to the United States, 
that it does not belong to a threatening enemy. And that's one of the 
things that we will be talking about with the issue of the F-22. The 
air superiority, the F-22 is supposedly our air superiority aircraft. 
It will replace the F-15, which is today's tremendous airplane, but 
it's our air superiority aircraft. We cannot afford to take a chance 
and risk the lives of troops on the ground if we don't secure the air 
overhead.

The Defense Department has suggested that, with the limit of 187 new 
F-22s, or a total of 187 F-22s, that this is a medium to high risk for 
air superiority on the part of the United States. I think we ought to 
take that, despite the fact that there's a veto threat on going above 
the 187. If the Defense Department believes that this is a medium to 
high risk, I think we ought to pay close attention to that. But we'll 
talk more in detail about that when we deal with the amendment that we 
expect to deal with.

We're told that the Joint Strike Fighter is coming on board and will 
fill up the gap if we don't have enough F-22s. But to begin with, the 
Joint Strike Fighter is a different mission aircraft than the F-22, 
just like the F-16 was a different mission aircraft than the F-15, but 
they work together in partnership.



If the F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter, is going to pick up the gap, 
we'd better do some serious thinking, because the F-35 is not ready to 
fight. It is not ready to do its mission, let alone the mission of air 
superiority. We have spent some $37 billion in the development of the 
Joint Strike Fighter, and we have been in development and have been 
ready to go to production just now, this year, with funding for the 
production. We started in 1997 to create this aircraft, and here it is 
2009, and the aircraft is still not ready to be deployed.

So how is that aircraft going to fill the gap if we need fighters to 
maintain air superiority?

There is a lot more on this issue that we'll talk about later. The 
bill today provides for additional F-22s, and that's the way we like 
it.

I reserve the balance of my time.