# APPROPRIATIONS
## `328a51a88a5f45ccfbce3e64d8018f6b`
`Mr. CORNYN — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, by now moving the goalposts, saying first 
the surge would not work to now having to declare the obvious, that the 
surge is working and the military situation is better, our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle and the naysayers are saying: Well, 
really the problem is a lack of political reconciliation. But I have to 
ask whether we--a Congress that has proven itself to be dysfunctional 
over the last 8 months or 11 months now--whether we are holding the 
Iraqis to a different standard than we would actually hold ourselves 
to. We have not exactly been a model for how Congresses should 
function.

I think it is unfair for us to continue to move the goalposts and say 
that the significant reconciliation efforts that are occurring in 
tribal areas, in the provinces, and local areas do not count because 
clearly they do count, with things like the Anbar awakening and the 
work being done around Iraq now from the bottom up, as opposed to the 
top down, which is helping to make for a more secure Iraq, and making 
sure that Iraqis, rather than Americans, are principally responsible 
for maintaining security and safety in Iraq, in conjunction with 
American military troops.

I am discouraged and disappointed that our colleagues have blocked 
this emergency funding for our troops, putting 100,000 civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense in doubt during this Christmas 
season as to whether they are actually going to have a job come 
February and causing our troops to question our commitment to support 
them during a time of war. That is not the message this Senate ought to 
be sending, and I urge my colleagues to reconsider.

I yield the floor.