# THE ECONOMY
## `328b6fa1c6cdea66f003f963bb7f5858`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 10 December 2010`

---


Mr. SANDERS. I thank Senator Landrieu very much for coming, and I 
think she knows that on many issues her views and mine are different, 
but on this issue, I believe we are speaking for the overwhelming 
majority of the people, not just of Louisiana and Vermont but all over 
this country, who cannot understand why we give tax breaks to 
billionaires to drive up the deficit and the national debt at a time 
when the deficit and the debt are so large. I want to thank Senator 
Landrieu very much for her very articulate and heartfelt statements. I 
appreciate that very much.

Mr. President, I was mentioning a moment ago the great contrast about 
what is happening in our economy between the people on top and 
everybody else. I indicated that the top 400 families during the Bush 
Presidency alone saw their income more than double, at the same time, 
by the way, as their income tax rates dropped almost in half. So that 
is what is going on for the people on top, who would make out extremely 
well under this agreement between the President and the Republican 
leadership.

But I also talked about what is going on with the middle class and 
working families of this country. If you can believe it--and this is 
quite amazing--since December of 1999--and this was in a Washington 
Post article in January--there has been a zero net job creation--a zero 
net job creation. Middle-income households made less in 2008, when 
adjusted for inflation, than they did in 1999, and that number is sure 
to have declined further in 2009.

What does that mean? It means that when you look at a 10-year 
period--and people work very hard--in many instances--actually, in the 
vast majority of instances--you will have both husbands and wives 
working and still not making enough money to pay the bills. In fact, 
they have less money than they used to have.

When I was a kid growing up, the experience was that in the middle 
class one person--I know young people will not believe this, but it is 
true--years ago in the United States, before the great global economy, 
before robotics, before computers, one person could work 40 hours a 
week and earn enough money to pay the bills for the family. One person. 
Today, in Vermont and throughout this country, overwhelmingly you have 
husbands and wives both working. And in some instances they are working 
very long hours. But here is the rub: Today, a two-income family has 
less disposable income than a one-income family did 30 years ago 
because wages have not kept up with inflation, and because health care 
costs have soared, the cost of education has soared, housing has 
soared, and basic necessities have soared. This is a description of a 
country moving in the wrong direction.

Thirty years ago, a one-income family had more disposable income than 
a two-income family does today. And there are a lot of reasons for 
that. Maybe we will touch on them a little bit later. But one of them, 
in my view, has to do with our disastrous unfettered free trade policy, 
which has resulted in the shutdown of tens of thousands of factories in 
this country. Under President Bush alone, we lost some 48,000 
factories. We went from 19 million manufacturing jobs to 12 million 
manufacturing jobs, and in many instances, those were good jobs.

Where did they go? Some shut down for a variety of reasons. But 
others shut down because we have trade laws that say you have to be a 
moron not to shut down in America because if you go to China, go to 
Vietnam, go to Mexico, go to a developing country, you pay workers 
there a fraction of what you are paying the workers in America. Why 
wouldn't you go? Then you bring your products right back into this 
country.


A couple weeks ago, my wife and I did some Christmas shopping. 
Frankly--we went to couple stores--it is very hard to find a product 
manufactured in the United States of America. You do not have to have a 
Ph.D. in economics to understand we are not going to have a strong 
economy unless we have a strong manufacturing capability, unless 
companies are reinvesting in Colorado or Vermont, creating good jobs 
here. You do not have an economic future when virtually everything you 
are buying is coming from China or another country.

We are not just talking about low-end products. These are not 
sneakers or a pair of pants. This is increasingly high-tech stuff. We 
are forfeiting our future as a great economic nation unless we rebuild 
our industrial base and unless we create millions and millions of jobs 
producing the goods and the products we consume. We cannot continue to 
just purchase products from the rest of the world.

When we talk about the collapse of the middle class, it is important 
to also recognize the fact, as reported in USA


Today last September, ''the incomes of the young and middle-aged--
especially men--have fallen off a cliff since 2000, leaving many age 
groups poorer than they were even in the 1970s.'' The point being, for 
young workers, for example, when we had a manufacturing base in America 
in the 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, you could graduate high school and go out 
and get a job in a factory. Was it a glamorous job? No. Was it a hard 
job? Yes. Was it a dirty job? In some cases.

But if you worked in manufacturing, and especially if you had a union 
behind you, the likelihood is you earned wages to take your family into 
the middle class, you had decent health care coverage, and you might 
even have a strong pension. Where are all those jobs now? During the 
Bush years alone, we went from 19 million jobs in manufacturing to 12 
million jobs, a horrendous loss of manufacturing jobs. If you are a kid 
today in Colorado or Vermont and you are not of a mind, for whatever 
reason, to go to college--30 or 40 years ago you could go out, get a 
job in factory, and make some money. Today, what are your options? You 
can get a minimum wage job at McDonald's or maybe at Walmart, where 
benefits are minimal or nonexistent. That is a significant transition 
of the American economy.

I wish to tell you something else, when we talk about manufacturing. 
It did not get a whole lot of publicity, but it is worth reporting. The 
good news is, we have recently seen--after the loss of many thousands 
of jobs in the automobile industry--we have seen the auto companies, 
Chrysler and others, starting to rehire. What I think has not been 
widely reported is, the wages of the new workers who are being hired 
are 50 percent of the wages of the older workers in the plant. You are 
going to have workers working side by side, where an older worker who 
has been there for years is making $25, $28 an hour, and right next to 
him a new hire is making $14 an hour. If you understand that the 
automobile industry was perhaps the gold standard for manufacturing in 
America, what do you think is going to happen to the wages of blue-
collar workers in the future?

If all you can get with a union behind you in automobile 
manufacturing is $14 an hour today, what are you going to make in 
Colorado or in Vermont? Are you going to make $10 an hour or $11 an 
hour? Is that enough money on which to raise a family? Are you going to 
have any benefits? Unlikely.

That is what happens when your manufacturing base disappears and 
that, to a significant degree, in my view, is a result of a disastrous 
trade policy. I have to tell you--and I think in hindsight most people 
agree I was right--when I was in the House and all the corporations in 
the world were telling us how great NAFTA would be, free trade with 
Mexico, I did not buy it. I was right. They would say: Oh, it is going 
to be even better. We will have free trade with China. Think about how 
large China is and all the American products they are going to buy over 
there to create all kinds of jobs in the United States. I never 
believed it for a moment.

I will tell you a story. I was in China a number of years ago and as 
part of a congressional delegation we went to visit Walmart in China. 
The Walmart store, amazingly enough, looked a lot like Walmart in 
America--different products, but it looked like the same style. You 
walk up and down the aisles and you see all these American products. I 
remember Wilson basketballs, Procter & Gamble soap products--different 
products there for the Chinese, but a lot of the products were American 
products. They looked pretty familiar.

I asked the guy who was there with us who was, I believe, the head of 
Walmart Asia--the guy in charge of all the Walmarts in Asia--I asked 
him a simple question: Tell me, how many of these American company 
products are actually manufactured in the United States?

He was a little bit sheepish and a little bit hesitant and he said: 
Well, about 1 percent. Obviously, what everybody knew, it is a lot 
cheaper for the American companies to set up plants in China, hire 
Chinese workers at 50 cents an hour, 75 cents an hour, whatever it is, 
and have them build the product for the Chinese markets than it is to 
pay American workers $15 an hour, $20 an hour, provide health 
insurance, deal with the union, deal with the environment. That is not 
a great revelation. I think anybody could have figured that one out. 
But the big money interests around here pushed it and Congress and 
President Clinton, at that time, signed it and we were off and running.

When we look at why the middle class is in the shape it is--and it is 
important to make sure everybody understands it because one of the 
things that happens in this world, it is human nature I suppose, is 
that people feel very guilty and responsible if they are not taking 
care of their families. Right now we know, with unemployment so high--
this is not just cold statistics we are throwing out. These are people 
who not only were earning an income that supported their families, they 
had a sense of worth. Every human being wants to be productive. They 
want to produce something. They want to be part of something. They want 
to go to work, earn a paycheck, bring it home. You feel good about 
that.

Do you know what it does to somebody's sense of human worth when 
suddenly you are sitting home watching the TV, you can't go out and 
earn a living? It destroys people. People be come alcoholic. People 
commit suicide. People have mental breakdowns because they are not 
utilizing their skills. They are no longer being a productive member of 
society. That is what unemployment is about.

I think one of the reasons unemployment is so high, one of the 
reasons the middle class is collapsing, has a lot to do with these 
disastrous trade policies. I have to tell you, as we have been talking 
about all day long, these policies, these tax breaks, all this stuff 
emanates from corporate leaders whose sense of responsibility is such 
that they want themselves to become richer, they want more and more 
profits for their company, but they could care less about the needs of 
the American people.

I remember there was one CEO of a large, one of our largest American 
corporations, and he said: When I look at the future of General 
Electric, I see China, China, China, and China. By the way, we ended up 
bailing out that particular corporation. He didn't look to China to get 
bailed out, he looked to the taxpayers of this country.

But the word has to get out to corporate America, they are going to 
have to start reinvesting in the United States of America. They are 
going to have to start building the products and the goods the American 
people need rather than run all over in search of cheap labor. That is 
an absolute imperative if we are going to turn this economy around.

According to a Boston Globe article published last year--let me quote 
what they say. Again, I am trying to document here what is happening to 
the working class of America because I do not want individual workers, 
somebody who may be hearing this on the TV, the radio, to say: It is my 
fault. There is something wrong with me because I can't go out and get 
a job.


You are not alone. The entire middle class is collapsing. Our economy 
is shedding millions and millions of jobs. I know there are people out 
there trying hard to find work, but that work is just not there. That 
is why we have to rebuild the economy and create jobs. This is what the 
Boston Globe said last year: ''The recession has been more like a 
depression for blue-collar workers. . . .''

This is an important point to be made here. When we talk about the 
economy we kind of lump everybody together. That is wrong. The truth is 
right now in the economy people on top are doing very well. The 
unemployment rate for upper income people is very low. They are doing 
OK. That as opposed, as this Boston Globe article points out, to what 
is happening to blue collar workers: ''The recession has been more like 
a depression for blue-collar workers, who are losing jobs much more 
quickly than the nation as a whole. . . .''

This is the working class of America. '' . . . the Nation's blue-
collar industries have slashed one in six jobs since 2007. . . .'' Let 
me repeat that. It is just astronomical, a fact.



 . . . the nation's blue-collar industries [manufacturing] 


 have slashed one in six jobs since 2007, compared with about 


 one in 20 for all industries, leaving scores of the 


 unemployed competing for the rare job opening in construction 


 or manufacturing, with many unlikely to work in those fields 


 again.





Never.




 Up to 70 percent of up employed blue-collar workers have 


 lost jobs permanently, meaning their old jobs won't be there 


 when the economy recovers.


That is the Boston Globe, last year. When we talk about the economy, 
what we have to do is understand that blue-collar workers, middle-
class, young workers are hurting very much. In the context, again, of 
the debate we are now having, the discussion of whether we should 
approve the agreement reached between the President and the Republicans 
on taxes, the idea of not significantly investing in our economy but, 
rather, giving tens of billions of dollars to the very rich in more tax 
breaks makes no sense to many of us.

When we talk about why people are angry, why people, when asked the 
question by pollsters: Do you think America is moving in the right 
direction, and overwhelmingly they think not, let me tell you why they 
think not. This is just during the Presidency of President Bush from 
2001 through 2008. During that period alone--and by the way, the pain 
is certainly continuing right now. I do not mean to suggest otherwise. 
During those 8 years of Bush, over 8 million Americans slipped out of 
the middle class and into poverty. Today, nearly 40 million Americans 
are living in poverty; 7.8 million Americans lost their health 
insurance, and that is continuing.

A recent study came out and suggests that the uninsured now are about 
50 million Americans. Fifty million Americans have no health insurance 
now. We hope health insurance reform will make a dent on that. I think 
it will. But as of today, without the major provisions of health care 
reform being implemented, 50 million Americans are without any health 
insurance.

During that period--and we have not talked about this a whole lot--
there is another thing going on in the economy for the working class. 
Years and years ago, if you worked in a manufacturing plant, you had a 
union, you stood a reasonable chance of having a pension--a pension. 
During the Bush years, 3.2 million workers lost their pensions, and 
about half of American workers in the private sector have no pension 
coverage whatsoever. The idea today of having a defined pension plan 
significantly paid for by your employer is going the way of the 
dinosaur. That is just not there anymore.

Workers are more and more dependent on Social Security, which has 
been there for 75 years, which we have to protect and demand that it 
will be there another 75 years because right now millions of workers 
are losing their pensions. I mean, I am throwing these statistics out, 
and the reason I am doing that is I want people to appreciate that if 
you are hurting now, stop being ashamed. It is not, yeah, we can all do 
better. Every one of us can do better. But you are in an economy which 
is contracting, especially for the middle class and working families.

According to an article in USA Today, from the year 2,000 to 2007, 
middle-class men--women have done better--middle-class men experienced 
an 11.2-percent drop in their incomes--a reduction of $7,700 after 
adjusting for inflation. Middle-class women in this age group saw a 
4.8-percent decline in their incomes as well. So they did pretty badly, 
but the men did even worse. So what we are seeing is an understanding 
of why people are angry and why people think this country is moving in 
the wrong direction.

I think most people understand that today our country is experiencing 
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression of the 1930s. It 
is important to say that because, again, it is hard enough when you do 
not have a job, when you do not have income, when your dignity and 
self-respect are declining, but I don't want people to be banging their 
own heads against the wall blaming themselves for all of the problems. 
Something has gone on in the Nation as a whole. You are not in this 
alone. When we talk about working-class families all across the country 
seeing a decline in their income, it is not because people are lazy, it 
is not because people do not work hard, it is not because people are 
not trying to find jobs. What we have is an economy which is rotting in 
the middle, and we have to change the economy.

If there is anything we can say about the American people, we work 
hard. We, in fact, work longer hours than do the people of any other 
country, industrialized country, on Earth. We are not a lazy people. We 
are a hard-working people. If the jobs are there, people will take 
them. If people have to work 60 hours a week or 70 hours a week, that 
is what they will do. But we have to rebuild this economy. We do not 
need tax breaks for billionaires. We need to create jobs for the middle 
class of this country so that we can put people back to work.

Let me take a few minutes to discuss how we got to where we are today 
and, in my view, what policies we need to move this country forward to 
create the kinds of jobs we desperately need.

Let's take a quick look back to where we were in January of 2009--it 
seems like a long time ago but just a couple of years ago. That was the 
last month of the administration of President Bush. In that month, we 
lost over 700,000 jobs. That is an absolutely incredible number. In 
fact, during the last 6 months of the Bush Presidency, we lost over 
3/1/2/ million jobs, all of which was caused by the greed and 
recklessness and illegal behavior on Wall Street.

Our gross domestic product, which is the total sum of all our economy 
produces, had gone down by nearly 7 percent during the fourth quarter 
of 2008. That was the biggest decline in more than a quarter century. 
Some $5 trillion of America's wealth evaporated in a 12-week period, as 
the people in Vermont and all over this country saw the value of their 
homes, retirement savings, and stocks plummet.

I want to say just one word again about Wall Street greed because I 
think for a variety of reasons we just do not talk about it enough. 
What you had was a situation in which a small number of folks at the 
head of huge financial institutions, through their greed, through the 
development of very reckless policies, through illegal behavior, 
through pushing out financial instruments which turned out in some 
cases to be worthless--as a result of all of that, they plunged this 
country into the worst recession we have seen since the Great 
Depression--from January. That is at the end of the Bush 
Administration.

It is very important to understand that the Wall Street crisis took 
us over the wall in terms of precipitating the severe recession we are 
in, but we have to remember that during those 8 years, as I mentioned 
earlier, the middle class was also shrinking. So it was not: Oh my 
goodness, everything is going great. Then you got the Wall Street 
disaster, and now we are in the midst of a terrible recession. This 
trend of a middle-class collapse went on long before Bush--precipitated 
significantly during the Bush years, but it went on before as well, not 
just during the Bush years.

Over the 8-year period of President Bush, from 2001 to 2009, we lost 
600,000 private sector jobs. We lost 600,000 private sector jobs, and 
only 1 million net new jobs were created, all of them in the government 
sector. So for my friends, my Republican colleagues, to tell us that we 
need more tax breaks for the very rich because that is going to create 
jobs--that is what trickle-down economics is all about--I would say to 
them: You had your chance. It failed. In case you don't know, losing 
600,000 private sector jobs in 8 years is not good. That is very, very 
bad. That is an economic policy that has failed. We don't need to look 
at that movie again. We saw it. It stunk. It was a bad movie. Bad 
economic policy. More tax breaks for the rich is not what our economy 
needs. In fact, what every economist will tell you is that is the least 
effective way to create jobs.

During the Bush era, median income dropped by nearly $2,200. That 
means that a family in the middle, over an 8-year period, saw their 
income drop by $2,200 during the 8 years of Bush.

I say all of these things just to tell you that we are not where we 
are today just because of the Wall Street crisis. That took us over the 
cliff. That made a very bad situation much, much worse. But it has been 
going on for a long time. It has gone on before Bush. It has gone on 
after Bush.

During the 8 years of Bush, over 8 million Americans slipped out of 
the middle class and into poverty. We don't talk about poverty in 
America anymore. We don't talk about the homelessness in America very 
much anymore. Trust me, it is there. It is three


blocks away from where I am speaking right now, a very large homeless 
shelter. It is in small towns in Vermont where people tell me that for 
the first time they are seeing more and more families with kids needing 
emergency shelter because they can't afford housing. In Vermont, a lot 
of people have low-wage jobs making 10 bucks an hour, and it is hard to 
find a decent apartment or pay a mortgage on $10 an hour. That is true 
certainly all over this country. Homelessness is going up.

During the Bush years, nearly 8 million Americans lost their health 
insurance. One of the issues I will talk about in a little while is 
health care. It is related to everything. We are the only country in 
the industrialized world that does not guarantee health care to all 
people as a right of citizenship. According to Harvard University, 
45,000 Americans will die this year because they lack health insurance 
and are not getting to a doctor when they should.

During the Bush administration, 5 million manufacturing jobs 
disappeared, as companies shut down plants in the United States and 
moved to China, Mexico, Vietnam, and other low-wage countries. As I 
mentioned earlier, it is profoundly important to understand what is 
going on in America. In 2000, we had over 17,000 manufacturing jobs in 
this country. By 2008, we had less than 12,000. That is 17,000 to 
12,000 in 8 years. That is the loss of 5 million manufacturing jobs--a 
29-percent reduction--and the fewest number of manufacturing jobs since 
the beginning of World War II.

Under President Bush, our trade deficit with China more than tripled 
and the overall trade deficit nearly doubled.

Again, the point I am making now in the context of this agreement is 
that we need agreements now that do not give tax breaks to millionaires 
or billionaires, that do not lower the tax rates or the estate tax, 
which is applicable only to the top three-tenths of 1 percent. We need 
an agreement that rebuilds our infrastructure, rebuilds our 
manufacturing base, and creates the millions of good-paying jobs the 
American people desperately want.

Again, I think the point has to be made--and I have to make it over 
and over--that when you look at the economy, it is one thing to say 
everybody is hurting. You know, sometimes that happens. A terrible 
hurricane comes through and knocks down everybody's home. Well, the 
hurricane that has hit America for the last 10, 20 years has not 
impacted everybody; it has impacted the working class, it has impacted 
the middle class. The people on top are doing better than they ever 
were. Our friends on Wall Street whose greed and illegal behavior 
caused this recession are now making more money than they ever did, 
after being bailed out by the middle class of this country.

During the Bush years, the wealthiest 400 Americans saw their incomes 
more than double. Do you really think that after seeing a doubling of 
their incomes under the Bush years, these people are in desperate need 
of another million-dollar-a-year tax break? In 2007, the 400 top income 
earners in this country made an average of $345 million in 1 year. That 
is a pretty piece of change. That is the average, $345 million. In 
terms of wealth, as opposed to income, the wealthiest 400 Americans saw 
an increase in their wealth of some $400 billion during the Bush years. 
Imagine that. During an 8-year period, the top 400 wealthiest people 
each saw an increase, on average, of $1 billion apiece. Together, these 
400 families have a collective net of $1.27 trillion. Does anybody in 
America really believe these guys need another tax break so that our 
kids and our grandchildren can pay more in taxes because the national 
debt has gone up? I do not think most Americans believe that. That is 
why, in my view, most Americans are not supporting this agreement.

Let me also say that when we look at what is going on around the rest 
of the world, what we have to appreciate is that in the United States 
today--again, this is not something we can be proud of; it is something 
we have to address--we have the most unequal distribution of wealth and 
income of any other country on Earth.

I remember talking not so long ago to somebody from Scandinavia. I 
think it was Finland. He was saying: Of course, we have rich people in 
our country, but there is a level at which they would become 
embarrassed.

America now has a situation where the CEOs of large corporations make 
300 times more than their workers. In many other countries, everybody 
wants to be rich, but there is a limit. You can't become a billionaire 
stepping over children sleeping on the street. That is not what this 
country is supposed to be about. Enough should be enough.

The top 1 percent today earns 23.5 percent of all income. In the 
1970s, that number was 8 percent. In the 1990s, it was approximately 16 
percent. Now it is 23.5 percent. So the people on top are getting a 
bigger and bigger chunk of all income. Furthermore, it is not only the 
top 1 percent, there are economists who ask: You think the top 1 
percent are doing well? It is really the top one-tenth of 1 percent. If 
you can believe this, the top one-tenth of 1 percent--and I don't know 
how many people that is, you can do the arithmetic, 300 million into 
one-tenth of 1 percent--took in 11 percent of total income, according 
to the latest data. One-tenth of 1 percent earned 11 percent of all 
income in America.

In the 1970s, the top 1 percent only made something like 8 percent of 
total income. In the 1980s it rose to 10 to 14 percent. In the late 
1990s, it was 15 percent to 19 percent. In 2005 it passed 21 percent. 
And in 2010, the top 1 percent receive 23 percent of all the income 
earned in this country.

People should be mindful of this fact: The last time that type of 
income disparity took place was in 1928. I think we all know what 
happened in 1929. That is the point Senator Landrieu was making a while 
back. What she understands, quite correctly, is if working people, the 
vast majority of the people, don't have the income to spend money to 
buy products and goods and services, we can't create the jobs. If all 
of the money or a big chunk of the money ends up with a few people on 
top, there is a limit to how many limousines you can have and how many 
homes you can have and how many yachts you can have. So when we hit a 
situation where so few have so much, it is not only a moral issue, it 
is also an economic issue.

A strong and growing middle class goes out, spends money, and creates 
jobs. Grossly unequal distribution of income and wealth creates more 
economic shrinkage and loss of jobs because people just don't have the 
disposable income to go out and buy and create jobs.

To add insult to injury in terms of this agreement negotiated by the 
President and Republicans, while the very wealthiest people became much 
wealthier and the deficit soared--and under President Bush the national 
debt almost doubled--what else happened? The tax rates for the very 
rich went down. The rich got richer; tax rates went down. This was a 
result not only of the tax breaks for the rich initiated during the 
Bush administration but also, quite frankly, tax policy that took place 
before President Bush. The result is that from 1992 to 2007, from the 
latest statistics we have, the effective Federal tax rate--what people 
really pay--for the top 400 income earners was cut almost in half. So 
these cry babies, these multimillionaires and billionaires, these 
people who are making out like bandits, they are crying and crying and 
crying, but the effective tax rate for the top 400 income earners was 
cut almost in half from 1992 to 2007.

The point that needs to be made is, when is enough enough? That is 
the essence of what we are talking about. Greed, in my view, is like a 
sickness. It is like an addiction. We know people who are on heroin. 
They can't stop. They destroy their lives. They need more and more 
heroin. There are people who can't stop smoking. They have problems 
with nicotine. They get addicted to cigarettes. It costs them their 
health. People have problems with food. We all have our share of 
addictions. But I would hope that these people who are worth hundreds 
of millions of dollars will look around them and say: There is 
something more important in life than the richest people becoming 
richer when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty in the 
industrialized world. Maybe they will understand that they are 
Americans, part of a great nation which is in trouble today. Maybe they 
have to go back to


the Bible, whatever they believe in, and understand there is virtue in 
sharing, in reaching out; that you can't get it all.

I think this is an issue we have to stay on and stay on and stay on. 
This greed, this reckless, uncontrollable greed is almost like a 
disease which is hurting this country terribly. How can anybody be 
proud to say they are a multimillionaire and are getting a huge tax 
break and one-quarter of the kids in this country are on food stamps? 
How can one be proud of that? I don't know.

It is not only income, it is wealth. The top 1 percent owns more 
wealth than the bottom 90 percent. During the Bush years, the 
wealthiest 400 Americans saw their wealth increase by some $400 
billion. How much is enough?

All of these things are related to the agreement the President and 
Republicans worked out because we are all concerned about the national 
debt and deficit. In terms of the Federal budget, when President Bush 
first took office, he inherited a $236 billion surplus in 2001 and a 
projected 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion. That is what Senator 
Landrieu was discussing. But then some things happened. We all know 
that 9/11 was not his fault, but what happened is, we went to war in 
Afghanistan. We went to war in Iraq. The war in Iraq was the fault of 
President Bush, something I certainly did not support, nor do I think 
most Americans supported. The war in Iraq, by the time our last veteran 
is taken care of, will probably end up costing us something like $3 
trillion, adding enormously to our national debt.

So when we talk about Iraq, it is not only the terrible loss of life 
that our soldiers and the Iraqi people have experienced, let's not 
forget what it has done to the deficit and the national debt. We did 
not pay for the war in Iraq. We just put it on the credit card.

President Bush gave out $700 billion in tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 
percent of Americans. Where was the offset? There was none. He gave 
them tax breaks. That is it. It adds to the national debt.

The President and Republicans supported a $400 billion Medicare Part 
D prescription drug program. I have always believed we need a strong 
prescription drug program for seniors. But the program that was passed 
was written by the pharmaceutical industry, written by the insurance 
companies, and is nowhere near as cost-effective as it could be. As the 
President undoubtedly knows, we are not even negotiating prescription 
drug prices with the drug companies, a great expense and great cost to 
the American people, where drug prices are now much more expensive 
under Medicare Part D than they are in terms of what the Veterans' 
Administration or the Department of Defense purchases. So we passed 
that, unpaid for. Great idea. Just another $400 billion prescription 
drug program unpaid for.

Then we bailed out Wall Street. The original cost was $700 billion. A 
lot of that has been paid back, but there is expense there as well.

So we add all these things together, normal governmental growth, and 
it turns out that the Bush administration turned a $236-billion-a-year 
surplus into a $1.3-trillion-a-year deficit. More or less, that is 
where we are right now. In fact, the national debt nearly doubled under 
President Bush, going from $5.7 trillion to $10.6 trillion in 2009 and 
now we are at $13.7 trillion, borrowing huge sums of money from China 
and other countries in order to maintain our existence. That is where 
we are.

Have we been seeing in recent years some improvements in the economy? 
We sure have. There has been some job growth. Nowhere near enough. But 
we are surely not losing 700,000 jobs a year. We are seeing some 
growth. But we need to do much better.

That takes me back to an issue I feel strongly about and one on which 
I want to say a few words. In this agreement the President negotiated 
with Republicans, there is a substantial sum of money going into 
various types of business tax breaks. The theory, which has certainly 
some validity, is that these business tax breaks will create jobs. The 
problem is that right now, businesses, the large corporations at least, 
are sitting on a huge bundle of money already that they are not 
spending. The reason they are not investing that money is they perceive 
that working families don't have the money to buy their products and 
services.

In saying this, I am not alone. I think most economists agree there 
is a far more effective way we can create jobs rather than just a 
number of tax breaks going to businesses. I touched on this point 
before. I want to get into a little bit more detail.

For this I am indebted to a very fine book written by an old friend 
of mine, Arianna Huffington. The title of her book is ''Third World 
America.'' She used that word because basically the theme of her book 
is, if we do not get our act together in terms of infrastructure, in 
terms of education, in terms of health care, that is where we are 
headed. We are headed in the direction of being a Third World nation.

She has an interesting chapter which deals with one very important 
part of what is going on in America, and that is the crumbling of our 
infrastructure. She writes:




 From 1980 to 2005, the miles traveled by automobiles 


 increased 94 percent--for trucks mileage increased 105 


 percent--yet there was only a 3.5 percent increase in highway 


 lane miles.


More and more cars, more and more traveling. We are not building 
roads.




 But you don't need these numbers to know that our roads are 


 badly congested.


Anybody who lives around Washington knows our roads are congested. It 
takes hours to get to work sometimes.

You see it and experience it every day.

According to the American Society of Civil Engineers infrastructure 
report card--and this is where we should be investing, not tax breaks 
for the rich--Americans spend 4.2 billion hours a year stuck in 
traffic. Think about that, 4.2 billion hours a year stuck in traffic, 
at a cost of $78 billion a year. Think about all of the pollution, all 
of the greenhouse gas emissions, all of the frustration, all of the 
anxiety, all of the road rage. People are stuck on roads because our 
transportation system is totally inadequate, our roads, our public 
transportation.

She then makes another interesting point. When we talk about 
automobile accidents, what do we usually think? We think somebody is 
driving recklessly, maybe they are drunk. Those are serious issues. But 
she writes: In studying car crashes across the country, the 
Transportation Construction Coalition determined that badly maintained 
or managed roads are responsible for $217 billion a year in car 
crashes, far more than headline-grabbing, alcohol-related accidents or 
speed-related pileups.

In other words, if you want to know why we are seeing automobile 
crashes, the issue of bad roads is even more significant than drunk 
drivers or people who are reckless drivers. I can remember--I think 
everybody has the same story--I was driving on a road in Vermont, and, 
whoops, there was a huge pothole, and the car went into it. It cost a 
few hundred dollars to repair the car. So we are spending as a nation 
billions of dollars repairing our cars because our roads are not in 
good shape. When there is a traffic jam, people are emitting all kinds 
of greenhouse gas emissions. You are wasting gas. You are wasting 
money. If we invested in our transportation system, we could go a long 
way to addressing that.

When we talk about transportation--and, by the way, again, I bring 
this issue up because, in the bill agreed to by the President and the 
Republican leadership, to the best of my knowledge, not one penny--not 
one penny--is going into infrastructure, which, to me, does not make 
any sense at all.

Again, Arianna Huffington writes:




 America's railway system is speeding down the tracks in 


 reverse. It is one of the few technologies that has actually 


 regressed over the past 80 years.


Regressed. I am not talking about China, where they are building all 
these high-speed rail lines. Our rail situation in terms of the amount 
of time it takes to go from location one to location two has actually 
gotten longer.

She writes:




 Tom Vanderbilt of Slate.com--


Which is a very good Web site--



 came across some pre-World War II train timetables and made a 


 startling discovery. Many train rides in the 1930s, 40s, and 


 50s took less time than those journeys would take today.


Can you imagine that? In the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s, people were 
able to get on a train and get to their destination in less time than 
is the case today.







 For instance, in 1934, the Burlington Zephyr would get you 


 from Chicago to Denver--


From Chicago to Denver--



 in around 13 hours. The same trip takes 18 hours today.


I do not know if the Presiding Office is familiar with the Burlington 
Zephyr, which is a train that goes from Chicago to Denver, but what 
this writer is pointing out is that in 1934 it took 13 hours to make 
that trip. Do you know how long it takes today? It takes 18 hours. So 
we are moving in the wrong direction.

I know in Vermont--I do not have any statistics right in front of me 
but I can tell you--I believe very strongly--it takes longer to get 
from the southern part of the State to the northern part of the State 
than it used to, and the frequency of the trips is less than they used 
to be.




 The trip from Chicago to Minneapolis via the Olympian 


 Hiawatha, in the 1950s, took about 4/1/2/ hours. Today, via 


 Amtrak's train, the journey takes more than 8 hours.


It used to be 4/1/2/. So in terms of our public transportation, not 
only are we neglecting, not only are we not moving forward, we are 
actually moving backwards.




 At the moment, the only high-speed train in the United 


 States is Amtrak's Acela, which travels the Washington, New 


 York, Boston line.


And she writes:




 And I use the term ''high-speed'' very loosely. While in 


 theory the trains have a peak speed of 150 miles per hour, 


 the average speed on that train is just about 71 miles per 


 hour.


Once again, I read some statistics before, pointing out that China is 
building thousands and thousands of miles of high-speed rail. And here 
in the United States we are moving backwards. It is taking us a longer 
time for various train rides than used to be the case.

But it is not just trains. It is not just our roads. It is not just 
our bridges.

Well, it is also our bridges. Let me say a word on bridges. I think 
we all remember 4 years ago, I think it was, the terrible tragedy in 
the Minneapolis area, when one of their major bridges collapsed and a 
number of people lost their lives. That got the front-page headlines 
all over this country. I know in Vermont we closed down bridges. They 
are not safe to travel.




 According to the Department of Transportation, 1 in 4 of 


 America's bridges is either structurally deficient or 


 functionally obsolete. The numbers are even worse when it 


 comes to bridges in urban areas, where 1 in 3 bridges is 


 deficient--no small matter given the high levels of 


 passengers and freight traffic in our Nation's cities.


So a huge amount of traffic--in urban areas one in three bridges is 
deficient, and in rural areas such as Vermont, one in four.

How are these bridges going to be rebuilt? It is likely not going to 
be done by local and State governments that right now are experiencing 
enormous economic crises. If it is going to be done, it is going to 
have to be done here at the Federal level.

I have to say that in Vermont we saw some significant improvements as 
a result of the stimulus package. In fact, in Vermont, recently, we 
have put more money in rebuilding our roads and bridges with very good 
success. I think the people of Vermont see the difference. In the last 
couple years, directly as a result of the stimulus package, we have 
made significant improvements on a number of bridges but nowhere near 
enough.

The point I want to make is that with our infrastructure collapsing, 
with the American Society of Civil Engineers suggesting we need to 
spend $2.2 trillion in the next 5 years just to maintain where we are, 
we have an agreement before us which puts zero dollars in 
infrastructure. According to this book:




 We need to invest $850 billion over the next 50 years to 


 get all of America's bridges into good shape.


Trust me, we are not coming anywhere near that right now.




 But it is not just our roads. It is not just our public 


 transportation. It is not just our bridges. When we talk 


 about infrastructure, we also have to talk about dams.



 On March 16, 2006, the Ka Loko Dam in Kilauea, Hawaii, 


 collapsed, and seven people died when the Ka Loko Dam 


 breached after weeks of heavy rain, sending 1.6 million tons 


 of water downstream.



 Dams are a vital part of America's infrastructure. They 


 help provide for drinking, irrigation, and agriculture, and 


 generate much needed power, and often offer protection from 


 floods. Yet our dams are growing old. There are more than 


 85,000 dams in America, and the average age is 51 years. At 


 the same time, more and more people are moving into 


 developments located below dams that require significantly 


 greater safety standards. But we have had a hard time keeping 


 up with the increase in the so-called high-hazard dams. 


 Indeed, we are falling further and further behind.


So the point here is, we have a major agreement. People are concerned 
about creating jobs. We are investing zero in our infrastructure, and 
dams are a very important part of our infrastructure, as are levees. 
And I suspect Senator Landrieu, who was here a little while ago, would 
have something to say about levees.

All right. So we are talking about an infrastructure which is 
collapsing. We are talking about China investing far more in terms of 
their GDP into infrastructure improvement than we are. We are talking 
about being in the midst of a major recession, where we desperately 
want to grow jobs, and yet this proposal does not add one cent into our 
infrastructure.

Now, again, I am going back to the very good book written by Arianna 
Huffington called ''Third World America.'' She writes:




 As bad as America's sewers, roads, bridges, dams, and water 


 power systems are, they pale in comparison to the crisis we 


 are facing in our schools. I am not talking about the 


 physical state of our dilapidated public school buildings, 


 although the National Education Association estimates that it 


 would take $322 billion to bring America's school buildings 


 into good repair.


I have been in schools in Vermont and elsewhere which were old and 
crumbling, and I have been in schools which are new and state of the 
art. I think anyone who has seen the contrast in terms of the attitude 
of the students in those types of schools will understand it is 
important to give these kids good places in which to learn and to grow. 
It means a lot to them when they see a building that is new that has 
state-of-the-art equipment, as opposed to one that is crumbling. It 
suggests to them what we as a society feel about them.

Arianna Huffington writes:




 Nothing is quickening our descent into Third World status 


 faster than our resounding failure to properly educate our 


 children. This failure has profound consequences for our 


 future, both at home and as we look to compete with the rest 


 of the world in the global economy.


She writes:




 Historically, education has been the great equalizer.


That is certainly the case.




 That has been the incredible virtue of our public school 


 system--


What we have taken as kids, who spent--my father did not graduate 
from high school. My mother did. That was it.



 --and given millions of young people the opportunity to get a 


 good education in school and be able to go to college and use 


 their potential. The springboard to the middle class and 


 beyond has been education. It was a promise we made to all of 


 our people.


What we as a nation said is, regardless of your income, we are going 
to provide you with the best possible education in order to succeed in 
life. That is something extraordinary, that no matter what your income 
is, we are going to provide you with a great education. As a kid, I 
went to public schools, and I did have a very good education.




 But something has gone in recent years terribly wrong, and 


 we have slipped further and further behind many other 


 countries. Among 30 developed countries ranked by the 


 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development--


That is the OECD--



 the United States ranked 25th in math and 21st in science.


So 25th in math, 21st in science.




 Even the top 10 percent of the American students--our best 


 and brightest--ranked only 24th in the world in math 


 literacy.


There was another study, I think probably just a more updated OECD 
study, that came out just the other day, reported in the New York 
Times, where kids in Shanghai were leading the world in these types of 
tests as compared to our own students. They are studied. They have 
better schools, better teachers, more investments in their education. 
And there is a culture there. There is a culture. It is not fair to 
blame the kids.

Does anyone seriously believe in the United States of America we take 
intellectual development seriously? I was


reading today--I do not remember the guy's name, who it was--a 
basketball player or a baseball player just signing a contract for 
untold tens of millions of dollars. Yet you have teachers starting off 
at $30,000, $32,000. Is anyone going to suggest in a serious way we 
reward people who become childcare workers or teachers?

We have childcare workers taking care of little kids--which may be 
the most important job in our society because there is the brain 
development that takes place between zero and 3 that has a large part 
to do with what a human being becomes--people leaving early childhood 
education in order to move up the economic ladder and get a job at 
McDonald's because pay is so low, benefits are so low. What are we 
doing as a nation?

She writes:




 A National Assessment of Educational Progress report found 


 that just 33 percent of U.S. fourth graders and 32 percent 


 eighth graders were proficient in reading.


Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.

So I think her point is that if we are not going to become a Third 
World nation, we have to start investing in this country--in our 
physical infrastructure, in our human infrastructure, and in our 
educational infrastructure.

Let me give you some examples of what this means in real terms. 
Today, unemployment in our country--the official unemployment rate is 
9.8 percent. For those without a high school diploma, it is 15.6 
percent, compared to 5.6 percent for college graduates. Mr. President, 
67 percent of high school graduates do not have enough of the skills 
required for success in college and the 21st century workforce.

As many as 170,000 high school graduates each year are prepared to go 
on to college but cannot afford that. Let me repeat that. About 170,000 
young people in this country, who graduate high school, who want to go 
to college, are unable to do it because they cannot afford it.

Are we nuts? What are we doing in wasting the extraordinary 
intellectual potential of all of these young people? What we are saying 
to them is because you don't have the money and because college is so 
expensive, and because our Federal Government is more busy giving tax 
breaks to billionaires and fighting two wars, we are not investing in 
you.


That makes no sense at all. When you invest in your kids, you are 
investing in the future of America. They are America. And if they are 
not well educated, how are they going to become productive members of 
society? How are we going to compete against China and Europe and other 
countries around the world that are investing in education?

Here is something we don't talk about enough: The fastest growing 
occupations are those that require higher levels of education and 
greater technical competency. So we have a problem--it is true in 
Vermont and it is true all over the country--which is we have jobs out 
there, good jobs, and those jobs cannot be filled because our young 
people don't have the job skills to fill them. How absurd is that?

I remember there was a piece in one of the papers, I think it was in 
Ohio, where after the worst of the recession, a lot of layoffs--I think 
it was Ohio--they were beginning to hire workers and these were for 
sophisticated, high-tech jobs. They brought workers in and brought them 
in and brought them in, and they couldn't come up with the number of 
workers they needed to fill the jobs they had. What does that say about 
our educational system?

Data from Alliance for Excellent Education, 2009: 1,800 Vermont 
dropouts cost the State $459 million of lost lifetime earnings for the 
State and $19.4 million in health care costs. In other words, what 
everybody understands is if you don't invest in your young people, they 
are not going to become productive, tax-paying workers. As often as 
not, they will get involved in self-destructive activity--drugs, crime, 
whatever. They will end up in jail, and we end up spending tens of 
thousands of dollars keeping them in jail rather than seeing them out 
there as productive members of society contributing their fair share in 
taxes.

The Urban Institute says we can reduce child poverty--which I 
mentioned earlier is the highest in the industrialized world--by 35 
percent if we provide childcare subsidies to families with income less 
than 50 percent of State median.

This is an issue I feel very strongly about. It is, to me, beyond 
comprehension that in Vermont and throughout this country, it is 
extremely difficult for working-class families to find affordable, good 
quality childcare. We are not back in the 1950s where daddy went to 
work and mommy stayed home taking care of the kids. Mom is at work as 
well. And we have families all over this country--middle-class, 
working-class families--saying, I cannot find quality childcare. We are 
uncomfortable leaving our 2-year-old or 3-year-old. We can't find 
childcare at a rate we can afford.

In this area, again, we are far behind many other countries around 
the world. Kids who do not get intellectually challenging early 
childhood education, kids who do not get the emotional support they 
need from zero to 3 to 4, will enter school already quite behind other 
kids. Then, 5 years later, 10 years later, they will be dropping out of 
school and they will be doing drugs and they will be ending up in jail 
at great expense. How long does it take us to understand that investing 
in our children, our youngest children, is enormously important for our 
country? It is a good investment. It is much better to invest in 
childcare than in keeping people locked up in jails.

Seventy-five percent of American youth who apply to the military are 
ineligible to serve because of low cognitive capacities, criminal 
records, or obesity. This is quite unbelievable. Now we are not only 
talking about not being able to compete internationally because we are 
not bringing forth the kind of educated people we need, because of the 
inadequacies of our schools and childcare and so forth--this almost 
becomes a national security issue, if you like. Seventy-five percent of 
American youth who apply to the military are ineligible to serve 
because of low cognitive capacities, criminal records, or obesity. It 
gives me no pride, no happiness, to bring forth these statistics. But 
as a nation, we are going to have to grasp these things. Either we can 
ignore these things, either we can run away from reality, put our heads 
underneath the carpet, or we can say we are not going to allow America 
to become a Third World nation, that we are going to turn this country 
around.

But we are not going to turn the country around unless we rethink our 
priorities. One of our priorities cannot be more tax breaks for the 
richest people in this country.

From the 1960s to 2006, the United States fell from first to 18th out 
of 24 industrialized nations in high school graduation rates. What 
happens in today's economy if a kid does not graduate high school? If 
my memory is correct, about 30 percent of our kids--and I know these 
figures are fuzzy because it is hard to determine who is dropping out 
and who is not, but my understanding is about 30 percent of our kids 
drop out of high school. What happens to those kids? Where do they go? 
How many of them end up in jail? How many of them do drugs? As a 
nation, I think we can do a lot better than that. We should not have 
gone from first to 18th out of 24 industrialized nations in high school 
graduation rates. Dropouts are eight times more likely to be 
incarcerated. In other words, when kids fail in school, they are going 
to end up in jail--eight times more likely. Eighty-two percent of those 
in prison are high school dropouts.

I will tell my colleagues a funny experience. I was in Burlington 
last week. I met this fellow. He came up and was chatting with me. He 
said, I just got out of jail. What struck me is he was a well educated 
young man. He was very articulate. I suspect he had gone to college. 
What struck me is how rare that is, as the statistics aptly 
demonstrate. The people who end up in jail overwhelmingly are high 
school dropouts, people who don't have the education to make it in the 
world.

When we talk about the need to substantially increase funding for 
early childhood education, we should understand that State-funded, pre-
K programs currently serve 24 percent of 4-year-olds and 4 percent of 
3-year-olds. In other words, there are millions of families who would 
like to see their kids be able to access good quality childcare but 
can't find that in their States--again, in contrast to giving tax


breaks to billionaires who don't need it and in some cases are not even 
asking for it. The younger the age of investment in human capital, the 
higher the rate of return on that investment. If society invests early 
enough, it can raise cognitive and socio-emotional levels and the 
health of disadvantaged kids. One doesn't need to be a psychologist to 
understand that. If kids get off to a good start in life, if they have 
the intellectual support, the intellectual development, and the 
emotional support, those kids are much more likely to do well in 
school, much less likely to drop out, much less likely to be a burden 
on society, much less likely to end up in jail, much less likely to do 
drugs, et cetera. This is an investment we should be making.

I wish to get back for a moment to the agreement the President made 
with the Republican leadership and why I think it is a bad agreement 
and why I believe we can do much better. The way we are going to 
improve this agreement is when millions of people all over this country 
say, wait a second. Wait a second. This was an agreement reached behind 
closed doors. There are Members in the House and the Senate who didn't 
know about the agreement. What about the average American out there? I 
wonder how many people believe it makes a lot of sense, with a $13.7 
trillion national debt, to be giving huge tax breaks to the wealthiest 
people in this country?

I have to tell my colleagues, the calls in my office are coming 98, 
99 percent to 1 against these agreements. People think we can do better 
and our job is to do better. The way we do better is when people all 
over this country stand up and say, Wait a minute, Congress. Your job 
is to represent the middle class, to represent our kids, and not to 
represent the wealthiest people in this country.

I mentioned earlier, I think certainly one of the major objections to 
this agreement is that it provides tens of billions of dollars to the 
wealthiest people in this country at a time when the rich are already 
doing phenomenally well and at a time when the wealthiest people have 
already experienced huge tax breaks. I think most people think that 
does not make sense. Let me give an example, not to pick on particular 
individuals--that is not my goal--but so we know this.

According to the Citizens for Tax Justice, if the Bush tax breaks for 
the top 2 percent are extended, these are some of the people who will 
benefit and what kind of benefits they will receive: Rupert Murdoch, 
the CEO of News Corporation, would receive a $1.3 million tax break 
next year. Mr. Murdoch is a billionaire. Do we really think he needs 
that? Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase, whose bank got a $29 
billion bailout from the Federal Reserve, will receive a $1.1 million 
tax break. Trust me, Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase, is doing 
just fine. Vikram Pandit, the CEO of Citigroup, the bank that got a $50 
billion bailout, would receive $785,000 in tax breaks. Ken Lewis, the 
former CEO of Bank of America--a bank that got a $45 billion bailout--
the guy is already fabulously wealthy--would receive a $713,000 tax 
break. The CEO of Wells Fargo--these are the largest banks in America; 
the CEOs of these banks are already making huge compensation. John 
Stumpf, who is the CEO of Wells Fargo, would receive a $318,000 tax 
break every single year. The CEO of Morgan Stanley, John Mack, whose 
bank got a $10 billion bailout, would receive a $926,000 a year tax 
break. The CEO of Aetna, Ronald Williams, would receive a tax break 
worth $875,000.

I contrast that, as I did earlier, to the fact that 2 days ago, the 
Presiding Officer and I and a total of 53 Members of the Senate said, 
You know, maybe we should provide a $250 check this year to seniors on 
Social Security and to disabled vets because they haven't gotten a COLA 
for 2 years--a $250 check. People making $14,000, $15,000 a year 
desperately need a little bit of help. We couldn't get one Republican 
vote. But when it comes to the CEO of a major bank who is already a 
multimillionaire--we are talking about $6 million, $7 million, $8 
million a year in tax breaks--that is not what we should be doing as a 
nation.

Furthermore, I know President Obama and others have said, Well, let's 
not worry, because these tax breaks are just temporary--just temporary. 
They are only going to be given for 2 years. I have been in Washington 
long enough to know that when you give a temporary tax break for 2 
years, you are, in fact, giving a long-term tax break or maybe even a 
permanent tax break. Because 2 years from now, the exact same arguments 
will be made: if you do away with those tax breaks for the rich, you 
are raising taxes. Do you want to raise taxes, a terrible thing to do? 
That same argument will be made. But there is one difference. The 
difference is that when President Obama ran for President and since he 
has been President, he has time and time again come out against those 
tax breaks. He does not believe in them. I believe him, and I know that 
he doesn't. But if he is the Democratic candidate for President and he 
says: Reelect me to be President because in the future I am going to 
really get rid of these tax breaks, I am afraid his credibility is not 
very high because that is what he said last time. I guess there is a 
limit as to how many times you can cry wolf.


(Mr. LEVIN assumed the Chair.)