---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `328f10c47eef05f3427c26e804dc36e9`
`Mr. WYNN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WYNN. I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. But it is not the bill I 
wanted. I think we should begin an immediate troop withdrawal, but this 
is a good compromise bill that has the virtue of setting a date 
certain.

Now, I hear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle talking 
about ''micromanagement.'' Well, I will tell you, we have great United 
States troops who perform admirably in spite of the incompetence and 
lack of planning by this administration. And I will tell you what our 
troops deserve. Number one, they deserve that we meet the readiness 
standards that our military has established, and this bill says it. We 
will meet our readiness standards, and we will make sure our troops are 
adequately trained and adequately prepared before we deploy them.

The second thing they deserve, and this is very important, they 
deserve accountability by the Iraqi people. The Iraqis need to disarm 
their militias. The Iraqis need to come up with a political solution. 
The Iraqis need to divide the oil revenues. That is not something the 
military can do.

Third, our troops deserve a date certain not because we are ''losing 
the war,'' but because we are going to take a new direction that relies 
on negotiation and diplomacy, rather than warfare and bloodshed.