---
---

# CAREGIVER ASSISTANCE AND RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `3291404b24866c69a0a5bde9812c6352`
`Mr. STEARNS — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I think Mr. Michaud was correct in applauding the staff. I think on 
all these four bills that we should be applauding the staff for their 
timely efforts and their hard work to get this accomplished.

I rise in support of H.R. 3155, as amended, the Caregivers Assistance 
and Resource Enhancement Act of 2009. A family member or friend who 
serves as a caregiver in many cases drives the successful treatment and 
recovery of a severely wounded veteran or soldier. Yet those who care 
for their loved ones make sacrifices and can face difficulties in 
simply caring for their personal physical and mental health needs and 
financial well-being. So it is important that we reach out and make 
education, counseling and other support services available so the 
family caregiver can meet their own daily needs as well as the needs of 
the wounded warrior for whom they care.

H.R. 3155, as amended, would establish new programs, enhance services 
and coordinate services system-wide. Key components of the legislation 
would require the VA to provide more and better education using new 
technologies, expand mental health and respite care services and travel 
benefits for family caregivers.

Mr. Speaker, it also provides certain primary caregivers of very 
severely injured returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan with 
health insurance if they lost or don't have it, and a monthly personal 
allowance to mitigate financial problems that may occur.

The bill would also require the VA to conduct a national survey of 
veterans' family caregivers. This survey would be vital to helping us 
gain a better understanding of the needs and develop additional good 
policies to support family caregivers.

I want to commend the subcommittee chairman, Mike Michaud, and 
subcommittee ranking member, Henry Brown, for their leadership and hard 
work in developing this bipartisan piece of legislation. This bill, as 
amended, would provide veterans' family caregivers with a strong, 
system-wide array of support to depend upon.

I urge my colleagues to support the bill, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.