---
---

# None
## `3292d045585cea13c03d801d0383f671`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I stand in support of this amendment and certainly 
appreciate the gentleman for introducing it. But I wanted to talk 
specifically about the Guantanamo Bay prison and why that's important 
because I strongly believe that if we did not have it, we would need to 
invent it. It is that important to American security. Mr. Lungren has 
talked about it a little bit.

We have had about 500 prisoners there who have been processed and 
released and sent back to their countries either to be detained in 
their countries or to be watched by host countries. Twelve percent of 
those have actually gone back into combat, which is disturbing. But we 
have had 500 prisoners move in and out. We have got about 240 left, and 
they're the worst of the worst. These are folks who were basically 
caught in an act of war trying to kill American citizens.

Our foreign allies, particularly those in Europe, who have given so 
much criticism about closing Guantanamo Bay, none of them have opened 
up their doors and said, hey, we'll take these Sunday school teachers 
and Boy Scouts, because they know that they're not Sunday school 
teachers and Boy Scouts. So I think that not closing down Guantanamo 
Bay is the right thing to do. But I also wanted to talk about the 
points Mr. Lungren made about the Miranda rights of prisoners.

Prior to 9/11, America generally treated acts of terrorism as 
breaking the law. Case in point: the 1993 bombing of the World Trade 
Center and the USS Cole. These were not seen as acts of war. Therefore, 
the perpetrators of those crimes got lawyers. They had Miranda rights. 
They had all the courtesies of the U.S. Government, the U.S. justice 
system. That is not what we need to be doing right now. After 9/11 we 
realized that these acts of terrorism weren't just tactical but 
strategic acts of war, and therefore we have moved over to let's treat 
soldiers as they are, war criminals.

Mr. Lungren had mentioned that the assassins of Abraham Lincoln were 
tried by a military tribunal. It's the same situation when President 
Roosevelt was President: we found six Nazi spies on Long Island, and I 
believe five of them were actually executed, the sixth one cooperated, 
but it was all through a military tribunal. So what is it that 
President Obama sees that President Lincoln and President Roosevelt and 
really all our entire U.S. judicial history, all the judges have signed 
off on it? Why is it that suddenly we want to go over to Afghanistan 
and Iraq and give Miranda rights to prisoners of war?