---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `32ae4dee266d3a90d1ecd81769a3963f`
`Mr. DODD — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, it may feel like Ground Hog Day for some of 
us. We soundly defeated a similar amendment proposed by the Senator 
from Arizona last week, by a vote of 34-64. The reasons are clear, and 
have remained unchanged.

The C-17 has proven its worth to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
to our taxpayers that foot the bill, and to the workers that labor day 
in and day out to provide our military with these critical planes. Our 
need for these planes is not shrinking--in fact, it is growing. Since 
the last formal assessment of our military's airlift requirements 4 
years ago, our forces have been expanded by 92,000 troops. Our overseas 
commitments have dramatically increased, resulting in many C-17s flying 
nearly double the flight hours that were planned for. Why? Because the 
C-17 is the most versatile and capable airlift plane in our arsenal.

Despite these facts, the Senator from Arizona insists that we extend 
the life


of our 40-year-old C-5 fleet, at a high cost to our taxpayer. Over the 
administration's objections, he coauthorized a bill recently that was 
approved by this body that actually prohibits the military from 
retiring C-5s. According to the Air Force, the C-5B has already reached 
147 percent of planned life expectancy. This is a fleet we must begin 
to replace.

I urge my colleagues to join me in defeating amendment No. 2580, for 
the sake of our troops, our taxpayers, and America's workers.