---
---

# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `32dbb01667dc94373a0bc29371bb82d8`
`Mr. BERMAN — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

My friend from Iowa makes interesting arguments, but to some extent 
undermines those arguments. He says rule of law is important, and, 
therefore, the committee should have accepted an amendment in the 
committee to make illegal what folks in our embassies and in our 
missions did, thereby undermining the argument that in any way there 
was any law violated.

There was no law against expending funds to process these visas. 
There were no promises made to Iraqi interpreters and translators they 
would be guaranteed a visa. But when our folks in the field see a 
situation developing where the people who have allowed them to do their 
job, at great risk for their life and limb, are in desperate need for 
them and their families to essentially be appreciated and rewarded for 
that life-threatening effort, and they tell their folks that they work 
for in the Defense Department and in the State Department and the folks 
in Congress who are dealing with these issues that we need to do 
something about them, and we respond, that doesn't constitute a promise 
that no one had authority to make, a violation of the rule or law.

And, by definition, I understand, and we have had many discussions on 
our immigration issues; in fact, the gentleman and I are both here now 
rather than at a hearing on the immigration issue. I understand the 
gentleman has a definition of amnesty which is wider than mine, but I 
never realized how much wider it was, that a bill that adds to the 
number of visas that can be given, after background checks and going 
through the regular process to ensure the security interests that we 
have before we issue a visa, that a bill that would increase the number 
of visas for these people who have put themselves in harm's way on 
behalf of the United States is an amnesty law. This takes that very 
expansive definition the gentleman has and I think expands it even 
further.

I yield to the gentleman.