# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `32dd88c2721bf6d672b5216221eeace0`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. I thank my friend from Arkansas (Mr. 
Ross).

I have had an opportunity to get to meet a lot of folks that I have 
served with here in the U.S. House. All of those obviously within the 
Blue Dog Coalition have become pretty endeared to me because of the 
commitments we focus on as being deficit hawks and defense hawks. We 
talk about those issues conservatively. I am going to talk a little bit 
about each of those issues tonight.

I had a privilege recently to spend considerable time with my good 
friend John Salazar from Colorado. I have become convinced he knows how 
to hook up a piece of equipment.

I am also convinced in the conversations with him that he and his 
family have shared in the good Lord's Earth in being farmers with his 
brothers; and in talking with him, I had a much deeper understanding 
and certainly a much deeper abiding friendship knowing that as my 
brother and I both farm, brother doing most of it back home, that all 
of us come from different parts of the country maybe, but we all have 
that same spirit and that same heartfelt belief that America is the 
greatest place in the world to live and raise your family. For those of 
us who live in rural areas, obviously we believe that is probably the 
best place for America to raise their families.

I traveled today with a group of young students from both Clark 
Grange and York Institute, being named after Alvin C. York, Sergeant 
York, from the hometown of Pall Mall where I live, and as we traveled 
through the Capitol I could see their eyes light up as we talked about 
the history of this great building that we serve in, the great Chamber 
that we are in here this afternoon.

But as you look on the wall in the rotunda, you realize that America 
in the 1770s, in 1775, at the Boston siege, we convinced with our 
ragtag Army, the Continental Army, convinced the British soldiers and 
sailors that we could defeat them, and they set sail late in the 
winter, early spring and went to New York. We followed them there, and 
by 1776 we suffered a pretty strong defeat.

The first victory that we received for our independence, for our 
democracy that we have was in Saratoga in the fall of 1777, which 
convinced another nation called France to come and join us in our fight 
for independence, but I can assure you, no one won our independence for 
us. In this country, we fought until basically the battle at Yorktown 
where Cornwallis, general of the British forces, decided that he had to 
surrender, and surrendered.

That basically ended the hostilities until Washington in 1783 
resigned his commission to the Continental Congress that existed at 
that time. So from 1775 basically until hostilities pretty much ceased 
in 1781, we fought for our independence in this country. We fought so 
we could establish a democracy that would be a shining example, as Mr. 
Reagan used to say, on that hill to the rest of the nations of the 
world that this is what can be accomplished.

That took us 6 years, and 2 years into being sure to sort of protect 
that fragile peace that we had until Washington gave up his commission 
and surrendered it in 1783.

I want to remind the people of America and the people of Iraq, we 
fought for our independence. We fought for this democracy that we have. 
No one came to this country and forced upon us a democracy. No one came 
to this country and said this is the gift we want to give you.

The blood and the tears and the hard work and the sweat of our young 
men and women from this country have been in Iraq now for over 4 years, 
toiling, and in fact, in many cases going to war with the Iraqis, first 
of all, to depose a ruthless dictator, we all agree with that, and then 
we fought with the Iraqis and in many cases against the Iraqis, whether 
they be Sunni or Shia, to say we want to give you this gift that we 
fought for over 200 years ago, we want to give you this gift called 
democracy.

In 2005, in December, we literally sent a surge of our troops over in 
the midsummer of 2005 to be sure that those brave individuals from 
Iraq, men and women, over 12 million of them, went to vote to establish 
the leaders of their country so they could establish their own 
Constitution. The surge then allowed them to vote. They finalized their 
commitment, in my opinion, for the democracy.

No one gave us ours. We are trying to give them theirs. And we have 
tried and we have tried and we have tried and we have spent billions of 
dollars making it happen.