# None
## `32e53b8999176ed394f8eac15744aa57`
`Mr. HILL — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. HILL. Madam Speaker, on January 19, 2008, the great states of 
Indiana and Ohio lost a brave son. Army SPC Jon Michael ''Mike'' 
Schoolcraft III was killed in Iraq from injuries sustained when his 
vehicle was struck by an improvised explosive device. A native of 
Wapakoneta, OH, several members of Specialist Schoolcraft's family 
currently live in Madison, IN, in Jefferson County.

Mike, as he was known, enlisted in the Army with a friend after 
graduating from Wapakoneta High School in northwest Ohio in 2001. At 
Wapakoneta High he excelled at wrestling and baseball, and enjoyed 
spending time outdoors.

Before embarking on his second 15-month deployment, Schoolcraft 
promised his mother that this would be his last deployment. He looked 
forward to finding a stateside military contracting job and living with 
his new wife.

Specialist Schoolcraft's father, Mike, Jr., described him as a 
''typical All-American boy.'' He was a hero to his father. He further 
described his son as ''very respectful'' and that the Army took this 
wonderful young man and made him better.

Before deploying, Schoolcraft told his mother that he was going to 
Iraq for a reason: to keep his loved ones safe.

SPC Jon Michael Schoolcraft III is a true American hero. His 
sacrifice for our Nation deserves our most heartfelt thanks. I, along 
with Specialist Schoolcraft's family, and the towns of Madison, IN, and 
Wapakoneta, OH, will mourn Mike's premature death. His friends and 
family are in my prayers.
