---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `32e8c2bb9b73d052e04decc345e8ec3e`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I am very pleased that this conference 
report includes the minimum wage bill. After 10 long years, we will 
finally be able to send a minimum wage increase to the President. It's 
long overdue, and it's yet another reason why the President should sign 
this important bill.

The minimum wage bill passed the House and Senate by overwhelming 
margins in January and February of this year. Under it, minimum wage 
workers will get a raise of $2.10 per hour. Those who work full time 
will earn an additional $4,400 a year.

That's enough to pay for utilities that might otherwise be shut off, 
to put gas in the car so you can get to work, or to pay for after-
school care for a son or daughter who might otherwise be left home 
alone.

In many ways, including the minimum wage increase in this bill on 
Iraq couldn't be more appropriate. The minimum wage represents the 
values our troops are fighting for--basic fairness. It's about what we 
stand for as a Nation.

Americans believe that hard work should help you build a better life 
for your family. They believe that a job should keep you out of 
poverty, not force you to live in poverty.

Our troops are away fighting to provide a better future for the 
people of Iraq. We'd like to think that our men and women in uniform 
don't have to worry about the economic security of their families here 
at home. But many of our fighting forces have husbands or wives back at 
home who are struggling to make ends meet.

Ten percent of military spouses earn between $5.15 and $7.25 per 
hour. 50,000 military families will benefit from an increase in the 
minimum wage to $7.25 per hour. Our troops are overseas putting their 
lives on the line for their country, and we should provide fair 
opportunities for their spouses who are working hard here at home.

I hope we can provide these families--and all other struggling 
families across the country--with the fair wages they deserve as soon 
as possible. I hope the President will do the right thing for our 
troops and for America's minimum wage workers by signing this important 
bill.