---
---

# AFGHANISTAN
## `32f1554135b732c5ee79e401a2a057bd`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. It is also my understanding that IED attacks by the enemy 
have gone up about 1,000 percent and in reaction to that, Secretary 
Gates has sent 3,000 people over to deal with the IED problem. From my 
understanding of the testimony yesterday, Admiral Mullen said the force 
structure we have in place, between the combination of coalition forces 
and Afghan forces, is not enough to reverse the trends and to regain 
lost momentum. I thought it was pretty clear that he was telling us 
something has to change beyond training the Afghan Army.

Would you agree that the longer we leave people in that environment, 
where the momentum is on the enemy's side, we are doing a great 
disservice to the 68,000 people who are there? And if you are going to 
send troops, send them while it matters, send them in enough number to 
save lives and get the job over sooner rather than later? That is what 
I think all three of us are saying.

Mr. President, we appreciate your commitment in Afghanistan. Sending 
troops to get the election conducted


was a wise move. Understanding that Afghanistan is the central battle 
in the overall war on terror now is a deep understanding on the 
President's part. The only thing we are saying, the three of us and I 
think others, is that our military commanders have told us we have lost 
momentum and the only way to get it back in the short term is more 
combat power, and every day that we wait makes it much harder for those 
who are in theatre, and they are dying at levels and being injured at 
levels we have not known before. That is what drives our thinking. 
Would you agree with that?
