# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `3303d887cfe11b3122068cdb3eb69002`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, if the defense portion of the 
supplemental were considered as a stand-alone legislation it would 
receive my support and the majority of those on this side of the aisle. 
We recognize that we need to provide our deployed men and women, all 
volunteers, with the funding and resources they need to accomplish 
their important ongoing missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. But 
unfortunately, the majority has added items to this measure totally 
unrelated to these wars.

First, the much-debated IMF provision, which interestingly enough, 
allows our country drawing rights for the first time in the history of 
the IMF.

Secondly, the majority stripped language from this bill that would 
have prevented release of photographs of detainees, thus endangering 
U.S. citizens and members of our own Armed Forces overseas.

Thirdly, the majority inserted watered-down language on the closing 
of Guantanamo Bay, allowing for these dangerous prisoners to be brought 
to the U.S. for trial 45 days after the Obama administration submits 
certain paperwork to Congress. These all represent reasons to vote 
''no,'' to send this legislation back to the drawing board, and to come 
back with a straightforward bill that supports our troops.

But I want to use this time to talk about the direction of our 
national security funding, our defense spending. If you believe the 
administration, this will be the last supplemental appropriations bill 
to fund our operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, even though our forces 
will remain in Iraq for a significant number of years and our efforts 
in Afghanistan are just now ramping up.

The administration says it's putting such costs for future soldier 
needs into the base appropriations bill. However, it doesn't take a 
green eyeshade to determine that the administration's request, combined 
with the rate of inflation, essentially adds up to no growth. We're 
standing still. We're treading water.

And in a world where the North Koreans threaten conventional nuclear 
war, Russia is becoming more resurgent and aggressive, and China is 
rapidly increasing its aggressiveness.

For these reasons, I rise to oppose this conference report.