---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `330bf9f40b31f0a1244628ccafdaf1f3`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, consistent with the unanimous consent 
agreement, I will take some time to talk about the Graham-Kyl 
alternative to Senators Hagel and Webb: No. 1, an observation about 
this whole debate based on what we did this morning. The author of this 
amendment, Senator Hagel, has my deepest respect and admiration. He is 
a friend, and I hope he continues in public service for a very long 
time because he brings a lot of knowledge and wisdom to this body. 
Senator Hagel and Senator Webb have served in uniform. They have served 
in combat. They have my utmost respect. We just disagree. Quite 
frankly, you could bring Audie Murphy back from the dead, and he 
couldn't convince me this is a good idea.

I am a military lawyer. The only people who ever wanted to do harm to 
me were my own clients. But I have enjoyed being in the military. I 
have had occasion to serve as a military lawyer for quite a while now.

To those in the body, you have gotten here the same way as the rest 
of us. You convinced the citizens of your State that you had good 
judgment and were qualified for the job. I respect everybody in this 
body, including those who have served in the military in different 
capacities. But this is really--to be honest, every Senator's judgment 
is just as good as the next when it comes to things like this. I firmly 
believe we are making a mistake to try to get the Congress involved in 
dwell time or time on the ground in the way that is being proposed.

Do we all find it uncomfortable and disheartening that the Guard and 
Reserve and Active-Duty Forces have been stressed? Yes. That is why we 
are trying to increase the military, the Army and the Marine Corps, by 
90,000. We have paid a heavy price for the mistakes of the past--not 
having enough people in Iraq, putting too much stress on our military--
and we are beginning to correct that problem. We have a surge going on 
that is music to my ears in terms of changing the battle space.

What we have done in the past has not worked. The reason it failed in 
the past is we didn't have enough troops to secure the country, and we 
finally have gotten around to doing something different. The 
''something different'' has increased combat capability twofold. For 
every combat soldier we had in Iraq before the surge, we have an 
additional soldier or marine and combat support person, which has made 
a dramatic difference.

The idea for Congress to step in at this point in time and say that 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, members of the military--that by 
congressional mandate they are going to be locked into X amount of time 
in theater, is not only an unwise use of the moment, it is a 
constitutional problem for the ages.

The problem of this war is it is unpopular. I understand. No war is 
popular. I wish mankind could get away from trying to kill each other, 
but we haven't quite gotten there yet.

One thing you can say about this Congress--I think the last couple of 
Congresses I have been involved in--is you can accuse us of a lot, but 
you can't accuse us of being visionary. I don't think there is much 
visionary politics going on in the Congress. One of the things I would 
like to get the body to focus on is what would this amendment mean in 
terms of a constitutional restructuring? If this actually became law, 
what would be the effect on military commanders and the ability of 
those commanders to deploy troops based on military necessity? What 
would be the change in relationship between the Congress and the 
executive branch? It would be fundamental. The last thing we need in 
any war is to have the ability of 535 people who are worried about the 
next election to be able to micromanage how you fight the war. This is 
not only micromanagement, this is a constitutional shift of power. This 
is a degrading of military flexibility in a way that will haunt this 
country.

Now, this will not be the last war. The only thing I can tell you is 
there will be other wars, and that is sad to say, but it is true. Let's 
not turn the Constitution upside down and play a role that will impede 
the ability to win this war and the next war because we are upset with 
President Bush or because we made mistakes. The Congress has never done 
this before.

The reason the Congress has never done this before is because it 
would be a horribly bad idea. When you are at war, the last thing you 
want to interject in troop movements, how long they stay and where they 
go, is the political polling of the moment. The effect of this 
amendment is not only would it change a constitutional balance that has 
served us well over time, in regard to the surge it would disrupt 
rotation schedules that have been set.

My amendment, along with Senator Kyl, expresses a goal that has been 
expressed by Secretary Gates. We are trying to make sure that Active-
Duty Forces are not overutilized, and that their stays in theater are 
no longer than 15 months. We are trying to make sure that our Reserve 
Forces are not deployed in theater and activated for more than 1 year 
out of 6. These are goals that will make our military stronger. But we 
find ourselves at a time when we are adjusting strategy, and the 
strategy we are moving to is more labor intensive. It would be a 
mistake to use the idea of helping the troops as the reason to change 
the constitutional balance that will make every other war difficult to 
prosecute.

After having been to Iraq numerous times, what most troops want is 
for us to win. I spent the Fourth of July in Baghdad with Senator 
McCain. I have had a lot of wonderful experiences as a Member of 
Congress, but I would have to put this up at the top in many ways.

Here is the setting: It is the Fourth of July, our Independence Day. 
We are in Baghdad. General Petraeus is having a ceremony for people who 
decided to reenlist in theater. It is at a Saddam Hussein palace. It is 
no longer used by Saddam Hussein; it is being used by coalition forces 
to help free the Iraqi people from their brutal oppression. We had over 
600 American military members reenlisting, to do it yet again in 
Baghdad in the middle of a war. It was the largest reenlistment, they 
tell me, in the history of the country in a war zone.

Right after that ceremony, there were about 130 green card holders--
noncitizens who are members of the military--who became naturalized 
citizens on that day. To be in their company, to just be around them 
buoyed my morale. It made be very proud of our military, and it humbled 
me.

To my colleagues here, I don't question your motives. We all 
understand the stress on the military, and we should support these 
goals. But we should not at this crucial time in this war make a 
decision that will fundamentally change the constitutional balance that 
has kept us free and make a decision that will allow politicians to 
take away from commanders the ability to deploy troops. The last thing 
we need is deployment and tour length based on polling. That is exactly 
what you would get.

Now, in terms of the waiver, I understand you can say: Well, wait a 
minute. The President can waive it. No President would ever accept 
this. There are people running for President in this body, and I would 
ask them: If you were Commander in Chief, would you sit on the 
sidelines and let the Congress take this authority away from you and 
your military commanders? Would Ronald Reagan? Would any President--you 
fill in the name--sit on the sidelines in any other war and let the 
Congress do what we are about to do? The answer would be no. They 
wouldn't look at the waiver as being a way for them to manage. What 
they would do is they would say: Wait a minute. I will have to veto 
this because this is an unconstitutional incursion


upon my authority as Commander in Chief.

I am going to yield and let Senator Inhofe speak, but I would mention 
one thing about the troops. We are meeting our recruiting and retention 
goals. Three of the four services met or exceeded their goals. People 
who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan are reenlisting at the highest 
rates of anybody in the military. From the troops' perspective, I wish 
for one moment we could see the need to win this war in Congress as 
much as they see the need to win it in theater.

With that, if I am controlling the time, I yield to my good friend 
from Oklahoma.