---
---

# None
## `331f187d5e934671517d9d143f68b572`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 April 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Madam Speaker, what I think has been really 
interesting is observing the struggle that military leaders underneath 
General Petraeus have been going through in trying to be good soldiers 
and toe the party line about not being ready to withdraw and for us to 
leave those 140,000 troops indefinitely in Iraq, which is the decision 
that was clearly made before General Petraeus came to testify this 
week. But when they're asked specific questions about the impact on our 
troops, the truth comes through in their statements.

General Richard Cody, the Army Vice Chief of Staff: ''Our readiness 
is being consumed as fast as we build it . . . lengthy and repeated 
deployments with insufficient recovery time have placed incredible 
stress on our soldiers and our families.''

And we're not talking about retired commanders or retired military 
leaders, who some people might suggest are retired for a reason. We're 
talking about the people who are currently fully engaged in our efforts 
over there.

Lieutenant General Benjamin Mixon, Commanding General of the U.S. 
Army Pacific: ''We are going to have to change our strategy in Iraq to 
reduce the numbers of troops and thereby reduce the rotations and 
increase the dwell time that we get back here at home.'' That was 
January 27.

Lieutenant General Michael Rochelle, Army Deputy Chief of Staff, G1: 
'' . . . I should mention that it's clear that the increase in suicide, 
as well as other measures that we track very, very closely, are a 
reflection of the amount of stress that's on the force.''

And, finally, Brigadier General Michael Linnington, Deputy Commanding 
General of the United States Army Infantry Center: ''Money is not the 
issue . . . They want an opportunity to catch their breath before 
deploying again and to have some control over their futures. They're 
tired and their families are tired.''

We have got to reach a point where we focus on the things that we 
know we need to focus on, like Afghanistan, for example. We have 
shifted. When we went to war in Iraq originally with the stated notion 
of pursuing the weapons of mass destruction that supposedly Saddam 
Hussein had that he clearly never had, we shifted our attention and our 
focus away from Afghanistan, where we clearly were succeeding, where we 
clearly had the world community behind us and fully engaged, where we 
had the American people's full commitment. And when we did that, when 
we shifted our attention away from Afghanistan and focused on Iraq, we 
lost tremendous ground in Afghanistan.

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Michael Mullen, 
said: ''So should we be in a position where more troops are removed 
from Iraq, the possibility of sending additional troops to Afghanistan, 
where we need them, clearly, certainly it's a possibility. But it's 
really going to be based on the availability of troops. We don't have 
troops, particularly in Brigade Combat Team size, sitting on the shelf, 
ready to go.''

The military is obviously stretched incredibly thin. And when I talk 
to constituents and groups of folks, I'll tell you that I represent a 
large section of the Jewish community in my State, and I am constantly 
being asked by members of the Jewish community leadership, What about 
Iran and what if we face an increasing threat from Iran? What are we 
going to do then, Debbie?

And my honest answer is, Well, we are spread so thin militarily now 
that it would be incredibly difficult for us to continue our efforts in 
Iraq, for us to maintain and not lose ground in Afghanistan, and also 
pursue the possibility of staving off a significant threat from Iran. 
And, again, that's not something that I'm saying. That's something that 
is backed up by military leaders.



I mean it's been 2,399 days, Madam Speaker, since the September 11 
attacks, 2,399 days, and Osama bin Laden still remains free. We have 
gone backwards in Afghanistan since we left and shifted our focus.

In July of 2007, a de-classified version of a National Intelligence 
Estimate on the terrorist threat to the U.S. homeland concluded that al 
Qaeda in Afghanistan and the border area with Pakistan has regained its 
strength over the last few years and has now reached the strength it 
had before 9/11.

We have put ourselves in jeopardy. The administration and this 
President talks about the war on terror, the supposed war on terror, 
and how committed we are to it and how we have to fight terror in every 
corner of the world. Well, it is incredibly disturbing that a National 
Intelligence Estimate, not a progressive think tank and not the critics 
of the administration but our own National Intelligence Estimate on the 
terrorist threat to the U.S. homeland, concluded that al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan has reached its strength that it had before 9/11. The 
Director of National Intelligence, Mike McConnell, testified in 
February that Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai and his government 
control just one-third of the country now, Madam Speaker. The remaining 
majority is under control of either the Taliban or local tribes.

We have got to make sure that we refocus our energy and our effort on 
the priorities of the American people. I know our Democratic 
leadership, under the leadership of our Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, is 
focused and determined to move an agenda that is going to improve this 
Nation's economy. The economic stimulus package that she was able to 
negotiate with Leader Boehner to try to inject some stimulus into this 
economy, checks that are going to be coming to Americans very, very 
soon, those are the kinds of efforts and energy that we need to be 
putting in to deal with the crisis situation that Americans are facing. 
Not continue to insist, as the administration does, that they are right 
and we are wrong. Not continue to say that we need to keep the same 
troop strength that we have where we made absolutely no progress 
between now and before the surge. Basically it's almost as if we have 
run in place. It's just incredibly frustrating.

So, Madam Speaker, I'm going to end where I began. And that is to 
say, the toll that this war has taken on the individual troops who are 
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, on their families, on Americans, 
where our administration's priorities are not focused on what they 
should be, which should be improving our economy and making sure that 
we can reduce the deficit and get our fiscal house in order and make 
sure that Americans have access to health care and aren't having their 
homes foreclosed on and the skyrocketing cost of housing, and the list 
just goes on and on. But at the same time, we're taking care of the 
needs of the people in Iraq. They have a budget surplus. Their housing 
needs are being taken care of. Their children's schooling is being 
taken care of. Yet we still have the same 140,000 troops that the 
administration has committed to leaving in Iraq, as opposed to trying 
to bring these troops home and end this hopeless war that has not made 
progress. And at the end of the day, as Mr. Ryan stated, we need to 
ensure that the Iraqi troops can stand on their own and that they don't 
believe for generations to come that we are going to carry them 
throughout history. At some point we have to let them go and stand on 
their own, and we have reached that time.

With that, Madam Speaker, we appreciate the opportunity in the 30-
Something Working Group that the Speaker has given us to talk about the 
issues that are important to the American people and to our generation 
and from our generation's perspectives. We hope that the people who 
have heard this presentation tonight will go to the Speaker's Web site 
and click on the 30-Something Working Group address. The charts that we 
have shown tonight are on that Web site, and they can feel free to e-
mail us and contact us with any questions they have.
