---
---

# None
## `332a0b7a439e5d18724d12558d761e4b`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we are indeed dealing with a serious 
subject that gives us all great pause and concern. I know my colleagues 
have had a sign that they have put up: Let us vote. I think it is 
important to recall that 53 days ago, we voted. We voted in this 
Congress to authorize and appropriate the funds to execute the surge 
that General Petraeus is right now executing in Iraq. That is what we 
did. It was a vote of 80 to 14. Less than 2 months ago, we voted to do 
that. Many of the speakers tonight saying we must withdraw right now, 
we must have a new strategy, have forgotten that when we cast those 
votes 53 days ago, we were executing a new strategy then. Are we now 
going to have another one?

Virtually all of the individuals who spoke voted for that funding, 
voted knowing that General Petraeus would lead this surge and voted 
knowing that we would be having a report in September and we could work 
through that report to decide how we would conduct this war in the 
future.

The Levin amendment is, indeed, a very important amendment. There is 
nothing small about this. It is critical. It requires our full 
attention. We must recognize that. I do believe it is inescapable that 
the Levin amendment calls for a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. Those 
troops not withdrawn will be directed by this Congress today by this 
vote on how they will conduct operations in Iraq. As our distinguished 
colleague, the Senator from Arizona, said, we will be telling our 
soldiers what they can and cannot do, whom they can and cannot wage war 
against, and how they will be conducting it. A group of politicians in 
an air-conditioned room sitting in Washington developing a political 
compromise is going to tell commanders how to deploy our soldiers in 
the field. So the issues have special urgency because right now 
American soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are in harm's way.

No one is afraid to stand up to the President. Our challenge is to do 
the right thing, the right thing for America, the right thing for our 
soldiers, the right thing for history. I believe my colleague from 
Michigan said we will be judged on how we leave. I was thinking the 
other day about that phrase someone said: Nothing so became them save 
their manner of leaving. I would alter it somewhat and suggest that 
someone might say: Nothing so ill became them save their manner of 
leaving. If we do it wrong, if we do it in a way that leads to mass 
slaughter or disorder, death, instability in the entire region, it is a 
threat to the peace of the region.


It is this Congress, not just the President, which authorized the use 
of force in Iraq in the beginning. We have confirmed the commander of 
those military personnel that are there now. We have provided the money 
and resources to maintain and to carry out that military operation. 
Those wonderful military personnel of ours have worked and fought and 
bled and died as a result of the policies we have authorized. It is our 
responsibility. We can't just blame it on the President. They have 
performed nobly and served this country well.

While I have never felt that I have had enough time in Iraq and that 
I have been able to learn everything I would like, I have visited that 
country six times. I talked to our soldiers there, our Guard, Reserve, 
Active Duty, those from Alabama and from other States. I talk to them 
in airports and their families in my State. They have done a great job. 
The biggest complaint I have heard consistently is: Why don't people 
tell the good things that we do and that occur? All we hear is the bad. 
I hear that a great deal.

But the truth is, for reasons unconnected to the fine work of our 
soldiers, things have not gone as well as we had hoped in Iraq. The 
Iraq mission has been very difficult in terms of lives lost, wounded, 
and the cost. While the initial military action went far better than 
many of us expected, the aftermath has been marked by errors, violence, 
and frustration. Particularly at this point, we are disappointed that 
the Iraqi Government has been unable to produce the kind of political 
leadership that would be beneficial to reducing the violence. It is a 
real frustration for us. There is no easy solution to it. They say we 
don't understand their difficulties. I suspect some people can't 
understand why Congress can't do things as they would like to have them 
do also.

Perhaps our biggest error as we went into this war was to 
underestimate the difficulty of creating a functioning government in an 
area of the world that has not had one before. This is not an easy 
thing. It is a very difficult thing. We have to be realistic about that 
in the future. For those in Congress, for the American people and our 
generals, there is certainly no one easy solution, and there is no 
certain outcome. But we do know the outcome is very important to the 
Iraqi people, to the people of the region, and to us. We need to get it 
right.

I earnestly hope we can draw down our troop levels in Iraq soon. 
Nothing would make me happier than to see that happen. But we must do 
it correctly, smartly. We can't do it precipitously. We can't do it 
here, without even listening to our general in Iraq whom we just sent 
there to command those troops, without even getting his opinion. This 
is his third year, third tour in Iraq. He was there when the initial 
invasion occurred. I visited with him when he commanded the 101st 
Airborne in Mosul. He came back and trained the Iraqi military. He came 
back home for the second time and wrote the manual on how to defeat an 
insurgency. Now he is back over there executing that, and we knew all 
that when we sent him. How can we write a policy of withdrawal and to 
direct the limited purposes for which our troops can be used and then 
set forth three purposes for which they can be used and the people that 
they can take military action against and we haven't even heard from 
our commander? What kind of sense is that? What kind of responsibility 
is that?



They say: If we don't threaten to withdraw, they won't reconcile and 
do all the things we want them to do in the Government. If we have to 
do more than threaten to withdraw if they don't do those things, we are 
going to have to just withdraw because they haven't satisfied our 
ambitions and goals for their successful political development.

Proponents of the Reed-Levin amendment claim that we must withdraw 
U.S. troops from Iraq because it is the only way to bring a responsible 
end to the war and to force the Iraqi Government to act. Actually, such 
a withdrawal required by the amendment is far more likely to consign 
the Iraqi people to mass slaughter.

The Iraq Study Group specifically--that is the group which has been 
so often cited, the independent group--concluded:




 A premature American departure from Iraq would almost 


 certainly produce greater sectarian violence and further 


 deterioration of conditions.


The study further concluded:




 The near-term results would be a significant power vacuum, 


 great human suffering, regional destabilization, and a threat 


 to the global economy.


Similarly, the intelligence community concluded in the NIE, the 
National Intelligence Estimate, earlier this year that the consequences 
of withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq prior to Iraq being able to 
provide for its own security would be sectarian violence, that 
sectarian violence would significantly increase, accompanied by massive 
civilian casualties and displacement. Get that? Sectarian violence 
would significantly increase, accompanied by massive civilian 
casualties and displacement.

The intelligence community pointed out how this mass chaos in Iraq 
would directly threaten the security of the U.S. homeland as it 
concluded al- Qaida would attempt to use Anbar Province to further 
attacks outside Iraq. General Hayden, Director of the CIA, succinctly 
testified to the Senate Intelligence Committee, in response to the 
question what would happen if we pulled out now from Iraq--that was the 
question to the Director of the CIA--he said succinctly three quick 
areas: more Iraqis die from the disorder inside Iraq; Iraq becomes a 
safe haven, perhaps more dangerous than the one al-Qaida had in 
Afghanistan; and the conflict in Iraq bleeds over into the neighborhood 
and threatens serious regional instability.


The Iraq Study Group concluded al-Qaida would depict our withdrawal 
as a historic victory. They have already claimed historic victory over 
the Soviet Union.

I ask: Is this a responsible way to leave? Is this a way to see what 
we have done in Iraq end?

Senator Reid, the Democratic leader, said we need to pull out of Iraq 
so we can ''drive the terrorists back to the darkest caves and corners 
of the Earth.'' Well, that is a good goal, I suggest. But tell me how 
that goal would be furthered if we pulled out and gave a safe haven in 
Iraq to al-Qaida and provided them with a victory of historic 
proportions. Wouldn't that embolden them? Wouldn't that enable them to 
recruit more people? Do you think they are then just going to be 
satisfied there? Wouldn't they then have the initiative? Would not they 
then be looking where they would hit next?

Our Democratic colleagues argue that it is somehow wrong for those 
who oppose the Levin amendment to utilize the full procedural 
protections available to a minority in the Senate. It wasn't wrong when 
they were using those manners on a regular basis, trust me. I think we 
set a record last year or the year before on these filibusters and the 
number of times it took 60 votes to do something or not succeed in 
getting 60 votes. But they suggest that somehow it is inappropriate to 
use our well-established, commonly used procedure, routinely done, to 
require 60 votes on a matter of great importance such as this. Of 
course, I would suggest that is when, in matters of great importance, 
the 60-vote rule is most needed and most appropriate.

To press the point further, I strongly believe that whatever the 
inclinations of Senators on the conduct of the war in Iraq, to change 
our strategy now before we even hear from General Petraeus in September 
would be a colossal blunder for a host of reasons. To do so would be 
unthinkable. It must not and I believe will not happen. This Senator 
would be derelict in his duty if he did not make use of every 
traditional proper rule of procedure in this Senate to see that it does 
not happen, and that I will do. We agreed to execute this surge and to 
take a report in September. That is what we should do. We already have 
a new strategy.

We debated it at length in April and in May. Bipartisan meetings 
occurred. The Democratic leader and the Republican leader went to the 
White House, and they talked and they talked, and we finally agreed and 
passed, 80 to 14, the bill that funds this surge. That is our new 
strategy.

We knew exactly what we were voting for. There was no dispute about 
it. We were voting for an increase in American soldiers in Iraq and a 
new emphasis on General Petraeus's strategy of counterinsurgency and 
increasing security in Baghdad particularly. That is the strategy 
General Petraeus is now executing. Are we now to change it again? Are 
we now to have a strategy de jure or a new one every week based on 
coffee shop talk or some poll that just came in?

Senator Reid earlier today quoted polls that said people agree with 
him. He said someone talked to his brother. Let's get real here. The 
established bipartisan policy that we passed 80 to 14, 53 days ago, 
must not be lightly changed on polls and anecdotes--change without even 
listening to the general who is in Iraq, seeking his opinion. It would 
embarrass the United States before our allies and the world. Indeed, 
U.N. Security General Ban Ki-moon yesterday urged us to exercise 
''great caution'' in considering a rapid withdrawal from Iraq. He said:




 It is not my place to inject myself into this discussion 


 taking place between the American people, government and 


 Congress. But I'd like to tell you that a great caution 


 should be taken for the sake of the Iraqi people. Any abrupt 


 withdrawal or decision may lead to a further deterioration.


Well, is that a product of President Bush's pressure or some 
hardheadedness? No. The Secretary General is very worried that we may 
abruptly alter our commitments and policies without any rational plan 
for what would happen next.

A rushed withdrawal, I think, could even signal political panic. It 
could signal a lack of seriousness and thoughtfulness. It is 
unthinkable that the Senate would vote to flip-flop our strategy while 
our soldiers at this very moment work to execute the congressional 
policy we assigned them 54 days ago.

Senator Reid and Speaker Pelosi will have in effect taken over, I 
suppose, as Commander in Chief in conducting this military action and 
begun to direct the very deployment of our soldiers on the battlefield, 
telling them what they can and cannot do, without any advice from the 
military and, indeed, contrary to our Commander's wishes and opinions. 
They do not even want to hear his report, the one we asked him to give 
just a few days ago.

Well, maybe somebody, if they are going to take over that, would have 
to tell him what we voted on if this bill were to pass. Hopefully, it 
will not. A phone call might go like this: General Petraeus, this is 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. I know we confirmed you to lead the 
new surge, and after much debate we voted on May 24, 80 to 14, to 
approve and to fully fund your new surge strategy. I voted ''yes'' for 
it, too. But that was then. That was 54 days ago. Since then we have 
heard from antiwar activists--some of them come in cute pink suits and 
wear crowns--from many concerned citizens, and somebody talked to my 
brother, and maybe a few pollsters and political consultants have been 
consulted. So just forget that old strategy. We now have voted for a 
new one. It will be very popular here. Prepare for rapid withdrawal of 
your forces. Your work is a failure. You will not succeed. We do not 
want to listen to your report. Just make sure you comply with our 
mandates and pull out of there.

Well, he might go on--the majority leader might--well, yes, we did 
say you would have until your report in September, but that promise was 
a long time ago. It was 54 days ago. Much has changed here at home. 
Just follow our new strategy. Well, General Petraeus, I know you feel 
something is owed to our soldiers out there who are at risk working to 
execute the surge strategy


we supported just 54 days ago. Just tell them we changed our minds. You 
say they will be let down if they are stopped before they have an 
opportunity to achieve success? I do not think so. They will get over 
it.

Well, maybe that is a bit unfair. Maybe that is not a fair way to 
deal with it. But with a little senatorial poetic license, I think it 
makes a sort of point. Many have said that President Bush lied to get 
us into this war. I reject that. But what is the integrity in voting on 
a policy in May that puts 30,000 more soldiers in harm's way and then 
we pull the plug on them before they have half a chance to be 
successful?

Our military will go where we ask them to go. They will go into 
harm's way. They are willing to put their lives on the line. They do 
not want to be put on the line if we are not going to follow through to 
success in the end. Among the other adverse ramifications of a 
precipitous withdrawal, a failure of will by the Congress that denies 
our military a fair chance to be successful, I think could be damaging 
to the morale of the finest military we have ever had. I think it is an 
important matter.

There are a lot of things we need to be thinking about. I do not know 
how this war will come out. I am anxious to hear General Petraeus's 
report. He finished at the top of his class at West Point or near the 
top. He was No. 1 in his class at the Command and General Staff 
College. He has his Ph.D from Princeton. He is a Ranger combat 
commander of the 101st Airborne, and he has written the manual on how 
to defeat an insurgency. He has only had his full complement of the 
surge troops about 3 weeks.

I believe it is premature and immature for us to react in this way 
and vote to bring those soldiers home, to reorder how they will be 
deployed without even seeking his opinion or giving it sufficient 
thought.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.