# None
## `3333083c3b03687950d9d3d1f31f1fd9`
`Mr. SANDERS — 4 April 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, first, I wish to commend Senator Dodd and 
Senator Shelby for their work on this legislation. In particular, I 
wish to congratulate them on the provisions already in the bill to help 
our servicemembers and veterans. I also wish to thank Senator Akaka, 
the chairman of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and Senator Burr, 
the ranking member, and their staffs, for helping to clear this 
amendment.

The amendment I am offering today will provide another piece of 
needed help to disabled veterans trying to stay in their homes. This 
amendment increases funding for a VA grant program that assists 
disabled veterans needing to adapt their homes to accommodate their 
disabilities. As the Presiding Officer knows, many thousands of 
soldiers, coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan as amputees, who are 
blind and who have a number of disabilities, and this amendment 
attempts to address some of those problems by helping them adapt their 
homes so they can live in those homes with their disabilities.

This amendment is supported by some of our Nation's largest veterans 
organizations, including the VFW, the DAV, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans 
of America, and the Vietnam Veterans of America. It is also important 
to note the policy changes we are advocating are contained in the 
independent budget, the document authored every year by many of the 
same organizations. It is also a policy that has the unanimous support 
of the majority members of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, 
which endorsed this policy change in the 2007 and 2008 Views and 
Estimates letter to the Budget Committee; in other words, this policy 
in this amendment has broad support.

Veterans with certain severe service-connected disabilities are 
entitled to what are known as specially adapted housing grants of up to 
$50,000. Veterans with service-connected blindness only or with loss of 
use of both upper extremities may receive a grant of up to $10,000. The 
authors of the independent budget note increases in these amendments 
have been sporadic, despite the increases in real estate costs. In 
particular, veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are finding 
the current VA program does not cover the cost of adapting their homes 
to accommodate wheelchairs or loss of vision, to create physical 
therapy space or other needed changes.

This amendment increases the specialty adaptive housing grant to 
provide $10,000 in additional benefits for those veterans eligible for 
the $50,000 grant and $2,000 in additional benefits for those veterans 
eligible for the current $10,000 grant. So we are raising the cap on 
each program to $60,000 and $12,000, respectively. According to CBO, 
for fiscal year 2009, this amendment would cost about $6 million.

The Senate is now debating an important piece of legislation to try 
to bring relief to so many of the middle-income Americans who are 
struggling to keep their heads above water in today's economy and 
housing crisis. I think, given the context of this bill, certainly we 
can reach out to disabled veterans to adapt their homes so they can try 
to live as full lives as possible.

I wish to again commend Senator Dodd, Senator Shelby, and the Banking 
Committee for the proveteran, proservicemember provisions already in 
this legislation, and I ask that my colleagues support this small 
additional benefit. I ask for my colleagues' support on this amendment, 
and if it is appropriate, I ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment.