---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `33386ee250752110cde2e0938c20b8f3`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 26 April 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 1963, the 
''Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009,'' which 
will finally give our brave men and women in uniform the benefits they 
deserve and provide their families and caregivers with the support that 
they need. Too many of our veterans return home--many of them wounded 
or disabled--after risking their lives on our behalf and do not receive 
adequate health care or benefits. Too many families fall into debt as 
they assume the responsibility of caring for a loved one who has 
returned from Iraq or Afghanistan. This bill will right these 
injustices.

I thank Chairman Filner for his leadership in bringing this bill to 
the floor. I also thank the sponsor of this legislation, Senator Akaka, 
for working hard to ensure that our Nation's dedication to its veterans 
matches their selfless devotion to this country.

Mr. Speaker, representing a district that is home to over 24,000 
veterans and the VA Medical Center of Long Beach, I understand the work 
that must be done to uphold our Nation's obligation to its veterans. 
Unfortunately, for years the health care services provided for our 
Nation's veterans have been inadequate. Veterans' families have been 
especially over-burdened by this failure. When wounded or disabled 
veterans return home from overseas, family members often become their 
primary caregivers. However willing these individuals may be to care 
for their loved one, the truth is that family members often lack the 
resources or skills needed to provide the care that our veterans 
deserve. S. 1963 will provide training and financial assistance to 
family caregivers, so that veterans' families can afford to provide 
them with quality care.

In addition, S. 1963 will improve health care for female veterans. 
For too long, female veterans have lacked access to comprehensive 
health care. We cannot stand for this kind of discrimination. S. 1963 
will break down this barrier and give female veterans access to health 
professionals specializing in the specific health care needs of women. 
Among many other things, the bill will provide counseling and care to 
female veterans suffering from sexual trauma.



This bill will also provide an array of new health services for 
veterans, ensuring that every veteran has access to the care that he or 
she deserves. The bill will expand care for veterans in rural areas, 
because where veterans live should never determine the quality of care 
that they receive. It will improve mental health support for veterans, 
because we must respond to traumatic experiences that our men and women 
in uniform are braving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Finally, this 
legislation will help homeless veterans find housing, because it is 
simply unacceptable for our veterans to risk their lives for our 
country and return home to live on the streets.

Mr. Speaker, our men and women in uniform have assumed the 
responsibility of protecting us and the values that we cherish as 
American citizens; we, then, have a responsibility to them. We must 
provide them with support they need to live healthy and financially 
stable lives upon returning home. This bill will do just that. I 
strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting S. 1963.
