---
---

# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `333c796c3aefb25211524b2a7cbabc20`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this rule 
change and real Pay-As-You-Go or ''Pay-Go'' budget requirements.

Madam Speaker, the 109th Session of Congress left behind a legacy 
that is certain to go down in the annals of history as the height of 
fiscal irresponsibility. Unless you consider an additional $781 billion 
extension of the debt limit, the fourth of a series approved since 2003 
that added an additional $3 trillion in new debt, the 109th Session can 
boast of no budgetary accomplishment.

In fact, it failed in its most basic responsibility: passing a budget 
for the Federal Government and failing to enact 9 of the 11 regular 
spending bills that fund the government's operations.

But, it simply didn't just fail pass a budget, it actually made the 
Nation's fiscal problems worse. It took what it already knew were large 
projected deficits and passed legislation that makes them even larger 
in future years. According to the Congressional Budget Office, 
legislation enacted last session actually increases the projected 
budget deficits by $452 billion above what they would have been between 
2005 and 2011 had they never been in session.

Over the course of the past 5 years, with full control of the White 
House and both chambers of Congress, the Republican leadership 
inherited an estimated 10-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion and 
after 5 years has turned the same 10-year period (2002-2011) into a 
projected budget deficit of $3 trillion--a disastrous $8.6 trillion 
turnabout.

This explosion of budget deficits is largely the result of 2 
irresponsible budget policies of the former Republican majority:

First, was its decision to waive all budget rules and not to pay for 
the current war in Iraq and Afghanistan, letting emergency spending 
bills be enacted within the discipline and restraints on the regular 
budget process; and

Second, was to make tax cuts its highest priority, enacting a series 
of tax cuts, targeted primarily at the wealthiest Americans and 
corporations that need them the least, with no offsets.

According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the 3 major tax cuts 
enacted over the past 5 years cost $1.5 trillion between 2001 and 2014. 
The actual number is somewhat higher once you tack on the additional 
costs of debt-servicing.

I don't pretend to have all the answers to solve our fiscal problems. 
But, one thing we should not do is more harm. We should not increase 
the amount of debt our children will inherit.

Adopting a real Pay-Go requirement as part of the Rules for the 110th 
Congress will keep this institution and the White House from digging an 
even larger budget deficit hole.

The pay-go rule we are considering today is not unlike the original 
one adopted as part of the 1993 budget agreement that required any 
spending or revenue measure we consider before the full House be fully 
offset and not increase the budget deficit.

The first Pay-Go requirements were adopted in 1993 as part of the 
largest deficit reduction package that Congress ever approved; a 
package that passed both chambers with a single Republican vote. It 
included both real spending cuts and real tax increases and placed us 
on a course toward balanced budgets.

The Pay-Go requirements were subsequently extended as part of the 
1995 bipartisan budget agreement and closed the final gap in deficit 
spending that in 1999 produced the first balanced budget in more than 
30 years.

We would be in a much better situation today had the original ''Pay-
Go'' rule remained in effect.

Instead, a Republican-controlled Congress allowed the Pay-Go 
requirements to expire, enabling them to adopt irresponsible tax cuts 
that are largely responsible for the deficits we face today.

Adopting a true Pay-Go rule today gets us back on track toward 
responsible fiscal policy. I encourage my colleagues to support its 
inclusion in the Rules of the 110th Congress.