---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `333f8a1978540303ab4476645530c101`
`Mr. LEAHY — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with Senator Mark 
Pryor to offer an amendment to the ethics bill, the Effective 
Prosecutions Act of 2007. Our amendment would strengthen the tools 
available to Federal prosecutors in combating public corruption. It 
gives investigators and prosecutors the statutory rules and resources 
they need to assure that corruption is detected and prosecuted.

In November, voters sent a strong message that they were tired of the 
culture of corruption. From war profiteers and corrupt officials in 
Iraq to convicted administration officials, to influence-peddling 
lobbyists and, regrettably, even Members of Congress, too many supposed 
public servants are serving their own interests rather than the public 
interests.

Actually, the American people staged an intervention and made it 
clear they would not stand for it any longer, and they expect Congress 
to take action. We need to restore the people's trust by acting to 
clean up the people's government.

The Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act will help to 
restore the people's trust. Similar legislation passed the Senate last 
year, but stalled in the House. This is a vital first step.

But the most serious corruption cannot be prevented only by changing 
our own rules. Bribery and extortion are committed by people who are 
assuming they will not get caught. These offenses are very difficult to 
detect and even harder to prove. But because they attack our democracy 
itself, they have to be found out and punished. We can send a signal we 
don't believe in corruption, that we want it punished.

I was pleased to join Senator Pryor last week to introduce the 
Effective Corruption Prosecutions Act of 2007, and I hope that all 
Senators will support us and incorporate this important bill into the 
Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act. Our legislation gives 
investigators and prosecutors the tools and resources they need to go 
after public corruption.


Senator Pryor is a former attorney general. He understands, as I do, 
as I am a former prosecutor, the need for such legislation.

First, it would extend the statute of limitations for the most 
serious public corruption offenses, extending it from 5 years to 8 
years for bribery, deprivation of honest services, and extortion by 
public officials.

The reason this is important is these public corruption cases are 
among the most difficult and time consuming to investigate, before you 
even bring a charge. They often require use of informants and 
electronic monitoring, as well as review of extensive financial and 
electronic records, techniques which take time to develop and 
implement. Once you bring a charge, the statute of limitations tolls. 
You do not want it to run out before you can bring the charge.

Bank fraud, arson, and passport fraud, among other offenses, all have 
10-year statutes of limitations. Since public corruption offenses are 
so important to our democracy and these cases are so difficult to 
investigate and prove, a more modest extended statute of limitations 
for these offenses is a reasonable step to help our corruption 
investigators and prosecutors do their jobs. Corrupt officials should 
not be able to get away with ill-gotten gains simply because they 
outwait the investigators.

This legislation also facilitates the investigation and prosecution 
of an important offense known as Federal program bribery, Title 18, 
United States Code, section 666. Federal program bribery is the key 
Federal statute for prosecuting bribery involving State and local 
officials, as well as officials of the many organizations that receive 
substantial Federal money. This legislation would allow agents and 
prosecutors investigating this important offense to request authority 
to conduct wiretaps and to use Federal program bribery as a basis for a 
racketeering charge.



Wiretaps, when appropriately requested and authorized, are an 
important method for agents and prosecutors to gain evidence of corrupt 
activities, which can otherwise be next to impossible to prove without 
an informant. The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations, RICO, 
statute is also an important tool which helps prosecutors target 
organized crime and corruption.

Agents and prosecutors may currently request authority to conduct 
wiretaps to investigate many serious offenses, including bribery of 
Federal officials and even sports bribery, and may predicate RICO 
charges on these offenses, as well. It is only reasonable that these 
important tools also be available for investigating the similar and 
equally important offense of Federal program bribery.

Lastly, the Effective Corruption Prosecutions Act authorizes $25 
million in additional Federal funds over each of the next four years to 
give Federal investigators and prosecutors needed resources to go after 
public corruption. Last month, FBI Director Mueller in written 
testimony to the Judiciary Committee called public corruption the FBI's 
top criminal investigative priority. However, a September 2005 Report 
by Department of Justice Inspector General Fine found that, from 2000 
to 2004, there was an overall reduction in public corruption matters 
handled by the FBI. The report also found declines in resources 
dedicated to investigating public corruption, in corruption cases 
initiated, and in cases forwarded to U.S. attorneys' offices.

I am heartened by Director Mueller's assertion that there has 
recently been an increase in the number of agents investigating public 
corruption cases and the number of cases investigated, but I remain 
concerned by the inspector general's findings. I am concerned because 
the FBI in recent years has diverted resources away from criminal law 
priorities, including corruption, into counterterrorism. The FBI may 
need to divert further resources to cover the growing costs of 
Sentinel, their data management system. The Department of Justice has 
similarly diverted resources, particularly from United States 
Attorney's Offices.

Additional funding is important to compensate for this diversion of 
resources and to ensure that corruption offenses are aggressively 
pursued. This legislation will give the FBI, the U.S. attorneys' 
offices, and the Public Integrity Section of the Department of Justice 
new resources to hire additional public corruption investigators and 
prosecutors. They can finally have the manpower they need to track down 
and make these difficult cases, and to root out corruption.

These may sound like dry nuts-and-bolts measures, but what we are 
trying to figure out is what will actually allow us to investigate and 
prosecute the kinds of crimes that undermine our democracy.

If we are serious about addressing the egregious misconduct that we 
have recently witnessed, Congress must enact meaningful legislation to 
give investigators and prosecutors the resources they need to enforce 
our public corruption laws. I strongly urge Congress to pass this 
important amendment as a major step to restoring the public's trust in 
their government.