---
---

# MICHAEL A. MARZANO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC
## `33443fa5aaadabc4f023644c2ee0123a`
`Mr. STEARNS — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in support of H.R. 1594, a bill to designate the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Hermitage, 
Pennsylvania, as the Michael A. Marzano Department of Veterans Affairs 
Outpatient Clinic.

I appreciate the efforts of my colleague Phil English, and obviously 
Congressman Jason Altmire who just recently spoke, and their efforts to 
push this legislation. Obviously this is a very important symbolic 
piece of legislation, and I think it reminds us of what occurred. I 
will defer to Congressman English for further comments on this 
legislation in a few moments.

As pointed out, Marine Sergeant Michael Marzano, a servicemember from 
Mercer County, Pennsylvania, was killed in action on May 7, 2005, while 
deployed in service to his Nation in Iraq. Reports from the field 
indicate his bravery and leadership while protecting a hospital, and 
many lives were saved due to his sacrifice. Sergeant Marzano was the 
first marine from Mercer County to give his life for freedom in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation has strong bipartisan support and also 
support from the local and State veterans communities, as well as 
support from the entire Pennsylvania delegation.

As pointed out, I thank Chairman Filner and also Ranking Member Buyer 
for foregoing the existing criteria to move this legislation 
expeditiously forward. It is right that we honor the memory and service 
of a warrior such as Michael Marzano by naming the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in his honor.

So I urge my colleagues to support the bill, which is H.R. 1594.

Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the distinguished 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. English).