---
---

# IRAQ
## `3367577f4afbf33d4d6efa7ff1ac0562`
`Mr. STEVENS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, this morning I got up and I went to get 
on an airplane and the plane was delayed because of mechanical issues. 
Then I got the word that the leader said we should come vote on 
questions being discussed, just as I heard now.

I am here to participate in a charade. This is nothing but a charade. 
It is a nonbinding resolution. We are coming back to vote on Saturday 
on a nonbinding resolution that the American public doesn't support. As 
a matter of fact, as I read in The Hill newspaper and as I see on the 
front page, there is the majority leader's photograph and a story about 
how the majority is trying to embarrass the 21 of us who are up for 
election in 2008. I think the majority--current majority, former 
minority--ought to look at that paper. Inside it, after giving the 
majority leader credit for this charade, is a poll. It is an online 
poll, and this was a question: Does debate on a nonbinding Iraq 
resolution help or harm Americans? Harm: 57 percent; help, 43 percent.

Nothing at all will be accomplished tomorrow, even if we got cloture. 
We would vote on a nonbinding resolution that is an embarrassment to 
the troops that are wearing our uniforms in Iraq. What we should be 
doing is voting on cloture on a series of votes which would include 
Senator Gregg's resolution or amendment that declares our support for 
our troops.

The reason we face this situation today is the new majority, with one 
vote--a majority of one vote--went over to the House and negotiated a 
resolution--a nonbinding, nothing resolution--and brought it over here 
and said: You are going to vote on this resolution and nothing else. If 
we do this, we become a lower body of the House. The House, in 
responding to the Rules Committee, had no chance to offer any 
amendments to that bill. Over here, the majority leader says: You 
cannot offer any amendments to this because I am the leader.

Well, it is time we showed this leader the processes of the Senate 
are here for the purpose of allowing debate. The House represents the 
population of a whole series of congressional districts. We represent 
our States. The national viewpoint is settled in the Senate. This is 
the place where debate is supposed to take place and it should not be 
limited.

If we voted for cloture on this resolution tomorrow, we would not be 
allowed to vote on the Gregg amendment. The Gregg amendment:




 Expressing the sense of Congress that no funds should be 


 cut off or reduced for American troops in the field which 


 would result in undermining their safety or their ability to 


 complete their assigned missions.


What is wrong with that? Why won't the leader let us vote on that? 
You


know why? Because it would carry. It would carry. Because Senators on 
that other side of the aisle know they must support the forces in the 
field.

Senator Gregg's amendment goes on to say:




 Whereas under Article II, section 2, of the Constitution of 


 the United States, the President is the ''commander in chief 


 of the Army and Navy of the United States'', and in such 


 capacity the President has the command of the Armed Forces, 


 including the authority to deploy troops and direct military 


 campaigns during wartime.



 Whereas under Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of 


 the United States, Congress has the power of the purse 


 specifically as it relates to the Armed Forces, and in such 


 capacity Congress has the responsibility to fully and 


 adequately provide funding for the United States military 


 forces, especially when they are at war and are defending our 


 Nation; and



 Whereas the United States military forces are in harm's way 


 and are protecting our country, Congress and the Nation 


 should give them all the support they need in order to 


 maintain their safety and to accomplish their assigned 


 missions, including the equipment, logistics, and funding 


 necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness, and such 


 support is the responsibility of both the Executive Branch 


 and the Legislative Branch of Government.

Senator Gregg goes on to say this:




 Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 


 concurring)--


And they have to concur if we send it back to them--




 That it is the sense of Congress that Congress should not 


 take any action that will endanger United States military 


 forces in the field, including elimination or reduction of 


 funds for troops in the field, as such action with respect to 


 funding would undermine their safety or harm their 


 effectiveness in pursuing their assigned missions.


It is nothing but a charade to say an amendment that does nothing 
should not have a resolution such as this attached to it. That is our 
purpose. That is our job. It is our constitutional responsibility to 
support the forces in the field.

I am ashamed the Senate is taking action to prevent the voting on a 
resolution, once again, establishing the principle. Our duty is to 
support our forces in the field.

I have a chart to show, but it is difficult for many to understand 
why we need surge forces. This whole concept we are talking about is 
safety. Senator Gregg's resolution deals with safety of our forces. 
This is a chart that shows the Iraqi Army and national police with lead 
responsibility for counterinsurgency operations in their areas.

In May of 2006 this was their deployment, fairly small. By February 
of 2007, this is their deployment. We are now in the process of going 
forward on the new plan to deal with the fact that we have trained a 
great many of these forces now, but they have not been moved into the 
areas of real combat, and those are the white spaces on this chart. The 
whole idea now is to start moving these forces into those areas.

By the way, the hot spots are also on arterial highways in Iraq. This 
demonstrates where it is. The white areas are occupied by American 
forces and coalition forces. We want to give them a chance now to move 
them into those areas. As such, forces will be moving all over this 
country. In that period of time, these additional surge forces are 
necessary in order to provide the safety for the people whom they are 
going to be moving. They are our forces, they are their forces. 
Secretary Gates has said he does not think they will be there too long. 
He made a point to make that statement. They will come out as soon as 
they are no longer needed. Safety is a problem.

To those people who say: Let's get ready to withdraw, if we try to 
withdraw right now, there would be mass murder in this country. Think 
of what happened to the Russians and the Soviets when they tried to get 
out of Afghanistan--and multiply it by factors of 10 to 20. We are 
spread out all over this place and so are the Iraqis because that was 
the problem, we were providing for the defense until they were ready to 
move in and take care of their defense.

This is a chart that shows the current position of forces in Iraqi 
Freedom. We can see various operations, Japanese and coalition forces, 
including the British, around the periphery. We are there, in Baghdad, 
on the major highways. We are in the white spaces on the chart. To get 
the Iraqi forces in there, we have a new scheme where we will have 
Iraqi brigades--not divisions but brigades--with an embedded battalion 
in each brigade move in. Our people will be along with them to make 
sure their training is carried out and they do the job of defending 
themselves.

As a practical matter, in order to do that, we need the increased 
safety of movement in this country. I fully support the plan. It was an 
Iraqi plan improved on by Secretary Gates, the President, and his 
staff. Very clearly, the whole program is so they can provide the basic 
defense for themselves in areas where there is key opposition.

Assume the other side, the side who wants to withdraw, would get 
approval of the Congress and had some way to mandate the President to 
withdraw forces. The first thing that would have to be done would be to 
move the Iraqi forces in there where they can defend themselves and 
hold back the insurgents currently combatting our forces.

I am not a general, I am not even an armchair general, but I have 
been around wars for almost all my life now starting out when I was 19. 
I have seen a great many wars, and I have seen a great many problems 
with war. Coming back from overseas, I talked to some of my friends and 
I decided I was going to become an aeronautical engineer to try to find 
out what caused wars. I hate wars. But I know my duty is to support the 
military and to support those people carrying out our constitutional 
mandate to provide for the common defense of this country.

In my opinion, this is the common defense of our country. We have 
taken on the task of trying to stop a movement that could very well 
destroy the world. I do believe we should stop these incessant debates 
on resolutions that mean nothing. Why would we spend all this time and 
come back on Saturday in order to vote on a nonbinding resolution that 
would not do a thing? It would not do a thing at all for anyone in that 
conflict, not one thing. It is nothing but a charade, a charade. It 
embarrasses me to have to say that. The whole reason for it, pick up 
The Hill newspaper, back to where I started, to provide a challenge to 
the 21 Members, Republicans, up for election in 2008, 3 on that side of 
the aisle. The whole idea is to try to see if we cannot force them to 
come back on Saturday in order to say to our State constituents: They 
were not here to vote. I am here to vote. I happened to get off the 
airplane because I was pretty irritated when I read that story. I am 
still irritated.


I remember Steve Syms in 1986, when everyone was trying to embarrass 
people up for election, he said: I am going home and I am going to talk 
to my constituents, and he did not get sucked back into the debates 
such as this. He was reelected.

What these people do not know is, we are going to stand up and speak 
up. We are going to call a spade a spade. This is a charade. I have not 
been home since January. And I got off that plane to come back and 
complain about this. I have a right to go home once in a while. I live 
4,500 miles from here. As a matter of fact, I am stopping off on my way 
home to see a very sick relative before I get to Alaska on Monday. 
Leadership is leadership, and I have been in leadership in this Senate. 
I was not elected leader, but that is another story. As a practical 
matter, I have seen leaders come and I have seen leaders go. My friend 
from Nevada has been my friend for a long time. I am saying I am not 
going to be embarrassed to come out and say this is nothing but a 
charade. We should not come back tomorrow to vote on a nonbinding 
resolution to see if we would vote on a resolution that doesn't tell 
the story that America wants us to tell, and that story is we support 
our forces in the field, we support what they are doing. We want them 
to do what we said we would do, move the forces in that are now trained 
in Iraq. Let them show how they can defend themselves and we then pull 
out our embedded battalions and we will be in a position to figure out 
what is the long-term plan now for this new democracy we have helped 
establish.

What does this nonbinding resolution do to people in the field? What 
does it do to the Iraqis? What is it selling them? People are telling 
me now we should find some way to take the money the President has 
asked for, the supplemental, and to use it for something else--not to 
use it to support the people in the field.



There is what is called the Food and Forage Act of the United States. 
I hope the Senate understands that act. I have been involved in defense 
appropriations now for over 25 years. The President of the United 
States has the authority to take money from wherever it is to support 
forces in the field. We will never abandon our people in the field. We 
will support them in every way possible. That is why the current 
majority does not want to vote on the resolution of Senator Gregg. They 
do not want to be put in a position of saying no to Senator Gregg 
because if they vote, if they support that resolution, they are 
continuing the concepts that have been embodied in my life and in the 
Senate's life as long as I have known it. That is, we support our 
forces in the field. We are not going to divert money they need for 
their support, and we are not going to waste our time on nonbinding 
resolutions that do not do anything to help anybody.

We have a lot of things we could be working on, immigration, energy, 
global climate change. What are we doing? We are spending our time 
coming back on Saturday to debate whether we should vote on a bill that 
was started in the House of Representatives, with not one amendment, 
and brought over here, not one amendment, and expresses a point of view 
that the American public does not approve of.

I hope we can get to a debate one of these days, and people will stay 
around after they make comments such as I heard before I came in. I 
guarantee, in my heart and in my mind, I know what it means to be in 
uniform, what it means to be in a position to feel it is necessary to 
have support at home.

I spent some time last night talking to Colin Powell, one of the 
famous generals of this country, and reminded him once when we were 
talking years ago, he told me about the time when he was sent into Laos 
as a young captain with about 12 days' rations and how when you get up 
on the morning of the 12th day and realize a drop mission is coming to 
give you your rations for the next 12 days, how you realize what it 
means to rely on people, to understand that people in the United States 
are behind their military, to know you can eat those rations because 
the supplies are going to come in when they are supposed to come in. 
That is support to people in the field.

Another concept I speak of is our people have a doctrine that hardly 
any armies or military in the world has had--we never abandon our 
forces in the field. What these people are doing now if you listen to 
them on this other resolution, they are saying, we are going to take 
and divert this money and put it somewhere else. Not this Senator. If 
they need that money over there to carry out the commands of the 
Commander in Chief, I am going to support it. The Senate should support 
it. We should stop this business of trying to embarrass people who are 
up for election and demanding they come back and vote on Saturday.

This recess was announced a month ago. Those who live a long distance 
from here rely on that. The Senate has to start keeping its commitments 
to our Members whether they are up for election or not.

This is political posturing at its worse. I will be here to vote 
tomorrow to represent some of those people who could not get back. I 
stayed to vote so I could come and say this: Political posturing has no 
place in the Senate of the United States.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.