---
---

# CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE
## `337a5e950f922bc44a7a080813cd6185`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. I want to thank the gentleman from Texas for the time.

I rise in support of House Resolution 1069, and I urge swift passage.

Along with Mr. Crowley's original resolution, I introduced House 
Resolution 1308, condemning the broadcasting of incitement of violence 
against Americans and the United States in Middle Eastern-based media.

I am pleased to have worked with Mr. Crowley in combining our two 
resolutions to come up with the product we have today. I am grateful 
that my colleagues on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, led by 
Chairman Berman and Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, in a display of 
bipartisanship, unanimously voted for my amendment in the nature of a 
substitute to House Resolution 1069.

Anti-American incitement of violence is escalating in quality and 
quantity, fueled by the rapid growth of satellite television throughout 
the Arab world. In 2008, al-Manar TV broadcast over two dozen video 
clips of insurgent bombings against U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq, 
while one of its correspondents implicitly threatened the USS Cole with 
attack. Further, Iranian state-controlled TV channels repeatedly 
broadcast calls for ''Death to America,'' and, we have already heard 
al-Aqsa TV broadcast a puppet show depicting an Arab child stabbing the 
President of the United States.

Instead of denouncing and addressing such incitement, many countries 
in the region effectively provide financial, material, or technological 
support to purveyors of incitement. Al-Manar and al-Aqsa, among others, 
are transmitting on the satellite providers Nile-Sat, controlled by the 
Egyptian government, and Arabsat, controlled by the Arab League. Given 
the dangers such incitement poses to American service and civilian 
personnel in the region, it is long past time for the U.S. and other 
responsible nations to stop this growing threat. Support of House 
Resolution 1069 is, therefore, critical.

Among other things, this resolution condemns the broadcast of anti-
American incitement to violence and hatred against the Americans, 
Israelis, and the West by Middle East-based media. It urges Middle 
Eastern governments, U.S. allies, and other responsible nations to 
officially and publicly repudiate purveyors of such incitement to 
violence against Americans and Israelis. It calls on the President to 
designate al-Aqsa as a specially designated global terrorist entity, 
and to designate those satellite providers that contract with purveyors 
of incitement to violence as such. It demands that Hamas recognize 
Israel's right to exist, renounce violence and terrorism, and accept 
all past peace agreements with Israel. Most importantly, it takes into 
consideration state sponsorship of anti-American incitement to violence 
when determining our aid to and relations with regional governments.

We must stop Middle East-based media from inciting violence against 
us.

Mr. Speaker, again, I want to thank Mr. Crowley. I thank you for the 
time. This is an important resolution that will enhance our security 
and protect our soldiers and citizens overseas. I urge its passage.