---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `3382ec2211ab64307047aeb94eda6fd1`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, the President is making a terrible and 
costly mistake by vetoing the war funding bill and rejecting the clear 
desire of Congress and the country for a swift redeployment of U.S. 
ground forces from Iraq.

The veto and the insistence on staying the course is not a mistake 
simply because it ignores public opinion; we wouldn't want a Commander-
in-Chief to be simply a weather vane.

And it is not a mistake just because our courageous troops and 
military families are exhausted from bearing the full weight of 
sacrifice themselves. We know they are prepared to pay any price for 
American security, which is why we owe them such a debt of gratitude.

No, the President's veto is a grave mistake because refusing to 
change course in Iraq is compromising U.S. security.

Administration rhetoric notwithstanding, policing the civil war in 
Iraq does not bring us closer to defeating the global network of 
extremists who wish to harm us. To the contrary, in order to improve 
national security and best address our other strategic interests around 
the world and here at home, we must dramatically change our current 
direction in Iraq.

Our men and women in uniform have always served our country 
courageously and performed brilliantly. But asking them to stand 
between warring factions is not only unfair, it is counterproductive.

Redeployment from Iraq will enhance our security by allowing us to 
properly address other potential challenges around the world from 
Afghanistan, North Korea, and Iran to Latin America, the Horn of 
Africa, and the greater Middle East. In particular, it will allow us to 
put our attention back on Afghanistan and the fight against a resurgent 
al Qaeda and Taliban, the enemies who actually did engineer 9/11.

Bringing troops home also allows us to resolve the concerns about the 
readiness of our Armed Forces, which have been strained to the breaking 
point because of this Administration's careless management of the war 
in Iraq.

Only by extricating ourselves from the mess of Iraq can we begin 
moving our country back to a common-sense policy of strength through 
leadership. Every day our military is in Iraq our standing in the 
international community erodes further.

Already we've seen respect for the United States plunge from record 
highs after 9/11 to record lows now. This loss of moral authority 
compromises our ability to lead multinational efforts to fight national 
security threats from terrorism and nuclear proliferation to global 
warming and drug trafficking.

Our continuing military involvement in Iraq carries these steep costs 
with little prospect of benefit. Only the Iraqis can bring about the 
needed reconciliation in their country. Their political leaders must 
take the difficult political steps needed to cease the violence in 
their country, by building coalitions among competing sects, ensuring 
minority rights, balancing power between provincial and central 
governments, and sharing oil revenues among all regions in Iraq. We 
simply cannot do this work for them.

By setting a deliberate timetable for redeployment, we force the 
Iraqi political leaders to acknowledge and accept that they are the 
ones who must take steps to bring about an end of the sectarian 
violence.

Bad things may happen when our Armed Forces leave Iraq if the Iraqis 
cannot or will not choose reconciliation over conflict. But that will 
be true if we leave at the end of this year, the end of next year, or 
in 2015. Delaying redeployment simply delays the Iraqis' moment of 
responsibility.

Our strong leaders of the last century, like Presidents Roosevelt, 
Truman, Kennedy, and Reagan, recognized that while American military 
might was important, American values were our greatest strength.

Just as we rallied the world in the Second World War and defeated the 
Soviets in the Cold War on the strength of our Nation's democratic 
ideals, ultimate victory against this generation of enemies will 
similarly be won in the minds of millions around the world, not on the 
battlefield in Iraq or anywhere else. Indeed, that long-term victory is 
impossible while we are in the middle of Iraq's civil war.

There is no easy solution to the problems in Iraq, but it would be 
irresponsible to push a difficult decision off to another day, another 
Congress, or another President. We must stand firm and hold the Iraqi 
leaders responsible for their country. It is time for the United States 
to turn its attention to its broader global security and redeploy from 
Iraq.