# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70,  CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `3387bc6fab403d8d02c79716c6f62a6e`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge my colleagues to 
support this rule and to support the budget. It is amusing to hear my 
friends on the Republican side try to offer solutions on how to deal 
with the energy crisis, when they created it. This is their 
responsibility. This is a direct result of their failed policies; not 
investing in clean, renewable alternative energy sources; not building 
the necessary infrastructure to cultivate these new forms of energy; 
not investing in second and third generation biofuels. Instead, their 
policies have been the same old, same old.

My friend from Florida talks about ANWR. Boy, what a creative idea. 
Let's rely on the oil companies, the same companies that are gouging 
American taxpayers each and every day, making record profits. Let's do 
what they want us to do. Maybe the time has come to set a new 
direction.

With regard to this budget, our budget I think represents responsible 
governing. Their budgets, when they could ever actually pass budgets--
and, by the way, when they were in charge they very rarely did; they 
especially couldn't muster votes during an election year--represent 
what I believe is irresponsible governing. They spent a ton of money. 
They spent too much money, by the way, on oil company subsidies and tax 
breaks, more and more to the oil companies. They spent too much on the 
wealthiest Americans, who didn't need any help, who weren't struggling. 
They spent too much on a misguided war in Iraq that we should never 
have fought to begin with. And they paid for all of this by passing the 
costs on to future generations by borrowing from other countries. We 
are more in debt because of their leadership to China and to India and 
to other countries.

Enough is enough. Again, that is why you are seeing in these hard-
core Republican congressional districts Democrats winning, because the 
American people, Democrats and Republicans and independents, have had 
it with the Republican priorities.

Let me just close by reminding my colleagues that within this budget 
there are important investments, smart energy investments. This 
conference agreement on the budget provides $7.7 billion in funding for 
renewable energy, energy efficiency and other energy programs, which 
is, by the way, $2.8 billion more than the 2008 level. This budget, 
this Democratic budget, rejects President Bush's budget cuts to energy 
efficiency and renewable energy programs, including his proposed cuts 
to the solar energy program, and we reject his suggestion that we 
terminate the weatherization assistance program. Boy, talk about going 
in the wrong direction.

This budget, Mr. Speaker, invests $2 billion to create ''green 
collar'' jobs in our Nation's communities, because Democrats understand 
that not only do we need to be better stewards of our environment and 
become energy independent, but we also realize that there is the 
potential to create countless jobs in the area of environmental 
technologies. And this budget, Mr. Speaker, also includes a deficit 
neutral reserve fund to accommodate legislation that provides tax 
incentives for renewable energy or energy efficiency.

This is a good budget. If you want to deal not only with the short-
term issues involving energy, but the long-term issues, then this is 
the budget you should vote for.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of 
Florida is as follows:

Amendment to H. Res. 1214 Offered by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 2. That upon adoption of this resolution the Speaker 


 shall, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 


 House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the 


 state of the Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5984) 


 to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the 


 limited continuation of clean energy production incentives 


 and incentives to improve energy efficiency in order to 


 prevent a downturn in these sectors that would result from a 


 lapse in the tax law. The first reading of the bill shall he 


 dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 


 the bill are waived. General debate shall not exceed one hour 


 equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 


 minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. After 


 general debate the bill shall he considered for amendment 


 under the five-minute rule. All points of order against 


 provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill 


 shall be in order except any amendment which the proponent 


 asserts, if enacted, would have the effect of lowering the 


 national average price per gallon of regular unleaded 


 gasoline and diesel fuel by increasing the domestic supply of 


 oil by permitting the extraction of oil in the Arctic 


 National Wildlife Refuge. Such amendments shall be considered 


 as read, shall be debatable for thirty minutes equally 


 divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 


 shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject 


 to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 


 the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 


 amendments are waived. At the conclusion or consideration of 


 the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 


 the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 


 adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 


 on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 


 intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 


 without instructions.