# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `33909757bd8cc51247287c38c7906705`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, it is our job in Congress to make tough decisions. So 
given the quagmire in Iraq which is costing $273 million every day, and 
our troops still don't have the training and equipment they need, and 
given we have critical needs at home that aren't being fully funded, 
needs like children's health care, rebuilding the gulf coast, keeping 
our promise to veterans, repairing tornado-ravaged towns and collapsed 
bridges, and I could go on and on, and you know it.

Sadly, we are still spending at least $60 billion every year to build 
and


maintain weapons that were specifically designed to fight the Soviet 
Union. It is not exactly the threat we need to worry about in the year 
2007. That's why I am offering this amendment to H.R. 1585, an 
amendment that would require the DOD to identify all weapon systems 
that are currently being produced that were designed to fight the Cold 
War, identify their usefulness, and evaluate the cost of savings for 
eliminating these programs.

My amendment wouldn't eliminate a single program. Rather, it is 
simply asking the Department of Defense to take an inventory of what 
they are building that was designed to fight the Cold War and report 
back to Congress.

This December will mark the 18th anniversary of a meeting in Malta 
where the first President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev 
declared an end to the Cold War. From there, it was another couple of 
years before the Soviet Union was disbanded, the Berlin Wall came down, 
and the Iron Curtain collapsed. The Cold War is over. It is time that 
the Department of Defense realized this and made the proper adjustments 
in their procurement programs.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.