---
---

# None
## `339ebb451b5ffb26eaa52a2c0de1cc4a`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 14 January 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Corporal Jonathan Yale 
and Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter, who grew up in different parts of 
this Nation but gave their lives to this country together in Iraq. Both 
have been nominated for the Navy Cross for their actions on April 22, 
2008, and both are owed a great gratitude by this Nation for their 
actions.

Tony Perry--a journalist who I got to know in Fallujah in 2004--from 
the LA Times, who has covered this story, describes what transpired 
that morning best. Corporal Jonathan Yale, 21, grew up in poor rural 
Virginia. He had joined the Marine Corps to put structure in his life 
and to help support his mother and sister. He was within a few days of 
heading home.

Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter, 19, was from a comfortable middle 
class suburb on Long Island. As a boy, he had worn military garb and he 
had felt the pull of adventure and patriotism. He had just arrived in 
Iraq.

On April 22, 2008, the two were assigned to guard the main gate to 
Joint Security Station Nasser in Ramadi, the capital of the Anbar 
province, once an insurgent stronghold, and still a very dangerous 
place. Dozens of marines and Iraqi police lived at the compound and 
some were still sleeping after all-night patrols when Yale and Haerter 
reported for duty that warm, sultry morning. Yale, respected for his 
quiet, efficient manner, was assigned to show Haerter how to take over 
his duties. Haerter had volunteered to watch the main gate, even though 
it was considered the most hazardous of the compound's three guards 
station because it could be approached from a busy thoroughfare.

The sun had barely risen when the two sentries spotted a 20-foot long 
truck headed toward the gate, weaving with increasing speed through the 
concrete barriers to the gate. Two Iraqi police officers ran for their 
lives, so did several Iraqi police on the adjacent street. Yale and 
Haerter tried to waive off this truck, but it just kept coming. They 
opened fire, Yale with the machine gun, Haerter with an M-16. Their 
bullets peppered the radiator and windshield. The truck slowed, but 
kept rolling. A few dozen feet from the gate the big truck exploded. 
Investigators found that it was loaded with over 2,000 pounds of 
explosives and that its driver, his hand on a ''dead-man switch,'' was 
determined to commit suicide and slaughter the marines and Iraqi 
police.

The thunderous explosion rocked much of Ramadi, interrupting the 
morning call to prayers for many mosques. A nearby mosque and a home 
were flattened. The blast ripped a crater five feet deep and 20 feet 
across into the street. Shards of concrete shattered everywhere, and 
choking dust filled the air.

Haerter was dead, Yale was dying. Three marines about 300 feet away 
were injured, so were eight Iraqi police and two dozen civilians, but 
several dozen other nearby marines and Iraqi police, while shaken, were 
unhurt.

Mr. Speaker, we all hope that in times of great crisis, we will rise 
to the occasion and do the right thing. Haerter and Yale rose to the 
occasion and defended their fellow Marines. It is an honor to call them 
fellow Marines.

Major General John Kelly, Commanding General, First Marine 
Expeditionary Force (Forward) interviewed the witnesses himself. What 
he learned from these interviews led him to nominate the two for the 
Navy Cross, the second highest award for combat bravery for the Marine 
Corps and the United States Navy. In General Kelly's statement in 
support of the Navy Cross, he writes: ''Because they did what they did, 
only 2 families had their hearts broken on 22 April, rather than as 
many as 50. These families will never know how truly close they came to 
a knock on their door that night.''

We are winning in Iraq and Afghanistan because of brave Marines like 
Corporal Jonathan T. Yale and Lance Corporal Jordan D. Haerter. To 
their families I offer my heartfelt condolences. And to Corporal Yale 
and Corporal Haerter, I say, Marines, job well done.

This is but one example of the bravery and sacrifice of over 4,000 
men and women who have given their lives to the cause of liberty since 
2001 and the over 1.5 million men and women who have served in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom and come home, 
and, of course, the over 150,000 that are serving now.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to include for the Record Tony Perry's 
entire article and Major General Kelly's statement in support of the 
award of the Navy Cross. I encourage all of my colleague and hope all 
Americans will read about these two brave Marines and keep their 
families in their prayers.










 [From Los Angeles Times Dec. 29, 2008]






 A Speeding Truck Bomb, and A Shared Act Of Courage















(By Tony Perry)




 San Diego.--Two Marines in Iraq saved dozens--but not 


 themselves. They'll be awarded the Navy Cross. They had known 


 each other only a few minutes, but they will be linked 


 forever in what Marine brass say is one of the most 


 extraordinary acts of courage and sacrifice in the Iraq war.



 Cpl. Jonathan Yale, 21, grew up poor in rural Virginia. He 


 had joined the Marine Corps to put structure in his life and 


 to help support his mother and sister. He was within a few 


 days of heading home.



 Lance Cpl. Jordan Haerter, 19, was from a comfortably 


 middle-class suburb on Long Island. As a boy, he had worn 


 military garb, and he had felt the pull of adventure and 


 patriotism. He had just arrived in Iraq.



 On April 22, the two were assigned to guard the main gate 


 to Joint Security Station Nasser in Ramadi, the capital of 


 Anbar province, once an insurgent stronghold and still a 


 dangerous region. Dozens of Marines and Iraqi police lived at 


 the compound, and some were still sleeping after all-night 


 patrols when Yale and Haerter reported for duty that warm, 


 sultry morning.



 Yale, respected for his quiet, efficient manner, was 


 assigned to show Haerter how to take over his duties.



 Haerter had volunteered to watch the main gate, even though 


 it was considered the most hazardous of the compound's three 


 guard stations because it could be approached from a busy 


 thoroughfare.



 The sun had barely risen when the two sentries spotted a 


 20-foot-long truck headed toward the gate, weaving with 


 increasing speed through the concrete barriers. Two Iraqi 


 police officers assigned to the gate ran for their lives.



 So did several Iraqi police on the adjacent street.



 Yale and Haerter tried to wave off the truck, but it kept 


 coming. They opened fire, Yale with a machine gun, Haerter 


 with an M-16. Their bullets peppered the radiator and 


 windshield. The truck slowed but kept rolling.



 A few dozen feet from the gate, the truck exploded. 


 Investigators found that it was loaded with 2,000 pounds of 


 explosives and that its driver, his hand on a ''dead-man 


 switch,'' was determined to commit suicide and slaughter 


 Marines and Iraqi police.



 The thunderous explosion rocked much of Ramadi, 


 interrupting the morning call to prayers from the many 


 mosques. A nearby mosque and a home were flattened. The blast 


 ripped a crater 5 feet deep and 20 feet across into the 


 street. Shards of concrete scattered everywhere, and choking 


 dust filled the air.



 Haerter was dead; Yale was dying. Three Marines about 300 


 feet away were injured. So were eight Iraqi police and two 


 dozen civilians. But several dozen other nearby Marines and 


 Iraqi police, while shaken, were unhurt. A Black Hawk 


 helicopter was summoned in a futile attempt to get Yale to a 


 field hospital in time. A sheet was placed over Haerter.



 When it was considered safe to take Haerter's body to a 


 second helicopter, his section leader insisted he be covered 


 by an American flag. ''We did not want him carried out with 


 just a sheet,'' said Staff Sgt. Kenneth Grooms.



 Maj. Gen. John Kelly, the top Marine in Iraq, wanted to 


 know how the attack happened. Like many veteran Marines, he 


 is haunted by the memory of the 1983 bombing of the barracks 


 in Beirut, when a blast from an explosives-laden truck killed 


 241 U.S. service personnel, including 220 Marines.



 Not given to dark thoughts or insecurities, Kelly, who 


 commanded Marines in the fight for Baghdad and Tikrit in 2003 


 and Fallouja in 2004, admits that the specter of another 


 Beirut gives him nightmares as he commands the 22,000 Marines 


 in Iraq. He went to Ramadi to interview Iraqi witnesses--a 


 task generals usually delegate to subordinates. Some Iraqis 


 told him they were incredulous that the two Marines had not 


 fled. When Marine technicians restored a damaged security 


 camera, the images were undeniable.



 While Iraqi police fled, Haerter and Yale had never 


 flinched and never stopped firing as the Mercedes truck--the 


 same model used in the Beirut bombing--sped directly toward 


 them.



 Without their steadfastness, the truck would probably have 


 penetrated the compound before it exploded, and 50 or more 


 Marines and Iraqis would have been killed. The incident 


 happened in just six seconds.



 ''No time to talk it over; no time to call the lieutenant; 


 no time to think about their own lives or even the American 


 and Iraqi lives they were protecting,'' Kelly said. ''More 


 than enough time, however, to do their duty. They never 


 hesitated or tried to escape.''



 Yale was always trying to boost the morale of his buddies, 


 said Lance Cpl. Brandon Creely, 21, of Boise, Idaho. 


 ''Whenever I was down, he'd tell a joke, tell me it's not as 


 bad as it seems.''



 Staff Sgt. Grooms, 28, said he knows how Haerter should be 


 remembered. ''He was a hero,'' Grooms said, ''and a damn fine 


 person.''