---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `33af2cb5fb88d5201e7275c9ab2eb569`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I thank Chairman Levin and Senator 
McCain for making this amendment a priority. I also thank Chairman 
Akaka, Senator Murray, and many others who worked on this issue for a 
long time.

I was honored to have the opportunity to be one of the first in the 
Senate to file a bill on the subject of wounded warriors after the 
Walter Reed scandal broke. It was an interesting process for me because 
I spent time at Walter Reed and, of course, I got the official tour. 
Then I sat down and talked to the soldiers there. It was in those 
conversations that I learned about some of the problems we are trying 
to address in this important amendment. Many of the things Senator 
Obama and I included in our legislation have, in fact, been included in 
this amendment. Overall, it is going to make a real difference in these 
warriors' lives and their families' lives--how they are treated within 
our health care system as they return from battle, as they return from 
their service, while they are still in the Active military.

I won't go into the details of the amendment. Many others have spoken 
about it. Suffice it to say that, overall, it is going to make a huge 
improvement in the physical disability system and being able to 
maneuver through the system in a way that is not punitive, making that 
transition from the Active military to the veterans system much 
smoother and easier to navigate. It is going to support the families of 
these men and women. That was what struck me. Some of these family 
members who are going to Walter Reed to care for these men and women 
who have given so much for us--they were not being treated with 
consistency, not getting some of the benefits they deserved because, 
frankly, they were doing us a favor by being there and caring for their 
loved ones. We also address that.

Certainly, we have more assistance and advocacy for outpatients. That 
was the meat of the problem at Walter Reed. It wasn't the quality of 
the medical care they were receiving; it was the way the outpatients 
were being treated, the facilities they were in, the priority they were 
being given, and were their needs being met, particularly in the area 
of substance abuse, and were they being met in the area of mental 
health care. I think this amendment will go a long way toward 
correcting the underlying problems in the system that allowed the 
scandal at Walter Reed to become the focus of the American public for 
so many weeks early in the year.

I also, with some regret, repeat some words I have said before. The 
reason I regret having to repeat these words is because when I gave 
this speech 14 months ago, I believed at the time I gave this speech 
that there would be change after the election. I believed in my heart 
that the people in Washington would listen like they had not listened 
before. But because they have not, I think it is important to repeat 
part of the speech I gave on Harry Truman's birthday, in May of last 
year, as I talked about the war in Iraq and the reasons I thought it 
was important to make a change in the Senate.


I grew up in rural Missouri, in the heart of a Nation that I was 
raised to love and revere. I grew up surrounded by strong men and women 
who had won a great world war, a war fought against tyranny. My father 
was a decorated veteran of that war whom I rarely recall ever hearing 
speak about combat. As I grew older, his silence spoke volumes to me, 
not only about the modesty of his generation but about what Dwight 
Eisenhower later called the ''agony of the battlefield.''

I grew up in a family of Missouri Democrats, Roosevelt people, Truman 
people, but one of the first political speeches my father asked me to 
read was President Eisenhower's farewell address that he gave in 1961. 
Reading his speech again later in my life, I found myself deeply moved 
by his words. I respect his eloquence as he spoke of this country's 
fundamental decency and greatness. He called upon America to live up to 
its ideals by always using our greatest strength wisely in the service 
of peace and liberty. He warned us to be aware of arrogance, yet 
maintain our readiness to sacrifice.

I was raised to believe that sacrifice in the defense of our freedom 
is an American ideal and that from our earliest days, Americans have 
willingly given of themselves in our defense and in the defense of 
others. I have always known and felt and believed that, through 
generation after generation, that willingness has made us safe.

So as I grew up in Missouri, our country seemed on the verge of its 
greatest period, a time of joy and growth and undeniable strength; a 
time when all would finally share in our Nation's great bounty, when 
our military would be used wisely to benefit ourselves and the world; a 
time, too, when long-closed doors would finally open and we would live 
up to the ideal of America that lit all the continents with hope and 
promise and made us admired and respected across so much of the globe. 
I did not think then that an American leader would ever squander the 
trust of our people or the admiration of the world that had been won 
with such courage and at such a cost. But that is what has happened.

In the days after 9/11, this Nation was united, as it was after Pearl 
Harbor. The world bled for us and stood at our side. Our historic 
allies offered all possible aid. New allies in Asia and the Middle East 
emerged, all agreeing to support us in a war on terror.

But that has changed. America was misled into a different war, not 
against al-Qaida. Instead, we went to war with Iraq. Fearful of weapons 
of mass destruction, we believed they were a threat to the world. We 
had a plan to destroy the terrorists. We were strong. But there were no 
weapons of mass destruction. We did not have a plan to destroy the 
terrorists. We did not even have a plan to take care of Iraq.

Now our strength has been compromised. The President and his 
administration have led us into a quagmire, alienated our allies, 
diminished our national morale, cost us billions of dollars, thousands 
of precious lives, and maimed many thousands more. Even our Nation's 
top military authorities have cited enormous mistakes, while this 
administration refuses to listen to them.

Those were words of a speech I gave 14 months ago, and this 
administration still refuses to listen. I have listened. I have 
listened to Missourians. I have listened to General Petraeus. I have 
listened to the President. I have listened to the experts who have come 
in front of our Committee on Armed Services, including former generals, 
generals who have served in Iraq, and maybe most importantly, I have 
listened to brave soldiers in Iraq.

I sat across a breakfast table and looked at a young man and said: 
But are you worried if we begin pulling out of Iraq that it will be 
chaos?

And this young man from Missouri, from a State that I love and he 
loves, and a country that we want to protect


more than anything, looked at me and said: Ma'am, we are in chaos. We 
need to get out of here.

I implore the Commander in Chief to listen to America, to listen to 
the people of this country who figured this out months ago. We are 
stuck in a situation that is squandering the lives of our bravest, and 
it is also squandering the future of our Nation because of the 
financial toll it is taking on our budget.

It is time that we change course in Iraq. We have an opportunity to 
speak louder than any American voice can speak. We have an opportunity 
to say to the President of the United States: You must change course. 
It is time to bring our combat troops home from Iraq.

We need to begin that process quickly, and we need to begin to 
refocus our efforts on fighting terrorism around the world, going after 
al-Qaida, making our military strong, restoring our prominence in the 
world with allies that matter, understanding that the strength of our 
Nation rests with a strong military that we must protect and not wear 
thin, and, finally, realize that America is speaking with a strong 
voice. This is a democracy. If we cannot listen to those who sent us 
here, we have failed our duty in this great Chamber.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.