---
---

# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `33b0afac9ef914e49a32680f19d03b5b`
`Mr. TESTER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise today on behalf of the thousands of 
Montanans who have lost faith in the way this administration is 
conducting the war in Iraq.

Our troops have given more than most of us can imagine. This 
administration has asked much of them. They should be commended for 
their performance in a war that has been mismanaged from the get-go.

In 1972, deep into the Vietnam war, the great Senator, the great 
statesman, Senator Mike Mansfield, whose seat I am now honored to hold, 
spoke of a great nation. When times demand it, it is wise for us to 
take a step back and look at those who served before us.

Standing not far from where I stand today, Senator Mansfield said:




 Mr. President, it does no great nation any harm to admit 


 that a mistake has been made. And sometimes when nations and 


 men will do so, they will be the bigger and the better for 


 it.


Many years later, Mansfield would say that when he was gone, he 
wanted to be forgotten. We have not forgotten Mike Mansfield, and we 
must not forget his measured approach to diplomacy, his steady hand, 
and the lesson that admitting a mistake is the first step in correcting 
it.

It is time we debate the facts of this situation so this country's 
leaders can make the right decisions.

I have said for more than a year that this war is being conducted 
without a plan for success and there is no end in sight. For too long, 
this body has refused to ask the tough questions, to debate the merits 
of this war, and has not held the President accountable for the 
deteriorating situation in Iraq.

Disturbingly, recent reports confirm that our invasion of Iraq has 
created more terrorists than it has eliminated. Yet the terrorist who 
plotted the most deadly attack on U.S. soil--Osama bin Laden--remains 
at large and ignored by the administration.

In addition to the more than 3,000 killed since the war began, 17 of 
whom are from Montana, there have been more than 23,000 wounded in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Many will come home missing one or more limbs. Others 
will return home to battle posttraumatic stress disorder.

Last week, I joined several of my colleagues, along with two Iraqi 
war veterans, and called on the administration to get serious about 
funding for veterans health care. I renew that call today for permanent 
mandatory full funding of VA health care. There is no reason veterans 
should be forced to come to us every year hat in hand and beg for 
funding. It should be permanent, and it should be fully funded. Right 
now, it is neither.

Our country's veterans do not seek, nor do they expect, recognition 
from their Commander in Chief, nor the American people. But we owe them 
not only the recognition but also the promise that we will care for 
them and their families when they return.

Following the gulf war, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
GEN Colin Powell, outlined his plan for efficient and decisive military 
action, now referred to as the Powell doctrine.

The Powell doctrine clearly outlines what U.S. military action should 
look like:

Military action should be used only as a last resort and only if 
there is a clear risk to the national security by the intended target.

Force, when used, should be overwhelming and disproportionate to the 
force used by the enemy.

There must be strong support for the campaign by the general public.

And last, there must be a clear exit strategy from the conflict in 
which the military is engaged.

One by one, this administration has violated every principle of the 
Powell doctrine and, as a result, we are lost in Iraq and alone in the 
world.

Clear risk to national security? Prior to the invasion, the 
administration claimed that Iraq's nuclear capabilities made it a grave 
threat to America's national security, allegations that proved to be 
false.

Overwhelming force? The administration was unprepared for the dangers 
of urban combat, for improvised explosive devices, and continues to 
send troops into harm's way without proper armor. It is unconscionable 
that these soldiers are being sent into battle without all of the tools 
they need to be safe and successful. It is unacceptable to send them 
there with no plan for, or definition of, success.

Public support? Perhaps the most significant difference between the 
first gulf war and the war in Iraq is the lack of support from our 
allies. Like World War II, the gulf war was successful because America 
built a strong coalition and did not force our troops to carry the 
burden alone.

As support for this war continues to erode, so, too, does our 
standing in the world. Just a few years ago, nearly the entire world 
stood at America's side following the attacks on September 11. That 
good will has long since been squandered.

And finally, an exit strategy? The President has proposed sending 
21,500 more troops into Iraq as a strategy for victory. Staying the 
course by escalating this war only spells disaster.

This country should no longer tolerate, nor can it afford, an open-
ended conflict that has claimed more than 3,000 lives, injured more 
than 23,000, and cost the United States taxpayers $2 billion every 
week.

Recently, the President proposed sending 21,500 more troops into 
downtown Baghdad. But according to the Congressional Budget Office, 
that actually means almost 50,000 additional troops when you include 
the 28,000 troops needed to provide critical support to those combat 
troops. This could cost up to $27 billion to sustain over the next 
year. That would be more than three times the largest estimate of troop 
escalation costs provided by the Bush administration.

The addition of almost 50,000 American troops means more American 
young men and women without adequate body armor riding in ill-armored 
humvees into one of the most dangerous combat zones in history. 
Historical data from this war tells us that sending 21,500 troops into 
Iraq will mean that between 300 and 500 additional soldiers will die in 
Iraq than if this escalation were not to occur.

Adding more troops is not a strategy, it is a tactic, and it is not a 
new one. There have been four such troop escalations in Iraq so far, 
and to what end? What benefit has been realized by this country, the 
Iraqi people, or the region?

The long-awaited National Intelligence Estimate, prepared 
collectively by 16 intelligence agencies for the President, was 
released last week. It paints a bleak picture of the deteriorating 
situation in Iraq, and it describes the urgent need for conditions to 
be reversed measurably to stop the violence and widespread polarization 
of the Iraqi society.


So I call on the President to heed the grave warnings of the National 
Intelligence Estimate, to listen to his own Iraq Study Group, the 
Congress, and the American people.

Last month, my colleague Senator Baucus called on the administration 
to map a new course in Iraq. Senator Baucus said we must not escalate 
the conflict, we must train Iraqi troops to stand up for themselves, we 
must start bringing our troops home as soon as possible, and we must 
engage Iraqi's neighbors and the world community. He was right then; he 
is right today.

The solution for a new course in Iraq will not be solely a military 
one.


Switching to political and diplomatic solutions involving our allies in 
the region is not a defeatist strategy, but instead an appropriate 
course for a war of this complexity and magnitude.

The President needs to set a timeline to give the Iraqi people 
military control of their country. It should be the Iraqi Army--not 
Montanans, not Americans--disarming bombs and guarding bridges. The 
administration needs to reinvest in special forces and human 
intelligence if we are to win the real war on terror.

Nearly 4 years have passed, more than a half a trillion dollars have 
been spent, more than 3,000 American soldiers have died since the 
President announced that major combat operations in Iraq had ended and 
told us: ''Mission Accomplished.''

Funding for this war and its success or failure should have been 
debated long ago. It is time for a real debate on the direction and 
strategy of this war, starting with the President's proposal for 
escalation.

The President must also tell the American people what success means 
and how it should be quantified. If success is free elections in Iraq, 
then we should have been gone 2 years ago. If success is toppling 
Saddam Hussein, then we should have been gone 3 years ago. If it is 
something else, then the administration needs to be honest with the 
American people and identify a clear and achievable outcome.

I support the Warner-Levin resolution opposing the President's plan 
to escalate the war in Iraq. But I want to be clear: I view the Warner-
Levin resolution as only a first step. We have a duty to debate the 
escalation on its merits and let both sides be heard.

This week's efforts to delay a vote on Warner-Levin do nothing to 
make our troops safer. Blocking an up-or-down vote on this resolution 
does nothing to bring this bloody war any closer to its close.

I have been here not too long--just a month--and I am still learning 
the ropes, but make no mistake, we should deliberate, we should not 
rush to judgment or sentence, but that does not mean we should not 
debate.

For 3 days we have been debating about whether we should debate the 
President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. I have been all over 
Montana in the last couple of years, and everywhere I went people were 
and continue to be deeply concerned about the war. They didn't all 
agree, but there was always a lively and passionate debate. Not a 
single person told me we should debate about whether to have a debate.

Our troops, the American people, and the Iraqi people deserve an open 
and honest discussion. We need to ask the tough questions, we need to 
demand the answers, and we need to bring our troops home as safely and 
as quickly as possible.

I thank the Chair.

I yield the floor.