---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `33ba0056d662980682a81d554671b353`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill 
because I strongly support a responsible redeployment of our troops 
from Iraq.

It should not have been necessary for us to consider this bill today. 
Back in March, I voted for, and Congress passed, legislation that would 
have begun a draw-down of combat troops in favor of a disengagement 
strategy in Iraq. Regrettably, however, the president vetoed that 
legislation and then moved in exactly the opposite direction by 
escalating the number of troops committed to Iraq.

So, while a war can't be effectively led by committee, by failing to 
exercise responsible leadership, the president continues to make it 
necessary for Congress to assert itself. And thus the House is acting 
again today--and whatever the outcome, we will act again and again 
until we find the necessary support to change course in Iraq.

The war in Iraq has cost this Nation the blood of its soldiers, the 
treasure of its citizens, and the good will of our allies around the 
world. The average number of attacks, Iraqi civilian deaths, and 
coalition deaths are all at their highest levels since the invasion. 
Over 3,600 American soldiers have died in Iraq, and we are spending 
over $10 billion every month to continue this failed policy.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I must point out that 
the time is rapidly approaching when we will not be able to sustain the 
numbers of troops now deployed in Iraq without calling back our 
National Guard and Reserve for second or third tours or extending the 
tours of current active duty troops beyond the already extended 15 
months.



And our increasing military and financial commitment to Iraq limits 
our options for addressing other critical national security concerns 
even as a new intelligence report indicates that al Qaeda is 
operationally stronger than a year ago. The most disturbing news is 
that al Qaeda has regrouped to an extent not seen since 2001.

Proponents of the President's escalation--the so-called ''surge''--
say we haven't given it a chance to succeed. But it has been under way 
since January, with the Iraqi government fully aware of the steps 
toward reconciliation it needs to take to enable U.S. forces to stay--
and still, those steps aren't being taken. Today's interim report from 
the Pentagon tries to make a bad situation look better, listing 
''satisfactory'' progress on a number of benchmarks required by the 
Congress several months ago. But in reality, as the report states, 
''the security situation in Iraq remains complex and extremely 
challenging,'' the ''economic picture is uneven'' and political 
reconciliation is lagging.

I had hoped that by holding the president and the Iraqi government 
accountable for achieving these benchmarks, we would gain the leverage 
necessary to pressure the Iraqi government to forge the political 
solution we all know is required. But it appears that the Iraqi 
government is either unable or unwilling to bring its feuding factions 
together to achieve these goals.

The Pentagon's report blames those of us pushing for redeployment for 
the lack of progress toward political reconciliation, saying it has 
been hampered by ''increasing concern among Iraqi political leaders 
that the United States may not have a long term-commitment to Iraq.''

But if the Iraqis won't make progress when we're there--and then 
threaten that they can't make progress if we leave--under what 
conditions will we see progress? The president has asked Congress to 
wait to act for the next progress report due in September. But what are 
we waiting for? He has dressed up his new approaches in many different 
ways since this war started over four years ago, and yet little has 
changed.

What we need--and what many Democrats and Republicans alike are 
calling for--is a responsible redeployment from Iraq. That is what the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group ultimately called for, and that is the main 
reason I introduced legislation to implement its recommendations. I 
continue to hold out hope that we can forge a bipartisan consensus in 
favor of adopting the ISG as a foundation for a phased withdrawal 
strategy. I believe in this approach because responsible redeployment 
would allow Iraqis to take control of their own security by reducing 
U.S. combat forces while limiting the U.S. military to missions such as 
counter-terrorism, protecting U.S. Embassy personnel, and training 
Iraqi security forces. This bill will also allow necessary flexibility 
for our military forces to continue strikes against al Qaeda in Iraq.

This legislation calls for the beginning of redeployment and a troop 
draw-down within the next four months. It takes a different approach 
from H.R. 2237, the bill introduced by Representative Jim McGovern (D-
MA) that I opposed two months ago, in that it would not prohibit 
funding for our troops already in Iraq, and it requires the president 
to submit a comprehensive strategy providing specific plans for 
diplomatic initiatives and justifying the number of U.S. troops who 
would remain and explaining their missions.

I do question whether we can extricate all combat troops by April 
2008, as it calls for--it could take as long as six months to move over 
one hundred thousand soldiers and their gear and to do this safely. 
This is one military exercise that we have to take seriously and spend 
time and resources to plan--because it could mean life or death for our 
men and women in uniform. But I believe we should set a target date now 
and begin this planning. This bill would force a change in strategy and 
mandate the start of a phased withdrawal and redeployment, and that is 
why I will vote for it.