# SELECT INTELLIGENCE OVERSIGHT PANEL
## `33bc8f8c1d21c5cba33670dcd5642e92`
`Mr. REYES â€” 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

A few weeks ago I had a conversation with my good friend and 
colleague, the former chairman, who is now our ranking member. At the 
time, he was supportive of this panel. I recognize we all have the 
right to change our minds, but part of this process is starting to 
build a bridge that gives us an opportunity on the authorizing side to 
be able to do a better job for this country.

Madam Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H. Res. 35, which 
would implement a core recommendation of the 9/11 Commission.

Madam Speaker, 2/1/2/ years ago, the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, five 
Democrats and five Republicans, unanimously made 45 recommendations to 
prevent another attack on United States soil. Tragically, the President 
and previous Congress earned dismal grades for failing to enact these 
recommendations. One of these recommendations, indeed the one the 
commission called the most difficult and the most important, was to 
reform the way Congress oversees the intelligence activities of the 
United States.

Intelligence is the tip of the spear in the war against violent 
extremists and in the efforts to counter weapons of mass destruction. 
Yet despite the importance of this mission, congressional oversight of 
intelligence has largely been dysfunctional.

Most significantly, the committee responsible for overseeing the 
intelligence community, the House Intelligence Committee, has had 
little role in deciding how the Nation's intelligence budget is spent. 
H. Res. 35 is a critical starting point for fixing our broken oversight 
system. Today, we are creating a special panel within the 
Appropriations Committee to recommend funding levels for intelligence 
activities. This panel will be comprised of appropriators and 
authorizers, both Democrats and Republicans, with its own dedicated 
staff to review intelligence community activities.

As the chairman of the authorizing committee, the House Intelligence 
Committee, I welcome this change because it gives authorizers, those of 
us who review the intelligence programs and set overall funding levels, 
a real seat at the table in deciding how the money is being spent. In 
the past, our committee has had no real voice in the appropriations 
process. Today, with the passage of H. Res. 35, those who control the 
policy and those who control the purse will become unified.

Oversight promotes greater accountability; and accountability results 
in better intelligence, greater diversity among intelligence officers 
to penetrate the hardest targets, more sophisticated analysts, and a 
deeper understanding of the longer term threats that are facing this 
country. One need only look at the situation in Iraq to understand the 
perils of faulty intelligence. The best way for Congress to ensure that 
those days are over is to enact a meaningful reform of the way we 
oversee the intelligence budget.

Madam Speaker, the threats facing our country are real. We have some 
of the best and brightest on the front lines, often undercover and 
frequently under fire, trying to gather the intelligence to keep 
America safe. We owe it to them and to their families to provide the 
strongest intelligence community that we can support and we can field. 
H. Res. 35 is an important start to achieving that goal, so today I 
proudly urge all my colleagues to support the resolution.