---
---

# FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `33bcf33f4da03184ca7ca310c6064daa`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman from Illinois 
apparently misremembered something. He looked diligently to try to find 
what he said, and he couldn't find what he imputed to me. I never said 
''trust in me.'' I didn't imply it. His subtext notion makes as little 
sense as his argument that we are going to somehow help Social Security 
in an amendment that doesn't touch Social Security.

What I said repeatedly was I want to reserve this now because I think 
this bill will not be vetoed and we will get the reservation, and for 
budgetary purposes, CBO scoring, it is a better way to do it, and we 
will then pass a separate piece of legislation. And his equation of my 
calling for a separate piece of legislation with my saying ''trust in 
me'' falls below the level that I had thought we would debate here.

I would again repeat, the gentleman from Alabama eloquently said 
let's start now. Let's do this. I want to be very clear, Mr. Chairman. 
I have never stopped him. The gentleman from Alabama had a new-found 
passion to help Social Security. Where is his amendment doing that? 
Where is his legislation doing that? This notion of let's get to Social 
Security, the central point is: The gentleman from Illinois' amendment 
does not put one penny into Social Security. Passing it would not help 
it. It would kill this fund forever.

What we have had is a variety of amendments. This is the fifth one 
tonight that finds a different way to kill affordable housing. The 
gentleman from Alabama was straightforward. He said he just wanted to 
kill it. So this has nothing to do with Social Security. It has to do 
with killing the Affordable Housing Trust Fund.

And I would just add this, and I thank the gentleman from Colorado 
for yielding, I find it somewhat ironic that Members who continue to 
support spending hundreds of billions of dollars on that terrible war 
in Iraq, which does America more harm than good, lecture me because we 
are going to spend half a billion dollars a year on Affordable Housing 
Fund out of nontax funds. Yes, let's do something about Social 
Security. Let's do something about the war in Iraq. Let's do something 
about other wasteful programs. But to take $500 million, I didn't see 
this concern for Social Security when we were doing the defense budget. 
I didn't see it when we did the authorization earlier today. I didn't 
see it when we were adding money.

I must be very clear, Mr. Chairman, within the rules, I am 
unpersuaded that the real motive of Members here is to do anything 
about Social Security. It is clear if you look at this pattern, they 
don't like the notion of the Federal Government's helping to build 
affordable housing, even if we do it, as we have succeeded in finding a 
way to do it in this bill, in a way that has no impact on the taxpayer, 
no impact on Social Security, and no negative consequences on the other 
government programs.