---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `33bd833afab95a0b8dc7ed8c93a3e846`
`Mr. DINGELL — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, the Iraq War has now entered its sixth 
year. During this time more than 4,000 soldiers have died, almost 
30,000 have been injured, and tens of thousands more will suffer mental 
scars for years to come. The stress of multiple deployments has 
strained our military, and our military families. Many of our brightest 
young officers are leaving the military for careers that allow them to 
have a family, something that is difficult if not impossible when they 
are being asked to return to Iraq every 12 months. In addition, the 
economic cost of this war has been nothing short of staggering. The 
United States has already spent more than five hundred billion dollars 
in Iraq, or about $5000 for every household in America. Our children 
and our grandchildren will be paying off this debt for years to come.

After all the lives lost and money spent, this President has still 
failed to articulate what our mission in Iraq is, and what strategic 
goals he still hopes to accomplish. That is why I have introduced 
legislation that would require the President to have our troops out of 
Iraq before he leaves office, and also why I do not support giving the 
Pentagon another $162 billion it can use to wage this war for another 
year after the next President is sworn in.

While I do not support further funding for this war beyond the 
President's term in office, I do support the provisions that have been 
attached conditioning this funding to a timeline for withdrawal, 
prohibiting the use of torture, holding contractors operating in Iraq 
responsible for fraud and other criminal activity, stopping the 
construction of permanent military bases in Iraq, and requiring the 
President to submit any long term security agreement he reaches with 
the Government of Iraq to Congress for approval. For too long this 
President has been given a blank check with which to pursue his Iraq 
policies, and I am glad that the House of Representatives will once 
again attempt to hold him accountable for his mismanagement of this 
war.

It must be pointed out that this vote is not a vote against the 
troops. Those who are serving our country in Iraq are performing 
admirably under difficult circumstances. Congress has already provided 
funds for the Department of Defense and war operations for Fiscal Year 
2008. This vote won't endanger the troops' safety in any way, but it 
does send a signal to the President that he should begin the process of 
bringing them home.

I also support the decision to include in this legislation funding 
for other important Democratic priorities that will help boost our 
economy. Overall, these measures make up only a small fraction of the 
total cost of the bill, but they are targeted to make a big impact here 
at home. Not only will they give much needed assistance to the 
unemployed, veterans, and other vulnerable people, but these provisions 
will play an important role in stimulating the lagging economy.

For example, the supplemental package includes a bill I introduced 
that will place a temporary moratorium on seven regulations recently 
issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). These 
regulations, if allowed to stay in place, would reduce or eliminate 
payments for services provided to vulnerable Americans and the 
institutions that serve them: children with disabilities, people with 
mental illness, those with multiple care needs, people attempting to 
transition from an institution to a community living environment, and 
people with disabilities who need these critical services, such as 
rehabilitation services and case management, in order to remain in 
their community. In Michigan, the rehabilitation rule would cut 
rehabilitation services for 15,000 children with special needs, 
eliminate habilitation services for another 29,000 developmentally 
disabled adults and children living in the community, and eliminate 
access to critical community services and resources for 23,600 adults 
and 5,100 children who are in supported independent living arrangements 
or group homes.

The supplemental will also contain legislation I cosponsored to 
extend Unemployment Compensation, a provision that will greatly help 
the residents of Michigan's 15th Congressional District which I have 
the honor of serving. The National Employment Law Project projects that 
from May 2008 through March 2009, more than 162,000 workers will 
exhaust their benefits in Michigan, and that currently over 64,000 have 
already exhausted this benefit. By including this legislation in 
today's supplemental package Congress will be helping 226,590 workers 
in Michigan who desperately need the extra boost, while also giving a 
much needed boost to the economy.

This bill will also provide expanded G.I. Benefits for Veterans 
Education, restoring the promise of a 4 year college education to those 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. As a veteran of World War II, I 
know how instrumental the original G.I. Bill was in expanding economic 
opportunity, growing the middle class, and creating a strong and 
vibrant post-war economy. The President and some of his Republican 
colleagues, including Senator McCain, are opposed to providing 
increased educational opportunities to today's generation of veterans 
because they fear it will discourage men and women currently serving 
from reenlisting. I find it highly disturbing that the President and 
his colleagues would withhold these much needed benefits to those who 
have served our country so admirably, and I would advise them that the 
quickest way to fix our military's retention problem would be to put an 
end to the misguided Iraq war that has so seriously damaged morale.

Another provision that I strongly support provides $675 million to 
assist refugees, with the bulk of that money going to address the 
growing humanitarian crisis in Iraq. I asked the President to include 
$1.5 billion in his budget for increased U.S. spending in the region, 
increased U.S. contributions to United Nations appeals for Iraqi 
refugees, and increased bilateral assistance for our allies, such as 
Jordan, that are struggling to deal with huge numbers of Iraqi refugees 
within their borders. Unfortunately this request was denied, and I am 
very pleased that I was able to work with my Democratic colleagues to 
see to it that some of these funds were made available in the 
Supplemental.

No matter what we do here today, the President has made it clear that 
he intends to keep 160,000 troops in Iraq as long as he is in office. 
While I am disappointed that it appears the President has no interest 
in ending the war on his watch, I am pleased the Democratic Congress 
has gone on record as being opposed to that plan, and has put in place 
the kind of timelines and restrictions required for us to begin to 
bring our troops home. I also think it is wholly appropriate to include 
funding for domestic priorities in an emergency supplemental spending 
bill. Just as the President's mishandling of the Iraq war has caused a 
crisis in the Middle East, his mismanagement of the economy has created 
a crisis here at home for millions of Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my strong support for a particular 
provision in the Supplemental Appropriations legislation, H.R. 2642.

Included in this bill is legislation that I introduced with 
Representative Tim Murphy of Pennsylvania. The ''Protecting the 
Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008'' is a simple, straightforward bill 
that would place a temporary moratorium on seven regulations recently 
issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).

The Committee on Energy and Commerce recently reported the bill with 
unanimous support. The House then passed it with an overwhelming 
bipartisan vote of 349 to 62.

These Medicaid regulations in question, if allowed to stay in place, 
would reduce or eliminate payments for services provided to vulnerable 
Americans and the institutions that serve them. They would affect 
children with disabilities, people with mental illness, those with 
multiple care needs, people attempting to transition from an 
institution to a community living environment, and people with 
disabilities who need services, such as rehabilitation services and 
case management in order to remain in their community. The regulations 
would also eliminate funding for school-based outreach and enrollment, 
and funding that helps safety net providers care for indigent and 
under-insured patients in our communities.

In my home State of Michigan, the rehabilitation rule would cut 
services for 15,000 children with special needs, eliminate services for 
another 29,000 developmentally disabled adults and children and 
eliminate access to critical community services and resources for 
23,600 adults and 5,100 children who are in supported independent 
living arrangements or group homes.

The Administration's arguments for supporting these regulations 
simply do not hold water. These regulations go beyond any justifiable 
point to curb abuses in the system. Rather, they represent a misguided 
effort to shift costs to States and prohibit Federal support for 
legitimate expenditures on behalf of Medicaid beneficiaries.

More than 2,000 organizations representing beneficiaries, providers, 
schools, and States have written to lend their support to this 
initiative, from ''A'', such as the American Hospital Association and 
the American Academy of Pediatrics, to ''Z,'' the Zion Lutheran 
Elementary School in Nebraska. The chorus of support has been 
overwhelming.



I would also like to take a moment to commend Chairman Pallone and 
Ranking Members Barton and Deal who worked to prepare the bill for 
rapid action in Committee and the House floor.

I also wish to thank Chairman Obey for including the Medicaid 
legislation in the supplemental appropriations bill.