# ISRAEL
## `33bed0a4dddd77273f30f21ae21a433a`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 6 September 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. I want to thank my good friend from New York, Anthony 
Weiner. As usual, I am not sure that my presence is needed here. You 
have done such an eloquent job explaining the situation as it is. I am 
afraid I have to agree with our colleague, Mr. Wexler, and pronounce 
the little town the way he does, but the sentiment is the same.

I wish you were with us, Mr. Weiner, 3 weeks ago when there was a 
congressional trip to Israel. We had the opportunity to go to Sderot 
and see for ourselves firsthand exactly what you are speaking of. I 
want to share with you my impressions. I have been to Israel 15 times, 
but that was the first time that I had ever gone to that little border 
town and met the people, heard what they had to say, but I did. I am 
glad that I had the opportunity so I could share it with you and our 
colleagues now.

We met in a strategic area of Sderot where we were able to look into 
the Gaza. It is less than a mile away. They live Palestinian and 
Israeli next door to one another. We met with a family who has lived 
there for a number of years and has endured the 2,000 rocket attacks 
that have taken place, that have been perpetrated against the citizens 
of this community for the last 5 years, 2,000 rocket attacks. The last 
one, as you said, happening as late as today as children were going to 
school.

Now, Hamas and Islamic jihad have the timing down pretty well if they 
don't have the accuracy, because the rocket attacks, the missile 
attacks, on this small Israeli town take place in the morning hours 
when children are headed to school and parents are headed to work. Then 
there's a lull. If there is going to be another attack, it is usually 
when people are coming home from work and their children are coming 
back from school.

We met a family from Sderot, a wife, a mother and her children. I 
listened to this mother tell us what it is like on a daily basis, the 
fear she has every time she sends her children out to walk to school, 
how they can't go outside and play for fear that there will be an 
incoming missile that might indiscriminately hit any one of them on any 
given day. The very inaccuracy of these rockets make them something to 
fear. After the last attack that she told us about, she grabbed her 
child, and she fell on him in an effort to save him. When it was over, 
the little boy looked at his mommy. He said, ''Mommy, don't ever fall 
on me to save me again. Because if anything was going to happen to you, 
what would I do without you?''



The children of this little town are suffering in more ways than you 
and I can possibly imagine. While it is true that of the 2,000 attacks 
in the last 5 years, eight people have died, and I have been told only 
eight people is not so bad, three of those eight were children, if you 
are one of the eight, or their families, it is not bad, it is 
devastating. And if you are the parent or grandparent of one of those 
three children, whose only crime was being an Israeli child walking to 
school one day, it is a horrible, horrible thing to endure.

So the fact that there hasn't been the mayhem and the injuries that 
are visible to the eye doesn't make this any worse because of the 
psychological damage to the people of this community and to their 
children, many of who suffer from PTSD.

I sit on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. We listen to testimony of 
our troops coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from PTSD. 
As horrible as that is, we understand it. We expect it. It is going to 
happen. But as a 5, 6, 7 year-old kid, to be suffering from PTSD, from 
not being able to sleep at night for fear that there is going to be a 
rocket attack on their home, afraid to go to school, afraid to sit in 
your classroom, parents losing their jobs because they can't stay at 
work when they hear that siren go off, they want to rush to the school 
where they know that their children are studying, for the hope that if, 
God forbid, anything happens, they can save their child, that is not a 
way to live. Nobody should live that way.

The reason that the Congressional delegation met with this family and 
others in this little town was because they wanted to share with us 
what was going on because they feel they have been forgotten, not only 
by their own government, but they wanted their government and the 
United States, their most reliable ally, and the people of this world 
community to recognize what is going on, and to help them, help them in 
some way. They implored us to do something to stop these rocket 
attacks.

Now, you mentioned the fact that about 2 years and 3 weeks ago on 
August 15th Israel unilaterally disengaged from the Gaza. It became 
untenable to secure 7,000 settlers from 1.4 million Palestinians, so 
the Israelis made a decision in the name of peace to unilaterally 
disengage from the Gaza.

The hope was this, Mr. Weiner. The hope was that the Palestinian 
people in the Gaza would recognize they had a golden opportunity to 
demonstrate to the world that they were capable of governance and they 
would use this opportunity to repair the infrastructure, build schools, 
start healing their economy, build housing and hospitals for the 
Palestinian people, make it possible for 1.4 million Palestinians to 
have a future, a dream of their own that wasn't mayhem and killing and 
corruption.



Unfortunately, we have not seen that. What we have seen, and it is 
more and more with each passing day, is that Hamas is using the Gaza 
and the Palestinian people as a human fortress as they continue to and 
increase lobbing rockets and missiles into Israel from strategic 
locations in the Gaza.

Why do the Palestinian people have to continue to suffer and live 
under these conditions? Are there no Palestinian leaders willing to 
step up and say this is not what I want for my children, it is not what 
I want to do to Israeli children? We have an obligation to be so much 
more than a launching pad against Israeli border towns like Sderot.

What are the Israelis expected to do? The people of Sderot are 
demanding that the Israeli government do something, that they stop this 
carnage, this mayhem, this indiscriminate killing and damage.

Well, we can examine the options of the Israelis. They can go back 
into Gaza, as you stated. I don't think that is a viable option. The 
Israelis don't want to reoccupy the Gaza. They can launch strategic 
attacks against those locations that the Kassam rockets are being 
launched from. But, as you know, they can be launched very quickly, and 
the perpetrators disappear within moments. And if they do that and 
accidentally hit an innocent Palestinian family, there would be hell to 
pay for that. So that isn't the best possible option either.


So, what is left? The Israelis provide the water and the sewage 
system and the electricity and power to the Gaza for 1.4 million 
Palestinians to enjoy some quality of life. They can cut those services 
off and 1.4 million Palestinians can suffer, because Hamas and Islamic 
Jihad have used their fellow Palestinians as nothing more than a cruel 
shield behind which they launch indiscriminate attacks against innocent 
Israeli civilians, men, women and children, and then they use the 
Palestinian people as buffers to protect them from any retaliation that 
the Israelis may wish to do in order to protect their own people.