# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `33c20ee658817d172fd6053c160762a3`
`Mrs. CAPPS â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. I thank my colleague for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution supporting 
our troops and disapproving the President's plan to escalate the war in 
Iraq.

More than 4 years ago, the resolution to support a war in Iraq came 
before this House. After careful consideration of the evidence and 
arguments put forth for a unilateral preemptive attack on Iraq, I 
decided I could not in good conscience vote for that resolution.

My ''no'' vote against the President's plan for war in Iraq is one of 
my proudest moments in Congress. I didn't believe the case where war 
had been made. There was no real evidence of weapons of mass 
destruction in Iraq. The administration's arguments about al Qaeda 
connections with Iraq were specious, and its attempt to link Iraq with 
the tragedy of 9/11 was shameful.

I was deeply concerned about the effects of preemptive war on 
America's standing in the world, and equally worried about the 
ramifications for the greater Middle East, a region of great importance 
and even greater fragility. And I had strong concerns about the 
administration's preparation for the aftermath of a war in Iraq. The 
administration was completely focused on waging war and not on winning 
the peace.

Unfortunately, Madam Speaker, all of those concerns have been borne 
out. There were no WMDs, no al Qaeda connections, no 9/11 link. It was 
all trumped up evidence by an administration consumed with toppling the 
dictator in Iraq. Today, Iraq is in civil war, the Middle East is even 
more unsettled, and our standing in the world is at a low point. The 
international support given to America after 9/11 was squandered and 
will take years to repair the damage. And, as a Nation, we are even 
less secure today than we were the day we invaded Iraq. I point this 
out only because it is critically important to know where we have been 
if we want to know where we should be going.

This resolution gives voice to the deep, deep opposition here in the 
Congress and throughout the country to the President's plan for 
escalating the war in Iraq.



I speak for the vast majority of my constituents on the central coast 
of California when I state my unequivocal opposition to this 
escalation. The administration's plan looks like more of the same 
failed policies that got us here in the first place. It is a plan based 
more on hope than on fact, buttressed by hysterical rhetoric. It is a 
plan opposed by numerous military leaders and experts. It is, quite 
frankly, simply not believable.

The recent National Intelligence Estimate makes it perfectly clear 
that the President's grand plan is just never going to work. The 
resolution here before us puts Congress on record against the 
proposition that success will come only after more troops are thrown 
into battle.

The other objective of this resolution is to remind everyone that 
opposing the war in Iraq, and especially opposing the President's 
escalation, is consistent with supporting our troops. Our men and women 
in uniform have done everything we have asked them to do and so much 
more. Over 3,000 have made the ultimate sacrifice. More than 20,000 
others have been injured, so very many of them seriously.

Let no one doubt the bravery of our troops and the support that I and 
my colleagues who are opposed to this war have for them. I am eternally 
grateful for the sacrifices our men and women in uniform and their 
families are willing to make every single day. They continue the long 
distinguished line of soldiers, sailors and airmen that have kept our 
country and so many others free from tyranny and oppression, but their 
service is due more than heartfelt appreciation and flowery words from 
politicians.



Their sacrifice, their service, is owed responsible leadership from 
those civilian leaders with whom power ultimately rests, and that is 
where our soldiers have been let down. This administration has taken 
arrogance, stubbornness and incompetence to new heights. It ignored the 
advice of military experts leading up to and throughout this war.

It stocked reconstruction teams with political hacks, and it brushed 
off the indisputable reality of Iraq in a meltdown. It dismissed the 
considered opinion of the Iraq Study Group, the Congress, most 
importantly, the American people.

Make no mistake, the failure of the war in Iraq lies at the highest 
levels of the White House and at the desks of the Pentagon's civilian 
leadership, and the cost of that failure is borne by our troops, their 
families and the Iraqi people. It is time for the administration to 
stop obfuscating the conditions on the ground in Iraq, stop the charade 
about so-called new plans that will finally bring success in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, it is time to stop the war in Iraq. Support the 
troops. Indeed, bring them home.