---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `33c523aaa6f8c4e903eacdb5fcba57df`
`Mr. SERRANO â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, you know, I have been in this House 17 years. During 
those years, I have done what comes natural to me, which is to be a 
gentleman. In addition, I have tried very hard whenever I know that you 
may lose your temper a little bit to be a diplomat. But I think when 
people try to twist people's words it is pretty sad.

The gentlewoman spoke about being out of touch. I said that when you 
grow up in a public housing project you stay in touch. She quickly did 
that right-wing thing about growing up on welfare. My parents worked 
hard. My father had 2 years of schooling. My mother was the highly 
educated one. She had 6. Both of them died before their 65th birthday.

They raised two kids. One has been with the Commerce Department, way 
before I got into Congress by the way, for many years; and this one is 
not doing too bad being a Member of Congress.

That wasn't welfare. It was a form of housing. To insult people who 
live in subsidized housing for the poor as some sort of welfare cheats 
is to demean the nature of the debate in this House.

I will always be proud of the years I spent in the Millbrook Projects 
in the South Bronx. I will be proud of my years in public school. I 
will be proud of the fact that I came to the United States not speaking 
English and that I learned to speak whatever it is that I speak now, 
whether it is good or bad English. I am proud of that.

But to suggest somehow that what we are doing here today in promoting 
expenditures in Iraq that are a waste of money, not in how we use them 
for the troops but how we got into that war, or suggesting that because 
in 2010 people making millions of dollars in this country may have a 
sunset provision which was set up by the Republican Party on their 
major tax break when it comes to an end so that they, the ones who make 
20, 50, 100, 200 million a year, a billion, may have to pay a little 
more so that someone else can get a little health care, if that is what 
this debate is about, then we have reached a very, very low point.

Now, I probably will sit down after I speak and regret having said 
what I said because I don't like to engage on a personal basis, but if 
you ever want to know what public housing is like, it is not a 
vacation. It is not a cabin in the Catskill Mountains or on the Outer 
Banks of anywhere. It is a very difficult life, but a wonderful life 
because it teaches you a lot. I am the man I am today because I grew up 
in public housing. It was not welfare. It was not a gift. It was just 
the way it was. I resent personally anyone who tries to cheap-shot this 
situation by hiding behind any comments that I might have made.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.