# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `33c624efe022d9438e4921f20ea8ac5e`
`Mr. GREGG — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Thank you, Madam President.

Madam President, first, my respect for the Senator from Virginia is 
immense. I have always admired what he does, and I wish we were voting 
on his resolution. I think it should be up for debate and up for a 
vote. He is a significant force in this institution for many things 
which are right. I may have some disagreements with him over time, but 
I certainly have never questioned anything. I hope no one would. No one 
should question anybody on anything around here on what our purposes 
are. Our purposes are the same: to make our country a better and safer 
place and to make sure we assure a good future for our children.

Let me set the table as to where we are in this debate, however, 
because one of the essences of this institution has always been it has 
been a forum where if you have a different idea or a different thought 
on an issue of substance, you usually get to air it, and you most often 
get to vote on it. That, of course, is what our Founding Fathers 
structured this institution for.

Ironically, it was George Washington--not ironically but 
appropriately--it was George Washington who immediately ascertained the 
significance of the Senate's role when he said the Senate is the saucer 
into which the hot coffee is poured. It is the spot where ideas of the 
day get an airing to make sure they survive the light of day.


Over time, we have developed an institutional understanding in the 
Senate that unless 60 percent--a majority of the Senate--agrees on an 
issue of major importance, that issue does not move forward. And 
equally importantly, we have developed an attitude in the Senate that 
if there is more than one legitimate view on an issue of significance--
and this is, obviously, an issue of dramatic significance--there will 
be different views brought to the floor in the form of amendments or 
resolutions, and they will be debated and they will be voted on.

So what I suggested was an amendment which was not, I felt, all that 
controversial. In fact, I thought it was in the mainstream of American 
thought and certainly, hopefully, in the mainstream of the Senate 
positions. The resolution which I suggested--and I will read it again--
simply states:




 It is the sense of Congress that Congress should not take 


 any action that will endanger United States military forces 


 in the field, including the elimination or reduction of funds 


 for troops in the field, as such action with respect to 


 funding would undermine their safety or harm their 


 effectiveness in pursuing their assigned missions.


This should not be controversial. This should be a statement which we 
as a Congress are willing to make, that when we send a soldier onto the 
streets of Baghdad or anywhere else where that soldier may incur or be 
in the way of harm, that soldier will have the support of the American 
people and the Congress--with the financing, with the equipment, with 
the logistics they need to do their job well. And it should be a 
definitive, uncontroversial, un-
controverted statement.

Yet in offering this resolution, the Democratic leadership has said 
they will not entertain it. They will not allow us to vote on it. In 
fact, they have taken this whole process to a whole new level of trying 
to manage the activities of the floor of the Senate in a way that the 
Senate has never been managed in its historical past or should be 
managed in the context of what the purposes of the Senate are.

The Democratic leader has essentially said we will vote on his 
amendment--his amendment--and his amendment alone. And, by the way, his 
amendment has changed three times now. There have been major, 
substantive changes to his amendment three times. And each time he has 
said or the leadership on the Democratic side of the aisle has said: 
That is the amendment we are going to vote on, that is the one that is 
locked in stone. It shall not be changed. You shall vote on it as a 
Senate. You shall not be allowed to amend it. You shall not be allowed 
to put up resolutions that in any other way address the issue.

Well, the first proposal they came out with was not good enough to 
get enough votes to get to 40 probably, so they changed it. Then they 
said: This amendment shall be the amendment you will vote on. This 
amendment shall not be changed. This amendment shall not be amended on 
the floor of the Senate. There shall not be an amendment


that I have proposed or that the Republican membership wants to propose 
to go up and be debated and voted on also. Then that amendment, it 
turned out, was not good enough. That happened to be the Warner 
amendment.

Then the House passed an amendment, and they decided to take the 
House amendment and say: Now this amendment shall be the amendment 
which is frozen in stone and which cannot be contravened, cannot be 
amended, and it shall not have any other amendment offered by the 
minority, by the Republican side of the aisle that the Republican side 
of the aisle wishes to propose.

There was one caveat to that, the Senate Democratic leader said: I 
will be willing to choose an amendment for the Republican side of the 
aisle to propose. I, as Democratic leader, shall choose the Republican 
amendment that is brought to the floor to be debated.

Well, obviously that, on the face of it, does not pass the test of 
fairness or even the test of how the Senate should run, even under a 
confined system as this is. The actual way we should proceed in this 
manner, in this situation, is that there should be at least four 
amendments on the floor because there are four major ideas floating 
around here.

There is the idea that came over from the House. There is Senator 
Warner's proposal. There is Senator McCain's proposal. Then there is my 
proposal. Every one of these is substantive, thoughtful, I believe. 
Maybe I am assuming too much for mine. But for everybody else's, there 
are substantive, thoughtful ideas that should be debated on the floor 
of the Senate, and they should each be allowed a vote.

But the Democratic leadership has said no, there shall be no vote on 
anything other than their new proposal--which is now the House 
proposal, their third machination of what they are going to do--and 
another proposal which they will choose from the Republican side of the 
aisle.

Well, that clearly fails on all levels. Substantively it fails the 
rules of the Senate as they have traditionally been used. And as a 
matter of fairness, it fails the issue of being fair to people who have 
a legitimate viewpoint. More importantly, it fails the American people 
and the troops who are in the field because it does not allow us as a 
Senate to effectively debate and vote on proposals which would address 
the various issues raised by the situation in Iraq.

So we on our side are saying we shall assert our rights. There are, 
after all, at least 40 Members of the Republican Party--and I suspect 
quite a few more--who believe that we, as Members of the Republican 
party, as Members of the minority, have a right to offer an amendment 
of our choosing, and that it should be voted on, especially since we 
are debating nonbinding amendments.

Equally important, I think it is probably appropriate to analyze: Why 
would the Democratic leadership not want to vote on the resolution I 
just outlined? Why would they not want to do something such as that? 
Why would they not want a vote on a resolution which states 
unequivocally that when we send our soldiers--our men and women--into 
harm's way, we are going to give them the support they need to do the 
mission they are assigned to do and to remain safe?

I suspect it is because that amendment which I have propounded, that 
proposal, that resolution would actually get significantly more than a 
supermajority in this body, significantly more than any other of the 
three items that have been discussed--the McCain proposal, the Warner 
proposal, or the House proposal--and that they would perceive that as 
an embarrassment on their side, which I believe shows this is not about 
the substance of the issue of how you address the war in Iraq, this is 
about the politics of how the amendment brought to the floor is 
perceived in the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the other 
panoply of national press groups that are basically trying to claim a 
victory over not our efforts in Iraq but over the President.

The fact that they would not allow us to bring forward an amendment 
which they know will receive a supermajority and more votes than their 
amendment--and which is so forthright in its statement of what it does, 
and which is so appropriate to the issue of what we are doing in Iraq, 
which is that we should be supporting our troops who have been sent 
into harm's way--is a reflection of the politicalness of this process, 
not the substance of the process. It is regrettable.

We will continue to insist that this amendment, which is reasonable, 
be voted on. We should not allow the frustration--and I recognize there 
is a tremendous amount of frustration about the war in Iraq. I have a 
lot of frustration about the war in Iraq. Everybody does around here. 
You could not but have that about what is happening there. But we 
should not allow that frustration to be taken out on our troops in the 
field. There will be endless claims that the House language that has 
come over to us----
