# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG SECURITY ALLIANCE BETWEEN JAPAN AND THE UNITED  STATES
## `33caca146652fce64664e52e45e011aa`
`Mr. SAXTON — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Let me thank the gentlelady for yielding. And let me 
begin by thanking my good friend and colleague, Chairman Tom Lantos, 
for the great high level of cooperation that was exhibited on this 
resolution on a bipartisan basis with Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and others. And 
also, let me acknowledge the great support of my friend, Mr. 
Faleomavaega, on the resolution.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 508, obviously, which 
recognizes the strong security alliance between Japan and the United 
States and expresses appreciation for Japan's role in enhancing 
stability in the Asia-Pacific region in combating terrorism, and 
specifically in Japan's very significant contribution toward global 
missile defense.

I am pleased to highlight our special relationship with Japan 
following World War II. Our alliance has served as a valuable conduit 
allowing the United States to achieve our security goals throughout 
East Asia. This dynamic nation is the world's second largest economy, 
one of our top trading partners, provides 600,000 U.S. jobs, and is 
actively engaged with many other democracies.

Our two countries have encountered similar challenges and fought 
shared threats while working to guarantee political and economic 
freedoms for our citizens and for many others. This goal of spreading 
democracy-based prosperity became particularly evident following the 
events of September 11. Following these deplorable acts, Japan readily 
provided support for U.S. and allied forces. Their effort included 
invaluable maritime operations in the Indian Ocean, aircraft to conduct 
support missions for our troops in Iraq, and logistical support that 
even continues to this very day. These actions reveal Japan's 
dedication to eradicating the destruction caused by sponsors of 
terrorism. Japan's Maritime Self-Defense Forces have provided roughly 
30 percent of the fuel used by U.S. and coalition warships. They are 
the third largest donor in country for relief and reconstruction in 
Afghanistan, and they have provided billions of dollars for 
reconstruction in Iraq, and Japan continues to renew the Anti-Terrorism 
Special Measures Law that allows for these activities to take place.

I applaud them for recognizing that the international threats of 
terror will require the cooperation of the world's strongest 
democracies to effectively combat the growing capabilities and support 
systems of terrorist organizations.

Our strategic relationship extends beyond Japan's involvement in the 
Middle East. Japan offers financial and material resources to the U.S.-
deployed forces, 50,000 of which are stationed in the country.

Several years ago, our two countries agreed to redefine and 
strengthen the missions of both of our military forces. My resolution 
mentions examples of this coordination by reducing the number of troops 
in Okinawa and expanding the cooperation of ballistic missile defense.

Once again, I want to reiterate my thanks to Chairman Lantos and 
Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for their assistance in bringing 
this to the floor today.