---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCTED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `33d89ed3350e95e3baa5d09d46557ec8`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce 
legislation to help finance the war effort without sharp tax increases 
or increased foreign borrowing, The United States War Bonds Act of 2009 
will authorize the Treasury to issue and market War Bonds to the 
American people to help finance the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

I believe that we need shared sacrifice and fiscal discipline in 
financing the war effort. I don't believe our first instinct should 
always be a rush to tax. The government has gone to great lengths to 
address the economic downturn and adding new taxes right now could 
undermine those efforts. We need to work to reduce Federal spending 
wherever possible and reduce the growth in spending to finance the war.

War bonds are a cost-effective way to reduce our dependence on 
foreign creditors and create an outlet for Americans to express their 
patriotism and support for our servicemembers and America's mission. 
War bonds allow us to borrow from ourselves, rather than other 
countries.

This legislation finds a precedent in World War II savings bonds. 
From May 1, 1941 through December 1945, the War Finance Division and 
its predecessors were responsible for the sale of nearly $186 billion 
worth of government securities. Of this, more than $54 billion was in 
the form of War Savings bonds.

Although the times and economic circumstances are different than the 
1940s, America's commitment to protecting freedom and our way of life 
has not waned. My hope is that we can tap into the same spirit of 
patriotism and create a sense of participation in the war effort akin 
to that shown by the greatest generation.

The new military strategy increasing troops by 30,000 for Afghanistan 
announced last week by President Obama is estimated to cost $30 billion 
beyond the baseline for Iraq and Afghanistan funding, which stands 
around $130 billion for 2010. The United States public debt is 
currently more than $7.6 trillion and nearly $3.5 trillion--46 
percent--of the debt is held by foreign investors.While there are no 
simple solutions to our fiscal woes, while we endeavor to get our 
fiscal house in order, we must also be responsible borrowers and reduce 
our dependence on foreign creditors; this is a step in that direction.