# None
## `33e7c2dd53657e2f6d35a7411ce55fa9`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. The Senator from Nevada, the distinguished majority 
leader and my friend for many years, points out that in previous years, 
the Defense authorization bill was passed without requirements for a 
60-vote majority. There is a simple answer to that. We never took up an 
issue such as this on the Defense authorization bill.

In fact, our focus and our attention was, for 45 years, providing men 
and women who are serving in the military with what they needed to 
defend this Nation. Instead--instead, of doing what is necessary, 
including the 3.5-percent pay raise, including the Wounded Warriors 
legislation on it to take care of our veterans--we are now gridlocked 
in the Senate because the Senator from Nevada knows he is not going to 
pass a withdrawal from Iraq on this bill. If he did, the President 
would veto the bill, because the President has said it. We all know 
that in September this issue is going to come to a head, whether I 
happen to favor that or not.

Most people believe that September is a time where we could make the 
kinds of judgments necessary to see whether we are making the kind of 
progress that will justify continued effort in this new strategy, which 
I, of course, would remind my colleagues again, the last part of which 
was put in place a few weeks ago.

Of course, we did not have requirements for 60-vote majorities in the 
past few years because no one had the temerity to put an issue such as 
this on the very vital needs of the men and women in the military to do 
their job. So, of course, there was not a controversial necessity for a 
60-vote majority.

I am happy to tell my friend from Mississippi that Senator Levin and 
I are moving forward with clearing amendments so we can, we hope, wrap 
up this bill by the end of this week. I hope that once this display 
that is going to take place tonight, all night, is concluded, and there 
is not sufficient votes in order to get the Levin-Reed amendment 
passed, at some point we can go back to the Defense authorization bill 
and get them the 3.5 percent pay raise they have earned; get them that 
MRAP equipment that they need; get this Wounded Warrior legislation 
through the Senate and to the desk of the President of the United 
States.

We never grow tired, nor should we, of praising the men and women in 
the military, particularly those who have sacrificed so much. All of us 
are embarrassed and ashamed at what happened at Walter Reed. Well, 
let's pass this Wounded Warrior legislation on this bill and get it 
done.

Who is holding up passage of the Defense authorization bill? Who is 
requiring us to stay up all night to discuss it? My friends, this is 
not necessary. We all know that General Petraeus was affirmed in his 
position by the Senate by an overwhelming vote. General Petraeus, at 
the time of his hearings, said we were going to have a new strategy--
that strategy is called surge--and that it would require additional 
troops.

He also said at that time it would take time, that it would take a 
period of time before we would know whether it succeeded. Here we are, 
literally weeks after the last part of this new strategy is in place, 
the last detachment of an increase in troops, and we are telling them 
to set a date for withdrawal.

Now, you know, I share the frustration that my friend from Nevada 
stated about a failed policy. It was a failed policy. The Rumsfeld-
Casey policy strategy was doomed to failure, and some of us recognized 
that and stated that at the time. We said we had to have a new 
strategy. It has to be the classic counterinsurgency strategy if we are 
going to succeed in Iraq.


Well, we got a new general. We got a new strategy. There are signs of 
success. There are clearly some signs of progress, and those are 
readily apparent. Now, is the Maliki Government acting in the way we 
want them to? No, they are not. Is it disappointing that they are not? 
Absolutely, it is disappointing.

But as far as Anbar Province is concerned, as far as some parts of 
Baghdad are concerned, yes, there is some progress which has been 
purchased at great and tragic cost, the sacrifice of young American's 
lives.

I would like to again assure my friend of many years, from Nevada, I 
understand the frustration that he shows is shared by many Americans. 
Our failure and our employment of a failed strategy for more than 3 
years is well articulated. But I also would plead with my colleagues to 
at least know that we are not going to stop this now. We are not going 
stop it now. Even if the majority leader got the 60 votes and got this 
included in the bill in some way, the President of the United States 
would veto it. We do not want that to happen. We do not want that to 
happen.

We know that in September, whether I happen to like it or not--I 
would like to personally give it more time than September--we know that 
in September this whole issue is going to come to a head. Here we are 
in the middle of July. Can't we sit down and work out the amendments in 
a way that Senator Levin and I and Senator Warner and previous chairmen 
and ranking members have for the last 20 years, get this bill done, get 
it out and get it to the President's desk? Then we go into recess. We 
come back in September. I think that that is not an unreasonable path 
to follow.

So, my friends, we will continue to debate this issue all night 
tonight. I understand that. Hopefully, when the majority sees that, the 
leader sees there is not the votes, maybe we could then get down to the 
nuts and bolts of the Defense authorization bill of which at last count 
there are over 100 amendments pending that Members have on both sides 
of the aisle, they want to be considered and voted on.

I fear--I fear--that the majority leader, because of a lack of time, 
may feel it necessary to pull the bill from the floor. I think that 
would not be in any way helpful to our Nation's national security 
interests.

My friends, if we could lower the rhetoric around here a bit, let us 
sit down and talk about the best way to proceed, recognizing that 
September will be a very important point, and pass this authorization 
bill and not for


the first time in 45 years have us not do what we need to do for our 
Nation's security and the men and women who are serving.

I yield the floor.