# PRESIDENT-ELECT OBAMA'S STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `33f0167e1c1e99f8c0d93f8f70dd582b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 8 January 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 87 percent of the American 
people support President-elect Obama's stimulus package, a package that 
addresses the concerns and needs of low-income Americans, working 
Americans, middle-class Americans.

It is obvious that the Federal Government has to be the spender of 
last resort. No frivolous, foolish spending, but spending that creates 
jobs, jobs, jobs, puts Americans back to work, bring home our troops 
from Iraq, be able to downsize the investment in a war that many of us 
disagreed with, ensure that the war in Afghanistan succeeds, and make 
sure that those in America's Appalachia and Mississippi Delta and the 
inner cities of Houston, Texas, have the amount of money to begin to 
work, summer youth jobs. That's what this stimulus package is about.

President-elect Obama has it right. We in the Federal Government have 
to rescue those who provided the tax dollars for America to work. Put 
them back to work. You'll see our economy spiraling.

Frivolous comments about bailouts will not work. The American people 
know a stimulus package is for them. Let's do it quickly. Let's get the 
money to our local governments. I believe we should bypass some of our 
State governments; make sure those dollars are in our cities, our 
counties, our municipalities, put America back to work. That's what 
President-elect Obama wants us to do.
