# None
## `33f90a992e9a28402e35ace7844bd537`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 25 March 2009`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the 
Georgia National Guard's 48th Infantry Brigade Bravo Company Second 
Battalion, which will soon deploy for a yearlong mission to train and 
mentor members of the Afghan National Army.

The Bravo Company Second Battalion, based out of Newnan in Georgia's 
3rd Congressional District, has trained intensely at Fort Gordon in 
Augusta, Fort Polk in Louisiana and Fort Stewart in southeast Georgia 
leading up to its deployment.

These 130 U.S. soldiers will do a great job serving their nation and 
assisting the Afghans in building their own proud military. They bring 
with them to Afghanistan a wealth of expertise and battle-tested 
experience.

Half of the soldiers deployed to Iraq in 2005-2006, a time of intense 
fighting with insurgents, and the unit suffered heavy losses. As 
today's unit carries on the fight, they remember and honor their fallen 
comrades.

On April 13, the unit will ship off to Camp Shelby, MS, before 
heading to their overseas destination. I look forward to taking part in 
community events to see them off and give them the honor and gratitude 
they and their families so richly deserve.

Georgians in the 3rd District are proud to have these patriots as 
neighbors. The soldiers of the 48th Infantry Brigade put themselves on 
the front lines to defend our nation and protect our freedom. The 
families they leave behind sacrifice just as much. We pray that God 
blesses their mission and watches over them until their safe return to 
Georgia and their loving families.
