# None
## `33fc5779918a73e2969e6e510709d450`
`Mr. LATHAM â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, today I am introducing legislation to 
honor Scott Nisely of Marshalltown, Iowa, one of America's heroes who 
was killed in combat on September 30, 2006, while serving our country 
in Iraq.

Scott Nisley served 22 years in the Marines as an officer on active 
duty and as a reservist, retiring with the rank of major. He then 
worked 12 years for the U.S. Postal Service in Marshalltown, Iowa. Due 
to Scott's strong desire to serve his country, he accepted an enlisted 
rank in order to fill a vacancy in the Iowa Army National Guard. Scott 
had served a tour of duty during Operation Desert Storm as a marine in 
addition to Operation Iraqi Freedom as a guardsman.

Scott's friends, family, coworkers and fellow soldiers and marines 
attest to the positive and lasting impact he had on their lives. 
Scott's life was a shining example of dedication to service, and a 
strong commitment to his family, faith and country. The legislation I 
am introducing with the support of my colleagues from Iowa--Leonard 
Boswell, Steve King, Bruce Braley and Dave Loebsack--would name the 
post office located at 309 East Linn Street in Marshalltown, Iowa, the 
''Major Scott Nisely Post Office.'' The proposal was initiated by 
Scott's coworkers at the Marshalltown Post Office, and I am proud to 
help them make this timely and appropriate honor a reality. I strongly 
encourage my colleagues to swiftly consider and pass this legislation.
