---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `3402bcf243e91ec6e86028c2c720b561`
`Mr. HARKIN — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I thought I might take this bit of lag 
time on the floor while we are waiting for Senators to offer 
amendments--which I hope will happen, if there are amendments; I am not 
trying to encourage any. I am saying if there are


amendments, Members should come and offer them because now is a good 
time--to talk about the bill and what this debate is all about, why 
this bill is so important. I say that because the President yesterday 
sent down his policy statement and said he was going to veto the bill 
because it spends too much money, that it has to stay within his 
constraints.

I want to make it clear, we stay within our budget, the budget we 
have, and we have a pay-go budget. We are not adding anything new this 
year. We are severely constraining spending to get out of the deficit 
hole. I want to compare this bill, what we have done on a bipartisan 
basis--this appropriations bill passed our committee 26 to 3, strong 
bipartisan support in the subcommittee and full committee--with the 
President's budget so that Senators who are thinking of how they are 
going to vote on this appropriations bill might have a clearer picture. 
What would happen if we did what the President asked, if we just 
approved the President's budget instead of the bill before us? What I 
want to do is go through it.

You can tell a lot about a person's priorities on how they spend 
their money. This bill provides a modest increase in programs that help 
people, especially Americans at the bottom rungs of the ladder. It 
helps them to lead meaningful, safe, and productive lives. The 
President wants to cut those programs. He says we are spending too much 
for education, for medical research, for job training. Again, look at 
the amount of money we are talking about. The Senate bill is about $11 
billion higher than the President's budget. That is about 1 month in 
Iraq; we are talking about a full year--1 month in Iraq versus 1 full 
year for education, health, job retraining, all the other items.

Compared to last year, our Senate bill invests $7.3 billion more than 
last year on education, health, and labor programs. Again, as part of 
our balanced budget plan, we are within our budget constraints. The 
President's budget would cut $3.5 billion from these programs from last 
year. At the same time, he wants to spend up to almost $10 billion a 
month in Iraq.

Again, let's look at some of the programs we are talking about; for 
example, helping the poor. Two of the most important programs in the 
bill are the community services block grants and the social services 
block grants. States get to use these funds in a wide variety of ways 
to help some of our most disadvantaged citizens. The Senate bill 
provides $2.4 billion for these two block grants. The President's 
budget requested a 50-percent cut in these two programs, a 50-percent 
cut from last year to $1.2 billion. So again, when we are talking about 
programs that help lift people up, we are at $2.4 billion; the 
President says he wants to cut it in half to $1.2 billion. That is one 
clear difference in the President's budget and in what we offer.

Let's look at medical research. The Senate bill provides another $1 
billion for the National Institutes of Health. That is about a 3.5-
percent increase, and that does not even keep up with biomedical 
inflation. Our bill would increase the number of new research grants by 
about 400. What does the President's budget do? It would cut NIH by 
$279 million. That would slash the budget by 12 percent below where we 
were in 2003--going backward. It would cut the number of new research 
grants by 800. So the President's budget would cut the number of 
research grants by 800; our bill would increase it by 400. Members may 
choose which one they would rather have--the President's budget or the 
Senate bill.

Let's look at special education. Three decades ago, when we passed 
the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, we said to the States: 
Our goal is for the Federal Government to provide up to 40 percent of 
the additional cost of mainstreaming kids, getting kids into school 
rather than warehousing them in State institutions or not even giving 
them an education. We opened the door for kids with disabilities to go 
to school. But we said our goal was to get up to 40 percent of this 
additional cost. That was 30 years ago. What has happened? I can say 
that time after time we have had a number of votes on the Senate floor, 
usually a sense-of-the-Senate resolution saying that we have to put 
more money for special education, we have to get up to that 40 percent. 
The Senate bill increases the State grants by $450 million to help them 
meet the needs of the additional cost of educating kids with 
disabilities. The President's budget slashes $291 million from special 
education.

What is not on this chart is that is going backward. The high point 
we had was in 2006. In 2006, the Federal Government's percentage of the 
additional cost was about 18 percent. Last year, it went down to 17 
percent. Under the President's budget, it would go to 16 percent. This 
means a lot to our local schools because if we don't put the money in, 
there is only one way they can get it, and that is usually through 
local property taxes which are unfair in most cases.


Again, what we are trying to do is to meet our goal, our obligation, 
what we said 30 years ago. We put in $450 million, and the President 
wants to cut it by $291 million.

Let's look at another program, Head Start, a popular program, one of 
the great society programs started by Lyndon Johnson. We always hear 
about how the Great Society failed. No, it didn't. I am sorry. It did 
not. Here is one of the great examples of the successes of the Great 
Society; that is, the Head Start Program. We have a lot of data over 
the years to show that kids who went through Head Start do better in 
elementary school, high school. They go on to lead healthier and more 
productive lives.

In our bill, we expand Head Start services with an increase of $200 
million. The President's budget cuts Head Start by $100 million, which 
would leave thousands of children behind. The President's budget would 
result in a cut of over 30,000 slots for children in Head Start 
Programs. Again, the President's budget goes backward. We are moving 
ahead.

Let's look at community health centers. One of the things I had 
always said is that I agreed with President Bush about his goal of 
having more community health centers built and having at least one 
community health center in every poor district. I thought that was a 
laudable goal. I have been supportive of that. Again, the Senate bill 
increases the Community Health Centers Program by $250 million. The 
President neglects the uninsured, people with limited health care 
access. He just says: Keep it where it is, no increase whatsoever. Yet 
we know we need to not only open new community health centers--a lot of 
them are backed up. People want to open new ones, plus the ones that 
are open, because of the increased cost of health services. Medical 
devices, equipment, and all that have higher expenditures as well. We 
need to make sure we keep up with funding of community health centers 
that are open.

We are also expanding dental services. One of the most important 
parts of community health centers we have found in the last several 
years--maybe decade, decade and a half--is the importance of dental 
care for kids. We have begun to add more and more dental services to 
our community health centers, which has helped a lot of families who 
otherwise cannot afford dental care for their children. That requires 
some extra money as well. We have responded to that by putting in $250 
million. The President keeps it exactly where it is.

Ours would increase the Community Health Centers Program from $1.99 
billion to $2.2 billion. The President says: Leave it where it is and 
leave a lot of low-income Americans who are uninsured without any 
access to community health centers.

Another provision in our bill is the home energy assistance program, 
otherwise known as LIHEAP, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program. It is a very successful program. The Senate bill maintains 
funding. We should have had an increase, but we are in a budget crunch. 
We couldn't get an increase for it, but at least we held the line. We 
know energy costs are higher now than they have ever been. What does 
the President's budget do? It cuts LIHEAP by $379 billion despite 
record-high energy prices. The President's budget would reduce the 
number of families receiving this assistance by 1.1 million. Again, 
these are the very low income, in many cases low-income elderly who we 
know are cutting back on their food, on medicine, and other things to 
be able to pay heating bills in the wintertime.

Another issue that is of importance to all of us is Social Security.



As I said earlier, we know--every Senator knows; and you can check 
with your State offices, and they will tell you--the caseload for 
people whose disability claims have not been acted on has a backlog of 
several months, a year, a year and a half, in trying to get their 
disability claims approved. Right now, it takes 1/1/2/ years--1/1/2/ 
years--to process a hearing request. In the year 2000, it was 200 days. 
It was 200 days, and now it is a year and a half. The disability claims 
backlog is about 660,000. That is about a 100,000 increase since 2006.

Recognizing this, we have put a $426 million increase into Social 
Security for hiring more people, to accelerate the hearings decisions, 
and to try to reduce that disability backlog we have now of 660,000.

The President's budget only put in enough money--$300 million--that 
would allow no hiring, despite the lowest staffing level since 1972. 
With the baby boom generation hitting the disability-prone years and 
closing in on retirement, the President's budget would add almost 
100,000 disability claims to the backlog, so we have put in $426 
million to reduce that backlog.

Student aid, which is another big part of our bill: The gap between 
the cost of a 4-year public college and the maximum Pell grant has 
increased by over $3,000 since 2002. We increased the amount of money 
for Pell grants to $4,800 to help alleviate that problem. The 
President's budget falls short of that by almost $300, bringing it to 
$4,540--again, very short of the amount needed to offset the cost of 
higher tuition.

On competitiveness, there are 7 million unemployed and millions more 
not working and not looking, as employers move jobs overseas. They hire 
foreign workers to fill jobs. Well, the Senate bill provides $4.8 
billion for job training, and career and technical education programs 
to enhance the competitiveness of our workforce.

What does the President's budget do? It undermines U.S. 
competitiveness with a $1 billion cut--a $1 billion cut--in job 
training, a 50-percent cut in career and technical education programs. 
Almost 8 million high school and college students could see career and 
technical education courses disappear because of the President's cuts.

That is not all that is in our bill. There is more, but I thought 
this kind of highlights the difference between the President's budget 
and what we are trying to do in this bill, keeping in mind, again, that 
our bill is a little over $7 billion more than last year--hardly an 
inflationary increase. We have kept within our budget, within our pay-
go budget. Yet we have been able to get necessary increases, as I have 
outlined.

The President's budget basically says: No. Give me more money to 
spend in Iraq, to the tune of about $12 billion a month. We are saying 
we only need $11 billion for the entire year, for all the things I 
outlined.

I think the choice is clear. I think the choice was clear when we 
were in subcommittee. It passed our subcommittee unanimously. It passed 
the full Appropriations Committee, as I said, by a vote of 26 to 3. I 
think it is a good, bipartisan bill. I hope we can bring it to a close 
here in the next day or so.

I say to my fellow Senators, the floor is open if anyone has any 
amendments. As I said, I am not encouraging them, but I know there are 
some people who do have amendments, and I would hope they might come 
over and offer those amendments.

With that, Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.