---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `341186a9b8b80ed17f0a07a1a5d15c1b`
`Mr. DREIER — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like to begin by expressing my great appreciation to my very 
dear friend, the distinguished and very able Chair of the Committee on 
Rules, my friend from Rochester (Ms. Slaughter).

And with all due respect to my distinguished committee Chair, I am 
compelled, not surprisingly, to rise in the strongest possible 
opposition to this rule.

Over the last 1/1/2/ years, my colleagues Messrs. Diaz-Balart, 
Hastings, and Sessions have stood right here at this lectern and 
opposed many, many deeply flawed rules. We began this Congress very 
inauspiciously as the leadership jammed through the opening week agenda 
before even bothering to set up the Rules Committee, allowing Ms. 
Slaughter to become Chair of that committee. From the very outset, 
there has been no pretense of concern for due process, not an inkling 
of respect for the rules of this House.

While we started at a low point, we have sunk lower and lower with 
each subsequent rule. One by one the Democratic leadership has trampled 
the rules and traditions of this body in an effort to shut down debate, 
cut both Republicans and Democrats out of the process, and jam through 
poorly constructed bills that rarely, rarely, if ever, become public 
law. I frequently marvel at each new low and assume that we have 
reached the rock bottom. As we have considered new forms of restrictive 
rules crafted under an ever-more restrictive process, I have often 
thought, ''This one takes the cake. The Democratic leadership couldn't 
possibly stoop any lower than this.'' Until the next comes, shutting 
down due process to an even greater degree.

So this time I'm not going to say that this rule is the absolute 
bottom of the barrel. I don't doubt that with a little more time and 
effort, based on the track record we've seen, the Democratic leadership 
will find a way to trample the rules and traditions of this House even 
more thoroughly. I will say that this is clearly the worst example that 
we've seen in the last 17 months since they have been in charge.

But before I get into the details of this egregious rule, Madam 
Speaker, I think it's important to discuss why it even matters what 
kind of a process is used to craft legislation and hold votes. I know 
the inner workings of the Rules Committee are thought to be so arcane 
that even some of our colleagues consider them to be a little too 
''inside baseball.'' In fact, the distinguished Chair just spent all of 
her time talking about the bill itself. She didn't talk about the fact 
that they're trampling on the rights of Republicans and Democrats. 
Start talking about rules and procedure and regular order, and most 
Americans' eyes, and even some of our colleagues', start to glaze over.

So to illustrate why process matters, I will use another set of rules 
that are


more widely understood as an example. Even before the advent of the 
television show Law & Order, most of us were familiar with the basics 
of our criminal justice system. We're all familiar with our basic 
rights enshrined in the Constitution. We cannot be held without a 
charge. We're protected from self-incrimination and unlawful searches 
and seizures. We must be read our Miranda rights when placed under 
arrest. These basic rights are fundamental, fundamental, Madam Speaker, 
to American democracy. We know that there can be no justice without a 
fair process, and we know that the protection of the rights of the 
individual is more important than the outcome of any one particular 
case.

The Bill of Rights and the laws that have been enacted to uphold it 
aren't just a cryptic system of rules and regulations. They guarantee, 
Madam Speaker, they guarantee our civil rights and they guard against 
tyranny. Without a fair process, power is abused and rights are 
abridged. Process matters, Madam Speaker. Process matters because 
process is democracy.

The rules of the House were established for the very same reason. 
They ensure that the American people, through their elected 
representatives, have a say in the crafting of laws that govern them. 
The rules guard against abuses of power, and they ensure that the 
legislative process is transparent and fair. Thwarting due process is 
not just arcane political maneuvering around obscure, complicated rules 
that no one should care about. It subverts the principles of 
representative democracy. Let me say again, Madam Speaker, the rule 
that we are considering at this moment very clearly subverts the 
principles of representative democracy.

The Democratic leadership's casual disregard for these rules and 
principles has faced growing criticism in the media. Last week the 
Politico accused them of ''breaking promises,'' promises for an open 
legislative process that followed regular order and the rules of the 
House. Not surprisingly, the paper cited today's underlying bill, the 
supplemental appropriations, as Exhibit A in the Democrats' assault on 
an open and inclusive process, which was promised at the beginning of 
this Congress. That's not my saying that; that's an independent 
newspaper that made that statement.

Even before the new lows of the supplemental, another publication, 
Investors Business Daily, reported recently on the leadership's 
''widening power grab,'' accusing them of ''anti-democratic'' behavior, 
running a ''dictatorship,'' and ''showing little or no concern for 
holding actual votes or building consensus on issues.'' Now, Madam 
Speaker, those are pretty harsh charges coming from a newspaper that is 
clearly a very independent publication. And they go on to say that this 
is all being done in an effort to ''manipulate Congress.'' Madam 
Speaker, ''dictatorship'' and ''anti-democratic,'' those are pretty 
harsh words, but they are clearly warranted.

The process used to craft the underlying supplemental appropriations 
bill has been atrocious. Committee work was completely abandoned. 
Without a single hearing, without a markup, without so much as 
consulting Mr. Lewis and the committee members, this bill was concocted 
behind closed doors. Zero input, zero deliberation, zero consultation. 
The Senate, of course, won't stand for that kind of treatment and 
intends to hold a markup later today before proceeding with its floor 
debate. But the Democratic leaders in this House apparently deem this 
to be a lesser body, with no right to due process.

The Democratic leadership intended to bring this bill up last week. 
They had to pull it from the schedule because fiscally conservative 
Members within their own caucus were outraged at the contents. A week 
later, Madam Speaker, a backroom deal has now been struck, bringing the 
remaining Democratic Members on board. How? Bringing Members on board 
by imposing a tax on small businesses in this country, which is exactly 
what this is. You see, Democrats love to stir up class warfare by 
justifying the small business tax as just a tax on the rich. Unless, of 
course, we are talking about millionaire farmers, and then they like to 
give them massive government payouts, which is what they did just 
yesterday in the farm bill.

To add to their inconsistency, they actually waived their own PAYGO 
rule to fund the farm bill subsidies, and today they refuse to waive 
the same PAYGO rule and use it as an excuse to levy massive tax 
increases on small businessmen and women in this country. Only in 
Washington would such logic be employed.

We became aware of the rough outline of this tax increase, along with 
every other provision of this bill, only through press reports. Some 
have reported a $183 billion price tag on this bill. Others have said 
it would be costing at least $250 billion. Various outlets reported on 
various provisions. But we didn't get a chance to see for ourselves 
what was in this massive bill until 3 p.m. yesterday. In fact, the 
distinguished former Chair of the Committee on Appropriations, the now 
ranking member, my good friend, Mr. Lewis, came before us. Within the 
hour before that 3 p.m. meeting, he had just gotten the copy of the 
measure.

Most egregious of all, we're not actually considering a bill here 
today. We will be voting on three amendments to a Senate amendment to 
an old House bill that has already passed but was never enacted. Did 
you catch that? If it sounds gimmicky and underhanded, that's because 
that's exactly what it is. In fact, this morning I heard our colleague 
Mr. McDermott on National Public Radio, where he said the crafting of 
this is tantamount to John Kerry's very famous line in which he said 
''I voted for it before I voted against it.'' The Democratic leadership 
knows that a vote on their full package would never pass; so they 
plotted a way around an actual vote on final passage.

For anyone who missed that, let me repeat. The House of 
Representatives will not be permitted a vote on the full underlying 
proposal. When Investors Business Daily calls this a dictatorship, they 
seem to have a point.

So what exactly is in this $183-250 billion bill that comes to us 
without any due process and will pass without a vote? Who can say for 
sure? But I know that at least $62 billion in new entitlements are 
included; $11 billion in unemployment insurance, and our friend Mr. 
Weller will be talking about this in a few minutes; and at least $51 
billion in benefits for veterans. Clearly, these are very, very 
important issues that need to be addressed.

I don't doubt that the Democratic majority will try to claim that 
Republicans don't care about our veterans or those facing economic 
hardship. We hear that time and time again. To the contrary, these are 
such critically important issues for us that we passionately believe 
that we must address them in a serious and deliberative way. It is 
simply not good enough to slap together a proposal without a single 
moment of testimony or debate, throw some money at our problems, and 
call it a day.

The very critical issues addressed in this bill, from funding for 
Iraq and Afghanistan to international food assistance to the 
tremendously important domestic programs, all of these deserve a 
substantive, deliberative process. We should have an opportunity to 
examine which of these are truly emergencies and which should be 
included in the regular appropriations process. And all of them should 
have the benefit of an open debate to ensure that we are addressing our 
priorities effectively.

This rule allows for none of this, Madam Speaker. It thwarts the 
rules and traditions that were put in place to guard against abuses of 
power, and it blocks consideration of even a single amendment, 
including the very thoughtful and responsible alternative proposed by 
the man sitting to my right here, the distinguished ranking member of 
the committee, Mr. Lewis. He's offered a clean supplemental 
appropriations bill which simply provides our troops the funding they 
need without bogging it down with all kinds of unrelated items or 
adding new policy that prevents them from carrying out their mission.

Our hope is to get this critical funding to our troops before 
Memorial Day, which is fast approaching. That's not an arbitrary 
deadline and it's not a gimmick. Our military commanders have told us 
that they desperately need this funding now, and we want to be able to 
go home for Memorial Day and tell our veterans and our military 
families that we passed a clean bill that funds our troops and their 
mission. We


want to tell them we crafted a bill without regard to politics, without 
regard to providing political cover or fodder for political ads. We 
simply gave the troops the funding they desperately need. Now, Madam 
Speaker, that's exactly what the distinguished ranking member, Mr. 
Lewis, should be able to provide, and I'm going to seek an opportunity 
for him to do just that.

But, unfortunately, the Democratic majority can't advance their 
flawed policies without shutting down the process. So they prefer 
closed rules to open debate. They prefer backroom deals to the 
transparent committee process. They prefer hollow, ill-gotten victories 
that die after the House vote to substantive, bipartisan legislation 
that is enacted into law. That's exactly what we need to do, Madam 
Speaker.

So I urge a ''no'' vote on the rule, and I am going to urge a ''no'' 
vote on the previous question.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.