# CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS
## `34175a22e714ec6a920ee46672e61bbd`
`Mr. BYRD — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, today marks the 136th day of the fiscal year. The 
fiscal year is over one-third complete. We will be debating House Joint 
Resolution 20, a joint funding resolution for the nine remaining 
appropriations bills that were not completed during the 109th Congress. 
The Republican leadership during the 109th Congress left us with a 
great deal of unfinished appropriations business. Only 2 of the 11 
appropriations bills were enacted into law; 13 of the 15 Federal 
Departments are struggling to cope with a very restrictive continuing 
resolution which expires at midnight this coming Thursday.

As I noted last week, this was not the fault of the Appropriations 
Committee. Under the able leadership of Chairman Thad Cochran, all of 
the fiscal year 2007 appropriations bills were reported from the 
committee by July 20. All--a-l-l--all of the bills were bipartisan 
bills approved by unanimous votes. Unfortunately, the Republican 
leadership of the 109th Congress chose not to bring domestic 
appropriations bills to the floor before the election and then chose 
not to finish those bills after the election. Instead, Congress passed 
a series of restrictive continuing resolutions.

If Congress were to simply extend the existing continuing 
resolutions, we would leave huge problems for veterans and military 
medical care, for education programs, law enforcement programs, funding 
for global AIDS, funding for energy independence, and funding for 
agencies that provide key services to the elderly, such as the Social 
Security Administration and the 1-800-Medicare call center.

In December, the new House of Representatives appropriations 
chairman, David Obey, and I plotted a bipartisan and bicameral course 
for dealing with this problem. Based on that plan, there were intense 
negotiations--intense negotiations--in January which included the 
majority and the minority in the House and the Senate.

I, as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, consulted with 
several Senators, and especially with Senator Thad Cochran, several 
times during that process, and his ranking members and their staffs 
were included throughout the process.

The resolution that is now before the Senate is the product of these 
efforts. The resolution, which totals $463.5 billion, meets several 
goals. Let me repeat the figure: $463.5 billion. That would be $463.50 
for every minute that has passed since our Lord, Jesus Christ, was 
born.

Get this. These are the goals: First, funding stays within the $873.8 
billion statutory cap on spending, the cap which was set during the 
109th Congress and which equals the President's request.

Second, the legislation does not--does not--include earmarks. We 
eliminated over 9,300 earmarks. Hopefully, the ethics reform bill will 
establish greater transparency and accountability in the earmarking 
process. Once the ethics reform bill is in place, we will establish a 
more open, disciplined,


and accountable process for congressional directives in the fiscal year 
2008 bill.

Third, there is no--there is no--emergency spending in this 
resolution.

Finally--finally--essential national priorities receive a boost in 
the legislation. To help pay for these priorities, we cut over $11 
billion from 125 different accounts and we froze spending at the 2006 
level for 450 accounts. These national priorities have broad bipartisan 
support, as noted in the White House Statement of Administration 
Policy. Many of these increases reflect administration priorities.

For veterans care, we include $32.3 billion, an increase of $3.6 
billion over the fiscal year 2006 level. For defense health 
initiatives, we include $21.2 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion over 
fiscal year 2006. To provide care for military members and their 
families, including treating servicemembers wounded in action in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, for the Labor, HHS, and Education bill, funding is 
increased by $2.3 billion.

Title I grants for our schools are funded at $12.8 billion, an 
increase of $125 million over fiscal year 2006, which will provide 
approximately 38,000 additional low-income children with intensive 
reading and math instruction. The legislation also funds the title I 
school improvement fund at $125 million to target assistance to the 
6,700 schools that failed to meet No Child Left Behind requirements in 
the 2005-2006 school year. For the first time in 4 years, we will have 
an increase in the maximum Pell higher education grant from $260 to 
$431.

The National Institutes of Health are funded at $28.9 billion, an 
increase of $620 million over fiscal year 2006.

Three hundred million dollars is included for the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Administration. Let me say that again. Three hundred million 
dollars is included for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, an increase of $23 million over fiscal year 2006, to 
allow the agency to continue its national efforts to hire and train new 
mine safety inspectors for safety in the Nation's 2,000 coal mines.

The legislation increases funding for Federal, State, and local law 
enforcement by $1.6 billion. According to the FBI, last year violent 
crime rose--went up--in America for the first time in 15 years.

Under the continuing resolution now in law, highway funding is 
frozen--frozen--at the 2006 level. Under this joint funding resolution, 
the Federal-Aid Highway Program is fully funded at the level guaranteed 
in the highway law.

The joint resolution includes $4.8 billion for global AIDS and 
malaria programs, an increase of $1.4 billion over fiscal year 2006.

Last week there was debate concerning the level of funding for the 
2005 base closure and realignment program. The resolution that is 
before the Senate provides $2.5 billion for the base closure and 
realignment 2005 program. This level is $1 billion--I say again--this 
level is $1 billion higher than the level available in the current 
continuing resolution the President signed on December 9. However, this 
level is $3.1 billion below the level requested by the President. I 
assure all Senators that the Appropriations Committee, of which I have 
the honor of being chairman, intends to address the $3.1 billion 
increase when the Senate takes up the $100 billion supplemental the 
President sent to the Congress last week. Last week. I have every 
expectation that the supplemental will be before the Senate next month. 
This being February, I have every expectation that the supplemental 
will be before the Senate next month.

Now, let me take a moment to review how we came to be where we are on 
funding the base closure account. Last year, under the very able and 
competent leadership of Chairman Thad Cochran, Senator Hutchison, and 
Senator Feinstein, the Senate Appropriations Committee reported out the 
Military Construction bill on July 20, which was over 6 months ago, and 
the bill included $5.2 billion for the base closure account. 
Unfortunately--I say unfortunately--that bill was never sent to the 
President. The President triggered the problem when he vowed to veto 
the fiscal year 2007 Defense bill unless the Senate added $5 billion--
$5 billion; that is $5 for every minute since Jesus Christ was born--$5 
billion to the Senate version of the Defense bill. This is the same $5 
billion the Senate Appropriations Committee had put toward addressing 
needs, such as funding the base closure account and funding veterans 
medical care.

The Republican leadership of the 109th Congress followed the 
President's lead, appropriated the $5 billion to the Defense bill, and 
did not send to the President the Military Construction-Veterans bill 
or eight of the other appropriations bills. Funding for BRAC was among 
the many victims of that decision. Thus, and therefore, it was left to 
the 110th Congress to solve the budgetary mess left by that decision.

While the extra $1 billion added to BRAC in this resolution does not 
bring the program up to the level of the President's budget request, it 
is sufficient--it is sufficient--to address one of the Defense 
Department's most urgent BRAC priorities; namely, the construction of 
facilities needed to bring U.S. troops back from Europe. The remaining 
$3.1 billion for the base closure effort can and will be addressed 
through the supplemental next month.

This is not a perfect resolution, but it is a thoughtful resolution. 
By complying with the statutory cap on spending, it is a fiscally 
disciplined resolution. By eliminating earmarks, it provides Congress 
with time to pass ethics reform legislation to increase transparency 
and accountability. By targeting resources toward national priorities, 
such as veterans and military medical care, we--the pronoun ''we''--
solve the most distressing of the problems created by the existing 
continuing resolution.

Now, looking ahead to the fiscal year 2008 bill, I am committed to 
working with my friend and colleague, Senator Thad Cochran, the ranking 
member from Mississippi, to bring--hear me--to bring 12 individual 
bipartisan and fiscally responsible fiscal year 2008 appropriation 
bills to the floor. When? When? This year.

However, on this, the 136th day of fiscal year 2007, adoption of 
House Joint Resolution 20 will ensure that we answer some of our 
Nation's most pressing needs and avoid an unnecessary Government 
shutdown. It is time to act. I urge swift--not Tom Swift, but swift 
adoption of the resolution.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum and I ask 
unanimous consent that the time be charged equally against both sides.