# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `341bbff2988549f0f92deba0958e3aae`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, after Congress has successfully 
completed action on the first 100 hours, we now begin a critical 100 
days for the future of our engagement in Iraq, United States policy in 
the Middle East and our struggle against violent fundamentalism. 
Between now and the Memorial Day recess, 100 days for Congress to 
reassert itself as a coequal branch of government, as envisioned by the 
framers of the Constitution, to change the course in Iraq.

This is a decisive moment. It is time for every one of us who would 
be a leader to lay our cards on the table. Each must be true to our own 
conscience and to the responsibility of office by letting the American 
people know honestly and directly what we stand for and what we would 
do in Iraq.

This resolution gives clear and concise voice to the desires of the 
American people. It expresses support for our troops and demands that 
we not place more of them at risk without a reason or a plan. And I 
strongly support it.

Along with this resolution, the Congress under Speaker Pelosi's 
Democratic leadership has already done more to provide oversight and 
accountability than Republicans over the last 5 years. We have held 50 
hearings on the conduct of the war, fraud and failure in reconstruction 
efforts, and the outrage of our troops being sent into harm's way 
without the equipment they need. I applaud the efforts of our 
leadership


on the Appropriations Committee to end the practice of giving too much 
to the wrong people to do the wrong thing.

However, these are only the first steps. We should not only oppose 
escalation of the war, but we should pass legislation to bring the war 
to an end responsibly. Investigations must be followed by specific and 
personal accountability for crimes that have been permitted in the 
conduct of this war.

We should use the power of the purse to ensure that funds go 
specifically to keep our soldiers safe, rebuild badly damaged military 
readiness, undertake new diplomatic efforts and support the Iraqi 
people, not an open-ended occupation.

For the last 2 years, I have been working with concerned citizens in 
Oregon to develop a responsible plan to end the war and provide the 
best hope for a better future in Iraq. Last month, I introduced 
comprehensive legislation, the New Direction For Iraq, H.R. 663, as a 
model for the kind of legislation that Congress should enact, and I am 
confident will enact.

This legislation would bring the troops home, require a comprehensive 
diplomatic effort, redirect reconstruction assistance, promote 
international efforts to disarm militias, investigate and punish war 
profiteering and deal with the 2 million Iraqi refugees who have been 
forced to flee their country, people the administration has only 
recently been able to recognize.

A word about Iran. It is a complex puzzle, more difficult than any of 
us imagine and one that poses real challenges. But as the President 
marches us closer and closer to a major provocation, maybe a new war, 
whether intentionally or not, Congress should not let itself be 
steamrolled or lied to, as it was with Iraq; Congress must assert 
itself with real diplomacy and a real strategy.

It is also time that America lived up to our ideals. No more torture, 
kidnapping and unauthorized wiretaps; no more lying and unnecessary 
secrecy; not treating the Constitution as a suggestion or using false 
claims about national security to score political points against those 
of us who have been right about this war from the beginning.

We must start treating the public like a partner and recognize that 
they are far ahead of the President and the Republican leadership. I am 
just frustrated to hear false analogies to the dark days of World War 
II or to the Civil War. We are bogged down in somebody else's civil 
war, and we have been doing it longer than World War II or the Civil 
War, with no end in sight, until now.

They should join us in taking this conversation to coffee shops, 
churches, campuses and conference rooms, working with the American 
people.

Over the next 100 days, I will continue to fight for a comprehensive 
plan that I am confident will come forward. It is in the honor of 
Travis Bradach Nall, a constituent of mine who was killed in Iraq the 
very day the President taunted the insurgents to ''bring it on.''

For Travis and over 3,000 of his brave comrades who have given their 
lives, I urge support of this resolution as a critical first step to 
bringing this tragic war to a close.