---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `341d7d4e7465b6a7b707ca3acba46f15`
`Ms. SUTTON — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I support this rule on a clear and concise resolution 
that expresses the will of the American people. Our troops are brave 
and capable. They have fought overwhelming odds and in the face of 
incomprehensible difficulty. They have engaged in many acts of heroism. 
And this resolution makes it unequivocally clear that those of us who 
feel it incumbent to speak out in opposition to the President's 
escalation nonetheless continue to support our troops.

All of us and all Americans support our troops. They must have and we 
must provide that which they need for any mission which they are sent. 
But Congress also has a responsibility to provide oversight, to ensure 
that our brave and honorable troops are provided a mission based on 
realistic assessments and an achievable goal before we ask them to risk 
life and limb to implement it.

The President has asked Congress and the American people to support 
his plan to escalate our involvement in the war in Iraq by sending an 
additional 20,000 troops, and that doesn't count the additional 20,000 
support personnel that will be part of the escalation.

This war is almost 4 years long now. Congress has not spoken as 
loudly and as clearly as its responsibility requires. As the 
Representative of the 13th District of Ohio, I cannot sit silent. I am 
opposed to the President's plan for escalation, and, as such, I fully 
support this rule and resolution.

The President's own military commanders and experts have advised 
against this course of action. My constituents and the American people 
have made their position known. People across this Nation voted for a 
change in direction in Iraq. The plan to escalate is directly 
contradictory to that call for change. It takes us further down the 
wrong path, getting us deeper and deeper with a policy that asks our 
military to accomplish the nonmilitary mission of creating a viable, 
unified government in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I support the rule and resolution.

