---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `342d8fc4416be29b47e6d2e6c6e728ea`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I want to thank my colleague.

Before I introduce another one of our esteemed colleagues from the 
class of 2006, when you talk about your observations after having gone 
to Iraq, and many of our colleagues have gone, sometimes I think people 
get the impression that we're just acting like any other pundit talking 
on television. But, in fact, what you're doing and what the other 
Members of our body have done when they go to Iraq is to fulfill their 
responsibilities under article I. Because article I says that Congress 
shall have the power to provide for the common defense, it says to 
raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a Navy, to make rules 
for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces, and so 
forth, to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining, this is the 
militia. But all of these powers and responsibilities are given to the 
Congress not just to say okay to the President, the Commander in Chief, 
but to make the decisions as to what the appropriate levels of support 
for those various responsibilities are.

So when we talk about going to Iraq to assess the situation there, to 
talk to our troops, that is not just to go for a matter of curiosity or 
journalistic curiosity, it's actually to fulfill our responsibilities 
because we are responsible to make decisions as to what appropriate 
levels of support are.

And with that, I would like to call on my distinguished colleague 
from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison).