---
---

# PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007
## `34321de4c9e6672efeb6b02c2564d838`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. As I said, as we deal with this bill, 18 days is a long 
time, yet the leadership of this House still has done nothing to 
appoint conferees on the Senate bill to modernize the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act, which passed the Senate with 
overwhelming bipartisan support and is supported by a majority of the 
House. The Democratic leadership continues to block this bill, even 
though a number of responsible Democrats support it and the bill will 
pass if brought to the floor.

It was 18 days ago, it was 3 weeks ago that it was brought to the 
floor to have a 3-week extension, on top of a 2-week extension, on top 
of a 6-month extension. It is time to move this bill forward and to 
again give our intelligence community the tools that they need, the 
enhanced tools that many recognized after 9/11 that the intelligence 
community needed to keep America safe. It is time to bring up the 
Senate-passed FISA bill.

In the 18 days since the expiration of the Protect America Act, we 
have already seen multiple examples where our country's ability to 
follow up on potential threats has been significantly impaired.

In Tampa, the Transportation Security Administration stopped a man 
trying to board a plane with a box cutter in his backpack. Officers 
also found books in the backpack titled ''Muhammad in the Bible,'' 
''The Prophet's Prayer,'' and ''The Noble Qur'an.'' There may be 
instances in that situation where there may be intelligence clues that 
we would want to follow up. We want to know whether there are any 
connections to foreign terrorists and whether at that very moment there 
may be other people in other airports trying to board planes with box 
cutters.

We don't want our intelligence officials to have to wait for lawyers 
to fill out voluminous paperwork in order to obtain permission from a 
Federal judge to follow up on those leads. Precious time could have 
been lost while an attack was in progress.

Last Friday, authorities found toxic ricin, or perhaps toxic ricin, 
in a hotel room in Las Vegas. Absent any evidence in the hotel room to 
prove probable cause that the ricin was tied to international 
terrorists, it may have been impossible for the intelligence community 
to follow up on any evidence that may have pointed to a suspected tie 
with foreign terrorists.

These are the things that happen in the United States. When you take 
a look at other things that are happening around the world, our troops 
in harm's way in both Iraq and Afghanistan, our brave men and women who 
are serving in the embassies in the Foreign Service around the world 
today, it is important that our intelligence community be given the 
tools and the techniques to keep Americans, our servicemen, our 
embassies, and our foreign personnel safe.

It has now been 18 days. The majority promised us that they could 
deal with this issue, first they said in 6 months, then they said in 2 
weeks, then they said in 3 weeks. It has clearly been much more time 
than that, and every day that we delay, we lose a little bit of our 
capability to track the threats that face this country.

The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee has said the same 
thing. The Director of National Intelligence has said the same thing. 
So now for 18 days our capabilities have slowly been eroding, but each 
day piles on to the loss that we had from the day before.

There are real threats out there. There are real threats to 
Americans, to our troops, and to other individuals serving overseas. It 
is time to make sure that our intelligence community has all of the 
tools that it needs to keep America safe. We need to join with the 
Senate. We need to join with the 68 in the other body who 
overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan FISA modernization bill that gives 
the intelligence community the tools that they need to keep America 
safe.

I call on my colleagues and the leadership on the other side of the 
aisle to support this motion to recommit, to send a clear signal, and 
then to move forward on an overall bill. Because if this passes today, 
what it will do is send a clear signal.
















 point of order
