# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `34354f174207433dd0f9058ed0485e61`
`Mr. SUNUNU — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SUNUNU. The amendment, as I have described it, is a simple, 
single line that inserts that additional contingency. I think the 
reporting and the assessment of the threats that are included in this 
amendment make sense. Members of Congress along with members of our 
intelligence agencies need the most accurate information available to 
understand what work is being undertaken, what efforts are being made, 
and what progress is in tracking these terrorists. I think that, in 
turn, will help us make much better policy decisions.

So I am pleased to support the amendment. I hope the Senator from 
North Dakota will accept my second-degree amendment, and I look forward 
to the adoption of this change to the Defense Authorization bill.

Second, Mr. President, I wish to address the Salazar-Alexander 
amendment that has been filed, which we certainly hope to have a vote 
on next week. This is a piece of legislation that I worked with 
Senators Salazar and Alexander on addressing the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group.

The Iraq Study Group was a bipartisan effort covered extensively in 
the media since the release of their recommendations in December 2006. 
I made the point at the time, 7 months ago, that those 
recommendations--there were over 70 different proposals and 
recommendations in the report--represented the most complete assessment 
that had been made of the situation in Iraq. That it was a 
comprehensive framework, and that it did not just deal with security 
issues but included recommendations addressing political reforms that 
need to take place within the country with the political dynamics of 
Iraq. That it included diplomatic efforts that could make a real 
difference in stabilizing Iraq, supporting the efforts of neighbors and 
other countries in the region, as well as changes that ought to be made 
to our intelligence-gathering operation to support not just our effort 
in Iraq but our effort to deal with al-Qaida in Iraq and around the 
world. This is something that Senator Dorgan spoke about.

I said at the time that, that framework and those recommendations 
should be embraced and implemented to the greatest extent possible, 
first, because it is a comprehensive effort, and second, because the 
Iraq Study Group proposals recognize the importance and responsibility 
of the Iraqi Government implementing a series of reforms. They include 
economic development, reconciliation, the sharing of oil revenues with 
peoples of all regions and ethnic groups across the country, the 
debaathification process--designed to bring the country closer 
together, to create greater unity among the different ethnic factions 
across Iraq. Only the Iraqi Government, given time, can accomplish 
these goals which are essential to improving the stability within the 
region, reducing the level of violence and creating the environment 
where our troops can be brought home as soon as possible. No American 
soldier should serve in Iraq a day longer than is absolutely necessary.

This plan is comprehensive in its approach. It recognizes the 
importance and the responsibility of the Iraqi Government to take steps 
to improve the situation, and it places an emphasis on the coalition 
mission, the mission of U.S. forces, in addressing the threat of al-
Qaida, focusing on the counterterrorism mission within the country, and 
training Iraqi security forces.

This is one of the few and perhaps the only truly broad bipartisan 
effort we have had before us in the last several months. We have seen a 
series of relatively partisan votes dealing with hard withdrawal dates, 
criticizing the Pentagon policy in one area or another. On this 
legislation right now we have seven Democratic sponsors, six or seven 
Republican sponsors, and I think the support we would receive from both 
sides of the aisle is even more dramatic than that. So it is a 
bipartisan effort that attempts to implement or help encourage the 
implementation of the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. I think 
that provides a very sound and strong framework, not just for improving 
the situation in Iraq but for also addressing a lot of the regional 
problems that are contributing to its stability in the other countries 
in the region.


I would encourage all of my colleagues to take a hard look at this 
legislation. I don't think anyone would agree with 100 percent of all 
of the recommendations in the Iraq Study Group Report, but I think we 
can recognize that it is the product of a great deal of effort to 
understand the situation, assess the climate in Iraq, and make 
substantive recommendations that will move us forward.

I encourage my colleagues to support the amendment.
