---
---

# SBIR/STTR REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2009
## `344540fb28d88df6881acd6efd33bb08`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 13 July 2009`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to support passage 
of S. 1233, the SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act of 2009, with an 
amendment from Dr. Coburn and Senator Feingold.

This legislation is important because it reauthorizes two extremely 
successful programs--the Small Business Innovation Research and Small 
Business Technology Transfer programs--otherwise known as SBIR and 
STTR. These programs foster partnerships between small businesses and 
the Federal Government to develop cutting-edge products and 
technologies important to our country. The bill makes improvements to 
these programs that will allow them to work better for small 
businesses, while contributing to our economy, fulfilling the priority 
research needs of the Nation, and expanding and diversifying our 
military's supply base.

The SBIR program expires on July 31, 2009, so time is of the essence 
for Congress to pass this legislation and get it to President Obama's 
desk. While we need to act fast, we have not acted in haste. We have 
given these programs full deliberation with numerous hearings, 
roundtables, and meetings since 2006, including a hearing on July 12, 
2006, a roundtable on August 1, 2007, a roundtable on October 18, 2007, 
and a roundtable on June 4, 2009. We have also reviewed the nine 
studies by the National Research Council, and studies by the Government 
Accountability Office, on the SBIR program since it was last authorized 
in 2000 to help guide the committee in drafting not only this bill, S. 
1233, but also the SBIR and STTR reauthorization bills that the 
committee adopted unanimously in the 109th Congress, S. 3778, and in 
the 110th Congress, S. 3362.

The SBIR and STTR programs are two of the very few Federal programs 
that tap into the scientific and technical community found in America's 
small businesses. As I noted earlier, these programs foster government-
industry partnerships by making competitive awards to firms with the 
best scientific proposals in response to the research needs of our 
agencies and by helping to move technologies from the lab to the 
marketplace or from the lab to insertion in a government program or 
system.

The SBIR program was designed in 1982 to harness the innovative 
capacity of America's small businesses to meet the needs of our Federal 
agencies and


to help grow small, high-tech firms that, in turn, grow local economies 
all across the Nation. The STTR program was originally created as a 
pilot program in 1992 to stimulate partnerships between small 
businesses and nonprofit research institutions, such as universities 
like LSU and Louisiana Tech.

Since their inception, both programs have exceeded all expectations, 
playing an unprecedented role in stimulating technological innovation, 
in allowing small business to meet Federal research and development 
needs, and in providing seed capital for small business to develop 
ideas until they are able to attract outside investment.

The SBIR program has awarded more than $24 billion to more than 
100,000 projects since it started. Recipients of SBIR and STTR awards 
have produced more than 85,000 patents and have generated millions of 
well-paying jobs across all 50 States. Both programs have garnered high 
praise from well-respected sources, and governments around the world 
are increasingly adopting SBIR-type programs to encourage innovation in 
their countries.

In drafting this bill, we had many policy goals and interests to 
balance. We wanted to improve the diversity of the programs, 
geographically and otherwise, so that more States and individuals could 
participate in Federal research and development for our country. We 
also wanted to maintain a fair playing field so true small businesses 
could continue to compete for this very small percent of the overall 
Federal R&D budget. We wanted to encourage exploration of high-risk, 
cutting-edge research. These goals, along with many others, were taken 
into consideration in forging this bill. We made a number of important 
compromises in this legislation--and the result is a fair bill that 
will maintain the strength of these programs.

To keep these innovation programs strong, the bill reauthorizes the 
programs for 8 years, as reflected in the amendment by Dr. Coburn, 
instead of 14 years as adopted by the committee; increases the SBIR 
program allocation by 1 percent, from 2.5 to 3.5 percent, at all 
agencies, including the NIH, spread out over 10 years; increases the 
STTR program allocation from .3 percent to .6 percent spread out over 6 
years; makes firms majority owned and controlled by multiple venture 
capital firms eligible for up to 18 percent of the SBIR funds at NIH 
and up to 8 percent of the funds at the other agencies; and increases 
the award guidelines for SBIR and STTR awards from $100,000 to $150,000 
for Phase I and from $750,000 to $1 million for Phase II.

The bill also reauthorizes and enhances the Federal and State 
Technology Partnership Program, or FAST Program, that was created by 
Senator Bond in 2000, and the Rural Outreach Program, programs that 
have been very effective in States such as Louisiana and Missouri in 
increasing the participation of small business in Federal research and 
development and the start-up of high-tech firms; strengthens the Office 
of Technology at the SBA so that it has the authority and resources to 
carry out its duty to oversee the SBIR and STTR programs across the 
government; streamlines and improves data collection and reporting 
requirements for the SBIR and STTR programs, including developing 
metrics for annual evaluations by each participating agency, as 
reflected in the amendment by Dr. Coburn; helps SBIR and STTR companies 
move their technologies across the ''valley of death'' between the lab 
and the marketplace and into products and technologies for the 
agencies; and addresses ''jumbo'' awards, those awards that have 
greatly exceeded the $100,000 and $750,000 guidelines for Phase I and 
Phase II and cut out other businesses.

Reauthorizing these programs will ensure that small businesses 
continue to play a part in our Federal research and development. 
Currently, small businesses receive only about 4 percent of Federal 
research and development dollars despite the fact that they employ 
nearly 40 percent of America's scientists and engineers, produce more 
than 14 times more patents than large businesses and universities, and 
produce patents that are of higher quality and are more than twice as 
likely to be cited. This legislation will help maintain and improve the 
role of small businesses in our Federal research and development.

The SBIR and STTR programs have spurred so many amazing technologies. 
I would just like to share a few of them with you here today. Among the 
technologies pioneered by SBIR-funded small businesses are a machine 
that uses lasers and computer cameras to sort and inspect bullets at a 
much finer level than the human eye can manage, the technology that 
creates the ''invisible'' condensation trail of the B-2 bomber, a 
therapeutic drug to treat chronic inflammatory disease, and a nerve gas 
protection system.

With regard to the bullet sorting technology, developed by CyberNet 
Systems, a small, women-owned business located in Ann Arbor, MI, and 
currently in use in Iraq and Afghanistan, that SBIR technology is 
estimated to have saved taxpayers more than $300 million. Those are 
real cost savings and tangible technological improvement.

In Louisiana, one company that has had great success in recent years 
is Network Foundation Technologies, known as NiFTy. I visited this 
company in Ruston, LA, a rural part of the State, in August 2008 and 
was extremely impressed. NiFTy used an SBIR grant from the National 
Science Foundation to develop technology that permits live streaming 
video over the Internet without using large amounts of bandwidth. They 
have been particularly successful bringing sporting events live over 
the Internet. NiFTy has grown to more than 40 employees, many drawn 
from the ranks of the Louisiana Tech science and engineering programs. 
These are new, high-paying jobs that have been a strong asset to north 
Louisiana's economy.

SBIR is a program that helps spur technology research and innovation 
in areas you would not normally think of as high-tech corridors. Folks 
think of California or Massachusetts, but not our growing high-tech 
corridor in rural north Louisiana. LA Tech, UL-Monroe, Grambling 
University, LSU-Shreveport, and Centenary College are all in that 
corridor. For those who don't know, Ruston is between Monroe and 
Shreveport, and LA Tech helps attract good companies because we have 
good scientists and engineers. With SBIR and STTR, those entrepreneurs 
started a company.

It is stories such as these that make the SBIR and STTR programs so 
special to the economic and technological growth of this country. I 
want to once again thank all those involved for their hard work on this 
legislation, particularly our ranking member, Senator Snowe, and her 
staff, as well as Senator Levin and his staff on the Committee on Armed 
Services, Senator Durbin and his Appropriations staff, and Dr. Coburn 
and Senator Feingold on the final amendment to the bill. It is my hope 
that we can now pass this bill in the Senate and work expeditiously 
with the House to get a bill on President Obama's desk before July 31.