---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3449b44009ea6a73f38724db927f1dfd`
`Mr. BUNNING — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss my strong 
feelings about our dialog in Congress on the war in Iraq. I am 
concerned not only with the defeatist message some of us are sending 
our brave men and women in our Armed Forces on a daily basis but also 
with the message being sent to terrorists and those who wish to harm 
us. Instead of focusing our attention this week on how to provide our 
Armed Forces with the best equipment possible to complete their 
mission, many in this body continue to play political games with the 
war. This political game is deflating troop morale and strengthening 
our enemies.

Some of our colleagues believe they know the situation on the ground 
in Iraq better than my friend General Petraeus, the commander of the 
multinational force in Iraq. They believe we should begin a withdrawal 
of our troops from Iraq. The people who are best qualified to decide 
our troop levels are the commanders on the ground, not the politicians 
in Washington, DC.

I wish to talk specifically to the Democrats who want to immediately 
withdraw. Contrary to what the base of the Democratic Party may think, 
this war is not a Republican war and it is not just a President Bush 
war; it is an American war. When we vote to send troops into battle, 
they fight under the American flag. If we win or lose in Iraq, the 
United States of America wins or loses--not the Republican Party and 
not just President Bush.

I saw yesterday the Democratic Senatorial Committee is now running 
ads in selected States asking Republican Senators to vote to 
immediately bring our troops home from Iraq. I watched the ads. I 
played them on my television, and I played them on the computers in my 
office. Not surprisingly, they did not mention once what would happen 
if American forces withdrew quickly from Iraq. Nor did they mention 
that the head of the DSCC and the Senate majority leader voted to 
authorize the war. There is a shocker.

If we take the advice of the political arm of the Senate Democrats 
and pull out of Iraq, chaos will rule the day in Iraq and spread 
throughout the Middle East, in spite of what some of our colleagues on 
the other side have said.

That is why many of the Democrats who want to bring our troops home 
now don't talk about the harsh consequences of pulling out. This is 
precisely why we should not politicize war in 30-second sound bites.

I also wish to briefly address my Republican colleagues who may be 
feeling the political pressure back home as we debate this war. Our 
constituents sent us to Washington, DC, to make tough decisions, not to 
cast votes based on public opinion polls. Many of you know the 
consequences of pulling out of Iraq. I know because we have talked 
about it in our conferences. But stay strong enough until September, 
when General Petraeus will brief us on the effects of the change in 
strategy. Let us all then reevaluate the changes we made. The changes 
we made have only been fully implemented for less than a month. I 
acknowledge that the signs of success have been slow and, yes, many 
mistakes have been made with past strategies. But that is how war is. 
Mistakes sometimes are made. We learned from our mistakes and we moved 
forward with a new strategy. This new strategy is now in place.

General Petraeus is working, with the increase of thousands of 
American troops, to bring safety and stability to Baghdad and Anbar 
Province, putting insurgents on the run. The partnership between the 
United States and Iraqi forces against terrorist insurgents is 
increasing. Last month, more than 10,000 Iraqi tribes in the Baghdad 
area reached agreements with the United


States and Iraqi forces for the first time to oppose al-Qaida. These 
tribe members fought alongside al-Qaida in the past, and they are now 
providing our troops with information about their former allies.


We are at a critical point in our fight against al-Qaida and the 
extreme terrorist insurgents. I urge my colleagues to look at the long-
term consequences of prematurely abandoning our mission in Iraq. Anyone 
who believes we can bring an abrupt end to our involvement in this 
conflict and still conduct successful counterterrorism operations in 
Iraq is wrong. Defeat in Iraq will come with a hefty price that will be 
paid by future generations of Americans. If the United States leaves, 
there will be a regional explosion of Islamic terrorism and extremism 
that will throw the entire Middle East into greater upheaval. The Iraqi 
Government may well collapse and throw the country into a state of 
chaos. Iran will dominate the Middle East, and our national security 
will be severely compromised.

It is because of these consequences that we should allow General 
Petraeus and the troop surge the opportunity to succeed. We cannot pull 
the rug out from underneath him right after we give him more tools to 
try to succeed in his mission. That would be both irresponsible and 
unfair. We promised to give him until September to report back with the 
progress on the surge, and we should hold true to this promise. That is 
2 months from now--2 months from now.

Finally, I also wish to address the efforts made by some of my 
colleagues across the aisle to overturn effective policies that we have 
in place to fight against terrorism.

I oppose changing the 2006 Military Commissions Act to give legal 
rights to suspected terrorists. Detained enemy combatants are not 
ordinary criminal defendants and are not entitled to a trial in a 
civilian court, or to habeas corpus review.

Make no mistake about it, these terrorists are at war with us and we 
should treat them like it. We already have the mechanisms in place for 
detainees to challenge their enemy combatant status. These procedures 
are more protective of detainees' rights than any military commission 
in American history.

I find it ridiculous that we are faced with debating this issue 
again. The Senate has already voted on four separate occasions in the 
past 2 years to ensure that suspected terrorists do not have automatic 
access to Federal courts to challenge the legality of their detention.

How many more times are we going to be forced to vote on this issue? 
Let me be clear. I oppose weakening our current procedures. The changes 
being proposed will only end up strengthening the rights of terrorists.

I also oppose efforts to close the detention facility at Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba. I realize there have been several negative reports and 
stories in the media in the past about this facility.

Let me set the record straight. The vision of Guantanamo Bay the 
media tries to portray to the American people is very different from 
the reality of the facility. I have personally visited the facility at 
Guantanamo Bay and found it to be nothing like what is described in the 
media. The facility includes air-conditioning, good meals, religious 
worship areas, and a top-notch hospital and health care facility. The 
terrorists there are treated with dignity while they show contempt for 
our troops. Don't forget that these terrorists are the worst of the 
worst. They are all extremely dangerous.

The job our troops do there is critical to our war effort. If those 
terrorists stay locked up there, they cannot harm us and they cannot 
bomb and do all the things that are being done presently more 
effectively in Iraq by being detained in Guantanamo Bay. And they do 
provide us with intelligence.

I applaud our troops for their efforts. They are working very hard to 
secure our freedom. It is thanks to their efforts and those made in the 
war in Iraq and the war on terrorism that our Nation's freedoms remain 
protected. The brave men and women of our Armed Forces and their 
families sacrifice on a daily basis for our freedoms because they 
believe their mission is too great to fail. I ask my colleagues: Are we 
really ready to declare their mission already lost? Are we really ready 
to do that when we finally have discovered a new method of attack?

I, for one, am ready to stand behind our troops and stand side by 
side with General Petraeus. I will vote against any amendments that 
restrict the flexibility of our military commanders to run this war or 
hurt our fight to end terrorism. I urge my colleagues to do the same.

I yield the floor.