# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `3464d0805a42d9672bf6f22b3799333d`
`Mr. SPRATT â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 
207, recognizing the 60th anniversary of the United States Air Force as 
an independent military service. I thank my colleague from New Mexico, 
Heather Wilson, in particular, for her partnership and collaboration in 
helping to bring this bipartisan measure before the House. I want also 
to recognize the outstanding leadership of the cochairs of the Air 
Force Caucus, Cliff Stearns of Florida, Sam Johnson of Texas, and Jim 
Marshall of Georgia for their participation.

Sixty years ago in July, President Truman and Congress distilled the 
lessons learned in World War II into landmark legislation known as the 
National Security Act of 1947. On September 18, the Armed Forces were 
reorganized under a Department of Defense, and the Air Force was 
established as a military department coequal to the Departments of the 
Army and the Navy.

The question of whether air forces should be a service on their own 
separate from the ground forces arose long before it was resolved in 
the National Security Act of 1947. Over a period of 40 years, airmen 
earned that recognition, beginning with the Aeronautical Division's 
earliest exploits in 1907, followed by the derring-do of the Army Air 
Service in World War I, and then by the superior performance of the 
Army Air Corps, later the Army Air Forces, in World War II. America's 
airmen performed well; so well, in fact, that when battles were fought 
in the air, they were won decisively, making air superiority a standing 
assumption.

This tradition started during World War II, with aviators like 
General Doolittle. During the war in North Africa and Europe, General 
Eisenhower and General Spaatz, as commander of the Army Air Forces, 
worked well together. General Eisenhower came to appreciate the 
capabilities of air power and the role of the Air Force in achieving 
victory. He called General Spaatz, ''the best operational airman in the 
world,'' and became persuaded that the Air Force should exist alongside 
and equal to the Army and the Navy. Ike compared this arrangement to a 
three-legged stool, where each leg is essential to the whole. It's a 
principle alive, well, and working today.

Since its origin, the Air Force has stayed abreast of our national 
security requirements, adding missiles to aircraft, and through a long 
cold war, deterring any attack upon our country. The Air Force is 
typically called when we need to gain air superiority with troops and 
materiel, when and wherever the need arises. Its airlift and tanker 
capabilities give us the advantage of remote presence. Its satellites 
supply us with surveillance and communication capabilities that are the 
gold standard, surpassing anything that any other country in the world 
possesses. Not only has the Air Force achieved a technical overmatch 
against our adversaries in the air, but in space and cyberspace as 
well.

In today's Air Force, over 700,000 ''Total Force Airmen'' are at work 
as we speak, exercising vigilance, reach, and power around the world. 
They are operating intelligence and reconnaissance aircraft and 
spacecraft, supplying early warning, real-time intelligence, and 
situational awareness to the war fighters on the ground. They are a 
critical presence in the battle space of Afghanistan and Iraq. They are 
lifting cargo and passengers, and using refueling assets to build air 
bridges, projecting power, and sustaining the fight.

Although the hardware tends to get the headlines, it is the people 
who make it work and who make the Air Force what it is. When General 
Horner came home from the Persian Gulf in 1991, I asked him who were 
the unsung heroes, and he answered without hesitation, ''Well, for one, 
it is our NCOs; their quality has literally gone out of sight.'' I was 
reminded of what General Horner said when I was at Shaw Air Force Base 
not long ago and met with the Fighting 20th and its wing commander, 
Colonel Post, along with airmen and women, many of them about to 
deploy. They will be part of some 35,000 other airmen deployed around 
the globe. Because of them and others like them, we have the best Air 
Force in the world, bar none.

This concurrent resolution is our way, as Members of Congress and 
citizens of this Nation, of expressing our appreciation, of recognizing 
the United States Air Force, its leaders and airmen, for consistently 
proving their worth to our Nation and helping make this the land of the 
free and the home of the brave.

Let me conclude with the resolving clause: That Congress remembers, 
honors, and commends the achievements of the United States Air Force in 
serving and defending our country on the 60th anniversary of the 
creation of the United States Air Force as an independent military 
service.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.