---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `346e21128f3043f0dd5782fb9f79676b`
`Mr. WELDON of Florida — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thought freedom was worth 
fighting for. I thought, when we saw all those Iraqis risk their lives 
to go and


vote and establish a government and establish a Constitution and to 
have, possibly, freedom of speech, that was something worth our level 
of effort. If you actually go over there and talk to those people, you 
find out that it is a minority that is trying to break the will of this 
body. That is what is going on.

What I object to in this bill is the way you have brought this to the 
floor. You have got subsidies for spinach. You know, my constituents 
are asking, who put that in the bill, Popeye? Why don't you let us have 
a vote on whether or not we want to attach funding for peanut farmers 
and funding for spinach farmers to a war supplemental?

Yes, why don't we have a vote on the Murtha language? Why are you 
denying us an opportunity, this body, a Democratic institution, the 
ability to say collectively as a majority, we think this kind of 
language is what we want to have?

I don't deny the gentleman from Pennsylvania, as the chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Defense, to put forward his plan. Even though he is not 
the Commander in Chief, the way I read the Constitution, he can do 
that. But the way I also read the Constitution and the Federalist 
papers, we are supposed to have some kind of a vote, and you are just 
bringing this thing forward under a closed rule.

I personally think that is a disgrace, what is going on here. I am 
going to vote against this bill. I hope, as we move forward in this 
process, democracy, which the Iraqis are willing to risk their lives 
for, will someday be reinstituted in this body here.