---
---

# THE CONCEPT OF THE DIRECTION OF LEADERSHIP IN THE HOUSE OF  REPRESENTATIVES
## `3489fe3ad0f81c0bc7fd67bfa94425c5`
`Mr. CARTER — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank the Speaker for allowing me to speak tonight. I'm 
back again to talk about issues that are important, I think, to this 
House. They are important to the American people, and they are 
especially important to the concept of leadership in this House of 
Representatives and just where it is going to go.

I want to go back for a moment before we go into current events and 
talk about some past events, when the Democratic majority took over the 
House of Representatives. In the lead-up prior to that time, we were 
having these speeches made by the presumed new Speaker of the House, 
Ms. Pelosi, about what we could expect from the new Congress. Now, this 
is not the first time I have mentioned this. But let's remind you 
again, to all the Members of this House, this is a quote from Nancy 
Pelosi in 2006: ''The American people voted to restore integrity and 
honesty in Washington, DC, and the Democrats intend to lead the most 
honest, the most open, and most ethical Congress in history.''

Now, this was the goal that was set up by the Speaker of the House. 
And she has now been serving as the Speaker of the House for two terms. 
And this was her mantra of what this House would stand for. And without 
getting off into the weeds of the internal politics of Rules Committee 
and stuff like that, which bores people to tears, I'm just talking 
about this honest, ethical and open-about-it Congress that we were 
promised.

In another speech, the Speaker of the House, the then presumed 
Speaker of the House, made the statement that what she was going to do 
was if the Democrats got to be in charge of this House, they were going 
to drain the swamp, that there was this culture of corruption that had 
created a swamp, and that they were going to drain the swamp and expose 
the corruption, and they were going to expose the misdeeds.

Now, I'm not here to tell you that there were not misdeeds that were 
brought forward. I'm not sure the Democrats had anything to do with 
exposing them. But they certainly came out through the process at that 
period of time. People went to prison, and rightfully so. They broke 
the law. But I will say that the leadership at that time went forward 
with those efforts, and they reached the unfortunate conclusion that 
several people went to prison. Several people had to leave the 
Congress.

But that doesn't mean because they found issues in the Republican 
Party that those were the only issues that were here. And for the last 
6 or 8 weeks, I have been trying to say, who is going to look at these 
other issues? I'm not accusing anybody. I'm saying that accusations are 
being made by the press. Accusations are being made by other people. 
And they seem to fall on deaf ears. They seem to fall on the deaf ears 
of the leadership of the Democratic majority in this Congress. And they 
seem to fall upon the deaf ears of the so-called Ethics Committee, 
whose job it is to look into these things. And so we keep raising these 
issues wondering what is going on.

But now I have even more concerns. And these concerns are things that 
I think everybody is going to be concerned about. Because if you woke 
up on Sunday morning and you turned on the television, you saw that 
people are storming the streets of Iran. And people are getting killed 
because of an election. That is a pressure point now in our world that 
is as big a pressure point as Afghanistan or Iraq or any other place 
because it has the potential that nuclear weapons could be involved. We 
don't know exactly where Iran is on their development of their nuclear 
weapons, but we certainly know they are working on it. And they make no 
bones about it.

So we have got a possible nuclear power where there is a turmoil 
going on, and we are sort of sitting over here being quiet about it. 
And maybe that is the right thing to do. The President seems to be 
taking a position of kind of hands-off. And there certainly is a school 
that believes that is the right thing to do. And I'm not criticizing 
that. But I am saying that that is a thing that every American, and 
certainly every Member of this body, should be concerned about, because 
it could be a world-changing event that comes out of Iran. And it could 
be a world-changing event for the negative.

So why do I raise this? Well, that very same day, that very same day 
we heard more from our longtime adversary, the North Koreans. I'm 
ashamed to have to say this, but I'm old enough to remember the end of 
the Korean war. I was just a little kid, but I do remember. And we 
never made peace with the North Koreans. We made an armistice. We 
decided that we would time-out, no more war. And they went on their 
side of the 38th parallel, and the South Koreans went on our side of 
the 38th parallel.

Since that time, one of the great, miraculous transformations of an 
area has taken place in South Korea. And now when you visit South 
Korea, it is a prosperous nation. It has a functioning democratic 
government. And the South Koreans have a lot of bragging rights. They 
have a lot to be proud of.

Meanwhile, the North Koreans stayed in their same Soviet socialist-
type republic, a communist regime. And, basically, with the exception 
of building a gigantic army, they have accomplished nothing since 1954, 
1956, except to stir up a lot of trouble in that area and to develop 
nuclear weapons and a missile system.

Now, there are some that think that the North Koreans are just in 
this business to sell these weapons to other people and to give them 
something that they can trade, because they basically are practically 
without trade resources. But others like me fear that the North Koreans 
are just unstable enough that they can use the weapons in this army to 
kick open the doors to the second Korean war, or worse, a regional war.



They have done some things that in the past would have created havoc 
in countries. They fired missiles in the direction of Japan two or 
three times, and shot a couple of them over Japan. Here is a sovereign 
nation having a missile fired over their territory. They don't know 
what that missile is carrying or what it could do to their country if 
it came down. That is as close to an aggressive act as I think you can 
get without hitting somebody.

And now they have announced to us specifically and to the world in 
general that they are going to test one of their longer-range missiles 
by firing it at Hawaii, a State in this Union. They could just as well 
be firing it at Idaho, or Alaska, or Texas, or Georgia or Maine. A 
sovereign State of this Nation--they have told us that they are going 
to fire a missile in that direction, basically at that State.



Now they are pompous and blowhards, but we don't know what they are 
really going to do. And we do know that they have tested nuclear 
weapons very recently, so they have nuclear capability.

Why do I bring these things up in relationship to the atmosphere 
created in this House by the failure of leadership to address issues 
that are part of draining the swamp? It is because I am going to make 
the argument that what has gone on in this House in the conversation 
between our Speaker and the CIA about who is telling the truth and who 
is not has a direct influence on these two Sunday morning news stories 
and others. Because yes, we folks sitting around the breakfast table, 
we get our information about what is going on in the world from the 
press. But you better hope, and having been a trial judge and told 
juries this for 20 years, you better hope that somebody is getting 
better information than what is in the press. And no offense to the 
press, but let's face it; they get it wrong once in awhile. And what we 
depend on is an intelligence system that doesn't get it wrong. We 
depend on an intelligence system that when they come to us and tell us 
that this is what our intelligence tells us, we feel that is fairly 
reliable news. We can't disclose it because it is top secret, but we 
can depend on our intelligence officials to come forward and give us 
information.

Now we have had this issue of enhanced interrogation of prisoners 
that has been an ongoing issue throughout the election, and now that 
the Democrats are in charge it continues to be, that we are a torturing 
Nation. Some people label it as torture and some people label it as 
enhanced interrogation. Whatever you call it, there was an issue 
whether or not the members of the Intelligence Committee of this House 
were informed about this when they started to do it.

Now those Members that have had the opportunity to speak have 
indicated, and that which was not top secret, that there were briefings 
on this issue. The Speaker of the House has said they are lying, I was 
never told about these enhanced interrogations. And she has repeated 
that until she realized, which we pointed out on the floor of the 
House, that lying to the United States Congress is a crime. Here is the 
statute: Except as otherwise provided in this section, whoever in any 
manner within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or 
judicial branches of the Government of the United States, knowingly and 
willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or 
device a material fact, makes any material, false, fictitious, 
fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false 
writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false or 
fictitious fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under this 
title, imprisoned not more than 5 years if the offense involves 
international or domestic terrorism, as defined in section 2331, 
imprisoned not more than 8 years, or both. If the matter relates to an 
offense under chapter 109A, 109B, 110, or 117, of section 1591, then 
the term of imprisonment imposed under this section shall be not more 
than 8 years.

Without going off on what is in these other sections, what this says, 
under our criminal law of the Federal Government, if you are lying 
about a material fact, and there can be nothing more material than the 
functions of our Intelligence Committee and our intelligence community 
and their relationship and whether or not something happened, and to 
accuse them of being unreliable and lying is accusing them of a crime.

By this accusation, by saying they didn't tell the truth, they never 
briefed me, she is accusing those people who did that, made that 
statement that we briefed of committing a crime. It may be a crime that 
only puts you in prison for 5 years and gives you a fine, or it could 
carry over to whatever these sections pertain to to carry it up to 8 
years, or it could be as little as, what was the lowest, 4 years? I 
guess 5. Whatever it is, whatever the time, that incarceration for that 
period of time is serious incarceration. This is a serious accusation. 
These are serious contentions by the Speaker when she says: They didn't 
do that, they are lying.

They are lying to you, they are lying to the Congress, they are lying 
to the press. But most importantly, they are lying to Congress.

Now that is an issue that we should be concerned about because not 
just we need it resolved, and that is what I keep raising. I have been 
a judge in this country for 20 years, and its purpose is to resolve 
issues. My question is, who is going to resolve this issue? This issue 
needs to be resolved. Why does it need to be resolved? I gave you two 
examples: North Korea and Iran. Two hotspots boiling up. We are getting 
information. We should be, I assume we are getting, information from 
our intelligence community. If they are liars, can we trust them? Can 
we put the security of Hawaii on the shoulders of our intelligence 
community and trust their report as to whether or not there is a 
nuclear warhead on that missile that they have said they are going to 
fire at Hawaii? Can we, after the Speaker's accusations, trust this 
community? That's the question that I think we ought to be asking 
ourselves.

And once again, the 50th time I have probably said this in the last 6 
weeks, what I am asking for is a place, someone to resolve these 
issues. And I have raised this resolution. The Speaker is the leader. 
She is the leader of this House, and she needs to resolve this issue. 
This is putting a crimp in our intelligence community. If I am an agent 
and I am reporting and I get accused of lying, I face criminal 
prosecution. And intelligence at its best is, like every other human 
endeavor, it has its flaws.

So once again, failure to show the leadership that it takes to 
resolve issues causes consequences we can't imagine until they look us 
in the face. And that is what I wanted to talk about here tonight. We 
have talked about the issues with Mr. Rangel and the Rangel rule. And 
we have talked about issues of other Members of this Congress: Ms. 
Waters, Mollohan, Murtha, Visclosky, and all those guys. And I have 
talked about those issues and I have said, I don't know whether these 
accusations are true or not, but somebody needs to resolve them. If we 
are draining the swamp, someone needs to resolve those issues. If there 
is a lie going on to Congress and we are draining the swamp, somebody 
needs to drain that part of the swamp that has to do with this lie. 
That is what this is about. That is all I am trying to do. I am raising 
the question for you Members of this House and for the American public 
to think about.

What about this culture of corruption that obviously seems to be 
here? What about this issue of lying? It needs to be resolved. The 
security of our Nation is at stake.

I am not here by myself, and I have been talking way too long without 
recognizing a really good friend who has come down here to have a 
friendly visit about some of these issues that are unresolved, Phil 
Gingrey from Georgia, one of my classmates and a good, close personal 
friend. And I yield to Mr. Gingrey.