---
---

# None
## `348a011e5277a2a82e016dffe88f8a01`
`Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise in the strongest possible opposition to 
this rule.

In the panoply of public policy issues, there is no more important 
question than starting or ending an armed conflict. The decision we 
make today will determine whether men and women will live or die, not 
only on the battlefields of Iraq but also potentially in the cities of 
Europe and America.

The discussion that we conduct today should transcend crass political 
partnership and narrow ideology to reflect our deepest concern for the 
Nation and, indeed, for the community of nations.

The House of Representatives today should be prepared to engage in a 
free and fair debate regarding all of the potential options for the 
future conduct of combat operations and diplomatic initiatives in Iraq 
and the broader Middle East. We should be discussing the 
recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group. We should be 
examining some of the ideas laid out by Senator Lugar. We should be 
considering the suggestion of Congresswoman Heather Wilson and I that 
we made to the President recently encouraging him to convene a high-
level summit of Iraqi sectarian leaders. We should exclude no viable 
alternative, even that offered by my colleague from Ohio (Mr. 
Kucinich).

The legislation we will consider later today does have the potential 
to serve as a starting point of determining a new course of action in 
Iraq, but it is badly flawed, and it needs substantial improvement, and 
unfortunately, that will not be possible. The rule the Democrats have 
laid before the House today demonstrates their motivations are, at 
core, political. And I remember when politics ended at the water's 
edge.

They do not offer us an open rule, allowing full and free debate. 
They don't even allow us a structured rule, permitting, at the very 
least, discussion of some of the major alternatives that I've outlined.

Mr. Speaker, we all know that certain parties want things from this 
debate today. They've already recorded their robo calls, purchased 
airtime for their attack ads. They've scheduled buses for their rent-a-
mobs. And the last thing they really desire is a free, open and 
informed debate that might result in a unified policy regarding our 
Nation's future efforts in Iraq. They seek not to unite our Nation but 
to divide it.

The people who bring this rule to the floor today do not allow 
amendments because they're afraid. They're afraid that some of these 
amendments might prevail. They're afraid that, given viable 
alternatives, some Members of their own party will choose cooperation 
over confrontation.



Mostly, they are afraid they might lose a major issue for their 
campaign to maintain their majority. Their fear may or may not be 
justified, but its very existence is a sad commentary on their faith in 
the Members of their own party, this body, and the American people.

I remind my colleagues that the only thing we have to fear is fear 
itself. Reject this cynical rule. Vote ''no'' on the previous question. 
Let's have a full and fair debate on this, the most critical issue of 
our generation.