# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY
## `349a082f3c2055cd3274a648821b9506`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You can't wait. You can't throw it off to the 
side. You can't, say, sling-shot in the end for a win. You can't do any 
of that kind of stuff. You have to do it in a very responsible way.

Again, if we keep saying it, if I look at the Congressional Record 
tomorrow and see bipartisanship, bipartisanship, and even more 
bipartisanship, that is fine with me, because it is almost like 
McDonald's. I mean, I feel like going and getting a number 3 after a 
football game because I have seen it eight times. I really think I 
actually like certain things at McDonald's, which I do. You can just 
look at me and tell.

But I think it's important that we continue to talk about what's 
happening right now and what the President has to say when he comes and 
walks down this aisle next week, I believe, when he comes in here to 
come talk to us about what's going to happen in this economic stimulus 
package, what's going to happen as it relates to the two wars going on, 
what's going to happen as it relates to health care. This opportunity 
that we have now, 10 days of discussion, bipartisanship, he stepped off 
the plane from the Middle East and had bipartisanship stamped on his 
lapel saying we have got to get this going. We have to make it happen 
even though there was a letter that the Speaker and the majority leader 
wrote him on 1/11 of this month saying, What's the plan? This is what 
we want to do. We have to stimulate the economy. Let's do it.

We had our economic summit on 12/7 of last year, having deep 
discussions as Democrats on this very issue. I think it is important, 
the President comes down. He has to almost give the speech of his life, 
but guess what? Action has to follow it. This reminds me, Mr. Ryan, I 
think we were both State senators at this time, when the planes hit the 
Twin Towers, the plane hit the Pentagon and one went down in 
Pennsylvania, that spirit that we had then when people were willing and 
looking for leadership on the issue of how we are going to come back 
together as Americans and how we are going to pick this country back 
up. We have this opportunity.

The President has this opportunity to lead. This is his last year in 
office. We have Republicans and Democrats that have an opportunity to 
change the opinion of the American people on how we can work together.

So in this last half of this 110th Congress where we are talking 
about bipartisanship, and I am just saying talking about it, let's show 
them some real action. We came together on economic stimulus. We came 
together on this issue of Iraq. This discussion that I am hearing the 
President, I want to go and have this kind of bilateral discussion and 
sign a piece of paper and lock our hands on Iraq for years to come, is 
not bipartisanship. There has to be some discussion in Congress on 
that.

It is important that as we start looking at Afghanistan and what we 
are going to do there, I think it is very important that the President 
can use that in a bipartisan way. So if we are going to make a deal, 
let's make a deal on bipartisan agreements as we move from this point 
on. This is the talk of the year that a lot of folks have made New 
Year's resolutions. I don't know. Maybe the President said, I am 
willing to be bipartisan, and he talked about it during his original 
campaign. I am not a divider. I bring people together. I make sure that 
folks worked together, I mean, united. I mean, that was the word that 
he used.

I think that if we want to do that, then we are going to have to do 
it in a way that does an even better job than we did in the first half 
of the session. We can't paint a clearer picture on how important this 
is.

In closing, Mr. Ryan, I want to ask you if you would, we still have 
time, a few minutes, if you would, and our colleagues, you see these 
ideas, that is how they come, being drafted or being mentioned, or 
something outside of the bipartisan discussions that have been going on 
that is here on this chart, and you are not bubbling your great idea to 
your leadership, and your leadership is not putting it on the table, 
and I see your leadership, Democrat or Republican, then it is going to 
derail what the American people want. That is an opportunity to 
stimulate the economy and stimulate the family economy and to make sure 
that we can remain strong and prosperous.
