# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `34aa31c3ae3b46ee7f4f3bc800a969d5`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, my amendment is cosponsored by 
Senators Boxer, Durbin, Merkley, Sherrod Brown, Sanders, Udall of New 
Mexico, and Harkin, and would require the President to provide a 
flexible, nonbinding timetable for the responsible drawdown of U.S. 
troops from Afghanistan. It does not set a specific date for the 
withdrawal of such troops. It does not require the President to 
actually redeploy troops. It does not place any restrictions on 
funding.

The President has already indicated his surge strategy in Afghanistan 
is time limited and that he will begin redeploying troops in July 2011. 
All we are asking in this amendment is that the President provide 
further details on how long this redeployment is expected to take.

Our brave servicemembers and the American taxpayers deserve to know 
what is being asked of them as they risk their lives and spend their 
money to continue this war.

My amendment is not about whether we support the President or the 
troops. All of us support the troops, and I hope we all wish the 
President success in Afghanistan. Nor is it about whether we agree with 
the President's strategy. I, for one, happen to have serious doubts 
about the administration's approach. But in light of our deficit and 
domestic needs and in light of rising casualty rates in Afghanistan and 
in light of the growing al-Qaida threat around the world, an expensive, 
troop-intensive, nation-building campaign doesn't add up for me. We 
should be focusing on Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, and other terrorist 
safe havens.


Frankly, I am disappointed we are about to pass a bill providing tens 
of billions of dollars to keep this war going with so little public 
debate about whether this approach even makes any sense. But no matter 
how we feel about the President or his approach in Afghanistan, I hope 
we can agree on the need for an exit strategy as we approach the 9-year 
anniversary of a war that is showing no signs of winding down. That is 
all my amendment would require--a nonbinding plan to bring this war 
eventually to a close.

We have lost 1,000 servicemembers in this war. We have spent $300 
billion. I hope my colleagues will agree that the American people 
deserve an answer to the question: How much longer?

I reserve the remainder of my time, and I yield the floor.