---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `34adf00b20d32cd1cd0f5d6d1c33c625`
`Mrs. BOXER — 24 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, in March and April I voted for an 
emergency spending bill that would have fully funded our troops in Iraq 
but would have changed their mission--would have changed their 
mission--to a sound mission. That mission would have taken our troops 
out of the middle of a civil war and put them into a support role, as 
the Iraq Study Group suggested, training Iraqi soldiers and police. We 
would have allowed them to fight al-Qaida and protect our troops.

The President did not agree to that, and he will not agree to that. 
As a matter of fact, the President will not agree to any change in 
strategy in Iraq. That is more than a shame. For the American people, 
it is a tragedy.

It does not seem to matter how many Americans die in Iraq, how many 
funerals we have here at home, or what the American people think. This 
President will not budge. This new bill on Iraq keeps the status quo. 
Oh, it has a few frills around the outside, a few reports, a few words 
about benchmarks--while our troops die and our troops get blown up.

Now, I understand why this legislation is before us today. It is 
because this President wants to continue his one-man show in Iraq. That 
is the only thing he will sign. The President does not respect the 
Congress. What is worse, he does not respect the American people when 
it comes to Iraq. He wants to brush us all off like some annoying spot 
on his jacket. Well, that is wrong, and we won't be brushed off.

We have lost 3,427 American soldiers in Iraq. Of those, 731--or 21 
percent--have been from my State of California or based in my State of 
California. Mr. President, 25,549 American soldiers have been wounded.


If you come to my office, on big boards, I have the names of the 
California dead and they are now blocking


the doorway, there are so many names, and we have to send the charts 
back for smaller and smaller print.

Today, after several days of worrying and praying, we received the 
tragic news of the death of PVT Joseph Anzack, Jr., 20 years old, of 
Torrance, CA, who was abducted during a deadly ambush south of Baghdad 
almost 2 weeks ago. One member of his platoon, SPC Daniel Seitz, summed 
it up this way to the Associated Press:




 It just angers me that it's just another friend I've got to 


 lose and deal with, because I've already lost 13 friends 


 since I've been here, and I don't know if I can take any more 


 of this.


He should not have to. But with this bill, he will.

The first half of this year has already been deadlier than any 6-
month period since the war began more than 4 long years ago. In this 
month alone, 83 U.S. servicemembers have already been killed in Iraq.

Let me be clear: There are many things in this bill I strongly 
support--many provisions I worked side by side with my colleagues to 
fight for, for our troops, for our veterans, for their mental health, 
for our farmers, for the victims of Hurricane Katrina, who so deserve 
our attention--but I must take a stand against this Iraq war and, 
therefore, I will vote ''no'' on this emergency spending bill.

Mr. President, we are not going away. You cannot brush us off like 
some spot on your jacket because we are going to be back.

I yield the floor.