---
---

# None
## `34b244787610b3d3648bec52a192d916`
`Mr. BROUN of Georgia — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. BROUN of Georgia. What is propaganda? Of course, Americans engage 
in propaganda. It is a vital part of the mission of the United States 
to promote democracy and protect our country from harm. The United 
States spreads propaganda every day in spreading freedom and democracy 
across the world.

The military uses propaganda to recruit soldiers. TV commercials, air 
shows and other military events all use what is considered to be 
propaganda to bring out the patriotic spirit of the American youth and 
people. Slogans such as ''Be all you can be in the Army'' and ''The 
Few, the Proud, the Marines'' are all propaganda directed at the 
American people, and there is no deception or malice in their intent.

During war, propaganda can save American lives. It already has in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. Wouldn't we rather shoot our enemy or talk him 
out of fighting? For Americans fighting overseas, it could be described 
as persuading our enemies to lay down their arms rather than to fight 
us.

It is better to defeat our enemies with words than with guns. 
However, we know that commanders have already been hesitant in many 
cases to use propaganda during this war because they don't want to be 
accused of propagandizing American contractors overseas. The 
misconception of what kinds of propaganda are allowed has already 
caused harm to our soldiers overseas.

This amendment raises significant concerns about our ability to 
defeat terrorists overseas and protect American lives. This amendment 
would prohibit funding for propaganda, which is defined as ''any form 
of communication in support of national objectives designed to 
influence the opinions, emotions, attitudes, or behavior of the people 
of the United States.''

This definition raises serious questions when you apply it in this 
sense:

Could we produce the propaganda within the United States and use it 
overseas? Would this amendment restrict U.S. military operations, 
including propaganda aimed at our enemies that a U.S. contractor 
working overseas may see?

Would this restrict certain types of military recruitment within the 
United States?

What about propaganda that is aimed for overseas consumption, that 
because of the Internet, returns to the United States and influences 
U.S. citizens; would that violate the prohibition?

Is there any way that this could interfere with the military 
releasing information to the media in the United States?

Under this amendment, would providing facts and data on successes 
overseas to the American public be defined as propaganda?

What if the information went to Members of Congress and they were to 
share it; is that a violation?

Before we vote to tie the hands of our military, we should make 
absolutely sure that the Hodes-DeFazio-DeLauro amendment will not 
constrain recruitment or warfighting efforts by not allowing the types 
of propaganda that we need.

I would hope that as this bill moves to the conference that we can 
work to ensure that the language is not so broad that the military 
cannot do its job.

I recommend that people vote ''no'' on this amendment because I think 
it would be disastrous for our Nation because it is an overly broad 
amendment and would hamstring and shackle our military and our 
government.