# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `34ccae49d9ca3365022a63a27b77c9b4`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania.

I want to make sure, Mr. Speaker, that as we talk tonight about an 
incredibly serious matter that those listening don't have a sense that 
we have a callous disregard for the men and women who are fighting this 
fight. We stand up here night after night and talk about the sacrifices 
made and the dedication of this all-volunteer force, and the phrase 
kind of rolls off our tongue very easily.



I want to make sure that those listening understand that each one of 
those lives lost is incredibly precious.

When I am out and about in the district in Texas talking to folks, I 
typically ask the question, how many folks have someone they know 
serving in Iraq or Afghanistan, and a lot of times a lot of hands will 
go up.

I will then ask, no, I need to know how many people out here have 
somebody in harm's way that when they hear about a death in Iraq, their 
stomach gets in a knot until they know it is not their loved one, and 
most of the hands go down. So we are fighting a fight there that while 
it has a dramatic impact on an awful lot of lives, broadly across this 
country, day in and day out, most Americans aren't really affected by 
this sacrifice, by this magnificent fighting force that we have in 
place.

I typically challenge that audience to say, look, anytime you hear 
about sacrifice for this country, dying for this country, fighting for 
this country, make sure you think about it in the terms of some 
specific person. Not the global group, because that defuses the impact. 
That lessens the tugs at our hearts and helps us deal with it. I want 
you to think about some specific person that has given their life on 
behalf of this country.

For me, it is a high school buddy of mine that died in Vietnam, a 
Medal of Honor winner. I look at all that I have done since he and I 
graduated from high school. He gave up all of that so that we could 
live in freedom today.

We have got the exact kind of men and women fighting in Iraq today 
and in Afghanistan today and in other places around this world that we 
don't get to talk about that are laying their lives on the line, laying 
their futures on the line, laying their ability to walk a daughter down 
the aisle at her wedding, the ability to hold a grandchild, and all 
those kinds of things that those of us who make it into this stage of 
life have gotten to do. Yet our men and women volunteer to take on 
these responsibilities, take these risks, and put themselves between 
you and I and some really, really bad people.

So as we come to this Chamber night after night to talk about this 
fight, we need to make sure we understand exactly who it is we are 
talking about, who we are talking to.

We got an e-mail 2 weeks ago, 3 weeks ago, when we were debating that 
nonsense on the meaningless, toothless House resolution from a buck 
sergeant in Mosul who made the comment, he said, you know, the 
professional veneer we keep in place that says that debate, that 
conversation going on back in America, has no impact on our ability 
total fight, our moral, he said that veneer is very thin. Underneath, 
we are angry, we are mad. We think we are being sold out.

So the things that we say in this Chamber and in front of newspapers 
and televisions have a deep impact on the men and women who fight this 
fight. It is almost as if we taunt them when we talk about, well, we 
are going to support you, but we don't believe in what you do. We want 
to support you, but we think you are screwing things up. We want to 
support you, but we are not going to pay for it.

All of those kinds of things are a mixed message that has deep 
impact, and while I would defend my colleagues' rights to continue to 
say those things and have those opinions and debate those things, I 
would also challenge them to understand the deep impact they have as 
they make those statements, as they talk about their positions, as they 
put forth their ideas on what we should and should not be doing in 
Iraq. It comes with a great responsibility that each one of us brings 
to this Chamber when we talk.