# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `34d347be39f09d8b0b07596879f9ac8f`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, a short while ago, I called up 
amendment No. 2073, which would require a report on support provided by 
the Government of Iran for attacks against coalition forces, American 
forces, in Iraq.

I am going to speak about this now at some length, but let me say at 
the beginning that I offered this amendment in the hope that it will 
bring forth a strong, unified statement by the Senate that we have 
noted the evidence presented by our military of the involvement of the 
Iranian forces in the training and equipping of Iraqi terrorists, who 
have then gone back to Iraq and are responsible for the murder of 
hundreds of American soldiers there, and, I would say, thousands of 
Iraqi soldiers and civilians as well. So in the midst of the 
controversy that exists in our country, and as reflected in the Senate 
over the war in Iraq in general, I am hopeful this amendment will offer 
an opportunity for us to come together to accept the evidence our 
military has given us of Iran's involvement in the murder of hundreds 
of American soldiers and together to stand and say to the Iranians that 
this must stop. Here is the evidence. We know what you are doing. This 
must stop.


Then, in an operational clause of the resolution, to ask, finally, 
within 30 days after enactment of the act and every 60 days thereafter, 
the commander of multinational forces in Iraq and the U.S. Ambassador 
to Iraq shall jointly submit to Congress a report describing and 
assessing in detail external support or direction provided to 
anticoalition forces by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
or its agents.

There are some other points in that which I will get to in a minute.

Whether you are pro-war in Iraq or antiwar in Iraq, whether you think 
we ought to mandate a withdrawal of some or all of our troops or you 
disagree with that, it seems to me every Member of this Chamber ought 
to come together around the evidence that our military has provided of 
what the Iranians are doing to kill our soldiers and to tell them we 
know it and we want them to stop it.

Yesterday I came to the floor to speak at the beginning of the debate 
about what I thought was involved. I quoted our colleague and friend 
from Indiana, Senator Lugar, who made a very thoughtful speech with 
which I agree in large part, disagree with in small part. I cited with 
appreciation Senator Lugar's statement in his remarks. Again, 
obviously, we all know Senator Lugar is a skeptic when it comes to the 
strategy we are following in Iraq or the course that it has taken or 
the concern about the political timetable here in Washington. We are 
not talking about that, but to acknowledge for the record that I know 
Senator Lugar is skeptical about where we are now. Nevertheless, he had 
a very strong statement in that speech he made here on the Senate floor 
with which I agree totally in which he outlined the national security 
interests of the United States in how the war in Iraq ends. One of them 
was to prevent Iran from dominating parts of Iraq. Another was to 
preserve our credibility in the region, in the Middle East, the 
credibility that has been so important in attempting over decades, now, 
to maintain some minimal level of stability in the Middle East--clearly 
a region of the world that is important to us in many ways. In the most 
direct way, unfortunately, because of our failure to adopt an 
independent energy policy, we continue to depend too much on oil and 
gas that comes from the Middle East so we have an interest in keeping 
it stable. Obviously we have tremendous spiritual ties to the Middle 
East as well as more broadly political and economic ties.

I mention this because Senator Lugar did talk about Iran and the 
importance of maintaining American credibility in the region. To me, 
nothing illustrates the stakes here and the larger conflict we are 
dealing with in the Middle East more clearly than the deadly and 
destabilizing role that is being played today by the Government of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and its agents in Iraq.

The fact is that for months and months now, our military commanders 
and diplomats have been telling us about a proxy war the Iranians have 
been waging against our soldiers, other coalition forces, and our 
allies in Iraq. GEN David Petraeus, the commander of multinational 
forces, and others, have spoken bluntly and publicly and I would say 
repeatedly about how the Iranian Quds Force, an elite unit of the 
Iranian Guard Force, has been training, arming, funding, equipping, and 
directing the extremists in Iraq, terrorists who then go back into Iraq 
and attack our troops. This past February, senior military officials of 
ours in Baghdad described forensic evidence that implicated Iran at 
that time in the deaths of at least 170 American servicemembers, and 
one may assume that the number has gone up significantly since then. 
That is 170 American servicemembers killed as a result of the 
involvement of Iran through Iraqi terrorist allies in Iraq; lost lives 
of Americans as a result of what Iran and its proxies are doing.

Last week, the United States military spokesman for the Multi-
National Force Iraq, BG Kevin Bergner, presented new and I think 
stunning details about Iran's complicity in deadly attacks against our 
servicemembers. I present this resolution to say to our military, at 
the beginning: We hear you, but also say to the Iranians: We see what 
you are doing and we are simply not going to accept it.

The fact is, the previous warnings that have been given, and 
disclosures given by our military about Iranian involvement in Iraq, in 
some sense have drifted up into the media air which is so cluttered 
with so much else from the Middle East, from Iraq--so much controversy 
that it seems to not have settled into the collective consciousness of 
Members of Congress, let alone the American people, about what Iran is 
doing to our soldiers, our sons and daughters, our husbands and wives, 
our friends, our neighbors.

It is time for the Senate to say to Iran: We know what you are doing. 
It is time for you to stop it.

Last Monday, according to General Bergner--he made the statement last 
Monday--he said Iran has been using its territory--this is more 
specific than has ever been said publicly by the American military 
before--Iran has been using its territory to train and organize Iraqi 
terrorists who then go back and kill Americans in Iraq.


General Bergner said groups of up to 60 Iraqi militants at a time 
have been taken to three training camps near Tehran--again, more 
specific information than ever has come out before publicly--three 
training camps operated by the Quds Force near Tehran, where these 
extremists from Iraq have received instruction in the use of mortars, 
rockets, improvised explosive devices, bombs used by suicide bombers, 
or those set off in sophisticated ways from a distance, and other 
deadly tools


of warfare that they then use against our troops in Iraq.

Iran is also, General Bergner pointed out--and this I thought was 
stunning and should not be allowed to fade after a day's news cycle 
away--Iran is using the Lebanese Islamist terrorist group Hezbollah as 
a surrogate to help build up its terrorist allies in Iraq. That is what 
General Bergner, our general, our spokesperson in Baghdad, said. So 
they are bringing their Hezbollah terrorist clients from Lebanon, which 
is threatening and fighting the established Seniora Government in 
Beirut, which is our ally, a moderate government, an ally of ours--the 
Iranians are bringing Hezbollah from Lebanon to Iraq and Iran, to train 
Iraqis to kill Americans and Iraqis. We know this in part, General 
Bergner made clear, because our forces have captured one of the 
Hezbollah leaders, Ali Moussa Dakdouk, inside Iraq. He was captured, a 
Lebanese Hezbollah Islamist terrorist leader captured inside Iraq. 
Documents were recovered attendant to that, that detailed the 
relationship between the Iranian regime and the extremist groups that 
they are sponsoring in Iraq. So said BG Kevin Bergner, spokesperson for 
our forces in Iraq.

General Bergner also reported last Monday that the U.S. military has 
concluded that the senior leadership--that is a quote, ''the senior 
leadership''--in Iran is aware of the activities of the Quds Force in 
sponsoring attacks against our soldiers in Iraq and that, in his words, 
it is ''hard to imagine'' that the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah 
Ali Khamenei, does not know of them.

These are very serious statements, very serious charges by a 
respected and authoritative spokesperson for the U.S. military.

Those who follow the complicated inner world of Iranian Government 
know, to the best of our ability to follow it, that this elite 
military/terrorist group, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, IRGC, 
and the Quds Force that is part of it--their leadership is selected and 
reports directly to the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, 
not to President Ahmadinejad.

So there is plenty of basis in the evidence that we have, in the 
involvement of the Quds Force and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard 
Corps, which we know reports to the Supreme Leader of Iran, that the 
Supreme Leader of Iran knows what they are doing and presumably has 
approved it. If he didn't know what they were doing, he certainly does 
now because the American military has been telling the world. They are 
probably wondering whether anybody has been listening, for months and 
months now, that this is exactly what Iran has been doing.

It goes without saying, but I want to say it, that no one in this 
Chamber is looking for a fight with Iran. But that does nothing to 
alter the fact that Iran has, through its proxies, initiated a fight 
against us. That is a reality we no longer have the luxury of ignoring. 
It is a reality we must confront in the defense of the men and women 
who wear the uniform, the proud uniform of the United States of America 
in battle in Iraq today. Iran's actions in Iraq fit squarely within a 
larger pattern of expansionist, extremist behavior by the Islamic 
Republic of Iran in the Middle East over all the years, more than a 
quarter of a century now, since 1979 when the revolution occurred in 
Iran, when the American Embassy was seized, when the hostages were held 
in an outrageous act for more than a year.

We know the Iranian Government has used radical Islamist groups 
throughout the years since then as its regional proxies. We know these 
proxies have been dispatched to attack and murder American soldiers and 
citizens in the past.

What am I speaking of? I am speaking of the Marine Corps barracks 
bombing in Beirut in 1983, 24 years ago, which killed 241, I believe, 
American marines. All the evidence that was gathered after that to me 
makes a compelling case that that attack was carried out by Hezbollah, 
which is sponsored, supported, equipped, trained, directed by Iran.

Then there was the Khobar Towers attack in Saudi Arabia in 1996, 
where American military and other personnel lived. Again, American 
blood on the hands of Iran from all the evidence that I have seen about 
the cause of that attack, the perpetrators being agents of the Iranian 
Government.

We know these proxies who have worked aggressively and consistently 
on behalf of the extremist regime in Tehran to undermine moderate 
governments in the region, to extend Iranian influence. It is happening 
now in a way that seems to me to be more concerted, more aggressive 
than ever before. You can pick your reason for it. You can say the 
Supreme Leader Khamenei, President Ahmadi-Nejad, fanatics, anti-
Americans shouting, urging their followers by the thousands to shout: 
Death to America. Death to America. They have been doing that since 
1979, continue to do it. You can't take it as a meaningless chant. We 
have to take extremists at their word because we have seen too often in 
our history, most recently with all that Osama bin Laden was telling us 
he would do to us in the 1990s, that in fact he did it, most tragically 
on 9/11.

But some would say that this move throughout the region by Iran is to 
take the mind of the unhappy Iranian majority off the failure of the 
Ahmadi-Nejad Government to help make the economy go. Others would say 
that this is the moment when the Iranians think that American and other 
powers who have kept the balance and stability in the region will not 
respond to their aggression. Whatever. We have to open our eyes and see 
what is happening in the Middle East today. In addition to sponsoring 
attacks on Americans and Iraqis in Iraq, Tehran is also training, 
funding, and equipping radical terrorist groups that are working to 
destabilize Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, and Afghanistan. 
Afghanistan is a fascinating example because there they are now, by all 
the evidence our military has, the U.S. military, Iran is now 
supporting the Taliban, which historically has been its enemy. The 
Taliban now, according to what our military tells us, appears to be 
receiving Iranian weapons in their ongoing war against the Government 
of President Hamid Karzai, our ally, the hope for a new Afghanistan, 
and the American and NATO forces there.

In fact, in one sense, it makes perfect sense that Iran is using 
Hezbollah to aid extremists in Iraq. The fact is, each of the seemingly 
separate conflicts I have described in the Middle East has a 
connection. They are part of a larger regional war that we are involved 
in, but so are so many of our allies in the region. Israel, obviously; 
but also broadly in the Arab world. If you have been to the Middle 
East, as I have recently, within a month, you find the level of 
anxiety--beyond concern, anxiety--in the Arab world among our allies 
about the movements and intentions of Iran is palpable.

The fear, of course, is that Iran is moving to establish itself as 
the dominant power in the region and to establish its own brand of 
Islamist extremism as the dominant ideology-theology in the region. In 
some sense, this is an undeclared war, but it is nonetheless very real. 
This is a fight the Iranians want to wage in the shadows, I suppose so 
they can escape some responsibility for blood on their hands. But it is 
also evident, as the American military and Governments of Lebanon and 
Afghanistan and Palestinian Authority have themselves made clear.

In debating this bill, which is the Department of Defense 
authorization bill, our first and foremost responsibility--in fact, it 
expresses itself so many ways in the language of this bill, which was 
unanimously reported out of the Senate Armed Services Committee on 
which I am honored to be a member--our first and foremost 
responsibility is to protect our national security and to protect our 
troops who are protecting our national security.

If we do not respond to the evidence that has been presented to us 
about the acts of the Iranian Government and their agents, I fear--I 
conclude--we will have failed on both counts. Our troops are being 
attacked and killed by the agents of Iran. The very least that we in 
this Chamber can do is to send a clear and unmistakable message to the 
Government in Iran that we know what you are doing and we insist that 
you stop.

That is why I am offering this amendment today to the Defense 
Authorization Act. I hope my colleagues will see it as a commonsense, 
common-ground amendment that confronts the Government of the Islamic 
Republic of


Iran with the evidence of its attacks on American soldiers in Iraq.

The amendment details the evidence already in the public record that 
has been put forward over the past year by General Petraeus and other 
senior U.S. officials about Iran's involvement in violence and 
destabilizing activities in Iraq.

I repeat what I said at the outset. Whether you are for or against 
the war in Iraq, whether you are for or against an amendment mandating 
a deadline or a timeline for withdrawing our troops, I hope we all can 
find common ground in making this statement, that we see the evidence 
of Iran's complicity in the deaths of American soldiers and we insist 
they stop. This amendment is not a call for war against Iran. I--as do 
all the Members of this Chamber, I am sure--always favor diplomacy 
first.

But this is a call to defend our troops and our vital interests which 
are under attack by Iran. It is a call for all of us to wake up to the 
outrageous actions that are being undertaken by the extremist 
Government in Tehran. It is important that we no longer deceive 
ourselves. If Iran can get away with the murder of American soldiers 
and pay no price, it will do it again and again and again. We cannot 
allow Iran to have a license to wantonly and deliberately murder our 
troops.


For if we sit silently by while this is happening, they will continue 
to take actions that are hostile to us, and the chances of us achieving 
what I think everybody in this Chamber would want us to achieve, which 
is to stop the Iranians from developing nuclear weapons, will simply be 
impossible.

The choice we face with Iran is not a choice between war and peace, 
it is at this moment a choice between turning a blind eye to the murder 
of our troops and confronting those who are murdering them. It is a 
choice between sending a message of determination and deterrence, which 
hopefully will end this action by the Iranians and sending a message of 
weakness and appeasement.

Just as our men and women in uniform are serving in Iraq to protect 
and defend all of us, they respond to what their Nation asks them to 
do, so too do we in this Chamber have a responsibility that I know we 
all acknowledge. It comes out of this Department of Defense 
authorization bill loudly and clearly. We accept our responsibility to 
do everything in our power to defend the men and women in uniform who 
serve us.

Support our troops I know is not just a bumper sticker, it is a 
solemn pledge of this Government, and everyone who serves it, including 
those of us who are privileged to serve in the Senate.

I hope this resolution can form the foundation for a larger, longer 
conversation that we in Congress need to have about the struggle we are 
in with Iran regionally, the threat its Government possesses to the 
security not just of our soldiers whom I have talked about but to our 
allies in that region whom I have talked about, and, ultimately, I fear 
to our country, the United States of America, and the way our policy 
must take account of that reality.

The threat posed by Iran to our soldiers' lives, our security as a 
nation and our allies in the Middle East is a truth that cannot be 
wished or waved away, it must be confronted. This amendment gives the 
Senate the opportunity to do that. So let us then with one voice tell 
the fanatical, anti-American leaders of the Government in Tehran, who I 
believe do not represent the majority of the Iranian people, that they 
cannot attack our troops without consequence. Let us with one voice 
tell our brave soldiers in Iraq, that Iran's assault on them will not 
go unnoticed or unanswered by this Senate. The regime in Iran, I fear, 
is betting that our political disunity about Iraq will constrain us in 
responding to its attacks. I do not believe that.

For the sake of our Nation's security, for the sake of our soldiers, 
we must--and I am confident will--prove them wrong.

I yield the floor.