---
---

# THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
## `34ed3df3ad8d7352ec83750b0847245a`
`Mr. KING of New York — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker, today I rise to acknowledge one 
of our key allies--the Republic of Azerbaijan--as it celebrates its 
89th Annual Republic Day on May 28. After the fall of the Russian 
Empire, Azerbaijan proclaimed its independence on May 28, 1918. 
Unfortunately, the Red Army invaded Azerbaijan on April 28, 1920 
preempting its reach for liberty for seventy years.

Azerbaijan's second opportunity for freedom came at a heavy price 
following the 1990 invasion of Baku by Soviet troops resulting in the 
death of more than one hundred thirty civilians. Moscow's rule, 
however, grew weaker and by 1991 popular pressure led the country to 
declare its independence. On August 30, 1991, Azerbaijan's Parliament 
adopted the Declaration on the Restoration of the State of Independence 
of the Republic of Azerbaijan and on October 18, 1991 the Constitution 
was approved.

Given past Soviet rule and the difficult geopolitical environment, 
Azerbaijan's determination to look westward for its political and 
economic allies should be applauded.

Azerbaijan was among the first nations to offer the United States 
support in the Global War on Terror, providing airspace and airport use 
for Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. Azerbaijan was also the 
first Muslim nation to send troops to Iraq. Though bilateral 
cooperation on terrorism issues between the United States and 
Azerbaijan predates September 11, 2001, our relations were strengthened 
following Azerbaijan's immediate and unwavering support in the Global 
War on Terror.

Azerbaijan cooperates with the United States within international and 
regional institutions including the United Nations, the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), and NATO's Partnership 
for Peace Program. Azerbaijan also works together with the United 
States within the framework of the Organization for Democracy and 
Development--GUAM which is comprised of Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, 
and Ukraine. The group was created as a political, economic, and 
strategic alliance aimed at overcoming common risks and threats and 
strengthening the independence and sovereignty of its member states.

During the last decade, Azerbaijan has implemented structural reforms 
and adopted numerous legislative changes to pave the way for further 
integration within the global economy. It has also been moving toward a 
more diversified economy that would achieve sustainable growth and meet 
the social and developmental needs of its population.

Since signing the ''Contract of the Century'' in 1994, Azerbaijan has 
developed its energy sources within the Caspian region to help 
diversify western energy supplies. On July 13, 2006 the Baku-Tbilisi-
Ceyhan main oil export pipeline was inaugurated while the Baku-Tbilisi-
Erzurum natural gas pipeline is expected to be completed at the end of 
this month. In addition, in March 2007 Azerbaijan and the United States 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Energy Security in the Caspian 
region aimed at strengthening our already strong cooperation with 
respect to the supply and transport of Caspian energy resources and 
bolstering energy security in the West.

Let us today congratulate the Republic of Azerbaijan on its 
forthcoming 89th Anniversary celebrations and continue to develop this 
important friendship between our two countries.
