---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `34ee160fbc37f9d8d7bec6d457a1449f`
`Mr. KYL — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which my 
colleague from Vermont has offered as an amendment to the Defense 
authorization bill, should not be attached to such an important piece 
of legislation. The Defense authorization bill authorizes nearly $680 
billion for national defense programs, most notably the ongoing 
operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the war on terror. It authorizes 
funding for such crucial programs as missile defense and foreign 
military aid for Afghanistan and Pakistan, as well as a 3.4-percent 
across-the-board pay raise for the men and women in the military. With 
such important issues at stake, we should not attach a controversial 
piece of unrelated legislation that puts passage of the entire bill at 
risk.

Last month, members of the Judiciary Committee received a letter from 
the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights strongly urging us to vote against 
the proposed Hate Crimes Prevention Act.

The Commission states this bill ''will do little good and a great 
deal of harm.'' Those are very strong words from the Federal body 
charged with investigating, reporting on, and making recommendations 
related to civil rights issues. The Commission's letter details a 
number of specific concerns, including that the bill would permit 
Federal authorities to prosecute defendants who have been previously 
acquitted by State juries--a result that it describes as contrary to 
the spirit of the double jeopardy clause of the Constitution. Like the 
Commission, I believe that hate crimes legislation poses significant 
constitutional problems and risks undermining important principles of 
federalism.

No less than 45 States and the District of Columbia already have hate 
crimes laws. I am not aware of evidence that any State has been 
reluctant to aggressively prosecute hate crimes. Furthermore, Federal 
sentencing guidelines already provide for enhancements for hate crimes 
based on race, color, religion, natural origin, ethnicity, gender, 
disability, or sexual orientation. In fact, in the case of Matthew 
Shepard, for whom this bill is named, his killers are appropriately 
serving life sentences in prison for felony murder.

The trend to try at the Federal level crimes that traditionally have 
been handled in State courts not only is taxing the judiciary's 
resources and affecting its budget needs but also threatens to change 
the nature of our Federal system. The pressure in Congress to appear 
responsive to every highly publicized societal ill or sensational crime 
needs to be balanced with an inquiry into whether States are doing an 
adequate job in these particular areas and, ultimately, whether we want 
most of our legal relationships decided at the national rather than 
local level.

Federal courts were not created to adjudicate local crimes, no matter 
how heinous they may be. State courts handle such problems. While there 
certainly are areas in criminal law in which the Federal Government 
must act, the vast majority of local criminal cases should be decided 
in the State courts which are equipped for such matters. Matters that 
can be handled adequately by the States should be left


to them; matters that cannot be so handled should be undertaken by the 
Federal Government. Neither Senator Leahy nor other supporters of this 
bill have demonstrated that there is an epidemic of hate-based violence 
that State and local authorities can't or won't prosecute, therefore 
justifying the need for a hate crimes bill.

For these reasons, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote against the 
Hate Crimes Prevention Act amendment.