# IRAQ
## `34fa39396a2a56df33d543160c9b7308`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 15 March 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I rise to talk again to the resolution 
pending on the floor. I look forward to having the debate continue on 
the other options for the resolution.

I am against the resolution on the floor because I do not see a 
purpose. I do not see a purpose for a nonbinding resolution that makes 
America look irresolute. What could we be thinking to try to take 
something across the floor of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives that would give any signal to our allies or to our 
enemies that we cannot finish a job, that the war on terrorism is 
important but not important enough to see it through?

I think of the young men and women who have died in this war. They 
are giving their lives, the ultimate sacrifice, as part of their legacy 
to our country. They are leaving something for our children and 
grandchildren and their children and grandchildren.


If we pass nonbinding resolutions that undercut the mission and the 
purpose for which they have given their lives, which is the war on 
terror, to keep freedom in America, we would be doing a great 
disservice that is undeserved for those great patriots. Our young men 
and women throughout the years have been willing to go into the 
volunteer service. The people who are fighting in this war are 
volunteers.


We have had volunteers and even people who didn't volunteer in past 
wars to make sure that America stood strong for freedom. I cannot 
imagine that the Congress during World War II would have passed a 
nonbinding resolution to say: We don't think our troops should be in 
Europe.

We are sinking to new lows. I hope we can resist the political winds 
that have caused us to get to this point. The only reason we would pass 
a nonbinding resolution is to send a political message. I don't think 
the Senators who have stood on this floor for decades before us would 
have passed resolutions that meant nothing except to send a message 
that would undercut our troops in the field.

Do the people who want to pass a resolution such as this believe this 
isn't an important war? We are fighting for our children's futures 
every bit as much as we have in any conflict in which we have been 
engaged. We are fighting to keep terrorists from coming back to America 
and threatening our way of life and the opportunity that America offers 
for our children. If we look irresolute, if we look weak, if we look as 
if we can't be strong, we will put a blemish on the sacrifice that has 
been made already by so many of our young men and women, and we will 
undercut those who are serving right now in the theater in Iraq. I 
can't imagine, when we think this through, that that would be the 
course that a deliberative Senate would take.

The President of the United States knows we have not achieved the 
success we hoped to. For that reason, he is taking a different course. 
Any one of us in Congress might have done it a different way. There is 
no question that many in Congress are concerned about the mission. That 
does not mean we take the step of a nonbinding resolution that says we 
don't support the Commander in Chief. The Constitution didn't provide 
for Congress to command our military. The Constitution provides one 
Commander in Chief, not 535. It would be so wrong for 535 people to 
second-guess the Commander in Chief, who has announced that the plan he 
has put forward is one that was made in the military.

Many of us talked to General Petraeus. We asked questions, because 
there are questions about embedding our troops in the field outside the 
protected zone. General Petraeus totally defends the plan. He takes the 
responsibility for the plan. He believes it will work. In fact, there 
are signs things are getting better. There are signs the Iraqi 
Government is strengthening its measures to crack down on insurgents, 
militias, any of the groups that have been killing innocent people. 
There are signs that there are ways this could succeed.

During one of the Senate Armed Services Committee hearings, Senator 
Lieberman asked General Petraeus if a resolution such as we are voting 
on today would give the enemy some encouragement, some clear expression 
that the American people were divided. General Petraeus answered:




 That is correct, sir.


We have been talking about this for the 2 months-plus that we have 
been in this session of Congress. We certainly talked about it all last 
year. We will continue to talk about it. I hope what we say on the 
floor is carefully crafted so we can disagree with people who do 
support this resolution, and we can do it based on the Constitution, on 
principles of war, on the relationship that Congress should have with 
the President. All of these are legitimate. There can be disagreements 
about what is the best approach for finding success, but what we cannot 
disagree about is that we must win the war on terror, we must show 
America's commitment, and we will not undercut our troops who are in 
harm's way today.

I have seen all the iterations of the resolutions that have been 
proposed by the majority. They have changed many times. Some of those 
resolutions even set deadlines for us to withdraw troops. What do my 
colleagues think that does for the troops who are there right now? If 
our enemy knows we are going to start the withdrawal of troops on a 
certain deadline, what does that do to their treatment of the people 
who are on the ground right now? They would consider that we have put a 
bull's-eye on every one of our young men and women with boots on the 
ground right now. It would be akin to saying: We are going to leave 
here so whoever is here now is not going to have the support needed to 
finish this job. If we are not going to finish the job, why wouldn't 
they step up their efforts, which is exactly what they would do.

We have to look at the reality. No matter what kind of front we would 
put on a resolution that shows that we do not have the resolve, the 
commitment to see this through, it will embolden the terrorists. When 
the terrorists think we are going to leave or that we can't take it, 
that we have to start an exit without regard to the success of the 
mission, then what would keep them from beginning to take over Iraq, 
make it a terrorist haven, make it the training ground from which they 
could proliferate weapons of mass destruction and terrorists all over 
the world? We have already seen that in many specific instances. This 
would give them a bigger field in which to train, one that is not going 
to be necessary to hide. It will give them more revenue to produce 
weapons that could hurt even more.

I have cosponsored S. Res. 70, the McCain resolution, which renews 
our commitment to defeating the terrorists in Iraq and winning the war. 
That is a resolution that we should all support. Congress has the right 
to cut off funds, but I cannot imagine that responsible Members of this 
body would vote for a resolution that would cut off funds and say we 
are not going to give the troops who are there the equipment, training, 
and protection they need to do the job. That would be unthinkable. That 
is one of the resolutions also pending for us to address.

Losing this war will not make America safer. This is a war that must 
be fought. It must be won, not just for the sake of the Iraqi people. 
It is for the sake of America. It is for the sake of freedom. It is 
wiping out terrorists where they are so they do not harm innocent 
people in America again.

I hope cooler heads will prevail. I hope this deliberative body that 
has a great history for our country and in the world will see we should 
not be taking the political position. We should not be testing the 
political winds because what we say has consequences. What we say can 
be used as propaganda against our troops who are in harm's way. Most 
certainly, it can be used to embolden those who are training right now 
to attack America.

I hope, in the end, we will defeat the Reid resolution, that we will 
take up some of the other resolutions, and we will keep in mind that 
what we say and the longer we talk about it, the more dangerous it can 
become for our troops and for the likely success of the mission that is 
before us. We want the Iraqi Government to take the responsibility for 
the safety and security of the Iraqi people. What do Senators think the 
Iraqi Government is going to do to make that happen, if they think 
America's resolve is wavering, if they think we might set a deadline in 
which to leave, if they think we might start a graceful exit before 
they have the ability achieve security?

We can't let the Iraqi Government think we are going to plan for an 
exit before we have won the war, secured Iraq, kept the terrorists from 
having a training ground and revenue to harm more innocent people in 
the world or we will not be standing for the traditions and the spirit 
and the commitment to freedom that Americans have made throughout the 
generations of our country.

That is not a legacy I think any Member of the Senate would want to 
leave. I certainly do not want to leave that legacy for my children and 
grandchildren, nor for the children and the next generation of the 
State I represent and love so much, the State of Texas, nor for the 
children and grandchildren of Americans, the country I am serving. I 
hope we will not forget exactly what our legacy will be if we do the 
political thing rather than the right thing.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.