---
---

# NATIONAL HEROES CREDIT PROTECTION ACT
## `34fd02b6a237f190eeca05a23b52b63b`
`Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania — 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time.

I rise in support of H.R. 513, the National Heroes Credit Protection 
Act.

Just after the start of the Iraq war, I met a lady who served in 
Operation Desert Storm. This young lady told me that problems in 
notifying her creditors of deployment had almost cost her to lose her 
home. Her problems are all too common. This simple piece of legislation 
was written with those heroes in mind.

H.R. 513 would amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to require 
credit reporting agencies, when asked, to include a notation in a 
consumer report or credit score for reserved members of the U.S. Armed 
Forces when they are called up or deployed. The bill would also require 
consumer reporting agencies to refer the explanations to other consumer 
reporting agencies.

More than 300,000 guardsmen and reservists have been called up since 
September 11. They are doing more missions and activations with fewer 
personnel. They shouldn't have to worry about protecting their credit 
while they're keeping us safe.

This bill is revenue neutral. CBO estimates that it would have no 
significant effect on the Federal budget and minimal costs to the 
private sector. My staff have discussed this report with 
representatives of the credit and credit reporting agencies. They have 
been helpful in suggesting ways to improve the bill's protection for 
our troops and support the purpose and intent of the measure.

This legislation protects creditors by continuing to require 
repayment of a soldier's debts, but it provides important new 
protections for our troops by making it easier for them to take 
advantage of rights they already have.

I know that Chairman Filner and Chairwoman Herseth Sandlin have 
worked closely with the minority on their committee, and we are happy 
to include provisions suggested by the minority. I want to thank them 
as well as Ranking Members Buyer and Boozman.

Mr. Speaker, the bill will make a major difference in the lives of 
our heroes and their families. I urge all my colleagues to support the 
National Heroes Credit Protection Act.