---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `350b998bb1bf4e9d83f153302e022bc7`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 23 March 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1591. 
It will bring our troops home, take care of our veterans, and begin to 
address critical needs here at home.

I applaud the leadership of the House--our Democratic leadership 
team--for bringing this important and far reaching bill before us 
today.

I, like many of my colleagues, would have preferred to have a bill 
before us that would get our troops out of Iraq tomorrow, or even in 3 
months. I most certainly would like not to have to send the 100 members 
of the V.I. National Guard out to Iraq next month. But that is not 
doable, it is not realistic.

What is realistic is setting some benchmarks--actually the 
president's benchmarks as goals and legally holding him to them, while 
planning for the complete re-deployment by summer of next year!

More than that though, it provides what the soldiers and their 
families have been crying for, for the past 5 years. Equipment, 
training, protective gear and armor and all that adds up to troop 
readiness. It is negligent to send our men and women into the middle of 
a civil war where they become targets without the proper preparation 
and equipment.

H.R. 1591 sets guidelines for length of deployment, and it does 
something that I think will go a long way to reducing the violence 
against our troops, and that is it establishes that there will be no 
permanent bases in Iraq. It further restores our values and principles 
in combat by prohibiting torture.



More funding is also channeled to Afghanistan where the war needs to 
be brought back on track and we need to make up lost ground in the real 
war on terrorism.

But this bill goes further. For all these 5 long years we have also 
complained that funds needed here at home were not only being spent but 
wasted in Iraq--there is still over 9 billion that is unaccounted for 
and we are losing.

Well what we do in H.R. 1591 is begin to take better care of our 
soldiers when they return home. The stories about conditions at Walter 
Reed, and of persons in need of mental health care being turned away 
are not only heartbreaking, they border on criminal.

And we also begin to take care of some long overdue issues here at 
home:

Agriculture disaster assistance, State Children's Health insurance 
payments for rural schools, better homeland security preparedness, 
improving oversight and accountability and finally doing what we ought 
to have done 2 years ago for the victims we left behind in Katrina, 
Rita and Wilma.

And we help some countries with whom we have close ties and who need 
our help--Jordan, Afghanistan, Liberia and several other African 
nations.

This bill sends funding to our defense needs on the two major fronts 
at which our troops need us, takes care of critical needs at home, and 
begins to rebuild our reputation for leadership and our moral authority 
in the world.

I support it, the people of the Virgin Islands support it, and I urge 
my colleagues to support and pass H.R. 1591.