---
---

# IRAQ
## `350e72c2864da0a777ecf15f13391bb0`
`Mr. BENNETT — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. BENNETT. Mr. President, I am honored to join with my friends in 
this particular effort. I congratulate the occupant of the chair, 
Senator Salazar, and Senator Alexander for putting this forward. We are 
seeing people come on board in equal numbers on both sides of the aisle 
to demonstrate that this is a bipartisan effort.

Some might say this is an attack on the President's plan. I do not 
see it in that fashion at all. I think this is a demonstration of 
bipartisan support for an American plan, to see what we can do to get a 
more stable Iraq.

When I go to Iraq and talk to the experts, they tell me the war is 
being fought on two fronts: It is being fought in Iraq and in 
Washington, DC. Al-Qaida has declared Iraq as the front line of their 
war on the ''great satan,'' which to them is the United States of 
America. The battle being fought in Washington, DC, has to do with 
America's resolve in standing up to al-Qaida. The word that is going 
out from Osama bin Laden in his audiotapes, and the letters that are 
being circulated, is that if we can just hold on long enough, the 
battle will be resolved in Washington, DC, as the Americans decide they 
no longer want to continue the fight.

By demonstrating in a bipartisan fashion that the Senators of the 
United States are willing to talk about long-term commitments and long-
term solutions, we are making our contribution to winning the war in 
Washington. General Petraeus has been charged with the security portion 
of the war in Iraq. The Iraqi Parliament and the Iraqi Government 
themselves must deal with the political problems in Iraq. We must not 
let them down by partisan bickering in Washington that encourages al-
Qaida to believe America will walk away from its responsibilities.


This piece of legislation is not about name calling or blaming for 
past mistakes. There is no question there have been past mistakes. We 
will let the historians sort that out. Our responsibility is to do 
today what is needed to bring about an eventual proper resolution.

In every war America has been in, there have been times of darkness,


times of despair. Think about Abraham Lincoln and what he faced with 
the continuing bad news from the front in his effort to keep the Union 
together. Think about World War II and the bad news that came out of 
the first encounters in North Africa and some of the other American 
efforts where we were repulsed. If we had all said we are going to turn 
our backs on this and walk away, we would not have the kind of world of 
peace we have received as a result of our efforts in those wars.

Now is the time for the Congress to say: Regardless of what may or 
may not have been a mistake in the past, we still have to stand 
together and move forward on the basis of intelligent analysis, and we 
are using as our starting point as that analysis the Iraqi Study Group. 
The President is not hostile to this. I think he is open to it, and I 
think it is incumbent upon the Congress to say to him: Look for new 
solutions, but base them on sound analysis, and if you will, we will be 
with you, we will move forward in a bipartisan manner to see to it 
America does not fail in Iraq.