# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `351864da0a9586aa3d90c19932847584`
`Mr. GRASSLEY â€” 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I rise to discuss an amendment I can't 
offer right now because of the parliamentary situation, but I would 
like to discuss the amendment with my colleagues so they know it is 
coming and what it does.

My amendment to the Department of Defense authorization bill is meant 
to strengthen our efforts to verify if people in the United States are 
here legally to do their work. It deals with the Department of Defense 
because when it comes to the Department itself and to contractors who 
do Defense Department work, we ought to make sure that everybody who is 
working here has been here legally. That is for two reasons: One, 
because that is what the law says. You should not be in the country if 
you don't have the permission of our Government legally to be here. No. 
2, one of the things we are concerned about in enforcing of the 
immigration laws is to make sure that terrorists don't get into the 
country. We should be particularly concerned that we don't have people 
with terrorist connections working for our contractors or working for 
the Government itself.

Without a doubt, we have an illegal immigration problem. That was 
evident from the legitimate hoorah people raised against the bill and 
against the amnesty provisions of it and the 2 weeks of debate we had 
this spring on the issue. People are crossing our borders each day to 
live and work in the United States. Some of these individuals may have 
innocent motives but some may not. There may be some illegal or 
undocumented individuals living in the shadows who aim to bypass law 
enforcement and do our country harm. We don't live in a pre-9/11 world 
anymore, so we must do all we can to protect our country and our 
assets.

My amendment would do two things. First, it would require all Federal 
Government agencies and departments to use what we call the basic pilot 
program, also known as the Electronic Employment Verification System. 
This would be for all departments of Government. I will soon 
demonstrate that a lot of departments are already doing it. But we 
ought to, particularly in a bill such as this, make sure the Department 
of Defense is using it in every respect.

The second part of the amendment would require all Department of 
Defense contractors to use the basic pilot to check the eligibility of 
their workers. The reason this is needed and why it is appropriate in 
the bill before us is, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 
makes it unlawful for employers to knowingly--and I emphasize 
''knowingly''--hire and employ aliens not eligible to work in this 
country. It required employers to check the identity and work 
eligibility documents for all new employees.

Today, if the documents provided by an employee reasonably appear on 
their face to be genuine, then the employer has met its document review 
obligation, and it has reason to believe it hired somebody who was 
legally in the country. So they are off the hook. They can't be fined 
or any other action taken against the employer. But beyond those 
documents, the employer cannot solicit any additional documents from 
the worker, or they would face allegations of employment 
discrimination. The easy availability, as we all know, of counterfeit 
documents has made a mockery of that law that we passed in 1986 which, 
quite frankly, I was here and I voted for. We thought it would solve 
all of our problems.

Well, we went from 1 million people being here illegally to 12 
million people, so obviously it didn't solve anything. That is because 
fake documents are produced by the millions and can be obtained 
cheaply. Thus, our immigration policies benefit unscrupulous employers 
who do not mind hiring illegal aliens but want to show that they have 
met the legal requirements, and then the word ''knowingly'' being in 
the law, if they have reason to believe legally, even if they are here 
illegally, unless the employer knows absolutely they are not here 
illegally, then they are off the hook. The problem is, you have a lot 
of these employers who know that even though the documents are 
fraudulent, that the person is here illegally, they hire them and never 
get caught. So we have tried to put this basic pilot program in place 
to be one step beyond where we were in 1986.

Now at the same time, our policies harm employers who don't want to 
hire illegal aliens but have no choice but to accept those fraudulent 
documents that they know have a good likelihood of being that way. In 
response to the illegal hiring of immigrants, Congress created this 
basic pilot program in 1996. This program allows employers to check the 
status of their workers by checking one's Social Security number and 
alien identification number against the Social Security Administration 
and Homeland Security databases.

Since 1996, the system has been updated and improved. It is a Web-
based program. Employers can go online quickly and very easily when 
hiring an individual. It has been voluntary since its inception.

The basic pilot program was originally authorized in 1996, 
reauthorized in 2001, and expanded and extended again in 2003. 
Originally, the authorization allowed six States to participate. In 
2003, the extension allowed employers in all 50 States to voluntarily 
use the program. The immigration bill before the Senate I have already 
referred to, last year and this year, would have required all employers 
to use the basic pilot program over a period of time, meaning phasing 
it in. Both the administration and Congress were poised to pass 
legislation mandating participation and argued that this employment 
verification system using Social Security was crucial to enforcing the 
laws on the books and getting around this problem of fraudulent 
documents. Moreover, during the debate on immigration this year, it was 
argued that the system was a needed tool for employers to check the 
eligibility of their workers.


I had an opportunity to have a meeting way back in January of this 
year with Secretary Chertoff about requiring all agencies to use the 
system and extending the requirement to contractors that do business 
with the Federal Government. The Department of Homeland Security 
responded by saying that 403 Federal agencies are participating in the 
basic pilot program. Moreover, the Department claimed it was exploring 
ways to verify all executive branch new hires, and its goal was to 
ensure that all new hires in the executive branch are verified through 
the basic pilot program by the end of fiscal year 2007; in other words, 
3 months from now.

Currently, all congressional offices are required to use the basic 
pilot program. My office uses this process of checking everybody who 
applies to work for me, and if we are going to hire them, check with 
the basic pilot program--in other words, Social Security--to make sure 
that everything matches up. Since more than 400 agencies are already 
using it, including congressional offices, requiring all agencies 
beyond the 400 to participate would seem to me to not be overly 
burdensome and something we ought to do if we want to make sure we 
don't hire people who are here illegally; and, No. 2, that the Federal 
Government would set an example for other employers; and, lastly, as 
the effort to control the border has something to do with stopping 
terrorists from coming to this country, to make sure that we don't have 
people like that working for the Federal Government.

With this goal in mind of Homeland Security to do this for all 
executive branch hires by the end of this fiscal year, it seems to me 
to be reasonable to make sure we move to make sure that it is done. My 
amendment, then, clarifies, as I see it, what is existing


law--that all agencies and all departments must use the basic pilot 
program and verify the status of their workers. My amendment is needed 
to push their participation in this program.

Congress and the administration would then set an example for the 
rest of the country. My amendment would also require those who do 
business with the Department of Defense to use the basic pilot program.

This gets to the second part of the bill that deals with contractors 
working for the Federal Government, working for the Defense Department. 
There have been many examples of people here illegally working at 
military bases and installations in the past few years. There have been 
instances where Government contractors are employing people who are 
here illegally and allowing them to work in sensitive areas. I will 
share some examples.

In April 2005, 86 of 167 employees of a company called Naval Coating 
Incorporated were found to be hired illegally. This company was a 
military contractor that painted ships at naval stations San Diego. 
More than half of this company's workers were people here illegally. 
Yet our Department of Defense was doing business with this company that 
had more than half of its people illegally employed because they were 
here illegally.

Last year, hundreds of illegal workers were found working for a Texas 
company which makes millions of ready-to-eat meals for our troops in 
Iraq. Last July, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested more 
than 60 illegal immigrants at Fort Bragg in North Carolina. In January 
of this year, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency arrested 
nearly 40 illegal immigrants hired by contractors working at three 
military bases: Fort Benning, Creech Air Force Base, and Quantico 
Marine Base. One of the illegal workers was reportedly a member of the 
dangerous MS-13 gang.

While the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency has done its job 
to find unauthorized workers at secure sites, illegal aliens should not 
be hired in the first place. One way to get at the problem is to 
require them to use this basic pilot program up front like every 
congressional office does, or at least is supposed to do under the law. 
That is why my amendment is needed, requiring that those who do 
business with the Federal Government should be held to the same 
standard as our executive department agencies, of which as I said, 400, 
according to Secretary Chertoff, are already doing it. So you might say 
that half of my amendment may not be needed because he wants them all 
to do it. But I think we are better off if the law says that they do 
it, and so I included that in the amendment.

So we need to do this like other people in Government are doing to 
make sure it is done because we need to have the Federal Government 
setting an example requiring those who do business with the Federal 
Government to be held, then, to the same standard as our executive 
department agencies. This amendment will provide the tools to all 
employers who work with the Department of Defense and require 
Government agencies to lead the Nation in verifying its workers.

I know now the parliamentary situation is such that I can't offer 
this amendment at this point. I want to explain to everybody as I 
have--and why I come to the floor now--so that before this bill is 
voted on final passage, I think before the end of this week, we will 
have a chance to deal with something that I see as very important from 
the standpoint of making sure that laws are abided by, making sure the 
Federal Government as an employer is setting a good example, and making 
sure that we in this country use all the tools necessary to make sure 
that people who work for anybody using the Social Security system as 
that tool are here legally and can then be employed. It overcomes, 
then, the problems we have with fraudulent documents and, lastly, 
securing our borders.


Who wants to work here should be a tool to make sure terrorists are 
not working for anybody who works for the Government, meaning a 
government contractor or for a government agency. Particularly, that 
ought to be of most concern to us that we do not have that type of 
person working for the Defense Department--because of national 
security--or contractors who are doing work for the Defense Department, 
which is central to our national security.

I yield the floor.