---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `351b878494681616653266bbf5a08438`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. Mr. Speaker, I claim the time that has been yielded to 
me, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.



Mr. Speaker, I have the greatest respect for the chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee, the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Skelton). I 
honor him and respect him deeply. But this legislation is deeply and 
fatally flawed. It will damage America and American interests for two 
reasons:

First, it is a purely political document, hopelessly vague and 
meaningless. Let me explain why. The bill turns on two key terms. One, 
that the United States transition to a ''limited presence'' in Iraq 
within the next 120 days; and, two, that the President provide a 
justification of ''the minimum force levels required to protect the 
United States' national security interests in Iraq.''

While I am pleased that the authors recognize that we are in Iraq to 
protect our national security interests, again, the legislation is 
hopelessly vague and therefore meaningless. Neither of these two key 
terms, ''limited presence'' and ''minimum force level required to 
protect U.S. national security interests'' is defined. Oh, the bill has 
a definition section and other terms are defined, but ''limited 
presence'' and ''minimum force level required to protect U.S. national 
security interests'' aren't defined.

You might ask yourself, why would the authors of the measure leave 
two such critically important terms undefined? Well, the answer is 
easy: Because this bill is not about policy; this bill is about 
politics.

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee knows exactly why these 
terms are not defined, and indeed the Democratic leadership knows why 
these terms are not defined. They are not defined because they need 
ambiguity. Indeed, ambiguity in this legislation is essential to its 
passage. They know that they can't agree on what the meanings of these 
terms are. You see, if they defined ''limited presence'' as too many 
troops, then their most liberal, most antiwar Members would not vote 
for the legislation. They couldn't. And, if they defined limited 
presence too low, then their Blue Dog Members would not support the 
bill. Again, this bill is about beating up on the President and about 
scaring nervous Members of Congress.

Again, let's look at the other term, ''minimum force levels required 
to protect U.S. national security interests.'' Why not define what that 
minimum is? Answer, again, if they define it too high, those who want 
out tonight and want our force levels at the lowest conceivable level 
couldn't vote for the bill. And if they define it too low, then those 
who recognize we face a threat from Iran and other regions' interests 
wouldn't vote for the bill. It is deeply flawed for those reasons.

And I would ask proponents of the bill what they would say if the 
President, as he could under the language of the bill, were to decide 
that ''limited presence'' means 154,000 troops, just 1,000 fewer than 
we have now? That would comply with the letter of the bill, but it 
wouldn't satisfy proponents of the bill.

And what if the President, as he can under the language of the bill, 
were to define the term ''minimum force level required to protect U.S. 
national interests'' not as 155,000 troops as we have today, but rather 
at 500,000 troops?

You see, they can't agree on those terms. I wonder how many of the 
Members realize that the critical terms in this bill aren't defined.

The bill is also flawed for a second reason, and that is that it 
reneges on the essential agreement Congress struck just 2 weeks ago. It 
is a little bit like Lucy pulling the football out from under Linus 
just before he kicks it. Here, don't rely on my opinion; rely instead 
on today's Washington Post. You see, today's Washington Post editorial 
makes the case for me. The Washington Post, not exactly a conservative 
journal, says, ''It seems like just weeks ago, because it was, that 
Congress approved funding for the war in Iraq and instructed General 
David H. Petraeus to report back on the war's progress in September.'' 
Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't September.

The Post goes on to write, ''Before Congress begins ordering 
withdrawals, it should at least give those generals the months they 
asked for to see whether their strategy can offer some hope.'' We owe 
it to those generals to give them, as The Washington Post says, the 
months they asked for, but, instead, we have given them 27 days.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.