---
---

# WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER
## `35340ef284d474ea6fe8371bf73dee08`
`Ms. FOXX — 6 June 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressman Wamp for 
organizing this hour tonight and bringing together a group of folks who 
have similar feelings to his. I see several of my colleagues have 
joined us and so I


won't take a lot of time. It is always hard to follow such eloquent 
speakers as Congressman McCotter and Congressman Wamp. They are both 
eloquent people, and I am pleased to be with them to add my few 
comments.

As Congressman Wamp has said, I have been reading ''America Alone.'' 
I want to recommend it. It is written by Mark Steyn, S-T-E-Y-N. It is 
an excellent book. It is very, very readable, and it is very, very 
frightening.

As Congressman Wamp said, if you don't do anything but pay attention 
to the demographics, you will have your attention gotten by this book. 
As he indicated, the United States of America is the only western 
country that is replacing itself in terms of population. It takes a 
birth rate of 2.1 to replace the population. What is happening in 
Canada, which I wasn't aware of, Canada has a birth rate of about 1.3 
right now, 1.4. All of the European countries have birth rates of 1.3, 
1.4, 1.2. Their populations are going to be cut in half within 35 
years. That is something that has never happened in the history of 
humanity. Their populations are going to be cut in half; and yet the 
Muslim populations are growing anywhere from 4.7 percent to over 7 
percent which means their populations are going to double in a very 
short period of time. And fairly soon, all of Europe is going to be 
predominantly Muslim.

The title of the book, ''America Alone,'' we are going to be the only 
country in the free world that is increasing our population of people 
with western ideals, western religions and western thought. That is 
something we really have to be thinking about.

I have been troubled, and I have spoken about this before, about 
statements that have been made by Democrats in this body when we talk 
about the war that we are in. They talk about failure. They talk about 
it being an impossible situation. Well, I want to try to tie this in to 
what Congressman McCotter was saying.

When I meet with people and they ask me about the, quote, ''war in 
Iraq,'' I quickly say to them as kindly and as nicely as I can, we are 
not in a war in Iraq, we are in a war for the freedom of this country 
and the freedom of the world. If we lose this war, we are losing to 
radical jihadists who see that we have only two choices. We either 
convert to becoming Muslims or we should be killed.

Now as Congressman Wamp says, we believe in pluralism in this 
country. We believe in inviting people to come to this country, worship 
as they please, but not to come here and try to impose their idea, 
their radical idea of the world on us. So I think it is very important 
that we all do that. We understand this is a war for freedom.



This country is the beacon of freedom in the world, and failure is 
simply not possible.

I am very troubled again by the talk by Senators in the Democratic 
party who say the war is lost. It cannot be lost again. If it is, then 
we will go out of existence as a society and as a culture. We can't do 
that.

We know that we're fighting against extremists. There's Sunnis, 
there's Shias and there's al Qaeda and their intent to fortify their 
influence in the Middle East and expand beyond it.

The Democrats have claimed that a recently declassified National 
Intelligence Estimate concluded that the war in Iraq has made the war 
on terror more difficult to win, even though the terrorists see the war 
in Iraq and the war against terrorists as one and the same. They see it 
that way. We do not.

But the NIE actually concluded that, should Jihadists be perceived to 
have failed in their efforts to undermine democracy in Iraq, ''fewer 
fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight.''

So we have to defeat the terrorists. We have to defeat them not only 
in Iraq but in Afghanistan, in New York City, in New Jersey, anywhere 
that we find them. Because that is our mission, and that is what we're 
here for. If we don't want to see freedom and our way of life 
destroyed, then it's our responsibility to do that.

And I will tell you that I am not going to allow the brave men and 
women who are fighting to maintain our freedom to think that all 
Members of Congress have no backbone and are weak-kneed and look only 
to political advantage. I want them to know that there's some Members 
of Congress who appreciate what they're doing, who understand the 
sacrifice that they're making and understand the consequences of our 
winning or losing.