# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `3543118acb85f04800ad7fa4b7418720`
`Mr. KERRY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. General Sheehan, a career military man--these are people 
whose lives are committed to defending our Nation, whose lives are 
committed to the troops, who, when a President would call them, you 
would think would be so honored and so unbelievably challenged by the 
moment, they would say: Of course, Mr. President, I will do what I need 
to do for my country. But four of them said no. And one of them was 
quoted, in saying no: Why would I do that because they don't know where 
the hell they're going. And as he said it, he said: I would go over 
there for a year, I would get an ulcer, I would come back, and it would 
be the same thing.

We have an obligation to vote for a change. That is why I will cast 
my vote ''no'' on this supplemental--yes for the money for troops; yes 
for care; yes for readiness; yes for all the things we need to do; but, 
most importantly, a ''yes'' that we are not able to cast for a change 
in the entire dynamic with the Iraqis themselves and the accountability 
we will hold this administration to, the accountability we hold the 
Iraqis to, and, ultimately, a strategy for real success, not just in 
Iraq but in the Middle East, where we have made Hamas more powerful, 
Iran more powerful, Nasrallah and Hezbollah more powerful, and our 
interests are being set back.

It is time for us to get the policy right. That is how you support 
the troops.