---
---

# None
## `354eb879443a680b5089d3948f3755b6`
`Mr. DURBIN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bills 
do not adequately address all of the long-term needs of the American 
people. We have no one to blame but the President and his Republican 
allies who have chosen to stand by his side.

The bills we drafted and passed out of the Appropriations Committees 
on a bipartisan basis went far beyond what we have here today, but the 
President has made it clear he would veto any bills that were above his 
grossly inadequate budget.

These allies stood with the President and his budget, a budget that I 
cannot believe anyone would be proud to support. The President's budget 
contained cuts of 800 grants for medical research at NIH, cuts in 
programs that provide access to health care by $595 million, cuts in 
rural health initiatives by 50 percent, cuts for crucial Department of 
Education programs by $1.2 billion, and


cuts in Homeland Security Grants for police, firefighters, and medical 
personnel by $1.1 billion.

This is what we were presented with take it or leave it. The 
President refused to compromise and instead made it very clear that in 
his eyes, cuts for health care, education, jobs, and homeland security 
are nonnegotiable. For the cost of what we spend in 2 months in Iraq, 
the President was more than willing to sacrifice a year's worth of 
badly needed investments into health research, our children's 
education, worker safety, and homeland security.

The President has done all of this under the banner of fiscal 
responsibility. This is hard to believe from a President who increased 
spending 50 percent since he came to office, saddled our children and 
grandchildren with $3.3 trillion in new debt, doubled the size of 
foreign debt held by other countries, and asked for another $200 
billion for the war in Iraq without paying for it.

This President also had no problem with a Defense spending bill that 
was 11 percent more than he asked for. He has no problem asking us for 
a blank check to fund war in Iraq. This is a President who says it is 
OK to increase spending for those in other countries, but not here at 
home. When it comes to raising money for our needs at home his answer 
comes with a stroke of his new-found veto pen.

When the President drew his line in the sand, we reached out to our 
Republican counterparts in an effort to build a bipartisan coalition to 
overcome his veto, but Republicans gave us the cold shoulder and have 
decided to stand with the President. These are the same Republicans who 
last Congress failed to pass a budget or complete any of its work on 
domestic funding bills. They have criticized us for the size of this 
bill, but compared to nothing, I will take our work here.

We realize we have an obligation to the American people to fund the 
important functions of our Government and to finish our work as a 
Congress. To complete these bills we had to make tough decisions in the 
face of the President's unreasonable demands and work toward 
prioritizing the needs of the country.

Even within the unreasonable constraints of the President's budget 
numbers, we still put veterans first. This bill added $3.7 billion 
above the President's budget request for veterans and their health 
needs. This $3.7 billion in veterans spending is a proposal the 
President once threatened to veto. These funds will be used for medical 
and prosthetic research, health services for injured and ill veterans, 
and the construction of new medical facilities to help those returning 
home from Iraq and Afghanistan. The additional $3.7 billion for 
veterans is contingent on Presidential action. The President must make 
an emergency spending request by January 18, 2008.

Within the President's overall budget numbers, we were still able to 
increase spending for health, education and workers by $3.9 billion. 
That is $3.9 billion for our needs here for Americans at home. Even 
with the President's hard-line position on his overall budget numbers, 
the fiscal year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act better reflects 
American priorities.

Democratic increases above the President's budget request include 
$3.7 billion for veterans healthcare, $613 million for medical 
research, $3 billion for education, $486 million for renewable energy 
sources, $788 million for heating assistance for low-income households, 
$1.6 billion for highways and bridges, $1.2 billion for State and local 
law enforcement, $1.8 billion for homeland security, and $17 million 
for consumer protection.

I am also very pleased and proud of what we were able to do with very 
limited funding within the Financial Services and General Government 
Appropriations Subcommittee.

Our bill provides $20.6 billion in funding for the Department of the 
Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service, the Executive Office of the 
President, the Federal judiciary, the District of Columbia, and an 
array of 20 independent agencies, including the Consumer Product Safety 
Commission, the General Services Administration, the Federal 
Communications Commission, the Federal Election Commission, the Federal 
Trade Commission, the Postal Service, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, and the Small Business Administration.

Therefore, while I would like to highlight some of the features in 
the Financial Services title, I note that the circumstances that led to 
the final bill forced us to make regrettable cuts, because of the 
President's insistence on his overall bottom line on domestic spending.

I am pleased this bill provides $80 million for the Consumer Product 
Safety Commission, a 30-percent increase of $17.3 million above the 
fiscal year 2007 enacted level and $16.75 million above the budget 
request.

This increase in funding will allow the agency to hire employees, 
find space for additional employees, and make critically needed IT 
improvements.

In addition, the bill includes $115 million for election reform 
programs to be available for States for assistance in meeting the 
requirements of the Help America Vote Act of 2002. The amended bill 
also provides $10 million for an election data collection pilot 
program.

Within the IRS, funding of $2.15 billion is provided for the Taxpayer 
Services account. This is $11.7 million above the fiscal year 2007 
enacted level, $46.9 million above the President's request, and 
$800,000 above the Senate committee-reported level. The President's 
budget sought to cut Taxpayer Services by $35.1 million below the 
fiscal year 2007 level. The bill also establishes a new $8 million 
pilot grant program to improve the Community Volunteer Income Tax 
Assistance Program to serve underserved populations and hardest-to-
reach areas.

The bill boosts funding for Treasury's Community Development 
Financial Institutions, CDFI, Fund to $94 million, reflecting an 
increase of $39.5 million over the fiscal year 2007 enacted level, 
$65.4 million above the President's request, and $4 million above the 
Senate committee-reported level. The President's request would have 
decimated the fund, which promotes access to capital and local economic 
growth by directly investing in and supporting community development 
financial institutions and by expanding lending, investment, and 
services offered by banks and thrifts within underserved markets.

The Federal judiciary receives a 4.3 percent increase over fiscal 
year 2007 in both mandatory and discretionary funding. Within the 
Judiciary title, the bill provides $410 million--an 8.3 percent 
increase over fiscal year 2007--for court security. The bill also 
authorizes a pilot program to permit the U.S. Marshals instead of the 
Federal Protective Service to provide security for seven Federal 
courthouses including the Dirksen Courthouse in Chicago.

Finally, among an array of general provisions applicable government-
wide in Title VII of Division D, the bill provides for a 3.5 percent 
cost-of-living adjustment for civilian Federal employees as included in 
both the House-passed and Senate committee-reported bills.

I am frustrated that we were not able to do more and that the process 
has been delayed, but the fiscal year 2008 funding levels we consider 
this evening reflect America's priorities and I am pleased to support 
the final package.