# REMEMBERING SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
## `356294f19c4d18f5750ba5e6d9cbb99c`
`Mr. HARKIN — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, today marks 5 years since the tragic death 
of our friend and colleague, Paul Wellstone of Minnesota.

You know, I look around the Chamber, I see men and women of 
remarkable talents and abilities. But I have also had a strong sense 
that over the last 5 years there has sort of been a void in our midst; 
a very special Senator, a Member who played a unique role within this 
body, has been missing.

It is as though we are suffering from ''phantom limb syndrome''; you 
know, where a person loses a limb but still feels its presence. 
Whenever an issue of moral urgency, an issue of conscience comes to the 
Senate floor, I still expect to look back over here in the back row and 
see Paul Wellstone over there, chopping his hands in the air, speaking 
with his passion, urging us to do the right thing. On that score, I 
remind my colleagues that one of the last major votes cast by Senator 
Wellstone was his vote against a resolution later used by President 
Bush as an authority to launch an invasion of Iraq.

I remember it well because Paul and I were very close friends, and we 
debated this between us. I said: Paul, no, Bush is not going to use 
this as any kind of authorization to go to Iraq. This is only meant to 
give him the authority to go to the U.N., to get the U.N., which is 
what we want to do, is to get the U.N. inspectors back there.

Well, I think Paul was a little more prescient than I was. So we did 
not vote the same way on that. I will forever rue the day I voted to 
give President Bush that authority. Quite frankly, Senator Wellstone 
was in the midst of a very difficult reelection campaign when he cast 
that vote. So I think it is a measure of his political courage that he 
cast that vote without thinking about any political consequences.

Five years later, with our Armed Forces bogged down in a civil war in 
Iraq, it is painfully clear Senator Wellstone's vote was not only a 
courageous vote, it was the right vote.

I think Paul truly was, as I have said before, kind of the soul of 
the Senate. I have said before that no one ever wore the title 
''Senator'' better or used it less. He loved it when ordinary folks 
came up to him and called him Paul. Some Senators might not be so 
approachable. Paul Wellstone was. He took that as a sign that ordinary 
people knew he was one of them. He was approachable and he cared.

Paul Wellstone was truly my best friend in the Senate. But he is one 
of those rare souls who so many saw as their best friend. He had a 
powerful authenticity about him that made a miner up in the Iron Range 
know he was as important to Paul Wellstone as the President of the 
United States. That was a very unique ability he had.

He never had to proclaim his decency. It shone forth in great acts of 
political courage and small acts of human kindness. He never had to say 
he cared. He never had to proclaim his compassion. You just knew it was 
there. The hard-working folks he cared about most didn't have lobbyists 
of influence, but they had Paul Wellstone. He truly was their best 
friend.

So 5 years later we remember the political science professor whose 
measure of truth was never in political theory but in the impact of our 
decisions on real people. We remember the community organizer who 
understood how to bring people together, rural and urban, 
environmentalists and labor, Republicans and Democrats and, as I have 
often joked, he even brought Minnesotans and Iowans together. We 
remember a leader, a proud Democratic Farmer Labor Party liberal who 
constantly reminded those of us who are Democrats that the purpose of 
our party is to offer hope and opportunity to all Americans, including 
the neediest among us.

I still remember the first time I ever met Paul Wellstone. It was in 
1988. I was a freshman Senator. We were in the midst of one of the 
deepest recessions--depressions, almost--in farm country that we had 
had since the Great Depression. Farmers were losing their farms all 
over the Midwest. Suicides were up. Families were breaking up. There 
were bankruptcies. It was not a very good time in farm country. I 
remember I went out to speak to a large group right outside of Austin, 
MN, at a big farm gathering. I know there were well over 1,000 farmers. 
It was a big gathering. I think the Minnesota Farmers Union or maybe 
the National Farmers Union had pulled them together.

So they asked me to come speak because I had been, at that time, 
trying to get through a bill called the Harkin-Gephardt farm bill to 
respond to the crisis.

So I went there to speak and, of course, as any big gathering like 
that on the stage, you have a lot of different speakers. I was supposed 
to be the final speaker. I was the Senator. So I get there. We had one 
farmer speak, then the head of the Farmers Union speak and then 
somebody else spoke and then somebody else spoke. Right before me, they 
had this guy, this Professor Wellstone. I had never met this guy, and I 
am on the stage with him. I am preparing my remarks, thinking how I am 
going to get the crowd up and excited, get them stimulated. And so this 
Wellstone guy gets up to speak. He has long curly hair. He has a T-
shirt on, kind of rolled up. He was muscular, a wrestler.

How can I say it? After he spoke, I didn't quite know what to do. He 
had everybody up. He was so enthusiastic. He had everybody pumped up. 
He had everybody enthused. I thought, how can I follow this? Well, I 
tried my best. It wasn't very good. I came back to my staff. I said: I 
don't know who that guy is, but don't you ever put me on after him 
again.

That was my first introduction to Paul Wellstone. Then after that we 
became friends. After that, through mutual friends in Minnesota, I 
found out that he was thinking of running for the Senate. Of course, he 
had a big primary. He won it. Of course, I couldn't do much to help him 
because I was fighting for survival myself in 1990. I had a Congressman 
running against me. I was a first-term Senator. But I couldn't have 
been more happy, after my own reelection, than the fact that Paul 
Wellstone won that race in Minnesota in 1990. So we joined forces in 
the Senate.

In 1996, running for reelection, that was a tough year. Quite 
frankly, both of us nearly lost. We were very close. I remember talking 
to him on the phone.



I said: Paul, I don't know if I am going to survive. He said:

Yes, we are going to survive.

Then 2002 came. I remember a dinner with another colleague. I won't 
mention the name. It is a personal thing. But we were thinking maybe of 
not running again. Paul Wellstone had said he was only going to serve 
two terms, and he was afraid of breaking that commitment. So we 
discussed this over dinner. Our wives were with us. We discussed the 
issue of running or not. I thought, well, I have been here for a couple 
terms myself. I didn't know if I wanted to do it anymore. That would 
have been my third term, his second. Then one by one we decided we were 
going to run again, and we talked Paul into it.

We said: Paul, you have to be here. You have to do it. And don't 
worry about that. Your people will understand. You have things to do. 
You haven't finished your job.

So we all decided, yes, we would seek another term in office.

Paul once said:




 Politics is about what we create by what we do, what we 


 hope for, and what we dare to imagine.


Paul was a hopeful man. I always remember that green was his color. 
He had that bus painted green. When I say ''painted green,'' I mean 
with a paint brush. It was an awful paint job they did on that bus of 
his. He climbed aboard that bus in 1990 and set out to build a better 
America. But Paul never meant for it to be a solo voyage. He wanted us 
all aboard.

Though Paul is no longer with us, his journey for justice continues. 
Near the site of the tragic plane crash is a beautiful physical 
memorial for Paul and the seven others who died there: his wife Sheila, 
daughter Marcia, two pilots, campaign staffers Will McLaughlin, Tom 
Lapic, and Mary McEvoy. That is the physical monument.

I would like to think there are also living memorials that Paul would 
have been truly passionate about. One of those is the nonpartisan, 
nonprofit Wellstone Action organization founded by his sons, Mark and 
David, which trains citizens in civic activism and grassroots, people-
to-people politics, the kind of politics he loved and excelled at like 
no one else.

I think there is one more Paul Wellstone legacy. It is not tangible, 
but it may be the most powerful legacy of all. That is our memory of 
his passion, his convictions, and his incredible capacity for bringing 
people together to accomplish important things.

Before closing, I must mention one of those important things he 
fought so hard for and was so passionate about that still remains 
unaccomplished. He fought hard all the time I knew him to end the 
neglect and denial surrounding issues of mental health, access to 
mental health services. Over 41 million persons suffer from a moderate 
or serious mental disorder each year. Less than half receive the 
treatment they need, and 80 to 90 percent of all mental disorders are 
treatable by therapy and medication. Paul fought very passionately for 
the Mental Health Parity Act to end the absurd practice of treating 
mental and physical illnesses as two different kinds of things under 
health insurance.

In late 2001, the Senate passed the Mental Health Equitable Treatment 
Act, sponsored by Paul Wellstone and Senator Domenici of New Mexico--
that was when I happened to be chairman. We had a brief interim where 
we had the Senate, at that time, 2001-2002--as an amendment to the 2002 
Labor-Health and Human Services-Education appropriations bill. It 
passed the Senate. Then we went to conference. In conference it was 
argued that this was not the right place for it, that it should be on 
an authorization bill, not on an appropriations bill. I don't have the 
words right here, but I have them, when people committed that we would 
take care of mental health parity the next year on an authorization 
bill. So it was dropped in conference. Then 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 
2006, 2007, and we still don't have mental health parity. The Senate 
passed it. A strong majority of Members in the other body supported a 
similar bill entitled the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction 
Equity Act of 2007. But we still don't have it done.

I can't think of a better living legacy to Senator Paul Wellstone 
than for this Congress, the 110th Congress, to pass the strongest 
possible mental health parity bill and send it to the President to 
become law. I hope we can get that job done before we go home whenever 
that may be.

In closing, for those of us who had the privilege of serving with 
Paul Wellstone, his spirit is still very much with us. He still 
inspires us. He still calls us to conscience. He still makes us smile 
when we think of his puckish humor. He was the finest of men. We miss 
him greatly.