# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `356c62cb88f1b1e4f8b35917a1d3d6de`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, I would like to express my 
admiration and support for the brave men and women of our military who 
are nobly serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. In Afghanistan, they 
continue to perform an important mission by taking action against our 
enemies in the country that served as host to the Al Qaeda organization 
that attacked the United States of America on September 11th, 2001, and 
they do so with complete skill, courage, and professionalism. I am 
fully supportive of them and their mission. I have voted to provide 
funding solely for our military activities in Afghanistan, and would do 
so again if such a bill were to come before the House.

However, the funding measure in Amendment Number 1 brought before the 
House today included funding for the ongoing war in Iraq without 
accompanying conditions on those funds or a timeline for withdrawal of 
American forces. I remain opposed to the President's mistaken war in 
Iraq, which has now claimed over 4,000 American lives, undermined our 
military and ability to respond to other threats abroad, and cost 
hundreds of billions of dollars that could have been used to meet 
pressing needs at home. I believe that we must change course in Iraq, 
and cannot support the appropriation of additional funds without 
measures to impose conditions on that funding and start bringing our 
troops home. Accordingly, I could not vote for Amendment Number 1.