# HONORING AND EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO THE 1ST BATTALION OF THE 133RD  INFANTRY OF THE IOWA NATIONAL GUARD
## `3573229fbb408dc8486fbc3ec6c5fe83`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 30 July 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 568, 
introduced by my colleague from Iowa, Mr. Braley, which recognizes the 
bravery and the tremendous self-sacrifice of the 1st Battalion of the 
133rd Infantry of the Iowa National Guard.



Beginning in September of 2005, this ''Ironman Battalion'' was 
mobilized for active duty, and by April 2006, 490 members were deployed 
to al-Anbar Province to support Operation Iraqi Freedom. Since 
deploying as part of the 1st Brigade Combat Team of the 34th Infantry 
Division, this Iowa battalion has completed the longest continuous 
deployment of any Army National Guard unit during the Iraqi war, and is 
the longest deployed Iowa Guard unit since the Second World War.

They have completed over 500 missions and logged over 4 million 
mission miles, delivering over one-third of the fuel needed to sustain 
coalition forces in Iraq.

While performing operations in Anbar, this battalion dutifully 
detained over 60 insurgents, and they remained steadfast and strong 
when their tour was extended at a time when this country needed their 
leadership.

On September 30, 2006, Sergeant First Class Scott E. Nisely and 
Sergeant Kampha B. Sourivong paid the ultimate sacrifice and 
courageously laid down their lives for this Nation. It is a solemn and 
sad occasion when this country's sons and daughters give so much, and 
often words are insufficient to describe the humble gratitude and 
dignified thanks that we owe these brave soldiers and their families. 
In times of war, Madam Speaker, it is important that this Nation, this 
House, halt for a brief moment and speak with actions what words cannot 
articulate.

I am honored to rise today on the floor of this House to express the 
thanks of a grateful Nation to the members and the families of the 1st 
Battalion of the 133rd Infantry of the Iowa National Guard upon their 
return home from their deployment in Iraq.

The story of Iowa's 1st Battalion of the 133rd Infantry is even more 
remarkable because their extended tour of duty in Iraq was a crucial 
component of the surge policy. This battalion made a great sacrifice 
that has impacted their family lives and their jobs. However, their 
unfaltering willingness to serve an extended tour allowed the National 
Guard to reset the force and begin the process of serving in more 
predictable deployment cycles. They not only sacrificed for our 
freedom, but for the betterment of their fellow guardsmen across the 
Nation.

I want to take this opportunity to thank the men and women of the 
Iowa National Guard, including MG Ron Dardis, Iowa's Adjutant General. 
Today this House joins the Iowa delegation in bringing this deserving 
recognition of their National Guard. We want to commend Mr. Braley for 
his leadership in support of the National Guard.

Today's resolution again highlights the important role that the 
National Guard continues to fulfill through wartime requirements. 
Indeed, the National Guard is now an operational force that can 
simultaneously provide wartime capabilities while protecting the 
homeland. And to achieve this mission, it has taken the participation 
and support of every State and territory National Guard. All of us are 
very proud of our National Guard units, and I am very proud of the 
contributions of


the Guam National Guard to missions abroad and in the homeland. Today 
we recognize a National Guard battalion who has sacrificed above and 
beyond the normal call of duty and expectations placed upon them.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.