# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `357c0ddb27668c61ba99e287bdcc87f2`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. The issue before the Senate includes the question of 
Guantanamo, and I know there has been some recent activity on this 
legislation.

Addressing this issue, the Federal Government has no higher 
responsibility than ensuring the safety and security of every American. 
Since 9/11, our Nation has taken a number of steps to safeguard us from 
the threat of terrorism, including the development of a facility to 
detain enemy combatants at U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay.

Over the course of our campaign against terrorism, that detention 
facility came under harsh scrutiny; doing great harm to our stature 
around the world.

In June of 2005, I told a group of newspaper editors that the 
detention facility at U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay had become a 
lightning rod for global criticism, and at some point a country has to 
reexamine the cost-benefit ratio of operating a facility that has such 
a poor public face.

As a lawyer, I noted that it wasn't very American to be holding 
people indefinitely with no system in place to process and grant review 
of the detention and some form of due process.

Suspected enemy combatants had essentially become akin to POWs; but 
because of the unique nature of the ongoing war on terror, they could 
not be released.

What I knew then, and what I know now is that though many wanted to 
close Guantanamo--a view that would eventually be shared publicly by 
President Bush and both candidates for President Senators John McCain 
and Barack Obama--we did not have a good plan for how to legally 
advance beyond that wish.

So we had an idea--to close Guantanamo--but no good path to achieve 
that without endangering Americans.

The world has changed since 2005.

Since then, a military commission system was established, prisoners 
were processed; the trying of unlawful enemy combatants began; trials 
concluded; and in some cases former Guantanamo Bay detainees were 
convicted of their charges, while others were acquitted and released.

But now, we have gone from the rhetoric of the campaign to the very 
real pronouncement by the President that Guantanamo shall be closed 
down by January 2010.

I agree, we need to close Guantanamo, but not before we have a 
concrete plan in place that holds captured enemy combatants accountable 
for their actions, while also not endangering the American public.

President Obama's Director of National Intelligence, Admiral Dennis 
Blair clearly laid out that:




 The guiding principles for closing the center should be 


 protecting our national security, respecting the Geneva 


 Conventions and the rule of law, and respecting the existing 


 institutions of justice in this country.



 I also believe we should revitalize efforts to transfer 


 detainees to their countries of origin or other countries 


 whenever that would be consistent with these principles.



 Closing this center and satisfying these principles will 


 take time, and is the work of many departments and agencies.


So again, we have the idea that we can all agree on, but in practice 
there is no plan; there is no clear path to achieving these goals.

When choosing a path, we need to act very carefully and consider this 
decision in the context of our ability to continue processing prisoners 
under the Military Commissions Act; we need to consider whether and how 
habeas corpus would apply to detainees transferred to U.S. facilities; 
and we need to know the implications of trying Gitmo detainees in 
Federal Court.

Today, some 240 individuals are held at Gitmo's detention center.

Of these, eighty detainees potentially face prosecution for war 
crimes before Military Commissions at Guantanamo and two individuals 
have already been convicted of war crimes before the Commissions.

These Commissions were created by Congress under the Detainee 
Treatment Act and the Military Commissions Act as a means for 
prosecuting the unique type of enemy we confront in this new type of 
warfare.

But then came the Supreme Court's opinion in Boumediene v. Bush.

In that opinion, authored by Justice Kennedy on behalf of the five-
member majority, the Court did something that has never been done in 
the history of our Nation.

The Court extended the constitutional writ of habeas corpus to 
foreigners detained in foreign lands.

That means the Court extended to foreign terror suspects detained at 
Guantanamo Bay the same constitutional rights and privileges that U.S. 
citizens enjoy in U.S. courts.

Seizing on this unprecedented constitutional interpretation, the 
lawyers of several Gitmo detainees quickly filed motions in Federal 
district courts seeking to have their clients brought into the U.S., 
and in some cases, asked that their clients be released or ''paroled'' 
onto the streets of American cities and communities.

This is the world we live in given the Court's decision in 
Boumediene--a world in which foreigners, who have been trained at 
terrorist camps in Afghanistan, have been granted the right to be 
released onto the streets of American cities.

It was against this backdrop that President Obama decided on his 
first day in office to halt further Military Commission trials and to 
mandate the closing of Gitmo by January of next year.

Let's be clear about what we are dealing with here.

These detainees are not accused of shoplifting; they are not accused 
of robbing a bank; they are not accused of organizing a single or 
double homicide.

They are accused of working as unlawful enemy combatants with the aim 
of killing as many Americans as they can kill, most of them completely 
committed to their goal, they are ''irreconcilables.''

We are still in the midst of a global war on terror against an enemy 
bent on attacking Americans wherever and whenever it can. There is no 
question that this war is unprecedented. There is no question we face 
unique and difficult choices. But one thing is very clear: We should 
never allow alleged enemy combatants to enter or be released in the 
United States. No court, civilian or military, should ever be asked to 
decide whether the foreign terrorist trainee before it is ''safe 
enough'' to be brought into the United States and released into our 
streets. The American people deserve greater protections from us than 
that would warrant them, and we must remember that their personal 
safety and our national security is our No. 1 priority.

Guantanamo is a world-class facility that is well-suited for the 
unique circumstances of the global war on terror. Even Attorney General 
Holder has declared the facility to be ''well run'' and noted that 
Gitmo personnel conduct themselves in an appropriate way. I myself have 
visited there, and I understand what he is saying, because it is a good 
example of a fine detention facility. It is good that the military 
commissions were working and were achieving fair results and may be 
coming back.

For example, Salim Hamdan, Osama bin Laden's personal driver and body 
man, was convicted of providing material support to al-Qaida and 
sentenced to a mere 5/1/2/ years by a jury of military officers. This 
result demonstrates the effectiveness and the type of justice provided 
by the military commissions. This is why they should resume immediately 
at the only venue in the world that has been built to facilitate them, 
and that is the facility at Gitmo.

One thing I do want to make clear as we continue to have debate over 
the facility's future, I remind my colleagues that when we talk about 
Gitmo's future, we are referencing the detention center, not the U.S. 
Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay. That naval base is


the landlord to the detention center, but it also serves as a vital 
base for our Navy and is a key strategic place.

The overall facility is the U.S. Naval Station providing fleet 
support, ship replenishment, and refueling for the U.S. Navy and also 
for the Coast Guard as well as allied and friendly nations. It is a key 
processing center for Haitians and Cubans seeking asylum. The U.S. 
Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay is home to more than 8,500 active-duty 
servicemembers and their families and civilian support contractors.

We cannot lose sight of the important role the base plays in our 
national security, and the continued need for infrastructure 
improvements and enhancements, all that have absolutely nothing to do 
with the detention facility. As we continue to debate the facility's 
future, I want to underscore the importance of making a thoughtful and 
careful decision rather than one that may be what is expedient, for the 
moment.

We need a plan on how to move forward given the considerations I have 
discussed today. So I hope as the discussion goes forward, we will put 
the interests and the safety of the American people first. I know the 
portion of this bill before us which dealt with the Guantanamo facility 
and the allocation of $80 million to close down the facility may be 
removed from the bill or considered in a different form. I would be 
encouraged if we are not at the moment funding the closing of this 
facility until we have a game plan in mind of what we are going to do 
with the facility and the detainees who are there.

We still have not addressed what we are going to do between now and 
January of 2010. There still is no plan. There still is no future for 
what will happen to the 240 detainees who currently reside at the 
detention facility at the United States Naval Station in Guantanamo, 
Cuba.

I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Begich.) The Senator from Alabama.