# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3588ff9f7557ca73ce7b25234057bbf6`
`Mr. EVERETT — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. EVERETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member of the 
Intelligence Committee, my friend from Michigan.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H. Con. Res. 63, 
the Democrats' nonbinding resolution that does nothing to improve the 
outcome of the war, but does much to hurt the war against terrorism.

The resolution claims they support the troops. However, regardless of 
what the previous speaker said, they refuse to protect the money our 
troops must have while they are in harm's way.



If we wanted to have a meaningful debate on the real issues facing 
this country, we would take up Congressman Sam Johnson's bill that 
opposes any effort to cut off or restrict funding for our military.

But that is not the debate we are having today. Instead, we are 
debating a nonbinding resolution that, in my mind, can only hurt our 
troops who are on the battlefield as we speak, and this resolution can 
only give comfort to those who wish to kill Americans.

Making Iraq a secure place is difficult because of deep-seated 
religious and ethnic divisions. This is highlighted by the murderous 
acts of Saddam's dictatorship that killed so many thousands. In 
addition, al Qaeda and local terrorists along with hostile foreign 
governments, including Iran, have both encouraged and funded the 
current violence in the hopes that Iraq will not follow the path to 
democracy. They must not be allowed to succeed.

Any American lives lost in the defense of our Nation is one too many. 
Yet we must not turn from our task of defeating terrorism before the 
job is done. President Bush is the Commander in Chief and intends to 
reinforce American troop strength by 21,000 soldiers to help Iraq's new 
government finally control violence and restore order. While I believe 
the decision to increase troop strength in Iraq could have been made 
much sooner and in greater numbers, it today presents the only viable 
option to bringing order to the country and laying the foundation for 
Iraqi Government control of that nation's security.

Iraq's government is taking new steps to control the violence from 
all ethnic groups and made it clear that


our abandoning them at this stage would guarantee failure for democracy 
in Iraq. And it would ensure a tremendous setback in America's battle 
to deny terrorism a foothold and give them more chances to continue to 
kill Americans. Pulling back now with no viable plan to stabilize Iraq 
would be a disastrous action. This sentiment was expressed in the most 
recent National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, the NIE is the intelligence community's 
most authoritative written judgments on national security issues and is 
designed to help us develop policies to protect U.S. national security 
interests. Specifically, this report states: ''Coalition capabilities, 
including force levels, resources, and operations, remain an essential 
stabilizing element in Iraq.'' In addition, it goes on to say: ''If 
coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the term of this 
estimate, we judge that this almost certainly would lead to a 
significant increase in the scale and scope of sectarian conflict in 
Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi Government, and have 
adverse consequences for national reconciliation.''

While America must not be in Iraq indefinitely, we should not leave 
without ensuring that the terrorists that are there are put down. To do 
otherwise would be terribly shortsighted and would ultimately embolden 
our terrorist enemies who have made no secret of their desire to 
continue to kill Americans.

As a member of the House Armed Services Committee and Intelligence 
Committee, I have monitored the developments in the war on terrorism, 
including those in Iraq. I met with President Bush in the White House 
to discuss the military mission in Iraq shortly after he outlined his 
strategy for Iraq in early January. We explored what would happen in 
Iraq, the Middle East, and America if we withdrew from the fight before 
Iraq's democratic government is strong enough to maintain the peace. 
Our conclusion was that Iraq would become a sanctuary for terrorists 
and a base from which they could launch future attacks against 
Americans.

Some Members have tried to claim that the war in Iraq has nothing to 
do with the war on terrorism. That is the only way they can justify 
this nonbinding resolution, and that is pure nonsense.

We have the greatest military on the face of the Earth, one that no 
other military dare stand before lest they be destroyed. The only thing 
that can defeat us is the lack of will. And may God help us if we lose 
the will to defend this great Nation against terrorism.