# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `359c6d181793c5fab1a0a9e5f91d16c8`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, it has been 4 years and we are now in 
our fifth year of war, and once again the Nation stops to assess where 
are we? And probably the best indicator of where we are was the front 
page of the Washington Post today.



The first article, ''CIA Said Instability Seemed Irreversible.'' That 
is the instability in Iraq.

Second article, ''White House Gives Iraq Mixed Marks in Report.'' 
Unfortunately, Iraq did not meet any of the benchmarks set by the Bush 
administration and the Congress.

Third article, ''U.S. Warns of Stronger al Qaeda.'' What we are 
talking about there is the resurgence of al Qaeda in Pakistan and in 
Afghanistan where it is no longer safe for girls to go to school once 
again, and where the drug crop is stronger than ever and where we have 
made no gains at all. Why haven't we made any gains after 4 years? 
Because we have been dragged into Iraq, into a war without end, by a 
President who did not understand the region, who is indifferent to the 
problems, the cultural differences and the problems they are 
experiencing, and who has not listened to the world. He has not 
listened to America, and has not listened to his generals and advisors 
on this.

Now they are asking us for more time. As a member of the Armed 
Services Committee, there is nothing that upsets me more than hearing 
somebody stand and ask for more time after 4 long years; more time for 
the surge, I heard today, that the surge hasn't had time to work. My 
question to the gentleman was: Which surge are we talking about? I lose 
track because we have had so many surges. Which surge are we talking 
about?

Then they say that the President needs more time. Then I hear General 
Petraeus needs more time. Always we need more time.

How about this. We have a democracy, a young democracy, the President 
says, in Iraq, and more than half of the people in that parliament 
signed a petition asking the United States to leave. Now we said we 
would leave if another nation like Iraq asked us to leave. And yet we 
hear absolute silence from the President. He will not leave despite of 
the fact that the government he had elected there has asked us to 
leave.

It costs us $10 billion a month. When I speak to my constituents, 
they are all asking, why don't we have money have money for this? We 
need money for health care. We have a problem with infrastructure. And 
we just don't have the money for this; this program is being cut back. 
And my answer over and over is what everybody else is having to tell 
the good people in this country who need our resources, this is what we 
have to tell them, you can't have two wars, tax cuts for the top 1 
percent, the greatest deficits in history, and still provide for the 
American people.

We have a decision to make. We have an opportunity finally to provide 
a responsible road map out of Iraq; and yet we have a President and an 
administration that is indifferent to this road map.



It is now our responsibility to respond to the American people, to 
respond to the world and try once again to get the President's 
attention and once again to ask to please end the craziness here after 
the thousands of deaths of American soldiers, the injuries which we 
will be paying for, and should pay for. It is our obligation to honor 
our commitments to our soldiers, but we will be paying for this for so 
many years. And we also have an obligation to the Iraqis. We don't even 
know how many have died because we don't really count them.

What we do know about Iraq is that that culture has been decimated, 
that those who can leave have left. The countries surrounding Iraq have 
a large number of refugees, and people living inside Iraq are afraid to 
go out on their streets.

When I was in Iraq in March, I had an opportunity to speak to Sunni 
and Shiite women. It was very clear to me that they were unable to 
resolve their differences. They were so full of mistrust and hatred for 
each other that they were in the midst of a civil war. Yet we stay 
there and we continue to put our soldiers in the middle of a civil war, 
and we continue to be deaf to the cries of the rest of the world.

So we are standing here tonight asking once again for the President 
to listen to the American people, to listen to reason, to listen to the 
military leaders who never talk about a military victory any more. They 
simply talk about stabilizing Iraq, and the question has to be 
stabilizing Iraq; wasn't Iraq stable 4 years ago? Is this the result we 
get after 4 years of war?

I thank our soldiers for their incredible commitment to this country. 
I have had an opportunity to see some of them leave. I have nothing but 
the deepest respect for them. I know that the Army is suffering under 
the strain of a 4-year war. The soldiers and their families are 
suffering under the strain. I know that they have asked us to speak up 
for them because they are unable to.

So we stand here once again tonight for the people, for the soldiers, 
and ask the President to please start a responsible road map out of 
Iraq.