---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `35a2f973ee37ef75ad8f82492cb71fea`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I yield myself 5 minutes.

To my friend from Indiana, who cited his disagreement based on law 
and facts and the troops, I would like to respond categorically.

First of all, section 4(a)(1) of the War Powers Act requires the 
President to report to Congress any introduction of U.S. forces into 
hostilities or imminent hostilities. When the President reports, he 
does so consistent with but not pursuant to the War Powers Resolution. 
That's nuance when we're speaking about reporting requirements, because 
if President Obama did submit a report pursuant to the War Powers 
Resolution, it would trigger a vote on withdrawal from Afghanistan. Or 
Congress, on the other hand, has the ability, as I have, to bring a 
privileged resolution forward.

Now, I have heard a lot of talk about the troops here. I don't take a 
backseat to anyone in support of the troops. There are some that 
believe the way that we support the troops is to keep them in 
Afghanistan. There are others who believe that the way to support the 
troops is to bring them home.



The Washington Post this week carried one of a series of 
presentations of what they call ''Faces of the Fallen.'' We owe our 
gratitude to each and every person who has served this country. We 
support those who served. But it is our obligation to be able to 
question the mission at any time. We should honor those who serve and 
those who have given their lives and made the supreme sacrifice. We owe 
it to them to continually critically analyze the cost of the war, the 
purpose of the war, and the continuation of the war.

I never had the opportunity to serve. I had a heart murmur during the 
Vietnam era. But my father was a World War II marine veteran who had 
his knee shot out in a campaign in the South Pacific. My brother Frank, 
who is now deceased, served in combat in Vietnam and came home with 
post-traumatic stress. It changed his whole life. My brother Gary, a 
Vietnam-era Marine veteran; my sister Beth Ann, who recently passed, an 
Army veteran; my nephew Gary, an Iraq combat veteran. I come from a 
family which believes in service. The American family, the large family 
of our Nation, believes in service to our country. Yet, it is true that 
the death toll, as The Washington Post reports in Afghanistan, is at 
least at 1,000, and we have to have this debate to either recommit to 
continuing the war and giving the reasons to the troops why we're doing 
that or to suggest that maybe this is the opportunity for us to take a 
new direction.

I reserve the balance of my time.

