---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `35a44de44d43af379a4f53f5ef153fbb`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Chair, I want to speak against this Progressive 
Caucus budget in the strongest terms available.

Over the last couple of weeks, I have somewhat tongue in cheek talked 
about when the Defeat in Iraq Caucus and when the Defeat in Afghanistan 
Caucus get their way that it won't be long before they declare a defeat 
dividend.

As you recall in the 1990s when the Soviet Union failed, this Chamber 
and others declared a peace dividend. They took money that would have 
otherwise


supported our troops in the fight and spent it somewhere else.

I thought it would take until the defeat actually occurred, but I 
come today and find that the Progressive Caucus has already declared a 
$781 billion defeat dividend.

We have men and women in harm's way right now giving their lives for 
this country. Whether you agree with it or not, that is what they are 
doing. Where was this group last week when they said let's keep them in 
the fight for 17 more months? Why did you stand up and say that was 
okay and yet call what they are doing the single largest waste of 
taxpayer money in American history? You cannot have it both ways.

Vote your convictions. Get them out of Iraq now. That is a legitimate 
position to defend. But to say we are going to keep them there for 17 
more months, strip them of $781 billion in flak jackets and up-armored 
Humvees and all of the things you would take away from them is simply 
unfair and unconscionable.

I encourage my fellow colleagues to vote against this Progressive 
Caucus budget over and over. This is wrongheaded. It is not the way to 
lead this country. It sends a terrible message to our soldiers in the 
Armed Forces who are fighting this fight on our behalf.