# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `35a6e157104a74565eaa3cd435d63ea2`
`Mr. BAYH — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Madam President, I rise with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of Marine LCpl Joshua Birchfield from Westville, IN. Joshua was 24 
years old when he lost his life on February 19 while serving in 
Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. He was assigned 
to the 3rd Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

Today, I join family and friends in mourning his death. Joshua will 
forever be remembered as a loving son and a friend to many. He is 
survived by his parents, Bruce Birchfield and Michelle ''Shelley'' 
Hacker; his grandmother, Frances Birchfield of La Porte; two sisters, 
Rachael and Emily Birchfield, both of Westville; his stepfather, Ron 
Hacker, stepgrandparents, Howard and Martha Hacker, and step-great-
grandmother, Mary Dickinson, all of Westville; and countless family and 
friends who were privileged to know him.

Joshua was a Westville native. Prior to entering the service in 2008, 
Joshua graduated from Westville High School in 2004. A talented 
athlete, Joshua excelled at baseball in high school. Friends remember 
Joshua's contagious passion for life.

Joshua served as a rifleman and was awarded the Purple Heart, the 
Combat Action Ribbon, the National Defense Service Medal, the 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, 
the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, and the NATO Medal.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Joshua set as a marine, a son, and a brother. 
Today and always he will be remembered by family, friends, and fellow 
Hoosiers as a true American hero. We cherish the legacy of his service 
and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen marine, I recall President 
Lincoln's words to the families of soldiers who died at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Joshua Birchfield in the 
official Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. I pray 
that Joshua's family finds comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah 
who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 
wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Joshua.

