---
---

# WELCOMING HOME STAFF SERGEANT SCOTT LILLEY
## `35b24d58eb23f8d81e9902b0cea3b7ff`
`Mr. PEARCE — 9 November 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Madam Speaker. I rise today to welcome a brave American 
soldier home to New Mexico. SSgt. Scott Lilley is returning to his 
family in Roswell, NM, after spending 7 months recovering from a 
serious wound in battle which left shrapnel lodged in his brain.

Staff Sergeant Lilley served his country bravely for 6 months before 
he was injured when his convoy in Iraq was attacked by small arms fire 
on April 15, 2007. In the face of enemy fire, he displayed the utmost 
courage while defending his fellow soldiers. Despite suffering a life 
threatening wound, Staff Sergeant Lilley continues to be an example of 
bravery and strength in his recovery.

Over the course of his career the medals and awards collected by 
Staff Sergeant Lilley included: The Purple Heart, Army Commendation 
Medal, Air Force Combat Action Medal, Meritorious Unit Award, Air Force 
Outstanding Unit Award, Air Force Good Conduct Medal, National Defense 
Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, and the 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.

Staff Sergeant Lilley was treated by military doctors and transported 
to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Landstuhl, Germany, where he 
received further medical treatment. Now, 7 months after what could have 
been a fatal injury, Staff Sergeant Lilley has returned home to be with 
his family and continue the healing process. Welcome home Scott and God 
bless you and your family.
