---
---

# IT'S UP TO CONGRESS TO TAKE THE WHEEL
## `35b8bcc24602fe900eccb6f11839954e`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, the President is famous for saying that he 
is the decider, but earlier this week we found out that when it comes 
to Iraq the American people want Congress to be the decider.

A poll conducted by ABC News and the Washington Post found that 62 
percent of the American people say that Congress, and not the White 
House, should have the final word as to when to bring our troops home. 
The poll also found that 78 percent of the American people believe that 
the President is not willing enough to change course in Iraq. Nearly 60 
percent favor withdrawal of our troops, and nearly two-thirds believe 
that the troop surge will not make things better.

And perhaps the saddest thing of all about this, Mr. Speaker, is that 
the great majority of Americans who have served in Iraq, or who have 
had a close friend or relative serve there, disapprove of the way the 
occupation has been handled.

These findings represent a complete repudiation of the President's 
policies and leadership, but it also poses a great challenge to Members 
of Congress. The American people are looking for us to lead. But so 
far, we've let them down. We haven't done what the American people sent 
here us here to do: end the occupation and bring the troops home.

Yes, it's true that this House voted earlier this month to begin 
withdrawing our troops within 120 days. That was an important step 
forward, but it doesn't force the President's hand because there aren't 
enough votes in this House, yet, to make the bill veto-proof.

I know that my colleagues across the aisle are waiting for General 
Petraeus to issue his report of the surge in September before they 
decide what to do about Iraq, but I don't know why we're waiting for a 
report when the report that really matters has already been issued, the 
National Intelligence Estimate, which we received last week.

It showed beyond a shadow of a doubt that al Qaeda is the greatest 
threat to America, and it is operating out of Pakistan, not Iraq. By 
getting caught in the crossfire of a civil war in Iraq, we have been 
fighting the wrong enemy in the wrong place at the wrong time.

But despite all logic, the administration keeps digging us in even 
deeper. The press is reporting today that the American command in Iraq 
has developed a new plan that will keep us fighting and dying there for 
years more, and at least 2 years more.

This is the worst possible action to take, Mr. Speaker, because it 
sends the message that our involvement is open-ended. It says to the 
Iraqi government, you don't have to lift a finger to take 
responsibility for your country's security because Americans will do 
the job for you.

Six-and-a-half years later, this administration has pursued an 
arrogant, go-it-alone foreign policy. It told our allies and the rest 
of the world to get lost. So it's not surprising that it wants Congress 
to get lost, too.

But we are a coequal branch. We have a clear mandate from the 
American people. The American people are telling us, the President is 
driving us over the cliff. So it's up to the Congress to take the 
wheel.

Our duty is clear, Mr. Speaker. We must act now to put our country 
and the world on a better and safer course. We must bring our troops 
home.
