---
---

# BUDGETING FOR PEACE AND SECURITY
## `35bf8bd402385f861d430110cfaaccb8`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, today the House began debate on the budget 
for the next year. This is the time when each party shows its true 
priorities. The Democrats have promised to ensure our homeland security 
while providing for the needs of America's working families: health 
care, education, safe communities.

This is another chance to tell the people to tell the administration 
that we are not going to fund this misguided occupation of Iraq. We are 
quickly approaching one-half trillion dollars for the occupation of 
Iraq, including billions that have been lost, misallocated, or 
squandered, while drastically cutting important domestic programs in 
the United States of America.

Let me say that one more time: one-half trillion dollars. What comes 
after a trillion? A zillion? This might not mean much to some of the 
folks in Washington, but to the people scraping to get by this means 
everything.

We are in the fifth year of this occupation, and if we follow the 
leadership of the administration we will be there for years to come. In 
fact, they even say that the exit strategy for Iraq will be decided by 
future presidents. Presidents. Not one, but many. This is really 
unacceptable.

The Progressive Caucus budget, the Peace and Security budget, takes a 
stand against the ridiculous budget request and puts the money where it 
will do the most good. By ending our military presence in Iraq, we can 
save at least $202 billion over the next 2 years. Doing that, we can 
focus on the real needs of Americans.

The Congressional Progressive Caucus budget will fully fund No Child 
Left Behind and IDEA and improve the Teacher Corps and job training. It 
will provide affordable, accessible, quality health care for Americans, 
starting with fully funding the SCHIP program to ensure that every 
American child is covered for basic health insurance. It will rebuild 
America's communities by increasing funding for Community Development 
Block Grants, Hurricane Katrina relief, and reconstruction and 
community policing. It also guarantees veterans health care and ensures 
that the Federal funding that is needed will be available to provide 
health care, including mental health care, for every single American 
veteran, including but not limited to veterans of the Iraq and 
Afghanistan wars.

This Peace and Security budget gives a fair shake for working 
families by increasing funding to protect fundamental worker rights, 
enforcing credit and lending practices, and promoting liveable wages 
and safe work places. It also will renew the social contract and 21st 
century safety net by substantially increasing funding for decent, 
affordable housing, for anti-hunger programs, and more quality child 
care for low-income and impoverished Americans, including Hurricane 
Katrina victims.

Does this mean that we will abandon our obligation throughout the 
world? Absolutely not. We will support the Smart Security Plan by 
increasing nonmilitary spending to enhance homeland security and to 
fight the root causes of terrorism, a real 21st century diplomacy plan 
that meets basic human needs such as fighting HIV and AIDS and 
providing for universal basic education.

If we had spent the last 4 years focusing on the real needs of 
America's working families and not fighting this endless, misguided 
occupation of Iraq, America would be safer, more prosperous and a 
leader in peace and security worldwide.

It is time to bring common sense and reason back to our foreign 
policy. I call on my colleagues to join me in supporting the 
Progressive Caucus budget, the Peace and Security budget, and to join 
me in the call to bring our troops home now.
