---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `35c44f0c25971f0ac74a8bab111429ec`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 30 April 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, we appreciate the opportunity 
tonight in the 30-Something Working Group to talk about an item that is 
extremely important to America and particularly important to America's 
military families, and that is the effects of troop deployment on the 
children, families and communities of military personnel.

Speaker Pelosi has been so supportive of the notion that we need to 
make sure that we shape our policy, particularly around our Nation's 
veterans, in support of our military families. The extended troop 
deployments, the tour after tour of duty, I know that so many of us as 
Members have met with soldiers' families and met with individual troops 
who have said they are on their third and fourth tour of duty, that 
they are having extended deployments, that they are having a much 
shorter than they are supposed to time between deployments. Normally 
they are supposed to go through about 365 days between deployments. 
Those times have not been respected and they have been sent back much 
sooner.

Since October 2001, approximately 1.6 million U.S. troops have been 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. Deployed family members are leaving 
behind parents, children and spouses to provide a selfless patriotic 
service to our country. However, families are also asked to make great 
sacrifices when dealing with the stress and anxiety of multiple 
deployments, limited and infrequent communications, and the separation 
of a family member.

In this Month of the Military Child, we thought it was only 
appropriate that we show our support for those that themselves provide 
so much support to our soldiers and discuss the consequences of these 
prolonged separations.

I would like to begin, Mr. Speaker, with a story of the Lopez family. 
The Lopez family is right here. They were profiled in the Sesame 
Workshop Talk, Listen, Connect Series. Ten-year-old Ernesto, who is the 
little boy right here, and 6-year-old Jennifer, live with their mother 
and baby brother on Fort Bragg in North Carolina, which is home of the 
Airborne and Special Operations Forces and one of the largest military 
bases in the world. Their dad, Staff Sergeant Ernesto Lopez, is in Iraq 
on his third tour of duty.

Look how little these children are. The daughter is 6 years old. If 
he is on his third tour of duty, and most of these tours of duty, Mr. 
Speaker, are, as you know, about a year each, that means that he has 
missed half of Jennifer's life already. Half. It is just unbelievable.

Jennifer keeps a special calendar in her room to mark the days until 
her dad comes home. Ernesto sleeps with a duplicate of the small ball 
that his father carries, a soft army ball with a molded helmet and a 
soldier's face, onto which Ernesto drew a heart that means ''we love 
each other,'' in his words. Even baby Elan, who was born 2 days before 
his father was deployed, has a soft-sided photo album filled with 
pictures of his dad that his mother hopes will ease his recognition 
when he returns.

Imagine. It is going to be incredibly difficult for this family to go 
through the restoration of bonding that military families inevitably go 
through. I can't imagine having just given birth and having to leave to 
go across the world and not know whether or if I would see my family 
again. That is what our men and women that are fighting for us in Iraq 
are going through every single day. And as Ernesto, Jennifer, Elan and 
Mrs. Lopez know so well, when a parent is deployed, the entire family 
is deployed.

The Lopez children are an example of the 1.2 million children under 
the age of 10 who have a parent or parents on active military duty or 
in the Reserves, which is more than at any other time since World War 
II.

Tonight, Mr. Speaker, we are going to be discussing the burdens of 
deployment on the children, families and communities of the brave men 
and women that serve us in uniform. Families and communities of 
military personnel are making huge sacrifices every day for the 
protection of this country, and we must be prepared as a Nation to 
ensure the well-being of military families, welcome home our brave 
soldiers at the end of their tours, and provide for their safe 
reintegration into their communities.

At this time, I would like to recognize the gentleman who suggested 
that the 30-Something Working Group take up this subject during our 
weekly hour. He is a tremendous leader when it comes to the issues 
important to veterans and military families, Chairman Bob Filner, the 
gentleman from California.