# TRIBUTE TO DANIEL J. HOLLMANN
## `35cb772007515e4f9cd46e3bc1d80658`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, on a different topic altogether, we have 
heard talk that the Democrats will bring forth the idea that we can set 
some sort of an artificial time line on when to get out of Iraq. I 
would argue there are really only two choices in this issue, and this 
third choice is false and misleading.

Here is the example: let's assume for the sake of this argument that 
Democrats decide in March of 2008 we need to stop this fight. I ask my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, how do you look those family 
members in the eye whose loved ones are killed or maimed in March of 
2008 and say, gee, if we had known in March of 2007 what we now know in 
March of 2008, that your loved one would have gotten killed, I might 
have thought a February 28 date was a better date.

Madam Speaker, we have no three choices. We have two choices, and 
they are honorable, in a sense. One is to fight this fight and win, 
which is the choice I believe is the correct one; or we simply raise 
the white flag, admit defeat, say that we have lost and get our troops 
out today. Anything short of that is untenable. The impact it has on 
the war fighter is obvious, ignoring, of course, the impact it has on 
the folks we oppose and the advantages it gives them. We simply cannot 
hamstring our fighters in this fight.

I cannot face families in July of this year or March of next year and 
say, gee, but for the calendar clicking off, your loved one would not 
have been at risk.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pick sides in this 
fight. Either we fight it or we get out. Pick a side. There is no third 
alternative.
