# THE KUCINICH PLAN FOR IRAQ
## `35d5177e6b6e706265160200657b314b`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, Congress is beginning to focus on the 
necessity to take a new direction with respect to Iraq. There are some 
in the administration who are saying well, there is no plan. What can 
we do? We have to stay the course. We have to send more troops. We have 
to make a renewed effort.

Once again I am offering for the attention of this Congress a plan 
that I put together that meets the requirements of being able to bring 
our troops home and create stability in Iraq and reunite the United 
States with the world community in the cause of peace and security.

Here are the elements of the Kucinich plan:

First, the U.S. announces it will end the occupation, close military 
bases and withdraw.

The insurgency has been fueled by the occupation and the prospect of 
a long-term presence, as indicated by the building of permanent bases. 
A U.S. declaration of intention to withdraw troops and close bases will 
help dampen the insurgency which has been inspired to resist 
colonization and fight invaders and those who have supported U.S. 
policy. Furthermore, this will provide an opening for parties in Iraq 
and in the region to set the stage toward negotiations and peaceful 
settlement.

Second, the U.S. announces it will use existing funds to bring the 
troops and the necessary equipment home.

Congress appropriated $70 billion in bridge funds on October 1 for 
the war. Money from this and other DOD accounts can be used to fund the 
troops in the field over the next few months and to pay for the cost of 
the return of the troops, which has been estimated at between 5 and $7 
billion while a political settlement is being negotiated and 
preparations are made for a transition to an international security and 
peacekeeping force.

Number three, order a simultaneous return of all U.S. contractors to 
the United States and turn over all contracting work to the Iraqi 
government.

The contracting process has been rife with corruption with 
contractors stealing from the U.S. Government and cheating the Iraqi 
people, taking large contracts and giving a few percentages to Iraqi 
subcontractors. Reconstruction activities must be reorganized and 
closely monitored in Iraq by the Iraqi government with the assistance 
of the international community. The massive corruption as it relates to 
the U.S. contractors should be investigated by congressional committees 
and Federal grand juries. The lack of tangible benefits, the lack of 
accountability for billions of dollars while millions of Iraqis do not 
have a means of financial support, nor substantive employment, cries 
out for justice. It is noteworthy that after the first Gulf War, Iraqis 
reestablish electricity within 3 months despite sanctions. Four years 
into the U.S. occupation, there is no water or reliable electricity in 
Baghdad despite massive funding from the U.S. and the Madrid 
Conference. The greatest mystery involves the activities of private 
security companies who function as mercenaries. Reports of false flag 
operations must be investigated by an international tribunal.



Fourth, convene a regional conference for the purposes of developing 
a security and stabilization force in Iraq.

The focus should be on a process which solves the problem of Iraq. 
The U.S. has told the international community, ''This is our policy and 
we want you to come and help us implement it.'' The international 
community may have an interest in helping Iraq, but it has no interest 
in participating in the implementation of failed U.S. policy.

A shift in U.S. policy away from unilateralism and toward cooperation 
will provide new opportunities for exploring common concerns about the 
plight of Iraq. The U.N. is the appropriate place to convene, through 
the Office of the Secretary General, all countries that have interests, 
concerns and influence, including the five permanent members of the 
Security Council and the European Community, and all Arab nations.



The end of the U.S. occupation and the closing of military bases are 
necessary preconditions for such a conference. When the U.S. creates a 
shift of policy and announces it will focus on the concerns of the 
people of Iraq, it will provide a powerful incentive for nations to 
participate.

It is well known that while some nations may see the instability in 
Iraq as an opportunity, there is also an ever-present danger the civil 
war in Iraq threatens the stability of nations throughout the region. 
The impending end of the occupation will provide a breakthrough for 
cooperation between the U.S. and the U.N. and the U.N. and the 
countries of the region. The regional conference must include Iran, 
Syria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Jordan.

The fifth point in the Kucinich plan is to prepare an international 
security and peacekeeping force to move in, replacing U.S. troops who 
then return home.

Mr. Speaker, this is a 12-point plan, and I will be presenting more 
features of it in future sessions.
