---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `35d5f817ca9e66092e0d1b3143216500`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I think Senator Levin and Senator Warner 
have pointed out the fact that this is not an unprecedented appointment 
and that it is consistent with what has been done before. People have 
their own ideas about how the chain of command should work, but that is 
fundamentally the question to be answered.

Let me join with Senator Warner in saying how much I admire the 
record of General Lute. He is a three-star general. He was a director 
of operations at the operational section of Central Command for 2 
years. He is intimately familiar with the Middle East. He has 
demonstrated in his positions with the Department of Defense in recent 
years with the joint staff his willingness to question ideas that many 
consider popular. In fact, it is reported that he asked a lot of tough 
questions about the surge, and how that would go, and how it should be 
handled if done. I think, if anything, we know for sure that he will do 
what he believes is in America's interests.

Let me tell you why I truly believe we need a position such as this 
and a man like General Lute. We have about 170,000-plus soldiers in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. They are serving us in a dangerous area of the 
world. We know and have had so many colleagues say--and Senator Levin 
is most articulate in saying this--it is more than just the military; 
there is a political settlement, there is reconstruction, there are 
economic issues involved, oil and gas, water, electricity, which are 
all key components of having a government effective in Iraq that serves 
the people of Iraq and Afghanistan.

This is important. The problem is we have all our agencies involved 
in Iraq, not just the military. We have the State Department involved 
in Iraq. The State Department is the one responsible for trying to move 
the Government along in an effective way. They also have responsibility 
over the economy, trying to help Iraq have a good economy. They are 
responsible for trying to negotiate safety agreements with its 
neighbors. They are responsible for infrastructure, actually. They are 
not responsible for law and order, the court system, and the prison 
system, which has not gone well at all. I have been a major critic of 
that situation. That is under the responsibility, not of the Department 
of Defense but the Department of Justice. If your court system is not 
working, if you don't have an adequate jail system, if you can't get 
the water turned on or the electricity turned on, our soldiers are at 
an increased risk to their safety.

So it is absolutely critical that all our agencies of Government work 
together, agree, work out differences, and create the greatest possible 
opportunity for those fabulous soldiers we have sent to be successful 
in helping to create a stable and decent government in Iraq. It is not 
at the level of cooperation we need. We have not gotten to that level.

I am telling my colleagues, I have seen it. The Department of Defense 
is here, the Department of Justice is here, the Department of State is 
here. The Department of Defense--probably in frustration, I will say it 
this way. I said we probably would have been better off just giving 
everything to the Department of Defense. They are pretty doggone 
competent in what they do. But the State Department has huge 
responsibilities in Iraq. Therefore, the Defense Department steps back 
and they interface, but State has responsibilities, Justice has 
responsibilities, and Interior has responsibilities in Iraq. Virtually 
every department and agency does. They are not at the highest level of 
effectiveness, in my view.

It is not as important, I have to say, for Justice to get a court 
system up and running as it is for the Defense Department because it is 
their soldiers at risk if we don't create a good justice system in 
Iraq.

I thought we needed somebody such as General Lute to go into Iraq, go 
into Afghanistan, and find out what is going on and be able to tell the 
President where the problems are. When there is a dispute between 
agencies, one person can fix it, and that is the President of the 
United States. He can say: I want it done this way or your resignation 
tomorrow, Mr. Secretary. Or you and I have had a long friendship over 
the years. I want this done, you don't want it done. I will get 
somebody who will get it done.

But how can he know all these different problems that are occurring? 
How can he personally be on top of it? Likewise for the Secretary of 
State. She is expected to be in China, to go to Brazil, Chile, 
Indonesia, Europe, Kosovo, South Korea, or Japan. The National Security 
Adviser has the whole world under his responsibility. He has to be 
managing all these issues


and personally advising the President. The Secretary of State has to 
manage all the bureaucracy contained in the State Department.

I guess what I would say to my colleagues, it is obvious to me the 
National Security Adviser cannot drop all of his or her 
responsibilities and spend his or her time negotiating problems in 
Iraq. The President is going to have to designate somebody to do that. 
He has chosen General Lute who is a man, by all accounts, of 
extraordinary ability, proven experience in the region, a person who 
knows the difficulties so he can carefully and with good judgment 
analyze the different disputes and try to get them settled so we can 
get on with producing more oil and gas, having water for the citizens, 
having the sewage system working, having the electricity on, and 
helping to make sure we have a legal system with sufficient bed spaces 
to detain criminals.

I discovered that we have one-ninth as many bed spaces in Iraq as we 
do in my State of Alabama. I saw a similar story for New York. There 
are not enough places to put the criminals, and we have to increase 
those places. The bureaucracy is sitting around and not getting that 
done.

If we catch and release terrorists, they are going to go out and kill 
again. There have been several articles that have picked up on this 
situation. I have to say, it has been a theme of mine for 3 years now, 
and we still haven't gotten the justice system up like we would like 
it.

I see the Presiding Officer, a former attorney general in his State, 
Senator Salazar. We were together in Iraq and talked about these 
issues. I know he shares a genuine concern that things are not being 
accomplished as fast as possible. So I think that operating in the name 
of the President to try and find out what difficulties are occurring in 
Iraq, where the bottlenecks are, and being able to get the parties 
together in the name of the President--he has no direct authority to 
order the Department of Justice or the Department of Defense to do 
anything. But he has the authority given by the President. If they 
can't agree, he can appeal to the President. He can say: Mr. President, 
the Department of State wants to do this, the Department of Justice 
wants to do this, the Department of Defense wants to do this. My 
recommendation is to do this, but you need to make this decision. Then 
the President can help eliminate these problems.

The truth is, when somebody such as General Lute says we have a 
disagreement between State and Justice and I am inclined to say this is 
the way it ought to be settled, but the President told me, when I call 
him tomorrow, to let me know if there are any difficulties, I am going 
to tell him that you two children cannot agree, usually they get 
together and settle it. They don't want to have the President come in 
and settle these disputes and get involved. They know he has a lot of 
issues on his plate.

That is the concept that I think can be helpful in making us more 
effective in creating the infrastructure, the civil justice system in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, thereby enhancing the ability of those 
governments in those countries to be successful, therefore enhancing 
their ability to be effective against terrorists and violence, 
therefore reducing the threat to our soldiers--that is the bottom 
line--and increasing their ability to be successful.

I am pleased to support this nomination. I think all the serious 
questions that have been raised have been answered.

I see my friend and colleague from Virginia. He raises a good point 
about this matter of a uniformed person being in the executive branch, 
the political branch, I guess one can call it. We have done it before 
and, in this case, in my view, that concern, while a legitimate one, I 
believe is outweighed by the fact that we need help right now and 
General Lute is the guy who can do it.

I yield the floor.