---
---

# PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS HOUR
## `35e04a2534da72b695ccd47ff1d150bb`
`Mr. POLIS — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. POLIS. Thank you. I thank the gentleman from Minnesota.

You alluded to other topics.

I want to take this opportunity to remind our viewers that for the 
cost of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, not only could we cover every 
American with health care, but we would reduce the deficit by hundreds 
of billions of dollars over 10 years. And I know that that is a topic 
that many of us plan to return to as well.

But I would point out, to put things in perspective, there were those 
on the other side of the aisle that didn't ask, didn't worry how much 
it would cost to invade and occupy not one, two countries; didn't ask 
how long it might cost to be there 10 years, 20 years, how much 
to increase it 40,000 troops, 60,000 troops, 80,000 troops.


But there's a new-found commitment of fiscal responsibility when it 
comes to health care. And I am proud to say that the Democratic plan 
fully pays for health care reform. Not only will it fully pay for 
health care reform, but it will reduce the budget deficit over 10 years 
and help rein in growing health care costs.

I think it's important to put a human face on what health care reform 
means for American families.

I want to share with my colleagues in the House the story of Deborah 
Abbott Brown from Boulder, Colorado. Deborah, like a lot of Americans, 
lost her job about a year ago in the recession so she was faced with 
COBRA payments. Her COBRA payments would have been $1,800 a month to 
continue the health care for her family. She couldn't afford that. That 
was more than her mortgage payment, and at the same time she was losing 
her income. How could she afford $1,800 a month in COBRA payments?

So she wanted to turn to--being responsible and wanting to keep her 
family with some kind of insurance--she turned to the individual 
insurance market in Colorado to try to find affordable coverage. She 
thought, You know, I'm willing to pay a reasonable amount and maybe 
we'll have some kind of high deductible or catastrophic plan. But she 
soon found out that her family was denied coverage on the individual 
market even though one of the companies she applied for was the same 
provider of the COBRA care that she couldn't afford.

The reason is that her husband, Deborah's husband, had recently 
turned 50, completed his baseline colonoscopy, as was recommended by 
his physician, and was told that the procedure counted as a surgery and 
in the individual market they would not offer insurance to anybody who 
had a surgical procedure in the last 3 months. Deborah was shocked. How 
can a common medical procedure when there were no findings be the basis 
for denying coverage?

That's when it dawned on Deborah, as it dawning on millions of 
Americans every day, that insurance companies work for their own 
profit. They unreasonably deny insurance in the individual market when 
they don't provide needed insurance profits. That's when Deborah became 
a convert and told us that's why the public option is a must.

This is a routine occurrence. Families across our country--
California, Illinois, Minnesota, Texas--they want to do the right 
thing. She wanted to get COBRA, but for $1,800 a month, she said let's 
find an affordable option. Oh, your husband had a routine preventative 
procedure that he should have had--and it was a good thing he had from 
a medical perspective--came out clean but, oh, he had a surgery in the 
last 3 months.

This is what American families are being told, and this is where we 
in Congress have a historic opportunity to fix and make a health care 
system that's good for American families.

I yield back.