---
---

# ELECTRONIC MESSAGE PRESERVATION ACT
## `35fad60b61b7a3f5de63e0c2a2c0e2dd`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to point out to everyone who is 
listening to this debate that fundamentally this bill is about 
accountability and preventing cover-up. On the Oversight Committee, we 
have seen firsthand how destruction of e-mails frustrates 
accountability and allows officials to hide wrongdoing.

We investigated Jack Abramoff's contacts with the White House. We saw


that Abramoff told his colleagues that he used the Republican National 
Committee e-mail accounts when he was dealing with White House 
officials so that his communications would remain secret. This bill 
shuts down that loophole. It says Jack Abramoff can't send secret e-
mails to White House officials.

We tried to investigate the false intelligence that led to the war in 
Iraq, but this investigation did not have access to Karl Rove's e-mails 
because they were destroyed. This bill says that Karl Rove's e-mails 
have to be preserved and not destroyed.

We tried to investigate the Cheney Energy Task Force, which gave us 
the energy policy this Nation has followed under President Bush for the 
last 7/1/2/ years, which I believe has led to these incredible high 
prices for energy. But once again we needed access to the e-mails to 
understand what deals were cut with the special interests, including at 
that time Enron, which played a very active role on Vice President 
Cheney's Energy Task Force.

A vote for this bill will make sure that the White House cannot hide 
its abuses. What we need is for this bill to pass so we can have honest 
and open and accountable government. That's why this legislation is 
before us today.

Of course, we don't know what the motion to recommit is until the 
very last minute; so we have to prepare for whatever may come. This is 
not a motion to recommit that would destroy the bill, and I appreciate 
that fact. It's a motion to recommit that, by and large, I think makes 
sense, and why it wasn't offered as an amendment leaves me perplexed. I 
do have some minor concerns about the motion to recommit, but that can 
be worked out in conference. This should have been brought up as an 
amendment to the bill. But, in effect, a motion to recommit is a motion 
to amend the bill. And since I do not oppose, in effect, the amendment 
that's being offered, I will join in support of this motion to recommit 
because this bill is too important. I know it was minimized a lot in 
the debate where people said why are we talking about e-mail 
preservation when we should be talking about drilling in Alaska and off 
the coast of the United States? Well, they are related because had we 
been able to have the Energy Task Force, chaired by Cheney, Vice 
President Cheney, we could have found out how we had this policy 
decided, and now that we're saddled with it, we could have done 
something about it 7/1/2/ years ago.

I will join in support of this motion to recommit, and I will urge my 
colleagues to vote for it so we can get the bill passed with this 
amendment that's being offered to it. I urge a vote for the motion.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.