# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3600b5c0bc048f2d2a8ec5ebf5e8a484`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, each year, our Nation observes a holiday 
to honor the brave men and women who have given their lives in service 
to this country. New Mexicans have a strong tradition of serving in the 
Armed Forces, and sadly a great many have given their lives in defense 
of our Nation. Americans from every state and all generations have 
served bravely and on Memorial Day we remember their sacrifice.

It is with particular poignancy that this Memorial Day, we reflect on 
the sacrifice so many New Mexicans have made while serving in Operation 
Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. I hope New Mexicans will 
think of these individuals and their families and on this Memorial Day 
I would like to share one of their stories, that of Marine Corps LCpl 
Christopher S. Adlesperger of Albuquerque.

In late 2004, Lance Corporal Adlesperger, and his unit were deployed 
in Fallujah and involved in some of the fiercest fighting of the war. 
On one particular mission, Adlesperger and his squad were ordered to 
storm an insurgent-occupied building. While moving forward 
Adlesperger's squad began to receive heavy insurgent fire and several 
members of his squad were wounded and the rest were pinned down. 
Adlesperger took action and secured a path for the injured marines to 
be evacuated. Despite the fact that he was also wounded, Adlesperger 
continued the assault on the building. Adlesperger is credited with 
eliminating several insurgents and playing a pivotal role in the 
successful assault.

Tragically, 1 month later, 20-year-old Christopher Adlesperger, was 
fatally shot while on patrol in the Anbar province west of Bahgdad.

This brave young soldier was one of the first New Mexicans to give 
his life in the Iraq war and on April 13, 2007, Adlesperger was 
posthumously awarded the Navy Cross for valor.

Today, as we honor all the brave men and women who have fought and 
given their lives to defend this Nation throughout its history, I hope 
New Mexicans will also pray for the safe return of those still serving 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.
