---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `36141b5983f7cb957fb04fe9d0dc38e6`
`Mr. LEAHY — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, the distinguished leader has put the 
Senate in executive session to consider two more judicial nominations. 
I would like to speak on these in my capacity both as a Senator from 
Vermont and as chairman of the Judiciary Committee. We are going to be 
confirming these two nominations which are, of course, for lifetime 
appointments to the federal bench, as the distinguished Presiding 
Officer, an attorney in her own right and with a distinguished 
background as a prosecutor in Minnesota prior to being here, knows. The 
two are William Lawrence, nominated to a vacancy in the Southern 
District of Indiana, and Murray Snow, nominated to a vacancy in the 
District of Arizona.

I have been delighted to work with my friend of 30 years, Senator 
Lugar of Indiana. He strongly supports the recommendation of Judge 
Lawrence. He came to see me about Judge Lawrence prior to his 
nomination coming up here. Senator Bayh of Indiana also came to see me 
and supports the nomination. I have been pleased to accommodate Senator 
Kyl in scheduling first Committee action and now Senate action on the 
nomination of Judge Snow. Both nominations are being expedited for 
confirmation in a Presidential election year.

As we approach the Fourth of July recess and celebrate the 
independence of our great Nation, we will be confirming our fourth and 
fifth judicial nominations of the week.

But when I go back home to Vermont, as I did this past weekend, and 
as I will this week, I find that Vermonters--and I suspect this is so 
with all Americans--are not really concerned about judicial 
nominations. I have not had anybody come up to me--when I am coming out 
of church or walking through the grocery store or gassing up my car--
and say: We need more judicial nominations.

But what they are concerned about are gas prices that have 
skyrocketed so high they don't know how they are going to be able to 
afford to drive to work. I have talked to parents of children in rural 
parts of our State where there is no mass transportation--never will 
be. They have to bring their children to school. Both the mother and 
father are working. They then have to drive to work. These are not 
high-paying jobs. They then have to drive back and get their children. 
One couple might have to take care of elderly parents, and they are 
wondering how they can afford to do it with these gas prices. They are 
far more concerned about that than they are with lifetime appointments 
to our Federal bench.

They are concerned also about the steepest decline in home values in 
two


decades. Madam President, when I was a child, I remember my parents 
always telling me one of the greatest things you can do is to own your 
own home. Marcelle and I have been fortunate. We have been able to do 
that. We have encouraged our children to do the same. And I encourage 
people in my own State of Vermont, especially young people: If you can 
own your own home, it is worth borrowing money because that will be 
part of your retirement, part of your stability. But now they have seen 
the steepest decline in home values in two decades. Many owe more on 
their house than their mortgage. Many are wondering as they see jobs 
failing, as they see their gasoline prices go up, as they see the value 
of their homes go down, if their children will have a brighter future 
than they did or their parents did.

More and more Americans are affected by rising unemployment. Last 
month brought the greatest 1-month rise in unemployment in 20 years. It 
brought the job losses for the first 5 consecutive months of this year 
to over 325,000 people. The number of people who lost their jobs are 
equal to half the population in my whole State. Americans are worried 
about soaring health care costs. They are worried about rising health 
insurance costs. They are worried about the rising costs of education. 
They are worried about rising food prices--long before they are worried 
about the number of Federal judges being confirmed.

Just yesterday, the front page of the Wall Street Journal had this 
headline: ''Consumer Confidence Plummets.'' That is a pretty dire 
headline: ''Consumer Confidence Plummets.'' The next line read: ''Home 
Prices See Sharp Decline.'' With that article they ran a graph titled 
''In a Free Fall'' that shows housing prices in April down more than 15 
percent from a year ago and consumer confidence at the lowest level in 
nearly 20 years. According to the Wall Street Journal, the number of 
Americans saying they intend to buy a home in the next 6 months is at a 
25-year low and consumers' expectations of the economy over the next 6 
months is the lowest it has ever been in the more than 40 years they 
have kept track--the lowest it has ever been--ever been--in 40 years.

Unfortunately, the bad economic news for hard-working Americans is 
nothing new under the Bush-Cheney administration. During his 
administration, President Bush and all Americans have seen unemployment 
rise more than 20 percent and trillions of dollars in budget surplus--
which he inherited from President Clinton's administration--turned into 
trillions of dollars of debt, with an annual budget deficit of hundreds 
of billions of dollars. When President Bush took office, the price of 
gas was $1.42 a gallon. Madam President, I remember some people 
complaining about $1.42 a gallon gas when the President took office. 
Today, it is at an all-time high of over $4 a gallon. The Nation's 
trade deficit widened 8 percent in April alone due to the surging gas 
prices, and now it is at the highest level in 13 months.

The numbers are staggering: $4 a gallon for gas, $139 a barrel for 
oil, more than $1 billion a day--let me repeat that: $1 billion a day--
just to pay the interest on the national debt and the massive costs 
generated by the disastrous war in Iraq. These are the numbers 
Americans care about, not a few nominees who are getting the honor of a 
judicial appointment and lifetime tenure in a respected job that pays 
nearly $200,000 a year.

Yet we do not hear about these numbers from the other side of the 
aisle. We do not hear about the free-fall in home prices. We do not 
hear about the free-fall in the consumer confidence index from the 
other side. We do not hear about the Bush deficits, which have brought 
the value of a dollar down almost in half. We do not hear about these 
numbers, as terrible as they are, and as much as they affect real 
people in Minnesota and Vermont and elsewhere. We do not hear from them 
about the number of Americans who are losing their homes, nor about the 
number of Americans who are losing their jobs, nor about the number of 
Americans who cannot afford to bring their children to school, nor 
about the number of Americans who cannot afford to put groceries on the 
table, nor about the number of Americans who cannot afford to gas up 
their car so they can go to work. The only numbers we hear about from 
the other side of the aisle are the number of nominees they insist must 
be considered by a certain date to reach some mythical average number.

Week after week, even as the Senate--under the leadership of Senator 
Reid and the Democrats--continues to make progress on filling judicial 
vacancies, we hear a steady stream of grumbling from Republicans. And 
it turns out, they are responding to partisan pressures from special 
interest groups.


Madam President, the special interest group I listen to are the hard-
working American families in my State of Vermont and the other 49 
States. If we are going to listen to a special interest group, listen 
to the men and women who have to pay to take their children to school, 
put groceries on their table, go to work, try to make ends meet, and 
are seeing the value of their home drop 25 percent. If we are going to 
listen to any special interest group, at a time when the economy is 
tanking, let's talk about the special interest group, the average 
American man and woman.

It is ironic that the Senate's Republican minority is so focused on 
the number of judges because that is the only number that has actually 
improved under President Bush. On July 1, 2000, when a Republican 
Senate majority was considering the judicial nominees of a Democratic 
President in a Presidential election year, there were 60 judicial 
vacancies. Twenty-one were circuit court vacancies. These vacancies 
were the result of the actions of Republicans, when there was a 
Democrat in the White House, pocket-filibustering over 60 judicial 
nominees.

In stark contrast, after the two nominations we confirm today, and 
the circuit court judges we confirmed on Tuesday, there are just 40 
total judicial vacancies throughout the country. There are only nine 
circuit court vacancies. By confirming Judge Helene White and Ray 
Kethledge to the last two vacancies on the Sixth Circuit Court of 
Appeals, we reduced circuit court vacancies to single digits for the 
first time in decades--only nine vacancies on our Nation's 13 circuit 
courts.

The history is clear. Democrats have reversed course on judicial 
vacancies from the days during which the Republican Senate majority 
more than doubled them. We have already lowered the 32 circuit court 
vacancies that existed when I became chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee in the summer of 2001. We had 32 vacancies. We lowered it to 
nine. In fact, this is the first time we have hit single digits in 
decades--since the Republican tactics of slowing judicial confirmations 
began in earnest in 1996. Why? Because the Democrats did not pocket-
filibuster 60 judges, as the Republicans did to a Democratic President. 
We treated President Bush's nominees with more respect than they 
treated President Clinton's. But we also treated the whole Federal 
judiciary system with a great deal more respect. This is, after all, 
the third independent branch of Government. It is the one branch that 
should be devoid of politics. It is the one branch that should be able 
to be set apart from this. And it is the one branch where you leave 
your political affiliations at the doors.

The 100 nominations we confirmed in only 17 months in 2001 and 2002--
I was working with a very uncooperative White House--reduced the 
vacancies I inherited by 45 percent by the end of 2002. I became 
chairman halfway through that year. The Republicans had been in control 
up to that halfway mark. They did not confirm a single judge. In 17 
months, we confirmed 100.

So with 40 additional confirmations last year, and another 14 so far 
this year, the Senate, under Democratic leadership, has already matched 
the confirmation total for the entire last Congress. That was 2 full 
years with a Republican Senate majority working to confirm the judicial 
nominees of a Republican President. In fact, after these two 
confirmations, we will have reached 54 judicial confirmations for this 
Congress.

I am sure there are some who prefer partisan fights designed to 
energize a political base during an election year. I do not. The 
American people do not want Federal judges to be tied to partisan 
politics.

Madam President, I felt very honored to be a lawyer. I felt very 
honored to


try cases in Federal courts. I felt very honored to try cases when I 
was a prosecutor. And I feel honored to be on the Senate Judiciary 
Committee. But I have always said one of the things you should be able 
to do if you walk into a court room--whether you are a plaintiff or a 
defendant, whether you are the Government or the other side, whether 
you are rich or poor, no matter your race, no matter your issue--you 
should be able to look at the judge and say: I am going to be treated 
fairly. The judge is not going to ask what my political party is, what 
my station in life is, whether I am a big corporation, whether I am a 
poor defendant or a plaintiff.

So when there are efforts to make a partisan issue over judicial 
confirmations, as my friends on the Republican side have done, that is 
sorely misplaced. Their obstructionism has done a great deal of damage 
to our attempts to address the important needs of Americans.

We have seen Republican obstructionism since the beginning of this 
Congress. Republicans used filibuster after filibuster to thwart the 
will of the majority of the Senate from doing the business of the 
American people. Republican filibusters prevented the Senate majority 
from passing a climate change bill. Republican filibusters prevented 
the Senate majority from passing the Employee Free Choice Act and the 
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. Republican filibusters prevented the 
Senate majority from passing the DC Voting Rights Act. Republican 
filibusters prevented the Senate majority from passing the Renewable 
Fuels, Consumer Protection and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007. 
Republican filibusters blocked the Renewable Energy and Job Creation 
Act of 2008. Republican filibusters blocked the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. Republican filibusters blocked 
the Consumer First Energy Act. These are critical pieces of legislation 
to address the priorities not of special interest groups, but of real 
Americans--urgent priorities such as the energy crisis, the 
environment, voting rights and health care, and fair wages for working 
men and women. All of them had the support of the majority of the 
Senate. All were blocked by a minority of Republican Senators who 
filibustered them.


This long list of priorities unaddressed because of the Republicans 
in Congress would be even longer if we were to include the many 
important bills President Bush has vetoed since the beginning of this 
Congress. That list includes legislation to fund stem cell research, to 
fight debilitating and deadly diseases such as Parkinson's, multiple 
sclerosis, and diabetes; to extend and expand the successful State 
Children's Health Insurance Program that would have provided health 
insurance to more of the millions of American children who are without 
it in the wealthiest, most powerful Nation on Earth; to set a timetable 
for bringing American troops home from the disastrous war in Iraq that 
has lasted longer than we were in World War II; and to ban 
waterboarding and thus help restore America as the beacon for the rule 
of law.

The effort of Republicans to turn attention from the real issues 
facing Americans to win partisan political points with judicial 
nominations is another in a long line of tactics we have seen that have 
prevented us from making progress since the beginning of this Congress.

As I said before, people do not stop me in the grocery store or 
coming out of church or walking down the street or getting out of my 
car to say please confirm more judges. They say: Please, do something 
about the high cost of gasoline. Do something about the fact that I am 
going to lose my home in foreclosure because the value has dropped so 
much. Do something about the fact that our child does not have health 
insurance.

These tactics would be laughable if they were not tragic. I believe 
they are an affront to those men and women in this country who are 
working hard to make ends meet. I know a lot of these good, honest 
Americans. I see them every weekend in my own State of Vermont. They 
don't face problems as Republicans or Democrats; they face them as 
proud Americans, proud Vermonters. They wonder how they are ever going 
to get insurance for their child and they worry every day their child 
may become ill. They wonder if they can get to their job, and often 
they are holding down two jobs to make ends meet. They wonder if they 
can bring their children to school.

I congratulate the nominees and their families on their confirmation 
today. These nominees have good reason to be proud. I predict they will 
be confirmed unanimously, and I am proud of them, because the Federal 
judiciary is the one arm of our Government that should never be 
political or politicized regardless of who sits in the White House.

So let us stop using this question of judges as some kind of an issue 
in trying to distort the fact that the Democrats have treated President 
Bush better than the Republicans treated President Clinton on judges. 
Let us stop using the issue of judges to prevent us from addressing the 
things Americans care about: their jobs, their homes, their children, 
the cost of gas and oil.

I will continue in this Congress, and I will be here in January with 
a new President in the next Congress, to work with Senators on both 
sides of the aisle to ensure that the Federal judiciary remains 
independent and this real jewel of jurisprudence be able to provide 
justice for all Americans, as they say in their oath of office, without 
fear or favor.