# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `36157e0eb1fb9a58ad7c5259b5e9ce75`
`Mr. WYDEN — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President and colleagues, there are two truly critical 
issues for our country. You hear it every time you have a town meeting, 
every time a Senator is home. One of those issues is changing course in 
Iraq. The second issue is fixing health care in America.

The Senate is going to spend long hours on the floor of the Senate 
this week, hopefully, changing course in Iraq, making a fundamental 
shift of the policy, where the Senate would come together on a 
bipartisan basis. I wish to spend a bit of time this afternoon talking 
about the long hours that are ahead for members of the Senate Finance 
Committee in a critical part of the effort to fix American health care.

Over the last several months, four members, a bipartisan group in the 
Senate Finance Committee--Senators Baucus and Grassley and Rockefeller 
and Hatch--have toiled hard to better meet the health care needs of 
this country's youngsters.

It is a moral blot on our Nation that millions and millions of our 
kids go to bed at night without decent health care. This legislation is 
part of an effort to erase that moral blot--an unconscionable fact of 
American life that so many kids are scarred by the inability to get 
decent, good-quality, affordable health care.

In recent days, the Bush Administration has indicated they are 
considering vetoing this legislation. As one who has worked very 
extensively with the Bush Administration on health care issues, it is 
my hope they will join the effort, the bipartisan effort in the Senate, 
to try to work this legislation out and to do it in a bipartisan way. 
In fact, I think it is absolutely critical that it be done if there is 
to be another bipartisan effort in this Congress that would attack 
health care needs in this country on a broader basis.

Senator Bennett and I, as the distinguished Presiding Officer, the 
Senator from Colorado, is aware, have brought to the Senate the first 
bipartisan health care overhaul bill in more than 13 years. It has 
brought together business organizations and labor organizations. It has 
put us in a position, for the first time in more than a decade, to look 
on a bipartisan basis at overhauling American health care. But to do 
it, we are first going to have to address the immediate needs of this 
country's kids. In fact, as part of the budget process, I was able to 
add legislation to indicate that those critical needs of this country's 
children would be added first.

Now, I would be the first to acknowledge there is a connection 
between the children's health care program and the broader health needs 
of our citizens. The fact is, most kids in America get health care 
through private coverage through their parents. Those who are on the 
CHIP program--the Children's Health Insurance Program--many of them get 
coverage through the private sector as well, through private policies.

But we are going to have to find common ground if we are to fix 
American health care. Democrats and Republicans on the Finance 
Committee have tried to do that on the CHIP legislation. As the 
Presiding Officer, the distinguished Senator from Colorado, knows, 
there are a great many Democrats who would like to spend more than this 
compromise effort would allow. We would like to look at allocating $50 
billion for the needs of America's youngsters. The bipartisan 
compromise--as part of the cooperative effort of Senator Baucus and 
Senator Grassley and Senator Rockefeller and Senator Hatch--is talking 
about $35 billion. That is pretty hard for some on our side of the 
aisle to swallow.

Also, with respect to the extent of coverage, a number of Members on 
this side of the aisle had been concerned about other groups of 
citizens who have not been able to get good-quality, affordable 
coverage, and they have been able to get benefits under existing 
services offered by the children's health program because the Bush 
administration allowed for special waivers. So what the compromise is 
seeking to do is to say: All right, if it has been allowed under a 
waiver program, let's not point the finger at anybody. Let's say those 
waivers, in effect, would be grandfathered. They would be protected. 
But then we will move on, and we would move on in a bipartisan kind of 
way.

I will tell my colleague, the Presiding Officer--because he and I 
have spoken about health care often--we know what needs to be done in 
American health care. We are spending enough money, certainly. This 
year, we will spend $2.3 trillion. There are 300 million of us. If you 
divide 300 million into $2.3 trillion, you could go out and hire a 
doctor for every seven families in the United States. We are spending 
enough money on health care; we are just not spending it in the right 
places.

We also know--because Senator Bennett and I have talked to a great 
many on both sides of the aisle--there is a real prospect for an 
ideological truce here on the health care issue in the Senate.

A great many Republicans, to their credit, are acknowledging now, for 
the first time, that to fix American health care you have to cover 
everybody because if you do not cover everybody, those who are 
uninsured shift their bills to the insured. A great many Democrats, 
also to their credit, have been willing to acknowledge that just 
turning all this over to Government--having a Government-run health 
care


program--is not going to work politically either, that it is going to 
be essential to have a private sector in American health care that 
works. It would be a reformed one. Private insurance companies could 
not cherry-pick any longer, they could not take just healthy people and 
send sick people over to Government programs more fragile than they 
are, but that there would be a real private sector.


So in addition to spending enough money and in addition to something 
of an ideological truce now on health care between Democrats and 
Republicans, for the first time--I particularly want to credit my 
colleague from Utah, Senator Bennett, for working closely with me on 
this part of the effort--I think we can show people who have coverage 
why it is in their interest to be for reform. Certainly, here in the 
Senate we know that past efforts--particularly in 1993, during the 
debate about the Clinton plan, the single biggest barrier was 
convincing people who had coverage why it would be in their interest to 
support reform.

What we have been able to do, on a bipartisan basis--Senator Bennett 
and I working together is to come up with an approach that will show 
people who have coverage--workers and employers--why it will work for 
them with the very first paychecks that are issued under our 
legislation, the Healthy Americans Act. Not in 5 years, not in 8 years, 
not sometime down the road, but it will work for those who have 
coverage--workers and employers--with the very first paychecks that are 
issued when this legislation becomes law. The reason it would benefit 
those workers and employers is they would have more cash in their 
pocket. The workers would have more choices for the health care that 
was available to them. They would certainly have more security--health 
care that could never ever be taken away.

My hope is that we can have a cooperative, bipartisan effort on the 
CHIP legislation, starting tomorrow night. As my friend from Colorado, 
the Presiding Officer, knows, we will have a late markup. Democrats and 
Republicans on the committee want to work together. We want to work 
with the Administration. I hope the Administration will join us in that 
effort.

I would also suggest that if that happens, we can go on to the 
broader health care issue, where there are a number of areas where the 
Administration seeks reform. I want to assure them I am interested in 
working with them. For example, the President has made the point--it is 
one that I share--that the Federal Tax Code as it relates to health 
care disproportionally favors the most wealthy and rewards 
inefficiency. Today, in America, if you are a high-flying CEO and you 
want to go out and get a designer smile plastered on your face, you can 
do it and write off the cost of that operation on your taxes--every 
dime. But if you are a hard-working woman in a furniture store in 
Colorado or Illinois or Oregon and your company has no plan, you get 
nothing out of the Tax Code. You get nothing.

So what Senator Bennett and I seek to do is redirect those several 
hundred billion dollars in tax expenditures for health care to people 
in the middle-income brackets, the lower middle-income brackets. The 
Bush Administration has a different approach with respect to the Tax 
Code and health, but as I have said to the President personally, I 
think he is still onto the basic concept. This is an area where 
Democrats and Republicans can find common ground.

But if we are going to get, in this session, to the broader issue of 
health care reform--of course, a lot of people think it cannot be done; 
they think it will be 2009 and we will have another Presidential 
election before there is real reform--if we are going to deal with it 
in this session--and Senator Bennett and I are pulling out all the 
stops to try to get broader health care reform out there this session 
in order to get to that broader debate--Democrats and Republicans have 
to come together on this crucial issue of meeting the health care needs 
of this country, of wiping out this moral blot on our Nation that 
millions of kids do not have decent health care.

That effort will start tomorrow night. This is a key time for those 
of us who want to reform American health care. If we can come together 
in this Senate--starting tomorrow night under Senators Baucus and 
Grassley and Hatch and Rockefeller--my hope is we can keep that 
coalition together and then segue over to the broader reform where 
Senator Bennett and I have brought, for the first time in more than 13 
years, colleagues, a bipartisan proposal to overall American health 
care. It has the support of business and labor. Consumer groups have 
been involved in the development of it.

I am very hopeful that under the leadership of Senator Reid--and I 
see the distinguished leader from Illinois in the Chamber--we can 
change course with respect to the war in Iraq but we can also change 
course with respect to the most pressing domestic issue of our time; 
that is, fixing American health care. The effort starts tomorrow night.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.