# SSI EXTENSION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED REFUGEES ACT
## `3626e38f72be4e7970e9ed50207740d0`
`Mr. BECERRA â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. BECERRA. Mr. Speaker, I want to join in this bipartisan effort to 
try to move forward legislation which is not only important but 
precious to many people in this country who are keen to be American 
citizens.

H.R. 2608, the SSI Extension for Elderly and Disabled Refugees Act, 
is something that won't affect most Americans because most of us don't 
have to worry about this. But if you are a Russian Jew who was escaping 
persecution in the former Soviet Union, if you're one of the minority 
populations in Somalia that escaped the persecution going on there, or 
if you're a former Yugoslav who was trying to leave the devastation 
that was occurring in the former Yugoslavian countries that now have 
become part of the Balkans and the war that we saw in the Balkans, or 
if you're an Iraqi Kurd who is trying to escape the ill effects of what 
was going on during the Saddam Hussein era, then perhaps you'd 
understand why this is so important, because these are individuals who, 
because of the good graces of the American people, have an opportunity 
to start a life here, even at their late stage in life, and have an 
opportunity to recognize and appreciate our freedoms.

But for too many of these refugees, that might all come to an end if 
we don't come to their rescue, because they did not expect that, all of 
a sudden, because of the massive waiting line there is for people who 
are applying for citizenship, legal immigrants who are applying for 
citizenship, that all of a sudden their cut off of SSI benefits would 
imperil their ability to pay their rent. Or they didn't expect that, 
all of a sudden, because of the fact that the paperwork was more 
difficult than they thought to fill out, or the fee was more expensive 
than they could afford to pay to be able to become U.S. citizens, that 
all of a sudden they run out of time with their SSI benefits.

This bipartisan legislation strikes the right chord. It says, we 
recognize that you came to this country fleeing persecution, fleeing 
threats of death, and you're elderly or disabled, or perhaps both, and 
we need to do something to try to show you that we meant what we said 
when we were taking you in as refugees.

I think this is legislation that really brings us together, not as 
Democrats or Republicans, not as urban Members or rural Members, but it 
brings us together as Americans who recognize there are many people 
around the world who still look at America as the beacon for the rest 
of the world. And I hope that what we are able to do here, at no 
taxpayer expense, no taxpayer expense, is to continue to show the rest 
of the world that we do extend a hand to those who are facing 
persecution.

So I want to applaud Chairman McDermott and Ranking Member Weller for 
their great work in putting together a bipartisan bill that should 
receive the unanimous support of this House.