# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `36281b9616970090ca61d02cbafccdf5`
`Mr. PEARCE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. I would just remind the Members of the Chamber that we 
are a part of the Republican Study Committee, that's the RSC here. We 
have the Web site, www.house.gov/hensarling/rsc. So take a look at the 
things that we are talking about, the things that we all believe in. 
It's the conservative arm of the Republican Party.

I think the first thing that we would want to talk about is basically 
what is happening in Iraq. If the gentleman doesn't mind, I would like 
to use one of the charts here. If we take a look at the charts, these 
are reconstruction projects, but also they mirror very closely the 
conflict, the different fights that are going on.

If you look at this whole part of the country, this entire section is 
actually pretty secure. This al-Anbar province out in the west has been 
the subject of a lot of discussion. Baghdad, of course, is very near 
the center part. You can see where we are spending more money on 
reconstruction there and up north. We can see, also, that if we have 
the reports of firefights, the reports of IEDs, we would see the same 
sort of clustering there.

People ask, well, why did the British leave? The British were serving 
in the southern section here. The British actually had secured their 
area that had been turned over to the Iraqis.

I think all of our troop commanders are telling us that when we have 
Iraq secure, that when the Iraqi forces are in charge of their own 
security, both police and then the army, then we are going to see 
troops start coming home. That's exactly what happened.

Now, the risk that we run, I would cover that just briefly, Iran 
touches on the eastern side of the country. If we pull out, Iran will 
take over these massive oil fields in the southern part of Iraq. That's 
going to destabilize even more the price of gasoline. Our colleagues 
were just talking about it. Really, the price of gasoline is quite 
simple. I majored in economics in college, and I did so because 
economics is very easy. It's just got two moving parts: supply and 
demand.



If you will consider the demand for our product, the demand for 
gasoline, we have 300 million people today. That is significantly more 
than what we had in the 1950s when the price of gas was low. So our 
demand is increasingly higher, but also our supply is becoming more 
restricted.

Then we look at the worldwide picture, and you understand that the 
Chinese, if you overlay the price of oil, the price of natural gas, the 
price of gasoline with the demand in China for the last 20 years, you 
would see that the demand of the Chinese is almost exactly mirroring, 
is exactly causing our high price of gasoline right now.

There is a compelling fact today; we heard the same statistics that 
just a couple years ago the price of gasoline was actually $2.47, today 
it is about $3.29. And, again, the law of supply and demand, the Middle 
East, that OPEC group is actually cutting their exports. They are 
trimming back their exports. They are cutting the supply. It is driving 
the price up. It is actually quite simple. Our friends on the other 
side of the aisle in charge of governing the Nation really should stop 
and consider these two moving parts, supply and demand. They have got 
two hands, maybe they could write one on one hand and write one on the 
other hand and try to keep them organized, because they make this far 
more complex than what it actually is.

So what we are doing in Iraq is trying to stabilize the Middle East, 
because I would guarantee everyone in the Chamber that if Iraq fails, 
if we leave Iraq, Iraq falls. We were just in Israel about 2 months 
ago, and the Israelis said that you are going to lose Saudi Arabia. 
That is, the terrorists are going to go in and topple that regime, they 
are going to go in and take over that government. Now, Saudi Arabia has 
about 60 percent of the world's known reserves; that is the reserves of 
normal petroleum. So that would destabilize between losing the 
production in Iraq, losing the production in Saudi Arabia. And, don't 
forget Kuwait, because the general assumption is that Kuwait and Jordan 
would fall. Then you see a picture where the worldwide oil market would 
destabilize.

At that point I think that we would really have to worry about the 
security of the entire world economy. And if you worry about the 
security of the world economy, you also have to worry about social 
stability, because the terrorists know they are not going to beat us 
militarily. That has never been their attempt. Their attempt is to 
destabilize us economically. That was the reason they hit the World 
Trade Center in 1993. They came back and hit it in 2001. And they knew 
that if they could strike at that vibrant nerve center of the U.S. 
economy, they would destabilize us economically. If they destabilize us 
economically, they destabilize us politically.

So right now we are finding that actually our surge of troops, those 
troops are mostly in the Baghdad area, because how goes Baghdad, that 
is how goes Iraq. The governing structure is in Baghdad. If we secure 
Baghdad, then we secure Iraq. If we do not secure Baghdad, we do not 
secure Iraq.

We put about 110,000, 120,000 troops into Baghdad. We are also 
joining those up with about 100,000 Iraqi troops that are there 
already. Both of those numbers are increasing, and I will tell you that 
we are hearing already that the violence in Baghdad itself is beginning 
to diminish significantly. Again, we can take some of the instability 
that is moving out to the outlying provinces if we first secure the 
capital, if we can have those essential government functions that cause 
the people to believe that their society is intact, and that even 
though there are difficulties that they can get their garbage service, 
they can get their water service or whatever. Those are the underlying 
factors that we are seeing playing right now in the troop surge.

I think that everyone believes by September or October, we are going 
to know the outcome of the surge. It doesn't mean we will know the 
outcome of the battle, it doesn't mean we will know the outcome of the 
war. But I think that it is essential that we fund our troops, that we 
quit playing games.

We have consistently asked our leaders, the majority leaders, if you 
do not like the war, that is a credible position. Just come to the 
floor, have the vote about withdrawing the troops. Do not play games 
with the funding. Do not play games with our troops in harm's way.



But they refuse to have that vote. Instead, what they do is they put 
the money here and they put conditions.

Now, I know that college football coaches and pro football coaches 
get fired every day. It is because they become too predictable. Their 
offense is too well known. When an offense is well known, the defense 
knows exactly where to play. Now, our friends on the other side of the 
aisle want us to give our playbook; they want us to put into 
legislation the benchmarks that will determine if we go or leave, if we 
come home from Iraq or if we stay in Iraq. And we will tell you, that 
simply tells our opponents where to go to defeat us. If the benchmarks 
are in writing, then that is going to give our playbook to the 
opposition.

We as the American Congress, we as the United States Congress, owe it 
to the men and women in uniform, who are in harm's way, to support our 
troops or to please bring them home.

I was in Vietnam at a period of time when the Nation began to turn 
its back on its troops. I was in Vietnam at a time when they began to 
play games with the funding. I was in Vietnam during the time that Jane 
Fonda went to the North and gave aid and comfort to the enemy. I will 
tell you that I have personal experience that this is not the way that 
we want to treat our young men and women who are in harm's way.

So we owe it to our troops to have the vote on the supplemental 
budget that we are discussing tonight, because the future of our 
country depends on it. But more than that, the lives of our young men 
and women rest today, today, on what we do.

So I yield back to the gentleman from Texas. I have other comments, 
but I see we have a lot of people here tonight. I thank him for the 
opportunity to speak and thank him for taking his leadership and giving 
leadership to this great subject, because it is the right thing for us 
to do. It is the right thing for America to do. It is the right and 
honorable thing for this Congress to do, to give the funding to our 
troops or bring them home. Those are the two choices we have in 
Congress. And I thank the gentleman.