---
---

# COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `3630caea900b653a1382c72ac1a64f5e`
`Mr. DORGAN — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, we are considering the court security 
bill. At the moment, there is no one who wishes to speak on that 
legislation. I wish to speak about the Senate Armed Services Committee, 
which is now holding a hearing. I just finished testifying before the 
Senate Armed Services Committee. I wish to talk about that testimony.

The Armed Services Committee, under the chairmanship of Senator Carl 
Levin, is holding a hearing this morning on contracting abuses; that 
is, contracting abuses in Iraq especially under what is called the 
LOGCAP contract.

I testified that I chaired in the Democratic Policy Committee, over 
the last 3 years, 10 hearings on these issues of contract abuses. I 
suggested to the Armed Services Committee that they look into what is 
not only called the LOGCAP, which is a logistic contract which, in this 
case, Halliburton, or their subsidiary, KBR, provided certain logistics 
assistance to the Department of the Army under a contract worth 
billions of dollars, I suggested they also look into the RIO contract, 
which is Restore Iraqi Oil contract.

I pointed out to them that the woman who rose to become the highest 
contract official in the U.S. Corps of Engineers--she rose to become 
the highest civilian contract official in the Army Corps of Engineers--
she said the awarding of the RIO contract, the Restore Iraqi Oil 
contract--Restore Iraqi Oil is what RIO stands for--to Halliburton and 
KBR was ''the most blatant contracting abuse I have seen in my entire 
career.'' This is from the top civilian contracting officer.

What happened to her? She paid for that with her job. For that she 
was demoted. Before she said that publicly, she was given outstanding 
evaluations every year. Once she said publicly what she had told them 
privately, and they ignored, they began the process of giving her 
performance evaluations that were inferior for demotion.

A couple of nights ago, I called the general, now retired, who 
brought this contracting officer in as the top civilian contracting 
officer. I said: What's the story?

He said: She has been dealt an awful hand, and it has been very 
unfair to her. She is a straight-shooter, she is competent, she speaks 
the truth. The fact is, she is paying for telling the truth.

I suggested to the Armed Services Committee that this woman, named 
Bunnatine Greenhouse, who had the courage to speak out against 
contracting abuse, should be called to testify.

We ought to put a stop to this stuff that when someone in the Federal 
Government speaks out and says there is abuse occurring, the taxpayers 
are being abused, the soldiers are being disserved, that somehow they 
injure their career by telling the truth. But let me go on.

I suggested the committee look into the RIO contract. I sent the 
issues raised by Bunnatine Greenhouse, who paid for her honesty with 
her job: she was demoted. I sent all that material to the inspector 
general. Seventeen months ago, I got a letter from the inspector 
general saying they received it, they looked into all those 
allegations, it has now been referred to the Justice Department, it is 
for their action, and because it is a criminal matter, they would not 
comment further.

Obviously, they believed there was something that was serious. That 
is the RIO, the Restore Iraq Oil contract.


There is another contract, and that is the purpose of the hearing 
this morning, the LOGCAP contract, once again, given to Halliburton and 
their subsidiary, Kellogg, Brown and Root. What I told them this 
morning is what I found in 10 hearings. I held up a white towel, a 
white hand towel that most would recognize. It hangs in the bathrooms 
in most homes.

A man named Henry Bunting came to us. Henry Bunting was in Kuwait. He 
was actually buying supplies for the troops in Iraq. Henry Bunting was 
a purchaser for KBR in Kuwait. They said to Henry Bunting: Buy some 
towels for the troops. So Henry goes about buying towels for the 
troops. But then the supervisor said: No, you can't buy those towels. 
You have to buy towels that have the embroidered name of KBR on the 
towel, triple the cost. Henry said it would cost a lot of money. It 
doesn't matter, the taxpayers are paying for this, cost plus. Triple 
the price of the towels so you can put the embroidered initials of the 
company on the towels.

How about $45 for a case of Coca-Cola? How about $7,500 a month to 
lease an SUV? Henry Bunting told us about that as well.

I described the other issues. Rory Mayberry--Rory showed up at a 
hearing. He was a food service supervisor for KBR in Iraq at a 
cafeteria. He said he was told by his supervisor: Don't you dare talk 
to Government auditors when they show up. If you do, you will get fired 
or you will get sent to an active combat zone. Don't you dare talk to a 
Government auditor.

He said: We routinely provided food to the soldiers that had expired 
date stamps on it.

The supervisor said: It doesn't matter--the expired date stamps--feed 
the expired food to the troops.

We know from previous press accounts that at one point that company 
was charging for 42,000 meals a day to soldiers when they were actually 
only feeding 14,000 soldiers. Rory said the same thing. Rory Mayberry, 
a supervisor in one of the KBR food service situations in Iraq said 
they were charging for meals for soldiers who weren't there, and the 
supervisor said: We are doing that because we had lost money 
previously, so now we are charging for meals that aren't being served 
to soldiers.

How about an eyewitness to an $85,000 brand new truck left beside the 
road in a noncombat zone in Iraq to be torched because they didn't have 
the proper wrench to fix the tire? It doesn't matter, the American 
taxpayer is going to buy the new truck, cost plus.



The list is almost endless. It is unbelievable the stories we have 
heard from people who wish to come forward.

One company, the same company under the LOGCAP contract, was to 
provide water to the military bases in Iraq--all of the bases. A 
whistleblower came to me and said: I have something you should see. It 
is a 21-page internal report, and it is written by a man named Will 
Granger who is in charge of all water going to the bases in Iraq. He is 
the KBR employee, Halliburton employee in charge of all water that goes 
to the bases in Iraq.

He said instead of treating the water, nonpotable water which 
soldiers use to shower, shave, sometimes brush their teeth, and so on, 
instead of treating the water as it was supposed to have been treated 
under the contract, the water was more contaminated with E coli and 
bacteria than raw water from the Euphrates River.

He said: Here is the internal report. The internal report said this 
was a near miss. It could have caused mass sickness or death.

That was from the internal report I had in my hand. The company said 
it never happened. This is the internal report made by the man in the 
company whose name is Will Granger, who said: Here is what we 
discovered.

Just after I held the hearing and described this situation, I 
received an e-mail from a young woman in Iraq who was an Army 
physician. She said: I read about this hearing about the water issue, 
the nonpotable water which was more contaminated than raw water from 
the Euphrates River that was being used for nonpotable water for 
soldiers. She said: It has happened on my base as well. She said: I 
started seeing these illnesses, conditions with the soldiers, and I had 
a lieutenant follow the waterline back. It is exactly the same 
circumstance--untreated water. We were paying for it, and the company 
wasn't doing what the contract requires, putting at risk those 
soldiers. The company denied it happened, but it is in black and white. 
The evidence exists.

I described these issues and other issues this morning to the Armed 
Services Committee. I am pleased they are holding hearings. It is long 
past the time for them to hold these oversight hearings finding out 
what is happening and what we can do about it.

Mr. President, these are important issues. I commend Senator Levin, 
Senator Warner, and all members of the Armed Services Committee for 
taking a serious look at these issues. My interest is not in tarnishing 
any company or anything like that. My interest is in making sure the 
American taxpayers are not disserved, and they have been. And my 
interest is the American soldiers are treated properly, and they have 
not been. What I saw with the waste, fraud, and abuse with these 
contracts, in my judgment, is a disservice to the American taxpayer and 
a disservice to the country's soldiers, and the fact is, we can fix 
this.


I will describe at a later time the legislation I have introduced 
that deals with these contracting abuses so we can prevent them from 
ever happening again.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.