---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `36348f5b01eacf7747516caa233a5e99`
`Mr. KERRY — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, for the past 6 months, the administration 
has been busy laying the groundwork for a new development agenda.

First, the President issued a bold 2010 international affairs budget 
that significantly increases funding for vital programs in Pakistan and 
Afghanistan, begins to rebuild our diplomatic and development capacity, 
and renews our commitment to essential programs from education to HIV/
AIDS and hunger.

Then, earlier this month, President Obama and other G8 leaders 
announced a $20 billion food security partnership to provide small 
farmers in poor countries with the seeds, fertilizers, and equipment 
they need to break a decades-long cycle of hunger, malnutrition and 
dependency. Finally, the State Department unveiled plans for a 
''Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review,'' a comprehensive 
assessment designed to improve policy, strategy, and planning at the 
State Department.

While we are still awaiting a nominee to head the U.S. Agency for 
International Development I am confident that a name will soon be 
forthcoming.

These are welcome changes that demonstrate this Administration's 
commitment to a vigorous reform process and a bold development plan. 
Congress will be a strong partner in those efforts--providing the 
resources, legislation, and authorities to ensure that our development 
programs are funded and designed to meet our priorities.

While there is some debate on what form foreign aid reform should 
take, there is a broad consensus in the development community about why 
reform matters.



Experts agree that the strength of our development programs is 
directly linked to success or failure in front-line states like 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

They agree that USAID is more critical to achieving our foreign 
policy objectives than ever before--yet it lacks the tools, capacity 
and expertise to fulfill its mission.

They agree that too often decision-makers lack basic information 
about the actual impact of our development programs.

They also agree that excessive bureaucracy and regulations and 
fragmented coordination are hampering our efforts to swiftly and 
effectively deliver assistance.

And they agree that even as we plan for broad, fundamental reform, 
there are many steps we can take in the interim to dramatically improve 
the effectiveness of our foreign aid efforts.

We assembled a small bipartisan Senate working group to formulate 
legislation that makes short-term improvements while setting the stage 
for longer-term reform. Senators Lugar, Menendez, Corker and I have 
been developing initial reform legislation that we believe goes a long 
way towards improving our short-term capacity to deliver foreign aid in 
a more accountable, thoughtful and strategic manner.

One provision in the bill that we believe is particularly important 
establishes an independent evaluation group, based in the executive 
branch, to measure and evaluate the impact and results of all U.S. 
foreign aid programs, across all departments and agencies. This new 
institution--the Council on Research and Evaluation of Foreign 
Assistance--can address a fundamental knowledge gap in our foreign aid 
programs--quite simply, it will help us understand which programs work, 
which do not, and why.

I want to emphasize, this legislation only represents the first step 
in a longer reform process. But we believe it sends an important 
bipartisan signal that foreign aid reform will be a priority for this 
committee in the years ahead. I am pleased that Senators Risch and 
Cardin will join as original cosponsors to the bill.

When John F. Kennedy spoke at the founding of USAID, in 1961, he 
articulated a basic truth about our foreign policy. We cannot escape 
our moral obligation to be a wise leader in the community of free 
nations. Kennedy warned that--''To fail to meet those obligations now 
would be disastrous; and, in the long run, more expensive. For 
widespread poverty and chaos lead to a collapse of existing political 
and social structures which would inevitably invite the advance of 
totalitarianism into every weak and unstable area. Thus our own 
security would be endangered and our prosperity imperiled.''

Just substitute violent extremism for totalitarianism and the quote 
is as accurate today as it was then. Just as we did in Marshall's time 
and Kennedy's time, America today has a chance to return to a foreign 
policy that is not just seen by people everywhere, but felt and lived, 
one that translates our promises into real value and real progress on 
the ground--one that improves people's daily lives, inspires them, and 
earns their respect.

The good news is that, as we rebuild our civilian institutions, there 
will so many chances to lead in the process. We are living in a moment 
of volatility, but also--emphatically--a moment of possibility.

Infant mortality rates dropped by 27 percent worldwide since 1990. By 
2015, let us cut under-five mortality by 2/3. Life expectancy is eight 
years higher than it was in 1990--but we can do better by cutting 
hunger and poverty in half and reversing the spread of HIV/AIDs, 
malaria and other major diseases. Primary school enrollment has 
increased by 10 percent--it is time we made it universal. While we are 
at it, let us eliminate gender disparity in education once and for all.

History teaches us that America is safest and strongest when we 
understand that our security will not be protected by military means 
alone. It must be protected as well by our generosity, by our example, 
by powerful outreach, and by instilling a palpable sense in the people 
of the world that we understand--and share their destiny. That has 
always inspired people, and it always will. It undercuts our enemies, 
it empowers our friends--and it keeps us safer.