---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `36358714b525c4adc9034e52c2008825`
`Mr. BOND — 25 January 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I wish to address the FISA bill. I also 
commend our majority and minority leaders on their statements about the 
lives that have been lost by our brave troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I believe there are a couple of comments that are appropriate.

Number 1, it was said that General Petraeus said the war is not going 
to be won militarily. That is the key point which General Petraeus has 
brought to the battle. There is a kinetic and nonkinetic impact of the 
counterinsurgency strategy that General Petraeus has laid out and that 
is showing such great progress in Iraq.

Today, the news is not dominated by Iraq. Those people who have been 
criticizing it don't talk about it because General Petraeus's strategy 
is working. It is not just the surge; it is the strategy, the 
counterinsurgency strategy, or COIN, as it is sometimes called. That 
involves clearing, holding, and building.

There is a real difference between the approach we took right after 
the fall of Saddam Hussein, which has been haphazardly called the 
''whack a mole'' theory--we would go out, send our troops out, trying 
to keep a small footprint. We would also send our troops out where 
there was an al-Qaida stronghold and try to suppress them, and then we 
would leave. The problem is that al-Qaida would come back, and they 
would take vengeance on anybody thought to have cooperated. That 
strategy, apparently pushed by those who felt it would be--we wanted to 
maintain a small footprint and not appear to be taking an occupier's 
role--was not working.

General Petraeus expanded upon the usual doctrines of 
counterinsurgency, and he brought a new approach beginning over a year 
ago. He said: We will send in troops to clear areas, working with the 
Iraqi security forces. When they clear an area, they will stay there to 
maintain security--that is clear--and then hold. And holding involves 
the U.S. forces working with the Iraqi security forces to train them, 
to provide them intelligence, logistics, medical support, to ensure 
that they can sustain the peace and the security in the area. Once they 
do that, then the U.S. Government has come in either with aid in 
dollars or with the work of the troops in the field to help build the 
infrastructure to provide the services, whether it is health care, 
whether it is reparations for damages, and show the Iraqi people that 
we want to turn over that country to the Iraqi security forces to 
maintain the stability and security which is necessary for the long-
term process of establishing a democracy.

I was there with a group of my colleagues from the Senate 
Intelligence Committee in early May, and we were seeing the beginnings 
of the effectiveness of that strategy. We went into Al Anbar Province. 
Six months before, it had been regarded as the headquarters of al-
Qaida. They were in control. It was their area. It was a Sunni area. 
The only way the American troops could get into the capital of Ramadi 
was to fight their way in, and then they would usually have to 
withdraw. But on this occasion, four of us went in, in a Cougar, with 
the commanding general of the region and two marines. We drove into the 
center of Ramadi, got out, and walked around Firecracker Corner--so-
called because of the continuing firefights going on there previously--
and we went to visit the embedded American marines with the Iraqi Army, 
who had bunked there, and the Iraqi police who were serving that area. 
They live together, they work together, they train together. You know 
something. It was working.

We even went out to see the Blue Mosque, one of the holy places for 
the Sunni in Al Anbar Province, which had been badly hurt by gunfire, 
by artillery and rockets and bombs. The marines had gone in and helped 
repair and clean up the Blue Mosque, so it was open for worship again.

The Iraqis began to understand that we would work with their security 
forces to help them take control of the area, and that is what they 
were doing. It continued to get better. I know personally from reports 
I had from one marine there, the scout snipers found that by midsummer, 
their services were not necessarily needed in Al Anbar because if 
somebody planted an IED--an improvised explosive device--or a terrorist 
came to town or somebody set up a vehicle factory to build explosive 
vehicles, the Iraqi Sunni watch told the Iraqi security forces, and 
they went and took care of it. The Iraqi Sunni police took care of it. 
This continued to spread throughout Al Anbar.

Now, one of the helps--quite honestly, everybody will admit that one 
of the things that made it so easy for us to work with the Sunnis was 
that al-Qaida had shown their true colors. They are terrorists first, 
second, foremost, and last. They went in and they terrorized the 
people, even the people who at first were cooperating with them because 
they thought they were Sunni brethren. Well, they were not. They went 
in and had forced marriages, rape, pillage, murder, torture. They 
disrupted the activities, the business activities of the Iraqi Sunni 
leaders in the area, and they quickly learned that al-Qaida was not 
their friend and they needed us there temporarily to help them take 
control of their country. That is what we are doing. It is not done all 
over. There are still areas where we have not been able to provide 
Iraqi security forces sufficient training, sufficient personnel to take 
control of the area.

Now, the majority leader said: We want to bring our troops home as 
soon as possible. As one who supported the war, I agree with him 
wholeheartedly. I had a personal stake in it. I wanted to see our 
troops come home. But as the President said, we need to return on 
success. We need to bring those troops home when they have succeeded in 
their missions. because as several men on the ground who have seen 
their comrades killed said: We have made too many contributions and too 
many sacrifices to see a political defeat declared by Congress, forcing 
us to withdraw, so that those contributions and sacrifices will be for 
nothing.


When you ask the American people do they want to see the troops come 
home, sure, they do; we all do. But we want them to come home and not 
leave Iraq in chaos and to return on success. That is where the 
American people are. And they are returning on success. The 2/6 Marines 
cleared Al Anbar and came home several weeks early. General Petraeus 
says more will be coming home. But we have a vital stake in making sure 
Iraq does not fall back into chaos and confusion.

We have laid the groundwork. There is much more political work to do 
at the national level, but political reconciliation is occurring from 
the ground up. The Shia in Baghdad are beginning to recognize they must 
provide financial assistance and support to the Sunnis. Recently, the 
Iraqi Parliament passed a reform of the debaathification law, which put 
out of the Government anybody who had been associated with Saddam 
Hussein. It was probably a bad idea that our original U.S. coalition 
commanders had to fire all the Iraqi soldiers and send them home with 
no pay, no jobs but their weapons; to throw out of office all the 
former Government bureaucrats who worked for Saddam Hussein. They are 
going to have to move carefully but quickly to get those people back 
who know how to make government run.

General Petraeus has said that as we continue to build these forces--
the forces of peace who can run the Government--we will bring our 
troops home. We have been in Germany and Korea for decades. We have 
been in Kosovo for years. We need to have a minimal presence there, 
probably for a long time. But the primary responsibility of maintaining 
peace and security in Iraq is being turned over and must be turned over 
to the Iraqi security forces. We can back them up and make sure al-
Qaida doesn't make another run at them, doesn't bring in external 
fighters. These are the ones causing the most trouble, people coming in 
from Syria, or Saudi Arabia through Syria, and other areas--the 
terrorists. We have the ability to assist the Iraqi security forces to 
do that.

Why is it so important we leave Iraq secure and stable? Well, Saddam 
Hussein was a real threat to us. Even


though he did not actually have any weapons of mass destruction that we 
could find, we know he used them. We know he had the ability to restart 
at any time and that he had attempted to begin a nuclear weapons 
program. Most of all, he had a country where terrorists were running 
wild. We heard a lot about Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, of Ansar al-Islam, 
the infamous butcher who delighted in decapitating people for 
television. His group became al-Qaida in Iraq. Fortunately, we killed 
him. He and other terrorists were running loose in Iraq. They were 
waiting to get their hands on weapons of mass destruction.

With the decline and decapitation of the Saddam Hussein regime, we 
made it much less likely the Government was going to provide weapons of 
mass destruction. But that was what the Iraqi survey group said was the 
greatest danger, that made Iraq far more dangerous than we knew, 
because with Saddam Hussein in control, terrorist groups running wild 
in a chaotic country could have provided the weapons of mass 
destruction the terrorists seek, and continue to seek, to use against 
our allies, our troops abroad and us here at home.

If the place falls into chaos, there is likely to be broad-ranging 
genocide among the parties in Iraq, settling old grievances. That could 
bring other countries into the region, starting a regionwide civil war. 
But the most important thing is Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, 
his No. 2 man, said the purpose of their struggle is to establish the 
headquarters of their caliphate at the land of the two rivers. That is 
Iraq, Baghdad and Ramadi. They want to get their hands on the oil 
resources. If they have unfettered access for establishing camps to 
recruit, train, develop weapons, issue command and control, then we in 
this Nation are much less safe. Return on success, yes. The 2/6 Marines 
have come back and others will come back on success. That is the 
strategy we have now and it is the right one.

Mr. President, I needed to say that.

