---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `36499481c427d2c05a5cb7e1a819f551`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank Senator Lieberman for offering 
this amendment because it is a very detailed list of activities that 
the Iranian Government is engaging in.

I say the Iranian Government purposefully, because I do believe that 
parts of their Government are deeply involved in trying to undermine 
our activity in Iraq. I hope this is something we can rally behind. I 
hope this is one of the amendments the whole Congress can get behind, 
the whole Senate can get behind, just as we have with pay raises and 
other things to help the troops.

I guess I would ask the question a different way: Do you doubt that 
what Senators Lieberman and McCain have just alleged about Iranian 
activity is true? Does any Member of the Senate question the 
accusations that are being


leveled at the Iranian operatives and Government vis-a-vis their 
involvement in Iraq? Is it something we can all agree on?

I would say that if you disagree, come to the floor and tell us why 
we are wrong. As you have just heard from Senators McCain, Lieberman, 
and Kyl, the accusations are very serious and they run deep. The 
accusations basically say that the Iranian Government, through the Quds 
organization, their military revolutionary, their guard component, is 
actively involved in undermining the young democracy in Iraq, and 
actively involved in killing Americans.

If you doubt that, if you disagree with that, come and tell us where 
we are wrong. If you agree with that concept, this a chance to speak up 
and say that is wrong. I hope everyone in this body can muster the 
ability to tell the Iranian Government that what you are doing in Iraq 
is wrong and must stop.

The question we must ask ourselves as a nation is: Why is Iran doing 
this? Everyone has a reason for whatever decision they make as a 
governmental body. Every organization has a reason for whatever 
decision they make. Iran has a reason. Can we figure that out? Is it a 
mystery to us? It is not a mystery to me. The reason I think Iran is 
trying to destabilize Iraq and drive Americans out of Iraq and the 
region is because Iran's worst nightmare is a functioning democracy on 
their border.

Iran is a theocracy controlled by some of the most brutal people in 
the Middle East. The Iranian President is up there in terms of rhetoric 
with Adolph Hitler. He is saying things in 2005, 2006, and 2007 that 
you thought were coming out of the 1920s and 1930s. Does he mean it? I 
think he does.

Senator McCain said the second prize would be a missile with a 
nuclear weapon aimed at Israel. That is second prize. First prize for a 
nuclear-armed Iran would be a terrorist organization getting the bomb.

Now, does anybody believe Iran is trying to produce power through a 
nuclear program for peaceful purposes? Come here and say so. Do you 
have any doubt that the Iranian regime is trying to go nuclear for all 
of the wrong reasons? I have no doubt, I have no doubt that they are in 
Iraq trying to kill Americans so we will leave. I have no doubt they 
wish the Maliki government and anything like the Maliki government to 
fail. They are not interested in a democracy in their backyard. Neither 
is Syria. The biggest threat they can imagine is to have neighbors who 
can decide their own fate, to have people next door who can vote for 
their own leaders, where Sunnis, Shiahs, and Kurds come together, form 
a new economy and a new government. That is a dictator's, a theocracy's 
worst nightmare.

I completely understood why Iran is doing what they are doing. What I 
cannot understand is why we are doing what we are about to do. Why 
would we abandon this infant democracy, even though it is harder than 
we would like. We have made mistakes that are too numerous to count. 
But look at our own history. It took us 11 years to write our own 
Constitution. Four years ago the people in Iraq were living under a 
brutal dictator. Four years ago the police force had one mission: Take 
care of the dictator. The Army had one goal: Take care of the dictator.

Now you have people trying to come together and found a new country 
out of the ashes of a dictatorship. If you look at history, at our own 
history, you know how hard it is. But let me tell you the payoffs are 
enormous if we could pull this off. And when I say ''we,'' I mean 
Americans and the big moderate forces in Iraq. It will transform the 
region.

Look at what happened to Qadhafi when Saddam Hussein went down. 
Things matter. If we fail in Iraq, it matters. And all the momentum 
that would be built by a successful outcome, which I think is very 
possible, that same--a different type momentum will be created by 
failure.

Who is the biggest winner and loser in Iraq? If Iraq fails, if the 
Government collapses and it becomes a chaotic situation, who would win? 
I would argue that at the top of the list would be al-Qaida, because 
al-Qaida would have a place to operate. I am not saying al-Qaida 
dominates all of Iraq. I am saying they will have regions in Iraq where 
they use fear and intimidation to operate and they will be stronger.

I do believe with all of my heart and soul that if Iraq fails and 
this new democracy is curbed, the biggest winner will be the Iranian 
state. They will have influence over parts of Iraq that will make them 
stronger.

Another big loser would be Turkey, because the Kurdish north will 
become incredibly unstable. So I do not think it is a mystery as to 
what Iran is up to. They are trying to destroy a force that presents a 
great threat to their existence, their existence as a theocracy that 
suppresses any form of moderation.

We have a magic moment in the Middle East to change it for the 
better. It is going to be hard, it is going to be tough, and it is 
going to take sacrifice, but it will work if we stay with a model that 
has always worked.

What is that model? When people get up and preach the destruction of 
their neighbor and they preach genocide and they preach hate and 
division, the model that has always worked is for the good people to 
say no. Every time someone like the President of Iran has come along 
with his hateful, destructive message and no one checks it, over time 
good people die. Eventually, the killing gets to be so great and the 
carnage is so hard to look at, good people rally to stop it. We have a 
chance here to head off what I think is a bloodbath in the making. We 
have a chance to control an Iranian Government that is up to no good. 
We have a chance to stand with the forces of moderation and affect the 
outcome in Iraq for the better.

Will they become the United States of Iraq overnight? No. But here 
is, indeed, good news, that due to the surge, with additional military 
capability, there is something going on in Iraq that should be 
encouraging. Al-Qaida flourished under the old strategy. They were able 
to dominate different regions of Iraq. When they had control of those 
regions, they did what every thuggish group has done in history. They 
did what every ideologically driven, hate-filled group has always done. 
They overplayed their hand. They have done some vicious, terrible 
things, and the people who have lived under their thumb have said: I 
have had enough. This new strategy has empowered these people in the 
Sunni areas of Iraq to turn away from al-Qaida and embrace something 
new. It has been possible because of General Petraeus and our brave men 
and women. Indeed, it is good news.

At the end of the day, this war on terror is about choices. Our hopes 
and dreams are that people in the Mideast, if given a choice, will 
reject al-Qaida and find a new way. Our hope and dream is that the 
Iranian regime will not get stronger but weaker. The only way to ensure 
that it will get weaker is to make sure its neighbors are protected 
from its vicious behavior. The only way we will ever win this war is 
not just killing al-Qaida but giving the power to those who say no to 
al-Qaida to control their own destiny. The only way we will ever 
control Iran is to stand up to it, just as we had a chance with Hitler 
and we let many opportunities pass.

Do I believe Iran is going to conquer the world? No. But I do believe 
Iran unchecked will change the world for the worse. I believe with all 
my heart and soul that Iranian efforts to get a nuclear weapon are 
real, and if they are successful, we will have a nightmare on our hands 
because I think they would use the weapon or at least empower somebody 
who would use the weapon. That would create chaos in the Mideast. I 
know that if I am the Prime Minister of Israel, I am not going to sit 
on the sidelines and watch that happen. I believe if Iran gets more out 
of control than they are now, you are going to create a nuclear arms 
race in the Mideast. I believe if Iraq can push through the hard times 
and we can achieve stability and say no to al-Qaida and contain Iran, 
momentum will be built for the next generation of those in Iraq and all 
over the Mideast to embrace a form of living we can tolerate.

There are plenty of people in Iraq--and I have met them, and you 
have, too--who are dying for their own freedom. What more can we ask? 
If you want to be a judge in the United States, you go through a 
confirmation hearing, and it is pretty awful. If you want to be a judge 
in Iraq, they try to


kill your family. If you want to be a political leader in the United 
States, it is a pretty tough life, but in Iraq it could end your life.

To those who are willing to raise their hand and say: I am willing to 
stand up to al-Qaida, I have had enough, God bless you. May God bless 
you. May the United States have the courage to stand by you. To those 
who see Iran as a growing threat, God bless you. May the United States 
have the courage to stand by you. To the young men and women who are 
going for the third and fourth time, God bless you. You see it better 
than anybody else. You know why you go back. You go back because you 
see hope where people here see no hope. You see change where we deny 
change exists. You see the ability to make the world better through 
your sacrifice, and you see the ability of passing on a better world to 
your children. You see the ability to affect things for the better so 
your kids won't have to do what you are doing. God bless you.

I hope and pray that this Congress, this Senate, and this country can 
muster the will to do the things that have always worked in the past. 
When you see evil, don't appease it; confront it. When you see hatred 
and bigotry, change it. Be willing to do the hard things now so that 
there will be a better life for those who come behind.

This strategy called the surge has been long overdue. We have paid a 
heavy price for misunderstanding the nature of what was required after 
the fall of Baghdad. We have been stubborn, and at times we have been 
arrogant. But at the end of the day, we are a good people. We stand for 
the good. The best we have is our men and women in uniform, and they 
are there in large numbers, volunteering to stay and to keep 
reenlisting. Whatever mistakes we have made in the past, let's not 
compound them.


I argue to my colleagues that the biggest mistake is yet to come, a 
mistake for the ages. That would be to adopt a policy that will make 
sure Iran wins and this new democracy in Iraq fails, to adopt a policy 
that will allow al-Qaida to come back stronger than they were before--
and they will, as surely as I am standing here speaking--and slaughter 
those who have chosen to say no to them. If that happens, there will be 
a whole generation of moderation in the Mideast silenced. That will 
mean the next generation of Americans will be in the Mideast for a 
bigger war to fight. It is really literally up to us, as a 
democratically elected body, as to what course we take.

I do not question anybody's intent, patriotism, or motivation. But 
don't be blinded by the mistakes of the past. Don't misunderstand our 
enemy. Our enemy does not want to be misunderstood. Al-Qaida has 
written out the script for the world. The script says: Get us out of 
the Mideast, destroy forms of moderation in the Gulf States, and 
destroy Israel. They have written it down, just as Hitler wrote it 
down. I believe it can be stopped, just as Hitler was stopped. The 
Iranian leadership is not hiding where they want to go. They are 
challenging us to stop them. I hope we will rise to the occasion 
because we can stop them. The strongest weapon in our arsenal is not 
just the brave men and women who take up arms but the value system of 
our country which is so much superior to the hate-filled demagoguery of 
al-Qaida and to the totalitarian nature of Iran.

These are monumental times which I thought I would never live to see. 
I never thought in my lifetime I would see the world go backward 
instead of forward when it comes to standing up to evil. But such is 
life, such is fate.

To the brave men and women who have reenlisted and gone back for the 
third and fourth time, here is what I can say about you: History will 
judge you well because when your country needed you the most, you did 
not follow the political moment; you followed ideals that will last for 
a lifetime--truth, justice, and the American way.

God bless you.