---
---

# ADVANCING AMERICA'S PRIORITIES ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `364d9d23a3e09aaf0b4009b9a29c0280`
`Mr. DURBIN — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it is time for this debate. No, this 
debate is overdue. It is about time the American people understand the 
choices we are making on the floor of the Senate. Every month this 
President asks us for $12 billion to $15 billion to wage the war. Is it 
paid for? No. It is added to the deficit. We are told we have to do it; 
we have to do it, not just for the troops--no one wants to see the 
troops go without--but because it is our moral responsibility, 
according to the Bush administration, to rebuild Iraq. We liberated 
them. We removed their dictator. We have lost over 4,000 of our best 
and bravest lives and thousands injured. But month after month, the 
administration tells us we need to spend $10 billion to $15 billion on 
the war in Iraq. The protests from the other side of the aisle are few, 
if any, to this President's plan to spend $12 billion to $15 billion a 
month in Iraq.

Now comes this bill. This bill suggests spending money in America. 
What do we hear? A chorus of complaints from the other side of the 
aisle that it is wasteful--wasteful--to be spending money in America, 
projects that are new Federal programs, questioning whether there is 
wisdom behind them, whether taxpayers' dollars should be spent.

The American people should be the judge. Should we be spending 
American taxpayers' dollars to establish a national registry for those 
suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease in the hopes we might learn 
something that leads to a cure? Obviously, the House of Representatives 
felt it was. That rollcall was 411 to 3. But there is objection on the 
Republican side of the aisle: a new program.

Then there is the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, calling 
on the National Institutes of Health for paralysis research and rehab 
activities, a new program, I will admit it. But if it was a member of 
my family stuck in a wheelchair, quadriplegic, you can bet I would be 
begging for this bill. How did it do in the House of Representatives? 
It passed unanimously, but it is held up on the Republican side of the 
aisle because it is money spent in America for a new program.

Here is another. Stroke Treatment and Ongoing Prevention Act, a 
bipartisan bill. Senator Kennedy, fighting brain cancer in 
Massachusetts, cannot be here to stand and speak for it. I will speak 
for it. He and Senator Cochran, a Republican from Mississippi, believe 
this is money well spent on stroke treatment in America. It is another 
new program, and it is here for America. It is opposed by the 
Republican side of the aisle.

Why? Why do they want to stop these programs that help us here at 
home? The list goes on and on. Postpartum depression. I joined 
Congressman Bobby Rush in pushing this one when a lady, a few days 
after giving birth in Chicago, dove out a hospital window, killing 
herself--suicide. We don't want that to happen. This bill tries to help 
mothers struggle through postpartum depression.

Vision care for kids--more money to be spent in the United States. It 
is opposed by those who are putting a hold on these bills.

All these bills overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives 
without any bipartisan rancor, until they got over here. Many of the 
same Senators who have voted for a blank check to send money to Iraq 
month after month do not want to spend money in America. I think a 
strong America begins at home. It begins with good health care. It 
begins when we care about our own people first.

Then there are the Judiciary Committee bills. The Senator from 
Oklahoma is a member of the Judiciary Committee. Every one of these 
bills he had a chance to amend in the committee. Every one of these 
bills came out of committee by unanimous vote, which would include his 
vote. Now he is objecting to moving forward on the floor.

He does not want us to pass the Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act to 
authorize an increase in authorization levels for runaway kids or the 
Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act to try to finally bring to 
justice those guilty of killing a lot of the great people in America 
who have been victims of civil rights crimes.

The Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act. Mental 
illness is such an integral part of many criminal acts. We want to do 
something about it. It passed unanimously out of the committee, but it 
is money spent in America, and they object to it. They object to this 
money being spent. Why?

Effective Child Pornography Prosecution Act. Who favors that? No one 
favors that. Why won't we spend a few dollars to stop it? You know what 
is going on in the Internet. How did that bill do? It passed the House 
of Representatives 409 to 0. There were no breakdowns. Democrats and 
Republicans all agreed we have to stop this scourge, until it came over 
here and was stopped by the Senator from Oklahoma. I don't understand 
his thinking on all this. Let me make one thing clear. These are 
authorization bills. They do not spend money. They authorize us to 
spend money, but that authorization has to be followed up with actual 
spending, and we are limited in the total amount we can spend. If we 
want to put money into these programs, it has to be taken from other 
programs.

Many of the same Senators who vote month after month to send money to 
Iraq, many of the same Senators who voted for tax breaks for the 
wealthiest people in America in the midst of a war, are saying we 
cannot afford this money for medical research and money to make America 
safer. That is what this vote is all about.

I reserve the remainder of my time.