---
---

# None
## `366716cf4da35515d2a82100ca32c877`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it is good that all of us agree here 
that is on the floor here tonight, along with hundreds of other Members 
of Congress. But it only takes a very small percentage of numbers to 
say ''no.''

And what is interesting, Mr. Ryan, when we start talking about fact 
versus fiction; be accurate if you are going to share something. 
Accuracy is not necessarily a value here in Washington, D.C. We pride 
ourselves, Mr. Speaker, here on the 30-Something Working Group, we go 
through a lot of pain and suffering and research and all of that to 
make sure that what we are sharing with the American people is actually 
fact and not fiction. If we had more fact, we would have better 
policymaking here in Washington, D.C.

The fact that the President would say, oh, well, you know, the 
Democratic Congress needs to go to work, when we broke records in the 
history of the Republic of 980 rollcall votes. And that is not just 
post offices. That is major policy that has passed off this floor.

Still saying that, what Mr. Ryan is saying, the bottom line is as we 
go into the last closing minutes of our time here on the floor, the 
bottom line is we are going to see a separation from those that are 
willing to lead and those that are willing to follow tomorrow.



There's going to be a supermajority vote to vote for children's 
health care to override the President of the United States. The only 
time he ever vetoed a piece of legislation last Congress was dealing 
with the stem cell research bill, and he did that. Okay. But now, every 
week he's threatening a veto. He's threatening a veto.

Mr. Ryan, over there, has a chart that shows how record oil prices 
under the Bush administration are continuing to climb to today's oil 
prices rate that is at the top, that's recordbreaking at the top.

Meanwhile, we're around here trying to provide health care for 
children. We have a war that's going on that the President is willing, 
you know, to say, oh, well, it's okay for us to borrow from foreign 
nations to continue a war in Iraq, but we're not willing to provide 
health care for our own children.

And the sad part, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz said funny and then we 
agreed on sad, the sad part is the fact that these are American 
children. I mean, I've been to Iraq. Mr. Altmire and I have been to 
Iraq recently, and some of the Members here, we've been. And the real 
issue is this, is the fact that we went into a health care facility. 
Iraqi children there are getting health care. I mean, you have U.S. 
troops that are in neighborhoods that are giving shots and evaluations. 
I don't have anyone in my neighborhood


giving shots and evaluations to all the children and not asking for any 
documentation if you have health care or not. It's almost universal.

And so we're sitting here, and the President's going to stand on a 
small ant hill saying, well, you know, I think it's just too much that 
we're investing, and using some sort of, you know, hocus pocus talking 
about social medicine.

Meanwhile, children are going to the CVS, Rite-Aid or whatever the 
case may be, families trying to cure themselves. So I just want to make 
sure, I want to put the pressure on my colleagues to make sure that 
they override. And in closing, I'm going to send it over to Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz.

Y'all know this chart. This is the first action, one of the first 
actions that we took as relates to the Iraq war. It had all of the 
requirements in there to bring our men and women home, put the pressure 
on the Iraqis to stand up. And the Republicans went down there and 
stood with the President and said we stand with the President so that 
the Congress will never override the President. And they may not have 
one of these because if they do I'm going to have my staff down there 
with a camera to take a picture to make sure that we have the second 
picture.

But those that stand with the President tomorrow in not allowing us 
to override when we have a bipartisan vote out of this House, and we 
have Senators that are standing up here like Orrin Hatch, Grassley, a 
number of other Republicans that are saying, hey, you know, Mr. 
President, you're wrong. But we have some House Members here that are 
saying, well, we're with the President. You continue to stand with the 
President. I would appreciate some sort of public kind of standing out 
with the President because the bottom line is, I believe those Members, 
Mr. Speaker, all due respect, they will be at home reading this process 
in the paper and paying attention to C-SPAN and seeing what's going on 
because their constituents will not allow a Member to vote against 
their own children and then say, I want to go back to Congress and 
represent you.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I'm sorry I went past 30 seconds when you 
asked me to yield.