---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5136, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `36756e0779912ffe3bc91ccceb42c3d2`
`Mr. OLSON — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. OLSON. Yesterday, the Rules Committee rejected two amendments to 
the defense authorization bill I offered to strengthen national 
security and provide clarity to an area of law that badly needs it.

My first amendment would have prohibited Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or 
any other Gitmo detainee from enjoying the U.S. constitutional benefits 
of a civilian criminal trial. Supporters of the administration's plan 
will reference Richard Reid, Najibullah Zazi, and the most recent 
attempt carried out by Faisal Shahzad as examples of why KSM should be 
tried here. But these individuals were either U.S. citizens, reside 
here, or were arrested here. Congress must understand the difference.



Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is not an American citizen. He is an enemy 
combatant captured in a battle zone. The same can be said of every 
other Gitmo detainee. These individuals are not criminal defendants, 
and this Congress should recognize the difference.

My other amendment would have allowed Congress to make clear that 
enemy combatants at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan do not have the same 
right to access our court system that U.S. citizens enjoy. Last week, 
the DC Court of Appeals ruled that three Bagram detainees lack access 
to rights in U.S. Federal courts. And while this ruling is helpful, my 
amendment would have sent a clear legislative message that enemy 
combatants detained in an active war zone do not have special rights.

The administration is oddly obsessed with giving foreign enemies of 
the United States the same rights American citizens enjoy. Enough. 
Respect the Constitution.