---
---

# TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE 200TH ANNIVERSARY COMMISSION ACT OF 2007-- SUPPORT
## `36857f7390c7cb10492b3f7bc3f584fa`
`Mr. RANGEL — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my full support 
for H.R. 3432, a bill that would authorize the establishment of a 
federal commission to coordinate activities for the commemoration of 
the bicentennial anniversary of the U.S. Transatlantic Slave Trade Act.

Next year will mark the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the 
transatlantic slave trade in the United States. Although the 
transatlantic slave trade represents a dark aspect of not only U.S. 
history, but world history, it provides an opportunity to celebrate the 
progress with human rights, civil rights, and race relations in our 
great country. In addition to celebrating progress, the anniversary 
offers an opportunity to educate and remind people all over the world 
of the history slavery played in making race such a dominant reality in 
our history and the role of the slave trade.

The establishment of a federal commission to coordinate the 200th 
anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade commemoration 
activities would assist with reminding and informing people of the past 
and present day implications of slavery in the development of America 
as a nation.

At the present time, people are rightfully consumed and burdened with 
issues that are impacting their personal lives, as well as, societal 
issues including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorism, quality 
healthcare, education, and crime. Due to this, I believe people would 
welcome being refreshed by something to celebrate versus something to 
worry about; especially because African Americans have made and 
continue to make immeasurable contributions and advances in our great 
country since the abolishment of the transatlantic slave trade and 
slavery. Young people need to have an understanding of and develop an 
appreciation for our country's past, which would hopefully instill 
pride and hope for tomorrow.

I thank Congressman Payne for introducing this bill and encourage my 
colleagues to support it. I also encourage people all over the world, 
especially young people to learn about the history of slavery.
