# None
## `36861e7c23c281eee759561b5859d2a3`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you, some days it is very 
interesting to watch what happens in a place like this. This is the 
most serious issue that this Congress will confront this year, and this 
motion is addressing that issue in the most unserious manner possible. 
This motion is presented by the distinguished ranking minority member 
of the committee, and then he says he is going to vote against his own 
motion. I would like for a moment to remind the body of what this House 
is supposed to be.

The core purpose of this Congress, the main reason for its existence 
is to deal with issues like this. Today, the United States Congress is 
supposedly regarded as the greatest deliberative body in the world. We 
exist today, if we remember our history, we exist today because almost 
800 years ago our British forefathers placed the first limitation on 
the absolute use of executive power in the history of the English 
speaking world when they forced the English monarch to sign the Magna 
Carta.

Over 500 years later, that evolved into the United States 
Constitution, which created three branches of government, with checks 
and balances designed to prevent arbitrary and unilateral exercise of 
unchecked executive power in order to protect liberty.

Because of that Constitution, and under the procedures defined by 
that Constitution, we are here in the fifth year of a war which this 
country was led into under false premises. And we are debating how the 
Congress should respond to the President's escalation and 
intensification of our involvement in an Iraqi civil war. We are also 
debating his request for another hundred billion dollars to continue 
that war.

He is also asking for billions of dollars in additional spending for 
other domestic and international activities, including flood control, 
nutrition programs, education and cultural exchanges, disease control 
in Southeast Asia, and salaries for U.S. marshals. The majority of both 
Houses have voted to try to bring about a change in direction in that 
war. We believe, at least those of us who supported the bill two weeks 
ago, we believe that our soldiers won the war that they were asked to 
wage, but that it is unrealistic to expect them to do something that 
they have no power to do, which is to force Iraqi politicians to make 
political compromises necessary to end the carnage in that country.

By this bill, we are attempting to put enough pressure on those Iraqi 
politicians and those Iraqi factions to make the compromises necessary 
to allow our troops to end their involvement in that civil war. And to 
do that, we have in the legislation now before us conditioned our 
continued presence in Iraq on Iraq's meeting certain performance 
benchmarks, which were first laid out by the President himself.

This motion, which has now been offered by the gentleman, is an 
example, I think, of people falling off both sides of the same horse at 
the same time because we have people who say they don't want us to put 
limits on the President's conduct of the war, now insisting that in 
fact we adhere to the very proposals that we passed just 2 weeks ago.

I want to say that this is, I think, despite the fact that it is an 
unserious motion, I intend to accept it because it is simply, in 
essence, a re-vote of what the House committed itself to 2 weeks ago.

The reason we have timelines in this bill is because we want to give 
General Petraeus the ability to use Congress as sort of a bad cop/good 
cop routine in order to convey to the Iraqi politicians that they must 
resolve their differences if they expect us to remain there for any 
significant length of time at all. There is no way that we can create 
that kind of pressure on Iraqi politicians unless we maintain the 
proposals that we made in this House bill.

The President wants none of these limitations to pass. I find it 
interesting that people who say that we should proceed to compromise 
are now offering a motion which in essence tells us not to compromise. 
In the end, we know that both sides are going to have to compromise; 
but in the interest of getting us to conference so that we can begin 
that long arduous process, which I fear will take many months, I am 
going to accept the motion of the gentleman, even though I regard it as 
a very quaint way to move to a position of compromise between the 
President and the Congress.

Mr. Speaker, with that, I reserve the balance of my time.