---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `36a4e092982dd626857e78778381611e`
`Mr. HAYES — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. HAYES. I want to thank Chairman Edwards and the ranking member, 
my friend, Mr. Wicker, for allowing me the time.

Mr. Chairman, I bring an amendment to the floor today because I feel 
the Base Realignment and Closure, BRAC, implementation process needs 
more funding than is being provided.

Mr. Chairman, the fiscal year 2007 continuing resolution did not 
adequately meet the needs of BRAC implementation. Though we came back 
and put a $3.1 billion allocation for BRAC in the supplemental and we 
funded the President's fiscal year 2008 request in the bill, I do not 
believe we are doing all we should do in terms of funding this 
priority.

I realize the President's budget and supplemental request were based 
on the best estimates at the time, but there is no doubt that these 
figures were low. The Department of Defense currently estimates it will 
take $30.8 billion from 2006 to 2011 to complete the 2005 Base 
Realignment and Closure round.

As the chairman and the ranking member pointed out in this bill, the 
current BRAC estimate is $8 billion higher than that given by DOD only 
a year ago. I share the concern of the committee that even with this 
large increase, the projected funding estimate does not fully take into 
account construction and inflation costs and is lower than what will be 
actually required.

My home district, Fort Bragg, the epicenter of the universe, is 
facing these miscalculations today. As part of the BRAC 2005 plan for 
Fort Bragg, it was named the Joint Mobilization Center; however, no 
funding to house servicemembers going through the process of 
mobilization was involved.

The garrison is currently housing these mainly National Guard and 
Reserve members in the 82nd Airborne barracks, while the 82nd is 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. When the 82nd returns, Fort Bragg 
will be forced to house those going through the Joint Mobilization 
Center in World War II-era barracks which are completely inadequate.

As part of the BRAC 2005 recommendations, Pope Air Force Base will be 
realigned to become part of Fort Bragg. This means that Bragg will take 
over the airfield at Pope, but there is no money currently programmed 
for the new control tower or the fire and rescue station that will be 
necessary to support carrying out this realignment. Fort Bragg and Pope 
are but one example of this trend. No doubt these kinds of BRAC-
related, unplanned expenses for military construction needs are 
prevalent at installations across the country.

The BRAC process was designed to increase the efficiency and increase 
the effectiveness of combat capability of our forces. Underfunding, 
even slightly, will affect our Nation's combat capability first. In the 
midst of this global war on terror, we need to be very careful not to 
underfund our combat capability, either indirectly or inadvertently.

Although I greatly respect and appreciate the chairman and ranking 
member's funding of the Base Realignment and Closure program, I 
strongly believe that this crucial national security area needs more 
focus. We need to search for ways to implement it.

To this end, my amendment reprograms $30 million from NATO Security 
Investment to the Department of Defense. As you know, the NSIP is 
designed to be our contribution to construction of support facilities 
at NATO bases. While this is important, NATO is forward deployed, and 
it does not always provide us with a swift return on our investments in 
terms of combat capability.

In the past, NATO fought primarily from fixed bases in forward areas, 
but now it will operate from deployed locations. Infrastructure 
provided in NSIP, while important in previous NATO strategy, is 
somewhat less now. Conversely, BRAC and global rebasing moves direct 
American forces from Europe to home stations here in the U.S. Security 
requirements in Europe are decreasing while security requirements in 
the U.S., as well as readiness requirements at home stations, are going 
up as new units are reformed here at home.

The money could be better spent in the BRAC program with a focus on 
improving our quick reaction and Special Operations Forces. It will 
increase our Nation's combat power, fighting the continued war against 
terrorists, and it will improve the combat power of NATO.

I urge you to vote in favor of my amendment and join me in support of 
Base Realignment and Closure implementation.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.