---
---

# None
## `36ac368ce156c3384e13d939dbca4f39`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1211, as amended, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to expand and improve health care 
services available to women veterans from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs and for other purposes.



I appreciate the hard work of the gentlelady from South Dakota (Ms. 
Herseth Sandlin) on this bill and in bringing it forward. Throughout 
history, women have played a vital role in supporting our national 
defense. Currently women make up 8 percent, about 8 percent of the 
total veteran population, and VA estimates that by 2020, women veterans 
will comprise about 10 percent of the veteran population.

Women are the fastest-growing segment of the veteran population, and 
it's essential to make sure that VA is providing specialized programs 
and services to meet their unique physical and mental health needs.

I want to thank again my good friend and colleague, the gentlelady 
from South Dakota, for introducing this legislation, and I am pleased 
to have joined with her as an original cosponsor for H.R. 1211.

This legislation would expand and improve benefits and services for 
our female veterans, especially our newest generation of women veterans 
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The VA would be required to conduct 
independent studies to look at the barriers women veterans face in 
obtaining VA health care, assist the services currently being provided, 
and develop a plan to better meet their needs.

In the past 5 years, there has been a 30 percent increase in the 
number of women veterans of child-bearing age enrolling in the VA 
health care system. H.R. 1211, as amended, would aid this population by 
authorizing VA to provide care to newborns of women veterans receiving 
maternity care through VA. Additionally, the bill would establish a 
pilot program to provide child care assistance for certain qualified 
veterans while they are receiving care at the VA.

Recognizing that the largest number of women veterans are serving in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, the bill would 
also ensure that recently separated women veterans have a voice on the 
advisory committee on women veterans and minority veterans.

I urge my colleagues to support 1211, as amended.

I reserve the balance of my time.