---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `36b226fc6328f29a8ddb0d2d77101527`
`Mrs. BOXER — 4 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. I read it while the Senator talked with Senator Schumer.

This is LIHEAP, a program that has been around for decades. This is 
$1 billion to help people pay for the expensive cost of heating their 
homes. As I look at my friend, Senator Sanders, who is in the chair, 
what a champion of this program he is--to those in the Northeast in 
particular.

I have to take the minority leader at his word. He says the reason he 
is holding everything up, he doesn't want to do any work--or do 
anything--because he must study this bill. If he were here now--of 
course, he is now gone, but Senator Kyl is here--I would say let's read 
this together. This is easy, almost as easy as ''Jane and John took the 
dog for a walk.'' Yet, still, they come out here and are holding up the 
business of the Senate and the country.

Mr. President, I say to my leaders, look, we can argue about how many 
angels dance on the head of a pin, but 20 million seniors are waiting 
for this. They were left out of the President's and the House package.



I wish to say to my friend, Senator McConnell--and he is not here 
right now--that this matters. When he says the deal has been cut, that 
the President agreed with the House, well, wait a minute, look at the 
Constitution. There is a Senate, there is a House, and there is a 
President. We work together. We work our will, they work theirs, and we 
get together and compromise.

Twenty million seniors were left out, and we are fixing that. What 
else? We are also fixing the fact that they left out 250,000 disabled 
veterans. So why are we holding up work on something as simple as that? 
The answer comes back in a very convoluted way. I just have to say to 
someone who represents a State that is in a recession--and I know the 
State of the Senator from Nevada is in a recession. Many States are in 
a recession.

The President said we should act and we are not acting; we are not 
acting on FISA. Again, to respond, Senator Bond and Senator Rockefeller 
agree on how to fix the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Well, 
good for them. But guess what. The Senate has to debate that and work 
its will.

Some people think the phone companies should have immunity. Some of 
us other folks think that if you give them immunity, you will never 
find out who was spied on and how, why, and how long they were spied 
on. We feel strongly. Is the minority suggesting that because two 
Senators agree, the rest of us are ''chopped liver,'' as my mother 
would say?

This place is like ''Alice in Wonderland.'' Tonight, more than any 
other night, it is like ''Alice in Wonderland.'' You have a President 
who is scared about the economy. He is begging us to act on the 
stimulus package, and we have intelligent Senators stand up--and they 
are very smart--on the floor saying: Oh my goodness, you added LIHEAP, 
and now, we are sorry, we are holding everything up. And then they said 
maybe they won't. I hope they will not.

While I support, with every fiber of my body, the Senate package, it 
is just the start of what we need to do. Until we start paying 
attention to the needs of the American people and end the war in Iraq, 
which is stealing our treasure, both in our young men and women in 
uniform and our money, we will never get where we need to get.