---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `36bb8e109b36c53cdcf24dc7bf590b89`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I regret that I have been held up in another event, 
that I could not get here until now. But I rise to speak in favor, of 
course, of the cloture motion and of taking up the National Defense 
Authorization Act.

This is critically important legislation. I know the debate has been 
mostly about a couple of parts of it or one amendment or maybe two 
amendments that may be offered to it.

But the National Defense Authorization Act has to be passed. It has 
been passed every year for more than half a century. Why? Because it 
authorizes increases in compensation and benefits for members of the 
military and their families. No matter what you think about any 
amendments that may or may not be put in, I do not think any of our 
colleagues truly want to stop that from happening, nor do they want to 
stop the authorization of the procurement of military equipment that 
our soldiers need to protect them and to continue to be the most 
effective fighting force in the world, nor do they want to stop the 
authorization for military construction in the United States and around 
the world that our troops and their families need to live decently.

This is a motion to proceed. It is not a vote on the bill. To me, 
this ought to be an easy vote, no matter what you think about don't 
ask, don't tell or the DREAM Act or even what you think about the 
procedure adopted because, let's remember, at any point once we go to 
proceed, if people in the Chamber do not think Senator Reid has allowed 
enough amendments, they can begin a filibuster and stop it right 
there. This


bill won't come to a final vote, regardless of what is in it, until 
there are 60 Members of the Senate who want it to come to a final vote.


I wish to speak for a moment about don't ask, don't tell. Senator 
Levin has done an excellent job in the debate. I voted against the 
policy as a member of the Armed Services Committee in 1993, when it 
first came up. I was privileged to be an original cosponsor, with many 
others, of the legislation to repeal it this year, working with Senator 
Levin and others on the committee, including Senator Collins who, to 
her great credit, had the guts to join us because she believes don't 
ask, don't tell is un-American--my word--not fair and hurtful to 
military effectiveness.

More than 14,000 members of the military have been put out of the 
services since 1993 under don't ask, don't tell, not because they 
weren't good soldiers, sailors, marines or airmen, not because they 
violated any military code of conduct but only because of their private 
sexual orientation. That number is the equivalent of an entire division 
of warfighters we need in places such as Afghanistan and elsewhere 
around the world. It is also a waste of money to train those 14,000. 
Estimates are that taxpayers paid over $600 million. We waste that by 
tossing them out, not because they are bad soldiers but because of 
their private sexual orientation.

I know some have said repealing don't ask, don't tell doesn't belong 
on this bill. Don't ask, don't tell was originally adopted as part of 
the Defense authorization bill. It is, frankly, the best and most 
logical place around which to repeal the policy. I know Senator Levin 
has talked about the process. There is a fundamental judgment that the 
President, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, and those of us who have sponsored the amendment to repeal 
don't ask, don't tell have made, which is that it ought to go. It is 
un-American. It is inconsistent with our best values of equal 
opportunity, who can get the job done, not what one's private life is 
about. It is hurting our military. That judgment has been made.

The study being done at the Pentagon is to determine how to implement 
this best without intervening in military effectiveness. Then we put in 
the amendment which is in the bill. This provision, as Senator Levin 
has pointed out, doesn't go into effect until 60 days after the 
President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff certify in writing that repeal of don't ask, don't tell 
is consistent with standards of military readiness, military 
effectiveness, unity, cohesion, recruiting, and retention. We couldn't 
ask for more in the way of due process. We don't direct the military 
exactly when and how and over what timeframe they actually go about 
pulling apart this unjust don't ask, don't tell policy.

It will be a close vote today. It would be a shame if we don't get 
the 60 votes. If Members are against don't ask, don't tell being 
repealed, vote against it when the amendment comes up. Submit an 
amendment to strike it. But don't stop the whole bill which is so 
important to our military. If for some reason we don't get the 60 votes 
today, Senator Reid has made clear we are coming back, and we will do 
this in November or December. We have to pass this bill for all the 
reasons I have stated, for our military effectiveness when our troops 
are in combat. There will come a day before the end of this year when 
there will be a motion to strike the repeal of don't ask, don't tell. I 
don't think opponents of don't ask, don't tell have the votes to 
accomplish that. When that day comes, we will support our military and 
America's best values by ending this nonsensical, unfair policy.

In America, we judge people by whether they can get the job done, not 
by any quality about them personally. I think we will get this job done 
before the end of this year. I hope we can do it beginning this 
afternoon. But if we don't, we will come back.

I thank Senator Levin for his extraordinary leadership.

I yield the floor.
