# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `36c23d41cf5a777b0d9b487c3938ec6c`
`Mr. GRIJALVA — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I am here today to support the 
resolution.

Madam Speaker, I won't spend a lot of time assessing the blame and 
the responsibility for the quagmire that our Nation finds itself in in 
Iraq, but I do find it curious during this debate that the opponents of 
this resolution want us to believe that the history of the Iraq war 
begins today, that it has no past, that it has no consequences, just a 
doubtful future. This head-in-the-sand attitude, while politically 
expedient, denies reality and truth.

Rest assured that history will not be kind to the decisionmakers and 
the decider of this war, nor will it be kind to a Congress that looked 
the other way.

The resolution before us today is a first tentative step toward the 
removal of our troops from Iraq. The escalation proposed is another 
desperate act opposed by the American people and former military 
leaders.

The resolution does not demoralize our troops nor embolden the 
insurgents. To the contrary, this resolution offers hope to our troops 
that an end is in sight and that their elected representatives in this 
House are not passing on their authority regarding the most important 
issue confronting our Nation today.

I personally know families whose loved ones have been lost, badly 
injured or profoundly intangibly affected by this war. Our commitment 
should be to those families and veterans who need our full measure of 
support. Our gratitude should be measured in real resources for 
veterans, and not empty platitudes and political rhetoric expounded to 
justify an irreparable failure in Iraq.



The focus of this debate is not centered on our soldiers who are 
nobly doing their duty and following their orders. It is directed at 
those who set policy and who have produced a war without end, with no 
plan of success or exit, with no international strategy, who now turn 
to a desperate and doomed escalation that only reinforces the failure 
and the desperation of those policymakers.

Rest assured that the civil war in Iraq will not end with the influx 
of more American troops. I do believe this resolution should have 
teeth. We must send a message that binds all of us to real action, an 
unflinching message of opposition to the escalation and a message of 
support for our troops. Today marks a step in that direction.

And I wonder, how many ways can the American people tell this 
Congress to act to prevent more loss of our blood and treasure in the 
war in Iraq? Weren't the elections that just happened a strong message? 
Isn't the loss of confidence by the public in their elected officials a 
strong message? Isn't the sacrifice and valor of our men and women 
fighting this war deserving of the respect of this government? Don't we 
have a duty to those men and women to protect them, reunite them with 
their families immediately, and, above all, share the truth with them, 
that the question is no longer if we get out of Iraq, it's how and 
when.

The answer to that question for me and many other families is, the 
sooner the better. I could stand here and read poll after poll that 
talks about the public's overwhelming opposition to this war and even 
more overwhelming opposition to this escalation. But as I think about 
it, the most important poll for those of us who serve in Congress needs 
to be our conscience. The resolution before us is simple and direct. It 
speaks in a very clear way to the frustration we all feel about this 
misadventure in Iraq. And I said I would not belabor the question of 
who to blame, but it is important to address the obvious.

Remember weapons of mass destruction? None found.

Remember the links between Iraq and the attack on 9/11? It didn't 
exist.

All the misspent funds in Iraq, misappropriated dollars. That was 
ignored by the administration.

''Mission Accomplished.'' What a premature political hype that was.

And a strategy for Iraq. It doesn't exist.

Funds for education, health care, our cities and towns, investments 
in our people here in this country, that has all been spent in Iraq.

The litany of failures and untruths goes on and on. The lack of 
leadership by this administration requires, no, I think it demands that 
this Congress assert its constitutional duty to check and balance this 
administration by beginning with the important step of passing this 
resolution.