# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `36c541e6adabcbc4bfc35fc08b0586f1`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak on the resolution before 
the House. I want to commend the chairman for his strong efforts 
particularly on the bill as we adopted it in the House in July. The 
bill before us today had to satisfy other parties and is, in my view, a 
lesser product for it.

The fundamental question this legislation attempts to answer is: How 
can we best ensure the full cooperation of the Government and the 
people of Pakistan in our struggle against al Qaeda, the Taliban, and 
other sources of violence, terror, and regional instability? In the 
text authored by Chairman Berman, the answer to this question was to 
propose a long-term partnership, one in which both sides had both 
interests and responsibilities, a partnership of equals who were 
expected to constantly and appropriately judge whether or not the 
relationship was succeeding.

The compromise bill before us today, however, is not a blueprint for 
a partnership; it is a recipe for disappointment followed by 
disillusionment.

Pakistan is too big and too complex to be a proper subject for the 
Senate's preferred Pygmalion-like approach. Even if Pakistanis sought 
such a relationship, which they very definitely do not, Pakistan is 
simply beyond our shaping.

Pakistan's interests and our own are not very closely aligned. We see 
India as a major ally. They see India as unalterably rapacious and 
inherently dangerous. We see the Afghan Taliban as a wicked, 
oppressive, and violent group intent on returning Afghanistan to 
primitive theocratic darkness. They see it as a useful insurance 
policy. We see Pakistan's ongoing relationship with radical Islamic 
terrorist groups as utterly illegitimate. They see these groups as both 
fundamentally just and as essential leverage. They see it as an 
unwarranted foreign imposition and potentially a violation of their 
rights. And the list of contradictions could go on across a range of 
subjects from madrassas to arms sales, from state enterprise corruption 
to feudal land reforms.

Setting aside the differences we have with the Government of 
Pakistan, I think we should all be very circumspect about the ability 
of our own government to carefully spend $1.5 billion a year in 
Pakistan. The history of our assistance programs with Pakistan does not 
inspire confidence in either the rectitude of our partners or our own 
ability to spend the taxpayers' money effectively.

The response to such concerns is predictable: Shall we do nothing? 
No, of course not. Pakistan is a country we can ignore only at our own 
peril. Only a fool could pretend that what happens there is not and 
will not become our concern. This bad neighborhood will definitely come 
to visit us if we choose not to visit it.

But our success will depend chiefly on reforms taken in Pakistan by 
Pakistanis. I see little in the bill to provide any assurance that such 
changes are on the way. I fear again we are choosing to be Pakistan's 
patron rather than its partner. In the end, Pakistan will absorb what 
we offer and remain the same Pakistan, and, worst of all, they will 
claim once again that we have failed them.

But we have no choice but to pass this bill.