---
---

# CREATING AMERICAN JOBS AND ENDING OFFSHORING ACT OF 2010--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `36c73c3e6f1689d8f0927c9f1fbe7336`
`Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts — 27 September 2010`

---


Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. Mr. President, I am a little under the 
weather, so if my voice fades in and out, I will do my best to muscle 
through it. It has been a tough three against one in a battle like I 
will have to do for the next half hour.

I enjoyed the signs. I didn't bring one. Maybe I can borrow that sign 
because I agree, it should be made in America. How are we going to do 
that when we make America uncompetitive, when we don't give America the 
tools and the resources businesses need to be competitive worldwide? 
This is not a U.S. economy solely where we just sell to Americans; we 
have to sell and compete worldwide.

I know I have said this before, but I am the new guy. I am the second 
newest guy here now. What I have observed is that there is plenty of 
blame to go around. We talk about President Clinton and everything 
wonderful he did. Yes, he did some great things, but he did it with a 
Republican Congress and their help as well. It was a bipartisan effort 
to solve problems. Unless I am mistaken, the majority party has been in 
the majority for the last 5 years, with the Presidency for almost 2 
years. You don't hear about the problems we have had since that 
happened. I say there is plenty of blame to go around. Quite frankly, 
the rhetoric is white-hot. We should try to solve problems instead of 
pointing fingers at each other and saying that back then this happened 
or back then that happened and we should do it this way or that way. We 
have to focus on today, what is happening today.

Right now, we are not competitive. To think this effort to so-called 
close a corporate loophole is going to help--have you actually gone out 
to businesses and asked: Will this help you? Are you in favor of this?

It doesn't work unless we also lower the corporate tax rates to make 
them competitive worldwide; otherwise, if we keep the corporate tax 
rate the second highest in the world, we are just


going to chase huge amounts of jobs overseas. We are going to 
exacerbate the problem we are experiencing now.

I often wonder, why does it take the Chinese less than a year to 
build, say, a 500,000-square-foot building? I have experiences with 
shopping malls, just to put on an addition, and it takes years, the 
siting, the permitting, the regulation at the local level, the 
harassment businesses get. If you are a business or a corporation, the 
mentality is that you are evil, that you are not good. We should be 
embracing businesses for employing. What is a corporation? Last I 
heard, it is a group of individuals forming together to take advantage 
of protections and opportunities to expand and be competitive globally. 
Since when did being a corporation become a bad name in Washington? Am 
I missing something? How do you think we are going to get out of this 
economic mess? It is not going to be by hammering corporations and 
small mom-and-pop businesses and raising taxes in the middle of a 2-
year recession. Are you kidding me? It makes no sense. High taxation, 
overregulation, reregulation, siting, permitting--take the municipal 
laws and regulations, couple them with State laws and regulations and 
Federal laws and regulations, then throw in the EPA just for the heck 
of it, or any other agency--the National Labor Relations Board; just 
pick an agency--then throw in the taxation levels at the city and town 
levels, State levels, the Federal level. Why do you get out of bed to 
turn on the lights? Are you kidding me? What is the incentive for 
people to actually keep jobs in the United States of America?

In Massachusetts, the NFIB and AIM, Associate Industries of 
Massachusetts, have deemed Massachusetts the worst business climate in 
decades. That feeling is around the country. When I got elected, they 
sent a very powerful message. They were tired of business as usual in 
Washington, the disconnect when we deal with taxes and regulation and 
debt and spending. You don't seem to have learned the lesson.

We are going to do something right now where we are going to offer a 
little piece of candy by offering a potential tax break for closing a 
corporate loophole. The majority party is apparently protecting Main 
Street. Isn't that nice. Apparently, I, the new guy here, am protecting 
Wall Street, apparently, and big corporations. I didn't know that. I 
thought I was fighting for the people of Massachusetts to get this body 
working together to solve real problems.

Enough of the rhetoric. Enough of the blame. Enough of the posturing 
for the upcoming November elections. How about just solving problems? 
How about getting our country moving again and get us competing 
globally?

We just can't wave a magic wand and all of a sudden the tax policy in 
the United States is competitive with the world. If we do this, if we 
move this forward, we will be in deep, deep trouble, especially if we 
don't mirror it with a corporate tax rate reduction to counter the 
moves that will absolutely happen almost overnight.

If you think that by doing this, jobs are going to come flooding 
back--if you fire a foreign worker and hire a U.S. worker, you get a 
tax credit. Oh, that will really work. How about if you do this, you 
get a payroll tax reduction. Correct me if I am wrong, I made that 
offer about 3 months ago, a payroll tax reduction paid for by 
unallocated stimulus dollars. I got four votes.

Want to talk about jolting the economy and giving money to people? 
Want to talk about helping corporations and businesses stay 
competitive? How about making the R&D tax credits permanent. How about 
fixing that 1099 mess? How about accelerated deappreciation for small 
and medium-size businesses to give them incentives to create jobs? Do 
you know how much money is on the sidelines? I have done my homework. 
In this position, I have to be prepared or else. Do you know how much 
money is actually on the sidelines?

Corporations and businesses are saying: You know what, the health 
care bill, that is going to cost me about $440 million.

One corporation in Massachusetts, one of the biggest employers, has 
the market on a device that saves people's lives; hires, I guess, about 
25,000 people throughout the world. If we do this, if we close this 
loophole, so-called, those jobs that were in Massachusetts in the 
United States are going. So let me see, it costs them $200 million 
because they are a medical device company. Then with the implementation 
of the health care bill, that is another $240 million. So that is $440 
million. So where does that come from? R&D, employees, expansion? Why 
would they hire or even talk about hiring workers? Why?

That is just one effort, one thing that has been passed by this 
Congress and this administration to crush jobs. It crushes 
Massachusetts' businesses and jobs. We already had 98 percent of our 
people insured. Now we are getting lesser coverage, potentially longer 
lines, $/1/2/ trillion in Medicare cuts. Give me a break. There is no 
end in sight. The true numbers are coming out.

So why would a corporation or a mom-and-pop business or anybody who 
is even thinking of starting a business make that effort? Why would 
they even bother to open the door? There is the high cost of doing 
business, transportation costs, energy costs. They are concerned about 
cap and trade. They are concerned about maybe card check. They are 
concerned about a whole host of things that are keeping them on the 
sidelines. To take this and throw this in, forget about it.

The one thing I didn't hear and I thought I would was that Main 
Street--you know, you guys in the majority party, you are protecting 
Main Street. I didn't hear that I am protecting corporate America. I 
hear it in everything else. It is usually Wall Street. Up until this 
year, I have never been on Wall Street. I think I walked through it 
once. I am fighting for the people of this country, the people of my 
State, to get us financially viable, to get us to solve problems.

Sometimes I am the 41st Senator. I am. When it comes to debt and 
spending and taxation, I am going to be the guy who is going to hold it 
up to make sure we don't go further in debt. When I got here, $1.95 
trillion was the national debt. It is over $13.2 trillion now, in 7 
months.

I have been blessed. I am so honored to be here. You can't even 
imagine my life. I am the most honored guy to be here in this Chamber. 
I have been honored to visit the troops in Afghanistan. I went to 
Pakistan, Dubai, Israel, Jordan in that 7-month period. The thing that 
was fascinating to me was, from the kings and queens and prime 
ministers and leaders all over those regions, all they talked about was 
jobs. That is all they talked about: jobs so al-Qaida would not 
infiltrate their youth, to get produce to market, to secure the region 
so we can leave--jobs, jobs, jobs.

I am sorry, Mr. President. If I faint, will you save me? Thank you. I 
felt it was that important to come and make my point that I have been 
here about 7 months, and we have spent 10 days talking about jobs. Am I 
on a different planet or something? We should be talking about jobs 
every single day we are in session. We have spent 4 days, 3 or 4 days 
talking about the DISCLOSE Act. Give me a break. Do you think the 15 
million, give or take, unemployed people throughout the country are 
concerned about the political content of political ads in the middle of 
an election season to give one party a tactical advantage or are they 
concerned about jobs? I know the people I speak to in Massachusetts and 
throughout the country want to talk about jobs.

How can we do it immediately? We can talk about the R&D tax credit 
and making that permanent. That 1099 bill--there is no reason we can't 
take that separately and put it forth in a bipartisan manner, clean up-
and-down vote to protect the small businesses that are getting crushed 
through paperwork. There is no reason we should not be able to fix 
that. If we can't do that, we are in deep trouble. Accelerated 
depreciation, an across-the-board payroll tax reduction, a freeze on 
Federal hires, a freeze on Federal pay increases--I know it is not 
popular, but we have to look at these things. We have to look at 
entitlements. We have to collect moneys owed to us from contractors 
whom we overpaid or through fraud and abuse. Common sense, folks.

The thing I kind of get sad about--I know it wasn't popular in some 
circles for me to work on the financial reform bill. I got a lot of 
heat. But I looked at it, and I said: That doesn't include Fannie or 
Freddie. I know that. Do we


do nothing? We do nothing, right? We don't fix the regulations that 
have potentially been outdated for 50 years? We don't prohibit the 
closing of an entire industry overnight? We allow dentists and doctors 
and people who are going to finance the fillings in your teeth to be 
all encompassed in this thing? We are going to allow that? I am not 
going to allow it. I knew they had the votes anyway, but I took the 
time to work it through. I will tell you what. Since I have been here, 
that is the most proud I have been to work across the aisle with people 
for what we did--11 weeks, I think, working with every thinker and 
leader in this country when it dealt with financial issues.

I have to admit, I learned a lot, sleeping 5 hours a day maybe, slept 
in my office trying to figure it out and do it right. I was the most 
proud to work on that bill in a bipartisan manner. I am part of 
history. Is it the best bill? No. Is it going to get better? I hope so. 
Can we fix it after November? I hope so. Did we close TARP? Yes. Did we 
stop too big to fail? Yes. Did we stop the bank tax? Yes. Did we do a 
lot of things people are concerned about? Yes. Did we do some things 
wrong? Yes. But--do you know what--ever since we got back after July it 
is as though we do not talk anymore. We are just filing bills with no 
hope of them passing.


The Defense authorization bill--give me a break. I remember being in 
committee on the Defense authorization bill. I was sitting there in the 
Armed Services Committee, all eager, ready to go, being someone who was 
in the military. ''Gosh, I am going to make a difference. I am going to 
make a difference, everybody.'' You get there, and it was an 
invigorating process. We worked our tails off. The chairman said: ''You 
know, Scott, the things you are concerned about that affect 
Massachusetts and the New England area, we will do it on the floor.'' 
''Oh, good.''

I find out when it gets to the floor the amendment tree is filled. We 
were offered 20 amendments. That is not good enough. The process is 
about just scoring points, political points for November. I think the 
American people are fed up. They are tired of the rhetoric. They are 
tired of the finger pointing. They are looking for leadership. They are 
looking for somebody to say: Do you know what? Sometimes I am going to 
be the 41st Senator, but other times when it comes to getting this 
country moving, I am going to be the 60th Senator. I do not care if I 
get reelected or not, but while I am here, I am going to fight every 
single day to get this country moving again because we are in deep 
trouble, folks. And if you do not recognize it, by doing this piece of 
legislation--this is helpful? It is not helpful on its own. They say: 
Well, it is the first step.

Do not come to me with a first step. Come to me with a real plan, one 
that is comprehensive and can actually work and that can get some full 
support from your own party. Tell me you have every member of your 
party and I will say you are not being truthful. And then try to blame 
us as the party of no. With all due respect, since I have been here 
that has changed. But do you know how many times the majority party has 
voted with me? Zero. OK. So the party of no thing, I will tell you 
what, it is getting a little old--from the administration and the 
majority party, a little old. The numbers do not speak for themselves 
on that one.

I do not want to seem like a downer, Mr. President, because you are a 
good man. I respect you greatly, and I respect the people who spoke 
prior to me. Being here and being in this historic Chamber--are you 
kidding me? To be part of this process is like the greatest honor in 
the world. Aside from my marriage and the birth of my kids, this is it. 
And to think we are wasting this amazing opportunity, this amazing 
opportunity to get our country competitive again and to get us firing 
on all cylinders.

You cannot tell me we cannot find one thing to agree on. The leaders 
cannot get together and find one thing? Take the Energy bill. You are 
telling me we cannot do one thing, take the easiest thing everybody 
agrees on and do one thing, make it clean and get it through, and send 
it over to the House and make sure it comes clean and not filled with a 
substitution bill and comes back clean? Can we do one thing--just one? 
Am I the only one who believes this?

I get that the bill on the floor tonight is important to the majority 
party, and I respect that. I do. I get it. And pollsters, if you listen 
to them--which I tend to not--when they talk about companies that ship 
jobs overseas, I get that too. I understand that is bad. But it is what 
is in play now. If we change this one thing and not change and reduce 
the corporate tax rate to make them have an incentive to staying, it is 
not going to work.

I believe without a doubt this bill will cause real harm to the 
economy, and that job creators are united in their opposition to this 
legislation. I guess it is bad to make money in America, to pay the 
bills. I am in favor of corporations making money. I am in favor of the 
employees making money. I am in favor of free trade and free 
enterprise. I am also in favor of government regulation. It has its 
place. But the government needs to know when to get out of the way too 
and to stop overregulating. There is a role for government, absolutely. 
But government needs to know when to get out of the way, to let free 
enterprise, free market--you cannot regulate every single thing. You 
cannot do it.

I have gone around. I have tried to do my research. As I said, I have 
to. The major employers in Massachusetts whom I have talked to--and we 
have a tremendous amount, thank goodness. They are not hiring, but they 
are there. They are not going to expand because of health care and 
regulation and taxation and the uncertainty of the business world.

I remember I read it or I heard it, Senator Baucus, chairman of the 
Finance Committee, said he was worried that this bill would put the 
United States at a ''competitive disadvantage.'' Those words are his, 
not mine. This bill puts the United States at a ''competitive 
disadvantage.'' I believe that in my heart. Again, echoing his words, 
this bill will make American multinational companies less competitive. 
So it is not just Republican Senators. My colleague, whom I have great 
respect for on the other side of the aisle, is questioning also the 
wisdom of this legislation.

Having the second highest corporate tax rate--I notice my colleagues 
who spoke earlier said--well, I do not want to characterize how they 
speak. But the companies that are going overseas, yes, they are taking 
advantage of lower tax rates. Absolutely. But you would believe, in 
listening to them, that there are also lower labor costs as well. Yes, 
in some countries that is absolutely true. But in places such as 
Belgium and Ireland, I respectfully disagree. Companies are doing this 
to get a good solid workforce, paying good wages, but taking advantage 
of the 11-percent, 12-percent corporate tax rate versus a 35-percent 
corporate tax rate.

But I have to take exception to the statement that everybody is going 
overseas to take advantage of the tax rates.

Well, yes, this is a global economy. We are fighting a battle here. 
And when China can do the things they are doing and basically provide--
well, let's step back. I remember growing up, and you would look at 
space exploration, roads and bridges, and teachers, and all that, R&D 
tax credit money, all that great stuff we would use to lure businesses 
from other parts of the world here. Do you know where that is now? It 
is all debt service to China. So when I see and when I speak to the 
companies back home in Massachusetts, and they say: We need A, B, C, 
and D, I am like, we have no money. It is all in debt service to China 
right now. I would love to give it to you.

So how do we get our financial situation moving forward? We are not 
going to do it by having the tax cuts expire. We need to address the 
tax extenders. We cannot play games and push it off and push it off. 
How about the death tax? Oh, my God, how many billionaires have died 
and we have not gotten a penny? Good for them. One over on the 
government. But is it good for the Federal Government to not get a 
piece? I am all for people getting money, but we have not even 
addressed the death tax.

I remember in my first caucus, when I went in, we were talking about 
it, and in the second caucus, the third caucus, the fourth caucus, and 
on and on. It is time to kind of come together to solve some real 
problems so tax planners and


families can kind of get their planning done. It is all about 
uncertainty. The reason we are in part of this mess is because of the 
financial uncertainty associated with the continued overregulation, the 
fear of more taxation, the fear of governmental interference, and the 
things we are trying to do. You can go on and on and on.

So as I said, what is the point? Why even bother getting out of bed?

Mr. President, may I ask, how much time do I have?