# IRAQ
## `36cc0097ab92adf01306c8dd83762276`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. This winter, while President Bush asked for billions 
more for security for the streets of Baghdad, he says we cannot afford 
to bring security to the streets of our own hometowns. The Senate 
proposed spending $55 million, in part to hire police officers 
specially trained to stop child sexual predators. We have seen the 
fantastic growth of the Internet--and that is great. It brings many 
good things with it. But it also brings challenges. The President did 
not just force funding to stop child sexual predators to be cut in 
half, he sliced it to less than a third of what it was. We could have 
made up the difference and fully funded the program to stop child 
sexual predators with what it costs to be in Iraq for just about 2/1/2/ 
hours.

Being able to successfully have the law enforcement capability to 
pursue child sex predators versus 2/1/2/ hours in Iraq. Where are all 
the family values we hear talked about so often? What ever happened to 
recognizing the importance of our children, who are truly our greatest 
asset, but also our most vulnerable asset? What are our values? What 
are our priorities?

There are too many provisions in this big funding bill that are 
absolutely essential, too many to name here. But the victims of the 
cuts that the President and his Republican allies have called for, the 
millions of Americans waiting for clean power that will not be 
produced, the cancer patients who are waiting for research that will 
not be allowed to happen, the communities trying to stop child sexual 
predators who are waiting for police officers who will not be hired: 
These people are also too many to name.

In that sense, even beyond the lives lost overseas, the cost of the 
war in Iraq has been incalculable. If there is one thing we must all 
acknowledge right now, it is this: The war in Iraq is not free, it is 
not without consequences here at home, and no one should be pretending 
that this war is free.

The Bush administration likes to parrot the line that we are fighting 
them over there so we do not have to fight them here. But Americans 
have figured out what they mean, and what they mean is: We are spending 
all our money over there so, by the way, we did not have it to spend 
here.

Above all, this is a question of values. Do we value our children, 
and value protecting them? Do we value our schools and the education we 
want our children to have so they can continue to make America the 
global competitive leader? Do we value the men and women who wear the 
uniform, not just by marching in a parade on Memorial Day or going to a 
Veterans Day service, which we should, but by taking care of their 
health care and their disabilities and taking care of their survivors, 
for those who commit the ultimate sacrifice, as a grateful nation truly 
does? Or will we neglect those and other priorities such as the health 
care of our children and of our families?

The Democratic budget bill set out for our values a clear and serious 
test. We cannot allow the budget to have a heart as cold as the ice on 
our front steps. We cannot let our financial stability melt away, and 
we cannot continue to let more of our money burn up in a war that has 
taken so much from so many for so long.

At year's end, we speak of renewal, we return to our families and 
witness a rebirth of hope. This season is about the best in each and 
every one of us. This season, decisions we make are going to test how 
we operate as a government and test what we stand for as a nation. 
There is no better time than now to let the best in American values 
guide our way: generosity, equality of opportunity, cooperation with 
one another, turning to each other instead of against each other.

We have the power to end unnecessary suffering and waste, and the 
chance to approach these tasks with a fresh sense of urgency that they 
require. As we rest and dream in the company of those we love, let us 
remember that December is the darkest


time of the year, but it is also the turning point when the sun begins 
to shine more and more each day.

Together we offer our wish, our hope, and our prayers that the dreams 
that have carried us so far of peace on Earth, good will toward all may 
yet still come true.
















 Thanking Staff


Before I yield the floor, I would like to take the opportunity to 
acknowledge the individuals in my now second year here in the Senate 
whom I have seen work incredibly hard, but very rarely get 
acknowledged, all of those who help us as we preside: the clerks, who 
keep all of the documentation that comes before the Senate moving; the 
Parliamentarians, who try to keep us in some degree of order as we move 
along the way; the party secretaries and their staffs, who do such a 
great job on informing us as to what is happening and to try to keep 
somewhat of a schedule in terms of our lives here in the Senate; to 
those in the cloakroom who also produce that service; to the pages who 
have done a great job.

It was a privilege to have the opportunity to talk to so many of 
them. I think they are going to carry their experiences here with them 
a lifetime, and I am sure that maybe we will see some of them in this 
Chamber in the future.

To all of those who make this institution the greatest democratic 
institution in the world operate the way it successfully operates, my 
deepest thanks, my best for the holiday season.

With that, I yield the floor.
