# GOVERNMENT FUNDING TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2008
## `36d1da26eb8b6ca5bc33fe77089685c2`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in 
support of this very important commonsense legislation, the Government 
Funding Transparency Act 2008. I would like to thank, of course, 
Chairman Towns for his work on the subcommittee, Chairman Waxman for 
his early and active support on this legislation, and especially to the 
ranking member, former chairman, Mr. Davis, who we were able to work 
directly together with over the past days and weeks to make this, as he 
states, I think a much stronger bill and one that answers many of the 
concerns that were raised by Mr. Davis, his office, and members of the 
minority of the committee.

Mr. Speaker, as described, the Government Funding Transparency Act 
will require that companies who receive more than 80 percent of their 
income in annual gross revenue from the Federal Government and more 
than $25 million worth of Federal work in any given fiscal year 
disclose the salaries of their most highly compensated employees.

This disclosure would be, as Representative Davis noted, posted on an 
existing OMB Web site, www.USAspending.gov, which was authorized as 
part of the Federal Funding, Accountability, and Transparency Act, a 
bipartisan measure passed by the 109th Congress.

As pointed out in a recent GAO report, buying services accounted for 
60 percent of the total 2006 procurement dollars. And expenditures on 
security services, due to our engagement in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, have forced those service expenditures to increase 
substantially.

In addition, according to that same Web site, we have seen an 
increasing number of contracts that weren't competed at all. In fact, 
in 2000, the amount of contracts not competed was $48 billion, just 
north of there; and in 2007, 7 years later, that number had ballooned 
to $112 billion.

And yet with such a substantial increase in government funding going 
to companies through no-bid processes, these companies are virtually 
subsidiaries of the United States government taking in 80 to 90, 
perhaps 100 percent of their revenues from U.S. taxpayers. We don't 
know enough about these tax companies. We don't know their management 
practices, their financial statements, or their employment policies. 
They are often highly and tightly held secrets not subject to public 
scrutiny.

So it is not surprising, as Chairman Waxman mentioned in October 2007 
when the full Oversight and Government Reform Committee brought the CEO 
of Blackwater before us, one of the largest government contractors, 
taking in nearly 90 percent of their revenue contracts from Federal 
contracts, the CEO of that company, Eric Prince, refused to disclose to 
Congress the amount of profit that company makes or the amount of 
salary that he took in; yet despite the fact that 90 percent of that 
salary, 90 percent of the company's revenues, come from the United 
States' taxpayers.

It's our money. We deserve to know how it's being used. Regardless of 
your position on this war or any other war, we deserve to know whether 
or not public funds are being used to unjustly enrich government 
contractors.

But this principle, as Representative Davis and others pointed out, 
shouldn't just be applied to these types of private security or service 
contracts. It should be required of all entities that make the vast 
amount of their earnings, over 80 percent, from U.S. taxpayer dollars. 
And I would especially like to thank Representative Davis and 
Representative Foxx for their advocacy for this principle.

Importantly, it's important to note that this bill will actually only 
affect a limited number of companies, only those entities that subsist 
almost entirely on Federal money and only those that are not publicly 
traded, since public companies who do the lion's share, frankly, of 
Federal contracting, already disclose executive compensation 
information.

Mr. Speaker, profit is clearly a powerful motive, and this 
legislation does nothing to remove this incentive from our Federal 
contracting structure. But when it comes to private companies like 
Blackwater and others that would not exist if it wasn't for United 
States taxpayer dollars, the taxpayers and this Congress should have 
the information necessary to decide whether we've gone too far in 
padding the personal pockets of those who feed at the government 
trough.

As the late Supreme Court Justice Brandeis said, sunlight is the best 
disinfectant. I believe this legislation will apply a little bit more 
sunlight to the Federal funding process.

Again, I thank the chairman and the ranking member for their 
assistance on this legislation. And I know that this body will agree 
that as stewards of the people's treasure, we must do everything in our 
power to make sure it's being spent justly and responsibly. Again, I 
thank the chairman.