---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `36d2886f36b652c6426f18cf756f86e4`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Speaker, given the many challenges faced by our 
Nation--and our military--I'm pleased that the House moved the Defense 
Appropriations Conference Report so quickly.

Chairman Murtha is doing some very heavy lifting for the Nation, and 
I thank him for his work as well.

This bill contains a significant investment for south Texas, which 
contributes notably to the Nation's military readiness.

As the House point man on readiness matters in our military, I have 
been deeply concerned that the Iraq conflict has eroded the


readiness of the U.S. Armed Forces, perhaps for a generation.

At a time when we need to be more ready than before, this is a 
tremendous cause for alarm, as we are prosecuting two separate wars.

Today's bill addresses many of our current needs associated with:

A pay raise for the men and women who wear the uniform of the United 
States,

Beefing up today's ground forces--our boots on the ground overseas,

Addressing the many failings of this administration and the last 
Congress in ensuring our military is ready for any challenge we need to 
meet, such as finally providing oversight of contractors in Iraq and 
Afghanistan,

Equipping our National Guard to help offset some of the equipment 
lost to active duty needs in Iraq, and

Providing assistance for the men and women who are hospitalized at 
Walter Reed Army Medical Center, which was the center of tremendous 
shortcomings earlier this year.

I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania for his hard work on the 
bill--as well as the rest of the leadership in the House--for their 
deep and abiding respect of the U.S. Armed Forces and the unique 
challenges they face at this moment in time.

I urge my colleagues to support the bill.