---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `36d2048362b6c05ff0daa2cd3554be5b`
`Mr. DODD — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to discuss a 
very important amendment that was adopted by the Senate. This 
amendment, which I was proud to cosponsor, expresses the sense of the 
Senate that the joint surveillance target attack radar system, known as 
Joint STARS, is one of the most effective and heavily tasked 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets in our Air Force. 
These aircraft provide critical imagery of tens of thousands of square 
miles to our troops every day, helping to protect the lives of our 
troops who are protecting our country so bravely overseas.

The Joint STARS fleet, although only 17 aircraft in size, has 
demonstrated immeasurable success in Iraq and Afghanistan. So far, they 
have flown over 55,000 combat hours, tracking the location and movement 
of enemy troops and discovering hundreds of improvised explosive 
devices. These aircraft consistently provide our troops on the ground 
with critical intelligence that helps them prepare for their missions 
in enemy territory.

The Joint STARS fleet has been protecting our troops for decades, and 
with that service has incurred expected wear and tear. With no aircraft 
being designed to replace them, it is absolutely critical that we 
provide the military with the funds they need to keep up with their 
heavy deployment cycles. These aircraft are in dire need


of new engines, which are now more than 40 years old. Failure to do so 
will cost the taxpayer billions of dollars in maintenance and operating 
costs. According to Air Force estimates, however, replacing the engines 
will pay for itself within 8 years. This is the only sensible solution.

Workers in Norwalk, CT, have been working on the radar for this 
aircraft for years. This unique technology provides overall images of 
the battle space, ensuring our troops receive the most complete and 
accurate intelligence possible, from camouflaged insurgent camps and 
enemy vehicles to incoming cruise missiles. It is an incredible product 
which lends itself to some of the most industrious and dedicated 
workers in the field. There are hundreds of workers across the country 
like those in Norwalk that labor day in and day out to ensure that the 
Joint STARS fleet is able to continue to protect our brave men and 
women in uniform.

Our troops cannot afford a lapse in the critical surveillance 
capability provided by our Joint STARS fleet. Our warfighters depend on 
this cutting edge technology every day, and we must ensure that we do 
not deny our troops the intelligence they need to successfully and 
safely execute their missions overseas.