---
---

# None
## `36ede211d2f37187944ebfb2da3c20f5`
`Mr. BROWN — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Madam President, for months and months almost every 
newspaper in the country has been filled with stories of the tremendous 
toll the housing crisis has taken on communities across our Nation. My 
State set an unenviable record for foreclosures last year--more than 
83,000, according to Ohio's Supreme Court. That is more than 200 every 
day of the week--Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday, and Sunday. Every week 1,500 families lose their homes. 
Almost 4 percent of all home loans in Ohio are in foreclosure, the 
highest rate in the Nation. The end is nowhere in sight.

In Ohio, there are another 120,000 home loans that are delinquent. 
Nationally, one rating agency is now predicting a 50-percent default 
rate for subprime loans made in the fourth quarter of 2006, many of 
which will reset in the fourth quarter of this year. Think about that. 
One of every two subprime loans made in the fall of 2006 will go bad. 
That is not lending, that is gambling with someone else's home.

In the face of this crisis, the Bush administration has largely taken 
the view that prosperity is around the corner; the Government need not 
do anything; voluntary efforts and market forces will be enough. Last 
summer and earlier in the year, the Bush administration was still 
arguing that the problem was contained. So long as the problem was 
contained to places such as Ohio and Michigan, to Nevada and 
California, the administration was content to do almost nothing. But 
what a difference an address makes. When the problems moved from 
America's Main Streets to Wall Street, the administration sprung into 
action. In a single weekend, the executive branch jumped to rescue the 
investment bank Bear Sterns from bankruptcy. If the Government can leap 
into action to prevent the bankruptcy of a single bank, how can we turn 
our backs on the tens of


thousands of Ohio families and the millions of American families who 
need our help?

Congress must act in the face of this crisis. Majority Leader Reid 
tried a month ago to bring legislation before the Senate that would 
take several steps to help homeowners faced with foreclosures in the 
communities in which they live. We are trying again today. We seem to 
be able to afford to spend $3 billion in 1 week, every week, 52 weeks a 
year, in Iraq, but the President hasn't been able to find $4 billion in 
1 year to help the towns and cities across the country that are being 
gutted by foreclosures. We are able, it seems, from Chairman Bernanke, 
to spend $30 billion buying a basket of mortgages from Bear Sterns that 
JPMorgan wouldn't touch with a 10-foot pole. Why can't we help cities 
rebuild?

The needs of communities are critical because this crisis has an 
impact far beyond just the people who lose their homes, as big as those 
numbers might be. Whenever a home goes into foreclosure, the value of 
neighboring properties is reduced. In many areas, local vandals move in 
quickly to strip the copper pipe and the aluminum siding from a home. 
Crime goes up just when property tax revenues in these cities are 
plunging and the resources of a city and town are stretched to the 
limit.

Senator Reid's bill would include some $4 billion in funding for the 
Community Development Block Grant Program, so communities that have 
been the hardest hit could renovate or rebuild or even in some cases 
raze these properties.

The bill would provide an additional $10 billion to housing finance 
agencies to be used to refinance mortgages, to help first-time home 
buyers, and to create more multifamily rental housing.

The majority leader's legislation would also provide $200 million on 
supporting the efforts of nonprofit agencies across the country to 
counsel homeowners on how to work with a lender to stave off 
foreclosure.

We have great neighborhood counseling organizations in Columbus and 
in Toledo and in Dayton and in Cincinnati and all over my State.

This is no easy task. Once upon a time, you took out a loan with your 
local bank to buy a home. If I borrowed money from a local bank, the 
banker had just as much interest in my paying down my loan, my staying 
up to date on my loan, he had just as much interest as I did in making 
sure I paid my mortgage. You knew the people at the bank. They knew 
you. You had that kind of relationship.

Today, especially for subprime loans, that is seldom the case. So 
help in navigating the mortgage maze is essential. That is why those 
neighborhood counseling organizations are so important.

The majority leader's bill would also improve disclosure of the terms 
of a mortgage. In the last year--the last 14, 15 months since I came to 
the Senate--I have held about 95 roundtables in 60 of Ohio's counties 
talking to people about what issues matter to them the most in their 
communities. I heard from one Ohioan after another, from Marietta to 
Lima, from Bryan to Chillicothe, from Zanesville to Youngstown. I have 
heard from one Ohioan after another who never understood the real risks 
and dangers of the mortgages that were sold.

Senator Reid's bill also provides bankruptcy judges the ability to 
modify the mortgage on a primary residence in the same way that a judge 
can today with a vacation home or investment property or even a boat.

We know lenders and their servicers cannot keep up with the flood of 
foreclosures they are facing. Much has been made of the number of loans 
that have been changed as a result of voluntary efforts. I do not 
discount those efforts at all. But tacking late fees and penalties on 
the back end of a loan does not do much to help a family make their 
monthly payment.

One woman who called me reported a loan modification that reduced the 
interest rate on her loan from 11 percent to 10 percent. With the late 
fees and penalties folded in, her monthly payment barely budged.

Modifications like these are simply not going to help. It is 
essential that we permit the bankruptcy courts to serve as their 
backstop.

My Republican colleagues apparently think it is OK for a bankruptcy 
judge to modify the mortgage on a multimillion-dollar vacation home, 
but it is not OK to provide the same relief to a family facing 
bankruptcy in their $100,000 home.

When lenders are only recovering 35 cents on the dollar in my State--
it is a little higher nationally; only 35 cents in my State on the 
dollar--on a foreclosed property, I do not think they have anything to 
fear from an alternative process supervised by the bankruptcy courts 
that may result in avoiding foreclosure.

The bankruptcy provisions are a significant change in our law, to be 
sure. But they are a responsible reaction to some extraordinarily 
irresponsible underwriting.

I understand the importance of protecting contract rights. But think 
for a minute about the contracts that are in question. The vast 
majority of subprime loans went to refinance homes. They were designed 
to do three things--to generate fees, strip out equity, and quickly 
become unaffordable.

Do we really want to take the position that these contracts should be 
beyond the reach of a bankruptcy judge? I think not.

We have much work to do in dealing with this foreclosure issue. Every 
day we delay more than 200 people--more than twice the membership of 
this body--lose their home in my State. They deserve more from us.

I yield the floor.