---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `370c15fbae5717e41524ad9d0e4ccedf`
`Mr. REGULA — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. REGULA. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, like many Americans I am frustrated and dissatisfied 
with the situation in Iraq. I did not take my vote lightly when 
Congress authorized the President to use force. Every day I think about 
the patriotism and sacrifice of our brave men and women who are serving 
courageously in harm's way.

Mistakes and the complexity of events along the way have led us to 
the place we are today. Sectarian violence has increased, and Iraq is 
mired in a civil war, making it difficult for the new government to 
take hold.

While our role in this conflict has become a divisive issue, there is 
no denying the significant consequences Iraq's future will have for 
national and international security and stability.

So I must ask, how do we move forward in a way that honors the 
commitment and tremendous sacrifices our Nation and its troops have 
made? We can do so neither by cutting off funding for the troops nor by 
providing the President with a blank check.

Instead of political posturing, we must insist on a surge in 
diplomacy. I believe we need to follow closely the recommendations made 
by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group to bring about the best possible 
outcome. The Iraq Study Group report states, and I quote:

The United States should immediately launch a new diplomatic 
offensive to build an international consensus for stability in Iraq and 
the region.

This diplomatic effort should include every country that has an 
interest in avoiding a chaotic Iraq, including all of Iraq's neighbors. 
Given the ability of Iran and Syria to influence events


within Iraq, the United States should try to engage them 
constructively.

By doing so, it would help marginalize extremists and terrorists, 
promote U.S. values and interests, and improve America's global image. 
States included within the diplomatic offensives can play a major role 
in reinforcing national reconciliation efforts between Iraq, Iraqi 
Sunnis and Shia. Such reinforcement would contribute substantially to 
legitimatizing of the political process in Iraq.

Iraq's leaders may not be able to come together unless they receive 
the necessary signals and support from abroad. This backing will not 
materialize of its own accord, and it must be encouraged urgently by 
the United States. We should make it clear to the Iraqi leadership that 
the additional troops are solely for the purpose of achieving 
stability, and that this deployment is a precursor to our leading the 
future of this Nation to the Iraqi people. And I would emphasize this 
is the important process.

Troop increases alone will not solve the fundamental cause of 
violence in Iraq if its government is not committed to a national 
reconciliation process.

However, as we lead a surge in diplomacy, and the Iraqi Government 
accelerates its efforts at national reconciliation, the Iraq Study 
Group report makes clear, and I quote, ''The United States should 
significantly increase the number of U.S. military personnel, including 
combat troops, embedded in and supporting Iraqi Army units. As these 
actions proceed, we could begin to move combat forces out of Iraq.''

Denying additional troops, as requested by our military leadership, 
could put our troops that are there at greater risk and delay their 
return to their loved ones. I hear from my constituents who want our 
troops home immediately and from those who want us to remain there so 
we don't have to fight the terrorists on our own soil.

What I do know is that the challenges in Iraq are complex, and the 
consequences of immediate withdrawal would be devastating. The Iraq 
Study Group report goes on to say ''The global standing of the United 
States could be diminished.'' Our Nation has sacrificed far too much to 
allow our credibility and values to be weakened.

I cannot, in good faith, support this nonbinding resolution. We also 
support the troops, and we all want to bring the troops home as quickly 
as possible.

Let us instead urge the President to increase diplomatic efforts and 
to follow the recommendations made by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 
to work on many fronts to solve the challenges in Iraq.