# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3720a1362afbd3d655cc43712266f1e9`
`Mr. DAVIS of Alabama — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I will vote today for a resolution 
that would finally draw the war in Iraq to a close, and that would for 
the first time put conditions of self-determination on the Iraqi 
government that has benefited from our country's generosity. While I 
was not yet in Congress at the time of the original authorization 
debate in 2002, I have concluded that the authorization decision was 
wrong and that too many American lives have been sacrificed for the 
dubious cause of advancing the interests of one side of an Iraqi civil 
war over the other.

It is also my belief that Congress has the unmistakable authority to 
put time limits on the commitment of American forces and to attach 
strings to the manner in which military funds are spent: Congress has 
used this power before in Lebanon, Vietnam, and Somalia, and most 
recently, during the second term of the Clinton Administration, when 
Republican congressional majorities imposed restrictions on the use of 
ground forces and on the duration of the force commitment made during 
the Balkan conflict.

Some of my colleagues who share my opposition to the war have 
suggested that this resolution has the defect of not going far enough 
in that it does not require an immediate withdrawal of American forces. 
I disagree: for the sake of regional stability, any withdrawal should 
be more orderly and more measured than the haphazard way American 
forces were deployed in the first place.

Other anti-war critics argue that a Democratic Congress has a moral 
imperative to take a bolder course, such as repeal of the 2002 
authorization or a pledge to impound funding for additional 
deployments. While I agree that the test of Democratic legislation 
cannot be whether it would attract a Presidential veto (if that is the 
standard, Democrats would be immobilized this next 2 years), it is 
reasonable for the Democratic leadership to pursue a bill that can win 
overwhelming Democratic support, including those members from more 
conservative districts whose opposition to the war comes at some 
political cost.

Finally, I respect the concern of some Alabamians that any withdrawal 
from Iraq is a loss of prestige that will embolden our enemies. While 
this is not a trivial argument, the reality is that radical Islamic 
fundamentalism has exploded into a civil war in Iraq and that Al Queda 
will be a generation-long threat. These conflicts will rage on 
regardless of whether we are in combat in Iraq because they are rooted 
not in an assessment of our strength but in a permanent disdain for our 
values.

We need to engage Islamic terrorism on a different ground, such as 
Afghanistan, where Al Queda is resurgent, and we should use the 
leverage from a withdrawal from Iraq to cement international resistance 
to the Iranian nuclear program. Lines should be drawn in the sand 
around Israel's security, and the steady work of cultivating Arab 
moderates and isolating Arab radicals should continue. But it is time 
to end our active engagement in the disaster that is Iraq.