---
---

# None
## `372198410712e66ef11c75b27f7e6433`
`Mr. POLIS — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. POLIS. I thank my colleague from Massachusetts.

Mr. Speaker, this Nation does face a very real and immediate 
terrorist threat. The terrorist threat stems from al Qaeda, which is a 
stateless menace, a menace that is not rooted in any one location or 
has any dominion in any one particular area.

In fact, the two countries that our Nation continues to occupy, 
namely Iraq and Afghanistan, are not significant bases of operations 
for al Qaeda. It's been recently reported that there are, in fact, only 
around 50 al Qaeda operatives in the entire nation of Afghanistan, and 
there could very well be 10 times that number in nations like Yemen and 
Pakistan.

Yes, there is a very real threat, but the answer is not to continue 
to indefinitely occupy countries where we only breed more sympathy with 
those who would do us harm. The correct and more important way to 
leverage American military might to combat this menace is to have 
targeted and aggressive intelligence-gathering and targeted special 
operations against the terrorists no matter where they are.

Some have expressed concerns that if we leave Afghanistan 
precipitously, al Qaeda could reassert itself there. The answer to that 
is to go after al Qaeda in a targeted way in Afghanistan if the need 
arises again. It is not to engage in an indefinite occupation of one or 
two particular countries. How many more countries would we need to 
occupy? If they're in Yemen, do we occupy Yemen? If they're in 
Pakistan, do we occupy Pakistan? If we weren't already in and occupying 
Afghanistan, would we choose to go in there today? I would submit that 
the answer is no.

We need to continue our effort to battle terrorists wherever they are 
and focus on this stateless menace through intelligence-gathering, 
targeted special operations and a refocused emphasis on homeland 
security, all of which a very costly and expensive effort in 
Afghanistan continues to reduce our ability to do by soaking up our 
national time and resources as well as costing the lives of American 
soldiers.