---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `372852cfad0e3150f46641e92d7a5d3e`
`Mr. SKELTON — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, have we forgotten? Have we forgotten what 
happened to America on 9/11? Have we forgotten who did it? Have we 
forgotten those who protected and gave them a safe haven?

Let me speak a word in favor of those young men and young women who 
wear a uniform today that are doing something about it. I'm so proud of 
them. Every American should be proud of them and their professionalism, 
their devotion to duty, their patriotism. Thus, I rise in strong 
opposition to this ill-timed resolution that threatens to undermine the 
recent gains by U.S. forces and our Afghan and coalition partners.

Six months ago, I wrote a letter to the President while he was 
conducting a full review of our strategy in Afghanistan, urging him to 
adopt and fully resource an effective counterinsurgency strategy in 
Afghanistan. I still maintain that pursuing such a policy offers the 
best chance for success in our mission there. Afghanistan is the 
epicenter of terrorism. We cannot forget that it was the genesis of 
multiple attacks that killed thousands of Americans--children, parents, 
spouses, neighbors. We must do everything we can to ensure that it will 
not happen again and be used as a safe haven for those who seek to do 
us harm.

Last December, after 8 long years with no strategy in Afghanistan, 
President Obama recommitted our Nation to defeating al Qaeda and 
reminded us that the success of this mission requires us to work with 
our international allies and Afghan partners, and we are. The President 
also announced that our military commander in Afghanistan, General 
Stanley McChrystal, the best we have in this type of conflict, would 
receive an additional 30,000 troops to implement this counterinsurgency 
strategy. These additional combat troops, combined with those already 
in theater, would allow our troops and civilian experts to partner with 
their Afghan counterparts, reverse the momentum of the Taliban and 
create conditions needed for governance and economic development.

Even with just a fraction of these reinforcements in place, we 
already see signs of success. Last month Afghan, allied, and U.S. 
forces launched an operation to push the Taliban out of Marjah, a town 
of about 50,000 people in central Helmand province that became a new 
hub of activity for the Taliban and insurgents after our marines drove 
them out of nearby Garmsir. They successfully pushed the Taliban out of 
Marjah and are now beginning to reestablish government in that area, 
the second phase of that operation. A new Afghan administrator has been 
put in place, and the process of building that government has begun. 
Additionally, in recent days, Pakistani forces made the most 
significant Taliban captures since the war began, detaining the 
Taliban's second in command, the former Taliban finance minister and 
two shadow governors of Afghan provinces.

This mission will be costly. It will not be easy. Hard fighting lies 
ahead for our forces. The Afghan people have to recommit themselves to 
building a government that is mostly free of corruption and is capable 
of providing justice and security, and it is unclear if there will be 
future captures in Pakistan.

But this counterinsurgent strategy is the best we have to prevent 
Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for al Qaeda and those who wish 
to kill Americans. If we vote to pull out now and abandon those Afghans 
who have only recently been freed from the Taliban, I have no doubt 
that the Taliban would be able to reestablish their hold on southern 
Afghanistan, if not the entire country.