---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `372b57eed3ac4bdfb8d21bbf44d1bcd9`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I have to say it's fascinating to see my two very good friends, our 
former Presidential candidates, Mr. Paul and Mr. Kucinich, who have 
obviously come together working very thoughtfully on this. I think, Mr. 
Speaker, they are both making some very interesting arguments about the 
cost, about the challenges that exist, and I do concur with that.

I would simply say that we are where we are today. It's very 
unfortunate that we are where we are today. Where we are, we are; but 
fact of the matter is, that is what we do face.

There are a number of people who, as leaders on this issue within the 
Obama administration, are working overtime to seek to address this. I 
mentioned Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, Secretary Clinton and 
Ambassador Holbrooke. I have spent time with virtually all of them 
talking about the challenge of this issue.

As I mentioned earlier, I am very privileged to work closely with 
David Price and the other 18 members of our House Democracy Partnership 
because we concur, the notion of anything other than civilian control 
of the military and the intelligence services in Pakistan or any other 
country for that matter is not acceptable. And that's why I believe 
that while we look at the cost of both lives, as well as the financial 
burden that is imposed on us, we need to ensure that we are not going 
to face the kind of threat that we have before.

Now, we know that al Qaeda and those al Qaeda-inspired terrorists, 
not necessarily tied to al Qaeda, but inspired, exist all over the 
world. We recognize that; but we also have to, Mr. Speaker, realize 
that Pakistan to this day continues to be ground zero.

As I said, the porous border with Afghanistan has provided an 
invitation for al Qaeda in Afghanistan to move into Pakistan. As we 
look at the difficulty that exists, for decades, there have been 
problems with the ISI. I just mentioned in a private discussion I had 
with my friend from Cleveland that I remember very vividly in the 
1980s, in 1987, to be exact, when I had the opportunity to travel with 
our former colleague, the late Charlie Wilson, who took me to Pakistan 
and at that time we witnessed problems within the ISI.

But the fact that there are problems within the ISI, appropriately or 
inappropriately, I mean the leaks that came out, I know that there are 
more than a few who believe this could jeopardize the lives of our 
fellow Americans who are over there. But the fact of the matter is, it 
is not a completely new revelation.

That's why doing everything within our power to strengthen democratic 
institutions and opportunities for greater economic liberalization so 
that we can see the economy of this country of 140 million people in 
South Central Asia grow to the point where we will diminish the kind of 
threat that we faced on September 11. I mean, it's hard to believe that 
here it is now, almost August, and we will be marking the ninth 
anniversary of one of the most tragic days in our Nation's history.

I mean, that is the reason that we are doing what we are in Pakistan 
and Afghanistan. Has it gone perfectly? Absolutely not. No one can 
point to a war that has gone absolutely perfectly. Maybe Grenada, the 
invasion that Ronald Reagan had in the 1980s; but it is very rare that 
one can point to a conflict, the likes of which we have never seen 
before, and come to the conclusion that this has been handled 
perfectly.

Confirmation hearings are going on right now for the new CENTCOM 
leader. We have a new general who is leading the effort in Afghanistan, 
the highly, highly acclaimed General David Petraeus, who successfully 
oversaw the surge in Iraq. We are all very gratified that we are seeing 
the democratic institutions build up in Iraq. Still problems: just the 
news this morning of an al Qaeda attack in Mosul in Iraq.

So we are continuing to see problems, but I believe that if we were 
to take this action that we would undermine the ability for us to 
continue our quest to strengthen both the democratic institutions and 
the opportunity for greater economic opportunity to exist in this very, 
very critically important country.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.