---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `3737b48863490750eacf0d37fcae36e9`
`Mr. CLYBURN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman very much for 
yielding me this time.

As we work to craft this legislation and build consensus, Americans 
read headlines that said something like: ''Democrats divided, Democrats 
in disarray.'' But the truth is we were being deliberative.

We spent weeks listening to the diverse members of our caucus, 
folding their input into this bill, and I am confident we have produced 
a strong and pivotal piece of legislation because we drew from the 
broad spectrum of all of our Members. We are a diverse caucus and our 
diverse experiences and backgrounds reflect the priorities and 
perspectives of all Americans. I am proud of our caucus and this 
legislation we have produced.

We all seek to heal our Nation by ending the Iraq war. For the first 
time in 4 years, almost to the date, we have an opportunity to vote for 
binding legislation that changes the course in the Iraq war. This 
legislation ensures that the United States forces in the field have all 
the resources that they require, directs more resources to the war 
against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan, improves health care 
for returning servicemembers and veterans. But most of all, it sets 
benchmarks and time lines for ending our participation in Iraq.

We all seek to heal our brothers and sisters in the gulf coast who 
have been struggling for 18 months against the solid indifference of 
this administration. The emergency supplemental bill waives the 25 
percent match required by the Stafford Act so that the victims of 
Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma can get the service they deserve.

This supplemental is also good medicine for the children in 14 States 
who have lost their health care. It contains $750 million to fix that 
problem.

This bill also is good tonic for our veterans and active military who 
in many instances are suffering as much from broken promises as they 
are from broken limbs.

This legislation includes money to fix Walter Reed Hospital, gives 
better military health to our military men, improves veteran housing, 
and I want to say, Mr. Speaker, I do not quarrel with those people who 
see this as a vote of conscience. I believe it is unconscionable to 
ignore children without health care. It is unconscionable to leave 
survivors of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma without disaster 
assistance. It is unconscionable to ask our soldiers to fight a war and 
not provide them adequate training and equipment, and I sincerely 
believe it is unconscionable to allow this open-ended war to continue, 
when with this bill, we can begin its ending.