---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `375347ac0c687b8ce6d3de7f5de9119c`
`Ms. PELOSI — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for his kind words 
and for his more than extraordinary leadership on behalf of America's 
veterans while they are in the service, in terms of the quality of 
their life which is addressed in this legislation, and when they become 
veterans, and how he has had the well-being of America's veterans as a 
priority for so long in his political year.

Mr. Chairman, today is probably one of the top three happiest days of 
my official life, because today is a day where, under the leadership of 
Mr. Edwards, Mr. Spratt, Mr. Obey, Mr.


Skelton, Mr. Murtha, this Congress of the United States is able to keep 
its promises to America's veterans. It's a day of respect for them.

In the military, soldiers say, we will not leave any soldier on the 
battlefield. We say, when they come home, we will not leave any veteran 
behind. That is why, under the leadership of Mr. Edwards in his 
capacity as a leader on this issue, and I will add Mr. Filner's name to 
those I'm commending, but a person of the focus and values of Mr. 
Edwards kept this issue front and center.

For the past 4/1/2/, 5 years, we have met on a regular basis with the 
veterans organizations and representatives of veterans from across the 
country. We asked them what their priorities were, because their needs 
were so great; and frankly, their concerns were so neglected for the 
last few years that we said, we cannot try to do everything. What are 
your priorities? This was when we were in the minority.

Their first priority, the first couple of years there was the 
concurrent receipt issue, this veterans disability tax, which we made 
some progress on. And the next term, which was the last term, we were 
still in the minority. We still took a piece of what their agenda was, 
and that was survivors' benefits. All of these were important to the 
veterans, but there were many more concerns that we had.

So it wasn't until the Democrats assumed the majority that we could 
keep the promise of America to America's veterans. That's why it was so 
thrilling to be with the representatives of the veterans groups, some 
of them I will name, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
the Disabled Veterans of America, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, 
AMVETS, that's the American Veterans, then the Iraq and Afghan Veterans 
of America, to be with them and other representatives of veterans a 
couple of days ago when we stood in front of the Capitol and announced 
that today, with this vote, under Chairman Chet Edwards' leadership, we 
would be giving the largest increase in the history of our country and 
in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration.

Why is that necessary? Because there is a backlog of several hundred 
thousand cases at the VA. That's an injustice. That's an immorality. 
And there were needed more case workers to address a 2-year backlog, if 
you had an issue, you went there and you had to wait 2 years if you 
were a veteran.

Well, the veterans were there when they were needed. They heeded the 
call. They came to our defense, and now we're saying, wait 2 years for 
us to consider your case. Just not right. Just not right.

So in preparation for a possible Democratic majority where we could 
work in a bipartisan way, the veterans put together a budget, again 
emphasizing their priorities.



And when they did, we took that budget. Congress worked its will on 
it through the appropriations process to bring us to the floor today. 
Every one of us in the committee, it was a bipartisan unanimous vote, 
56-0, in the Appropriations Committee.

I hope we will have a similar vote today because, as Mr. Edwards 
said, starting with the budget process under Mr. Spratt to the larger 
Appropriations Committee under Chairman Obey and now to this moment on 
the floor under Chairman Edwards' leadership, we were able to give the 
biggest possible bipartisan vote to this increase. And it is paid for.

When Democrats took control of the House, we instituted pay-as-you-
go, no new deficit spending, no increase to the deficit. So that is why 
this is especially, especially, important because this says that even 
within the constraints, those budgetary constraints, veterans aren't 
the priority. In our budget the two leading priorities were America's 
children and America's veterans. In the appropriations process, we are 
able to honor that blueprint set forth in the budget again without 
adding to the deficit, without increasing the deficit. That makes it 
harder, but that signaled in a very important way that when we talk 
about our priorities and we say that veterans are in the forefront of 
them, they are in the lead in terms of the values that we have, a 
reflection of America's values that, even though there are difficult 
budgetary constraints, veterans come first.

This is an issue in urban America. It is a big issue in rural 
America. In rural America, 75 percent of the people know somebody 
closely who is serving or has served in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 
everybody in our country knows many people who have served in the 
military. Four of my brothers served in the military.

We all have a dedication to our veterans. It is more than, though, 
just talking about it. We had to act upon those words, act upon those 
values. And I thank Chairman Chet Edwards for giving us that 
opportunity today to reward our heroes with something that we are 
giving to them. It is something that they deserve, have been deprived 
of, but that has come to an end.

So I hope we have a unanimous vote on this to show the bipartisan 
support for veterans that I know exists in our Congress. I am just 
very, very proud that we were able to deliver on the promise once we 
took the majority of the House.