# NEW ENGLAND NATIONAL SCENIC TRAIL DESIGNATION ACT
## `375645e97d92e070bf7819a22dbded75`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I will point to you next time.

We are importing 12 million barrels a day from our enemies, thanks to 
you; 12 million barrels a day, at $100 a barrel. Mr. and Mrs. America, 
remember, $1.2 billion a day we are sending overseas because of the 
majority not supporting energy development. That is $438 billion a year 
that we are sending overseas, to not our friends, but to our enemies, 
the Chavezes, and to the Iraqis, the Kuwaitis, Saudi Arabia, and, yes, 
a little bit to Russia, because we don't have the courage to develop 
our oil and our fossil fuels in this country, thanks to the majority.

And we just voted on a stimulus bill today. Big deal. If you are 
taking that up, $438 billion a year, we are imposing a $1,460 tax on 
every man, woman, and child in America every year because the majority 
will not support energy legislation. Oh, you are going to support a 
trail today, taking taxpayer dollars again for recreation, but you will 
not support energy in this country. And this Congress, especially the 
majority side, has never, ever supported energy production in this 
country of any type, nuclear, even wind power, and certainly not fossil 
fuels.

That is what is wrong with this Nation today. We are bleeding the 
economy from our bodies to support overseas countries for fossil fuels 
which we have on our shores, on our shores and off our shores. We are 
disallowed from developing the Rocky Mountains. We are disallowed from 
drilling off the coast of California. We are disallowed from even 
drilling off the coast of Alaska. And, of course, the majority will 
never support opening ANWR, which has 39 billion barrels available for 
America.

And for those out there, my colleagues, every time you fill your gas 
tanks, it doesn't hurt you too bad. But Mr. and Mrs. America as they go 
to work are being taxed by you. The stimulus package, everybody might 
get $1,000. But remember, everybody is going to be taxed this year 
$1,460, every man, woman, and child in America, because this Congress 
on the majority side doesn't have the courage, the courage nor the 
wisdom, to develop necessary energy in this country which we have.

I ask you, when are you going to wake up? When is this body, and even 
the Presidential election that is going forth today, I don't hear 
anybody talking about developing energy sources. I hear about 
conservation and light bulbs made in China and filled with mercury. 
Wait until you try to dispose of those, Mr. and Mrs. America, and see 
what happens. I say shame on us.

This bill today is a trail that people say they need and they want. 
But I suggest, respectfully, if you don't address the energy bill, you 
will never be able to have anybody walk on it. You might as well make 
your highways into trails, because you won't be able to run your 
trains, your planes, your automobiles, or your ships.

And that is the economy of this country. That is the economy of this 
country. If you can't move product to and from, if you don't have the 
energy within your factories to produce those products and hire the 
people, you don't have an economy. You don't have an economy. You don't 
have an America. You don't have freedom. You don't have the Nation of 
the United States of America.

We were made great because we had a source of energy. We were made 
great because we had hydro and we had fossil fuels, the coal that drove 
our steel mills and produced the greatest war machine to stop World War 
II in history. We used our coal because we needed it. We had it and we 
did it. Not today. You can't do it.

So, as I say, Mr. Chairman, this Congress has a tremendous 
responsibility and you are not living up to it. You passed an energy 
bill that produced nothing but hot air. Nothing. Conservation, yes, we 
are all for that. But it had no production in that bill of any source 
of energy. And yet we say we passed an energy bill.

It will come back. It will haunt you. And some day down the line your 
grandchildren and all those around you and their grandchildren will 
say, what was Congress thinking about? The greatest Nation in the 
world, the greatest Nation in the world became a third-class country. 
The greatest Nation in the world, because we didn't produce our energy. 
We didn't provide for the future generations.

And for those that don't agree with me, thank God these words are 
going down. And some day along those lines they will say, you know, the 
gentleman from Alaska had a point that they should have listened to, 
but they did not. It is too bad they didn't, because we are where we 
are today, not the democracy that they were then and not the greatest 
Nation in the world, in fact a third-class country.