---
---

# None
## `3759fefa3aa5058e016591e059bf151a`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Before we send this back over to Mr. 
Altmire, Mr. Meek, let's talk about an issue on which I think this 
Congress is going to stand together tomorrow, Republicans and 
Democrats, and stand against the policies of a President who is going 
to show once again how out of step he is with the American public, and 
that is on the issue of stem cell research.

Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity when I was in the Connecticut 
State Senate to author Connecticut's Stem Cell Investment Act. 
Connecticut became the first State in the Nation through a legislative 
act to invest public dollars in stem cell research. I am real proud of 
that.

But part of the reason that I decided to leave the State Senate and 
come here to the United States Congress is because it was a bittersweet 
victory for us. We shouldn't have 50 different State legislatures 
investing in basic scientific research; certainly not the type of 
potentially pioneering, life-saving scientific research that stem cell 
research, both adult and embryonic, holds in its vast and potentially 
limitless potential.

So, tomorrow, we are going to take up a bill that we took up at the 
beginning of January, now coming back to us from the Senate, which is 
the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007, which is once again 
going to allow for Federal dollars to be used for both embryonic and 
adult stem cell research around this country, and, by the way, finally 
put some real ethical and moral and scientific boundaries around that 
research.

One of the great secrets in this world today is if you don't live in 
a State like Connecticut, California or New Jersey that has put forth 
in State legislation some moral and ethical parameters around stem cell 
research, this research is largely unregulated in this country. So I 
think the most important thing we will do tomorrow is pass in a 
bipartisan way a bill that will start to turn on Federal funds for 
research that, as we know, potentially will unlock the treatments and 
cures for such insidious diseases as juvenile diabetes and Parkinson's 
research and maybe even for cancer some day.

This isn't tomorrow's cure and it is not even the day after 
tomorrow's cure, but if we don't start investing now and start 
investing at a Federal level, start investing our Federal dollars, we 
are never going to get to that day when we can start to realize the 
potential of stem cell research.

But here is where the rub is. We are going to do this with 
Republicans and Democrats standing together. There will be more 
Democrats supporting it than there will be Republicans. That is just 
how this issue is going to work. But this is going to be an issue in 
which this Congress, because we are in tune with what the people are 
telling us, that they want us to use the research at our disposal to 
try to make people's lives better, that is what this is all about, 
trying to use the resources of the Federal Government, the communal 
resources of the American people, to try to make our lives better, that 
is what stem cell research can do. They want us to make that jump. It 
is going to land on the President's desk and he has already told us 
once again that he will veto it.

He is continually out of step with where the American people are with


this war in Iraq. Now he will once again show us he is out of step with 
where the American people are on healthcare.

But, once again, we are going to show that if we stand together, if 
we put party aside and we listen to what the people want, in this case 
they want a Federal Government that is going to start standing up and 
trying to find cures for cancer and Parkinson's disease and bone marrow 
disease, that we can do some pretty amazing things here if we stand 
together.

We passed things with bipartisan support in the past. We will do it 
tomorrow on maybe one of the most important things that we will do 
before we take our break for the summer, which is invest in stem cell 
research.

