# None
## `376550afdcc3adf294c7530ea74039ad`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, you are exactly 
right. There is a new day here. And I don't have the comparative 
experience that you do. I watched this place as an observer for the 
last several years. One of the reasons that I ran was you sit around in 
coffee shops and local community halls, and people generally don't pay 
much attention to the division of labor down here. I mean, people 
aren't necessarily talking about in their daily lives the co-equal 
branches of government. They are not thinking too much about the 
separation of powers. But you know what? They were forced to talk about 
it in the past several years, because people didn't understand how, in 
record numbers they were turning out, not only in elections, but in 
community meetings, to tell their Members of Congress that they needed 
a change in Iraq, because, not only did they have moral and 
intellectual objections to what we were doing over there, but they were 
talking to the families of those troops who were being sent over there 
without body armor. 18 months it took until our forces over in Iraq had 
the body armor that they needed. They were looking at statistics like 
the one we just found out earlier this month which said that 88 percent 
of the National Guard and Reserve troops are so poorly equipped that 
they are rated not ready by the military; that we have not one active 
duty reserve brigade in the United States that is considered combat 
ready. And so people out there were hearing over and over again from 
the families of the troops, the troops themselves, which was backing up 
their own instincts about the backwards nature of our policy in Iraq. 
And they wondered where Congress was. And they watched this place sort 
of shut down for a number of years. And they couldn't understand why 
their elected Members of Congress weren't standing up and asking some 
questions. I mean, at the very least, asking some questions about what 
this president was doing over there.

Mr. Speaker, there were six opportunities since this war began for 
this Congress, on supplemental appropriations bills, to stand up and 
try to perform some perfunctory oversight over this war; four 
emergency supplemental bills, two emergency spending funds in the 
Department of Defense authorization bills, six times this Congress, 
under Republican leadership, had an opportunity to stand up and say, 
you know what? We are going to give you some more money to conduct this 
war, but we are going to put some strings on it. We are going to try to 
check your authority in some even elementary way. Not once. All six 
times this Congress stood down. Despite a lot of yelling and screaming 
from one-half of this chamber, this Congress stood down and gave 
President Bush virtually every single thing he wanted.


Now, listen. I understand you might have been lulled into a sense of 
complacency here. This Congress heard from this president over and over 
again that things were going well, things were going fine, everything 
was going to be better. We find out now that all along this 
administration knew that things weren't going well. In fact, they knew 
things were pretty terrible on the ground and they were plotting this 
new strategy, a very different one than I think the American people 
intended on Election Day. They wanted a new course of direction in 
Iraq. They didn't necessarily think that that policy was going to be 
escalation. I think they were counting on de-escalation. It was a 
slightly new direction, Ms. Wasserman Schultz.

But here is the thing, is that people in this country became 
constitutional scholars over the last couple of years because they 
started scratching their heads when they picked up the paper every 
morning as this war was going nowhere but downhill, and there was 
deafening silence coming from Congress. And so there is a lot of 
commotion in here about this emergency supplemental bill because it has 
got some policy in it. We are actually, instead of rubber stamping the 
President's requests, we are actually saying, if we are going to give 
you another dime for this war, then we are going to make sure that you 
honor the will of the American people, that you step up to the plate 
and listen to the foreign policy community that this Nation has 
expressed through the Iraq Study Group; that you listen to your own 
generals, many of which who will tell you over and over again, that 
though there might be a political or diplomatic solution to what 
happens on the ground in Iraq, that it cannot be a purely military 
solution; that you start listening to the families of those troops who 
have cried out for years to equip them when they go over, to make sure 
that they are protected when they serve overseas, and to make sure that 
their health care is taken care of when they come back; that we 
actually conduct this war, redeploy our forces in a responsible manner. 
For the first time, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, this Congress is stepping up 
to the plate and actually conducting that type of oversight.