# None
## `376cbc33a13a1428fc49120363cc178d`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I want to explain my vote in opposition 
to the Conference Report to H.R. 2647, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

I absolutely support ensuring that our brave men and women serving in 
the Armed Forces have the necessary and best possible training, 
equipment, and other resources to accomplish their missions as quickly 
and safely as possible.

I sought a seat on the House Committee on Veterans Affairs in my 
first term so I could in some small measure help repay our debt to past 
soldiers and their families by protecting and strengthening their 
health, disability, and retirement benefits.

I have introduced legislation to increase the pay of members of the 
military, provide tax cuts to active duty military personnel, give tax 
credits to our military to help them purchase homes, allow for 
concurrent receipt of military retired pay and disability compensation, 
and encourage employers to hire members of the Reserve and National 
Guard.

I have also traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to visit with our troops 
and let them know that I understand and appreciate what they are doing 
and will do whatever I can to support them.

Very simply, I believe our brave warriors who are standing in harm's 
way to keep us safe are the true heroes in our society and deserve our 
complete and unfettered support. That is why I supported the House-
passed defense authorization bill earlier this year. I am terribly 
disappointed that I cannot vote for this conference report, however, 
because it includes several misguided provisions that should not become 
law.

This bill is shamelessly being used to enact unrelated and 
controversial hate crimes legislation, to which many, including me, 
strongly object. The inclusion of this language in a bill to ensure our 
national security and meet our commitment to the troops is 
unconscionable.

I believe that all crimes should be vigorously prosecuted and the 
convicted should be swiftly and appropriately punished. I do not 
believe that the federal government should be in the business of 
criminalizing thought and creating classes of people who supposedly are 
more deserving of protection than others.

The bill cuts funds for missile defense by more than a billion 
dollars from last year's level and permanently prohibits the deployment 
of long-range missile defense interceptors in Europe; unless a lengthy 
certification process occurs, effectively shutting down a system that 
would protect us and our European allies from nuclear attack.

The bill also strikes funding included in the House-passed bill for 
the production of additional F-22 fighters. These provisions leave us 
more vulnerable to attack from nuclear nations and those countries 
developing more advanced air assets.

Mr. Speaker, I will not play along with this political charade and 
allow our men and women in uniform to be used as cover to pass 
controversial social policies that cannot be enacted on their own. My 
constituents know how strongly I support our troops and our military 
efforts to prevent terrorists from striking in this country again like 
they did on 9/11.

I hope the next time we consider a defense authorization bill we do 
so in a manner that reflects and upholds the very ideals that our 
troops are fighting for, unlike the shameful process that brought us to 
this point today.

