# PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `376e70391ff90b4509a9067107d0d7e6`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 8 December 2010`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the 9/
11 Health and Compensation Act. Yesterday we observed Pearl Harbor Day, 
marking the 69th anniversary of that tragic attack on American soil. 
Nine years ago our Nation was attacked once again. September 11, 2001, 
was a day of indescribable horror, not only for New York, a city I am 
proud to call home, but for the entire Nation.

In the minutes, hours, and days after the Twin Towers collapsed, 
thousands of first responders rushed to lower Manhattan to dig through 
the rubble. First they searched for survivors. We all remember the 
horrible--this is vivid in my mind, the signs people holding: Have you 
seen this person? It is my husband, my wife, my child, my parent. 
Because no one knew where everyone was amidst the rubble. We thought--
unfortunately we were disappointed, deeply--that there were survivors 
amidst the rubble and time was of the essence to find them.

Then, in days later, when we realized that there weren't many 
survivors, there was still a great need to, sadly, search for the 
bodies of those who perished. You can imagine the anguish of families, 
who wanted a sign, something--remains of their loved ones--and that 
search continued. Valiant men and women, not just from New York or New 
Jersey or Connecticut but from Minnesota and Colorado and all around 
the country, came--firefighters, first responders, police officers, 
ordinary citizens--to help us in our horrible hour of need--a moment, a 
day, a week, a month that I will never forget.

I still look out my window in my home in Brooklyn, every day when I 
am home, and know that those two Twin Towers are no longer there and I 
think of the people I knew who were lost, a guy I played basketball 
with in high school, a businessman who helped me on the way up, a 
firefighter who dedicated his life to my neighborhood in Brooklyn where 
I was raised, getting people to donate blood.

We think of all these people. They were resolute, they were brave, 
they were selfless--those who were lost and then those who came to the 
rubble. Construction workers. They didn't ask if they were going to get 
paid. They didn't ask what the danger was to them. They were brave, 
they were resolute, they were selfless as were firefighters, policemen, 
EMTs, and others.

Amid the chaos and carnage, they said to themselves: This is what I 
am trained for, and I will do whatever it takes to help, even if it 
means risking my life.

So the dust has settled and the ruins of the World Trade Center have 
been cleared away. The effects of the attack are still being felt, now 
more than ever, by thousands of those first responders.

Medical experts have determined that on September 11 and the days 
after, the air around Ground Zero was filled with microscopic cement 
and glass particles. This dust has caused thousands of first responders 
to develop chronic respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases.

Just last week, we lost 9/11 first responder Kevin Czartoryski, a 
NYPD narcotics detective. He is the third hero to pass away in the past 
month from the medical complications related to the rescue effort.

Back in 2006, doctors from the Mount Sinai Medical Center that my 
predecessor, or my former colleague, now Secretary of State, then-
Senator Clinton, worked so hard to bring into the picture found that a 
staggering 70 percent of 9/11 rescue workers suffered from health 
problems, many of which were irreversible.

The fact is, right now there are people who rushed to those towers 
who do not know they are ill. The symptoms of these illnesses and 
diseases, when you get these particles in your lungs and in your 
gastrointestinal system, the cancers and other illnesses that develop, 
take years and years before they can be detected. So we know that in 
the coming years there are going to be more heroes who will become ill, 
and those who are already suffering may see their conditions worsen.

The 9/11 Health and Compensation Act will finally put these first 
responders at ease with the knowledge that they will receive treatment 
for health problems related to rescuing victims of the attack and 
helping clear the debris from Ground Zero. The bill ensures that those 
at risk of illness have access to medical monitoring and that all of 
those who get sick from exposure have a right to consistent treatment. 
The bill also ensures ongoing data collection and analysis for exposed 
populations, so we can try to cure or treat in advance people who might 
become ill.

Critically, the legislation would ensure steady funding for those 
vital programs so that those in treatment no longer have to wonder 
whether Congress will appropriate adequate funds to allow their 
treatment to continue year to year. We have appropriated funds every 
year. Everyone in this Chamber has voted for those funds. But when it 
is yearly funds and you need an ongoing medical regime, it is very hard 
to plan, to buy that machine, to set up a team that would work for 3 or 
4 or 5 years under normal circumstances. The heroes who rushed to the 
towers deserve to be guaranteed proper treatment, not to have their 
medical needs subject to the whims of what is going on at that month, 
that time in Washington.

In addition to addressing health needs, the bill would reopen the 
victims compensation fund, allowing those who missed the arbitrary 
deadline of December 22, 2003, to seek compensation. This deadline 
unfairly barred responders who became ill or learned of the fund after 
the date. You rushed to the tower. As of 2003, you were aware of the 
fund, but you did not apply. You did not have anything wrong with you. 
Six months later, you get cancer of the lungs or cancer of the 
esophagus or stomach, which we found so many getting. Why unfairly 
prevent them?

So this bill is an opportunity to send a clear message to the 
thousands of first responders who risked their lives on that fateful 
day 9 years ago. We say to them: In our Nation's time of need, you gave 
us your all. Now, in your time of need, we will give you our all.

Let's not forget, on both sides of the aisle, we have struggled 
mightily to help our veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. In 
2001 and 2002, we saw that veterans health care was not up to snuff. 
There was a bipartisan effort to bring it up to snuff, to make the 
health care adequate for the new needs of the veterans who risked their 
lives for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. Why? Because this Nation has a 
tradition: When you volunteer--as our soldiers do today--and risk your 
life to protect our


freedom, particularly at a time of war, we will be there for you and 
deal with your medical problems that were caused in that conflict.

I would argue to every one of my colleagues here today, those who 
rushed to the towers in those fateful hours and days after 9/11 are no 
different from our veterans whom we exalt. It was a time of war. Our 
Nation was attacked. They volunteered. No one compelled them to do it. 
They rushed to danger as our veterans do. So when they are injured, 
which has happened, they should be treated the same as our veterans. 
This is nothing we should play politics with, just as we do not play 
politics with veterans' needs.

I want to make sure everybody hears us. I know there are other 
legislative concerns, whether it is tax bills or funding bills or 
whatever. I would say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, 
it is not fair and it is not right to say that we will not remember 
these people who volunteered and risked their lives to protect our 
freedom in a time of war; we will not help them until X or Y or Z gets 
done. It is not fair. It is not right.

It is also time for those who are against the bill to stop spreading 
lies about it. They say it is vulnerable to fraud. It has been very 
tight. My good colleague, the Senator from New York, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
has documented thoroughly and completely how the existing compensation 
has not created any fraud or other types of problems.

We are here. We have debated this bill for years. It has been like 
running a marathon, and this is the last 100 yards. Thousands of first 
responders, police officers, firefighters, construction workers, and 
other heroes who were ordinary citizens from each of the 50 States are 
waiting for us to act. And for all too many of them, help cannot come 
soon enough. The finish line is in view. Let us, on both sides of the 
aisle, cross it together. I implore my colleagues to vote in favor of 
the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.

Before I sit down, I wish to praise my colleague who has led the 
fight, Senator Gillibrand from New York. She has made it her passion. 
She works for it hours every day and has done an amazing job. I also 
thank our colleagues on this legislation, particularly my colleagues 
from across the river, Senators Lautenberg and Menendez, who have been 
our partners. I thank Peter King, Carolyn Maloney, and Jerrold Nadler 
in the House for their work and many others in New York and other 
delegations. Again, I hope those efforts will not go in vain, not 
because of the people who worked on the bill like we did but because of 
the people who need our help, those who have all kinds of illnesses 
because they volunteered to help our great Nation and preserve its 
freedom in a time of war.

I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Franken.) The Senator from Colorado.

















 DREAM Act
