---
---

# PRESIDENT OBAMA'S BUDGET SPENDS TOO MUCH, TAXES TOO MUCH, AND BORROWS  TOO MUCH
## `3770d366c498a54bbb410a314d60a4fd`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 30 March 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from 
Minnesota for yielding and also my colleague from New Jersey, my 
classmate, Representative Scott Garrett. This is the week that we take 
up the budget, Mr. Speaker, as all of our colleagues know, and we are 
going to have, we have the Obama version that came over from OMB, the 
Office of Management and Budget, which crunched the numbers for the 
President. And it is a budget that calls for, well, I have the numbers 
right here, Mr. Speaker. And it sort of has a side-by-side comparison 
of the Obama budget, the House version, which we will take up in this 
Chamber, and the Senate version.



I just noticed, I can't help but just be absolutely astounded, Mr. 
Speaker, by these numbers. But in the President's budget, he calls for 
spending $3.67 trillion, $3.67 trillion. That's the 2010 Fiscal Year 
budget.

Now, when the Congressional Budget Office, the bipartisan number 
crunchers for the Congress, for the House and the Senate, when they 
looked at the Obama budget, they said, you know, instead of creating 
something like $7 trillion worth of debt over 10 years, it's going to 
be $9 trillion worth of debt over 10 years.

And we heard on television, Mr. Speaker, immediately, the concern 
expressed by the Democratic chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator 
Kent Conrad from North Dakota and also the concern, even, you could see 
it in his face, the concerned expression on the face of the chairman of 
the House Budget Committee, John Spratt, our friend from South 
Carolina, that, goodness gracious, based on these Congressional Budget 
Office estimates, nonpartisan, that this presidential budget of $3.67 
trillion was not sustainable.

I think, Mr. Speaker, that's what the Congressional Budget Office 
said. This level of spending is not sustainable.

So I really expected some significant cuts in the budget proposed by 
the House and proposed by the Senate. And yet, when you look at these 
side by side, as I said at the outset, the President Obama budget $3.67 
trillion, the House budget which Mr. Spratt will present to us in the 
next couple of 3 days, $3.55 trillion, the Senate version, $3.53 
trillion. Well, to my surprise, there is not much cutting here. 3.67 
trillion versus 3.55, the House version, or 3.53, the Senate version, 
my colleagues, that is a lot of spending and very little cut.

I have to do the quick math, and I would say that we're talking about 
one one-hundredth of a percent, or maybe it's close to one one-
thousandth of a percent of cut. So you can posture, you can use a lot 
of rhetoric about what you're doing in regard to being fiscally 
responsible. But you'd have to say, and hearing those numbers, well, 
gee, I guess what the Democratic Congress, who enjoys the majority, the 
majority party, basically makes some tweaking around the edges 
posturing, I think, to some extent, but there's no significant 
difference in the President's budget and what we're going to have to 
vote on here in the House and also over in the Senate.

So I think, to suggest is very, very misleading to suggest that this 
body, or this Congress, both chambers, is exercising fiscal 
responsibility. I think these budgets are not sustainable, just as the 
President's budget is not sustainable.

And if my colleague from Minnesota will continue to yield, I've got a 
slide or two that I want to show, because, Mr. Speaker, I hear so much, 
and I watched some of the Sunday morning cable programs and network 
news, where most of the time it's the Senators that are getting 
interviewed, or the administration. Of course, Geithner was on this 
weekend, as he's been on a lot with this, what he's doing with the 
Treasury Department and the recommendations for getting us back on the 
road to fiscal recovery.

But I heard him say, the Treasury Secretary, ''well, you know, we 
inherited a bad situation.''

Mr. Speaker, I know you've heard it. My colleagues, Mrs. Bachmann, I 
know you've heard it, you know, this creating a straw man and saying, 
you know, well, we inherited this mess, talking about the budget or 
indeed talking about the situation in Afghanistan or Iraq. We inherited 
this bad policy.

But, in regard to the budget, that's where I really wanted to focus 
my attention. They keep saying that this deficit for the Fiscal Year 
2009, which now is approaching 1.8, 1.7, $1.8 trillion, I mean, that's 
four times as large as any deficit under the Bush administration. Go 
back and look at 2004 or 2005, 2006. Our deficits were coming down.

And the Democrats have been in control, Mr. Speaker, since January of 
2007. So you know, when you say that you inherited, well, what party 
was it that refused to pass nine spending bills in the Fiscal Year 
2009? Which party was that? Well, it was the majority party. And the 
reason that they did not want to pass those bills is because the 
President, the former President simply said, this is too much spending, 
and if you send those to my desk, I will veto them.

So the Democratic majority, Mr. Speaker, just held back on those 
spending bills, and we had these continuing resolutions to fund the 
government because they knew when they got the presidency, which most 
polls suggested at that point, that they would, and they did, and then 
brought forward, in the first part of this year, those nine bills that 
increased spending by 8 percent.

If you add the money that was put in the so-called economic recovery 
spendulus package to the 8 percent, it turns out that on those nine 
bills we increased the spending by 80 percent. Eighty percent. And so, 
you can't blame the previous administration for a $1.7 trillion 
deficit. You know, you can say, well, some of that we voted on in 
regard to the TARP money, the $700 billion, that vote occurring in 
October/November time frame of 2008. And you say, well, yes, that added 
to this deficit.

But who was it that voted for that and approved that in the House and 
the Senate? The Democratic majority. They're the ones that voted for 
it. A few Republicans, sure. But it was the Democrats that--they could 
have stopped it. They could have stopped every dime of that $700 
billion TARP, Toxic Asset Relief Program which, as it turned out, was 
never even spent for that.

So as we look at what's going on in the future, just as the 
Congressional Budget Office did, over the next 10 years, you see what 
we're talking about, these deficits that go out into the future as far 
as the eye can see. And so at the end of 10 years, our debt is 
increased--well, real quickly, just another slide to show that. In 
2019, that 10-year budget window, we're going from something like 
almost $6 trillion of debt to 14, almost $15 trillion of public debt by 
the year 2019. Man, if anything is unsustainable, that is 
unsustainable.

And to show it in a pictorial form, and I think we can bring this 
home to our colleagues so much with this next


poster, Mr. Speaker. President Obama would more than double the Federal 
debt to $14.5 trillion, with a T. It took 43 presidents, here's their 
pictures, 43 presidents, 232 years to build up $5.8 trillion in 
publicly held Federal debt. Under President Obama's proposed budget, 
over the next 6 years, we're going to add $8.7 trillion to that.

These are staggering numbers and, as the CBO says, Mr. Speaker, 
unsustainable. I just wanted to make sure my colleagues understood what 
we're talking about here and the magnitude and the significance of 
this.

I'm going to yield back to the gentlelady from Minnesota who controls 
the time. I know we have other colleagues here that want to speak. And 
I will enjoy continuing the colloquy during this hour.