---
---

# IRAQ
## `3775de4514cd4064dcbfecbd5b64fe83`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, may I also thank my colleagues 
in the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) for gathering on the floor 
tonight to discuss this important topic. This Congress will not, as the 
previous Republican Congress did, continue to rubber stamp what we 
believe to be an ill-conceived war. As we continue to receive reports 
on the situation in Iraq, it is important that we continue to look 
forward, to the future of Iraq beyond a U.S. military occupation.

Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and 
former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military 
success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in 
administering a democratic election and electing a democratic 
government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting 
peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an 
inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves 
agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing 
to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands 
of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush 
Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is 
irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority 
of the American people.

Our nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 3770 American 
soldiers have died. In addition, more than 27,660 have been wounded in 
the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. June, July, and August have 
marked the bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. casualties in 
Iraq are 62 percent higher this year than at this time in 2006. This 
misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many 
lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are 
without precedent in American history. In addition, the U.S. is 
spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a 
month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, 
$228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second.

Mr. Speaker, we are here today because the Congress has listened to 
the American people, and demanded accountability, oversight, and 
competence. We saw fit to demand benchmark reports because the American 
people lost confidence in the Rubber Stamp Republican Congress and the 
Bush-Cheney team. The American people want a new strategy for success 
in Iraq.

The Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am proud to be a member, 
has recently heard a string of reports from military and civilian 
officials about the political, military, social, and economic situation 
in Iraq. Two weeks ago, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) 
informed the Congress that the Iraqi government has met only three of 
the eighteen legislative, economic, and security benchmarks. Despite 
the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the Iraqi 
government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their 
country.


President Bush rationalized his surge, over opposition by myself and 
other House Democrats, by arguing it would give the Iraqi government 
''the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical 
areas,'' bringing about reconciliation between warring factions, Sunni 
and Shia. However, non-partisan assessments, such as last week's GAO 
report, have illustrated that escalating U.S. military involvement in 
Iraq is instead hindering that nation's ability to move beyond the 
devastation of war and death, to build a successful new government, and 
to create a stable and secure environment. In the seven months since 
the surge began, increased American military presence has not been able 
to end the relentless cycles of sectarian violence that continue to 
plague Iraq. Nor have larger numbers of U.S. troops been successful in 
unifying and strengthening the Iraqi government.

Instead, the security situation continues to deteriorate. Sectarian 
violence remains high, and even the Bush Administration has noted the 
unsatisfactory progress toward political reconciliation. The Sunni-led 
insurgency continues, with insurgents conducting increasingly complex 
and well-coordinated attacks. The August 2007 National Intelligence 
Estimate cited ongoing violence, stating, ''the level of overall 
violence, including attacks on and casualties among civilians, remain 
high; Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled.'' The report went on 
to note that al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) ''retains the ability to conduct 
high-profile attacks,'' and ''Iraqi political leaders remain unable to 
govern effectively.''

The ever-increasing sectarian violence is causing immense daily 
challenges for Iraqis. Millions have been displaced, and an Iraqi Red 
Crescent Organization has reported an increase of nearly 630,000 
internally displaced persons from February 2007 to July 2007. The same 
organization predicts an additional 80,000 to 100,000 persons are 
displaced each month. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has 
estimated that 1.8 million Iraqis are now refugees, with an additional 
40,000 to 50,000 fleeing to neighboring countries each month. Iraq has 
become a humanitarian disaster, and one that continues to get worse 
every day.

We are not here today to debate whether there has been some decrease 
in violence in Baghdad. The United States military is a skilled and 
highly proficient organization, and where there are large numbers of 
U.S. troops, it is unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of 
violence. However, it is our responsibility to take a longer-term view. 
The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi 
government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to 
an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing 
their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not 
seen a demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi government.


In addition, evidence suggests that not only is increased U.S. 
military presence in Iraq not making that nation more secure, it may 
also be threatening our national security by damaging our ability to 
respond to real threats to our own homeland. The recently released 
video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate that President Bush has 
not caught this international outlaw, nor brought him to justice. 
Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror to the war of 
his choice in Iraq.

The former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 commission, Thomas 
H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, share this view. In a recent op-ed, Kean 
and Hamilton note that our own actions have contributed to a rise of 
radicalization and rage in the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write 
that ''no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, treasure, and 
support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than the war in 
Iraq. It has become a powerful recruiting and training tool for al-
Qaeda.''

Mr. Speaker, our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. 
We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the 
midst of an insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for 
some time now, advocated for Congressional legislation declaring a 
military victory in Iraq, and recognizing the success of our military. 
Our brave


troops have completed the task we set for them; it is time now to bring 
them home. Our next steps should not be a continuing escalation of 
military involvement, but instead a diplomatic surge.

This is why I introduced H.R. 930, the ''Military Success in Iraq and 
Diplomatic Surge for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act 
of 2007.'' This legislation would make diplomacy and statecraft tools 
of the first, rather than the last, resort. We must seek constructive 
engagement with Iraq, its neighbors, and the rest of the international 
community, as we work to bring resolution to this calamitous conflict 
that has already gone on far too long.

Democrats in Congress will not continue to rubber stamp the 
President's ill-conceived war effort. Last November, the American 
people spoke loudly and clearly, demanding a new direction to U.S. 
foreign policy, and we here in Congress are committed to seeing that 
change be brought about. We are working to see the extensive funds 
currently being spent to sustain the war in Iraq go to important 
domestic programs and to securing our homeland against real and 
imminent threats.

President Bush and Vice-President Cheney have been given numerous 
chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress to 
straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is pure fantasy 
to imagine that President Bush's military surge has created the 
necessary safety and security to meet economic, legislative, and 
security benchmarks. It is time for a new strategy, a new plan that 
will encourage Iraqis to take charge of their own destiny, seek 
constructive and sustained regional engagement, and substitute the ill-
advised military surge for a thoughtful diplomatic one. It is time to 
be realistic and pragmatic, to recognize that our troops achieved what 
they were initially sent in for and that continued U.S. military 
engagement is not bringing about the desired results.