---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `377a50b4fa6faff86a208fa27a461b0c`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Thank you.

Madam Chair, my colleague on the other side of the aisle is exactly 
right. The people in the intelligence community are watching exactly 
what we are doing. And actions do speak louder than words. The actions 
that they have seen, their colleagues were asked by this Congress, 
including, the record shows, the leadership of this House and the 
former administration, to do things on their behalf to keep America 
safe, and they see their colleagues now potentially being prosecuted 
because the rules changed under this administration.

As they see the rules changed for them and perhaps their colleagues 
being prosecuted, they see a global justice initiative coming out of 
the FBI where we are reading Miranda rights to our enemies on the 
battlefield in Afghanistan. They see the actions and they see the 
actions are very, very different.

They see that we are moving KSM from Gitmo to trial in New York City. 
Thankfully, the people in New York City are saying no way, we are not 
doing it. And at the same time that KSM is being promised a trial in 
civilian courts in the United States, they are seeing 11 pages of new 
vulnerabilities being placed on them after no hearings and no debate.

Yes, our men and women in the field are seeing a real difference. 
They are seeing a real difference in actions by this Congress and by 
this administration. They see that they have become kind of a target of 
this administration, that this is now not about keeping America safe, 
it is about putting them into a legal framework, an ugly legal net.

Madam Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this bloated Manager's 
Amendment. Its flaws powerfully demonstrate how the Intelligence 
Committee is failing to do its work and has in fact become 
counterproductive to the work of the intelligence community.

This amendment is everything that is wrong with intelligence policy 
in 2010. It is politicized, it fails to recognize or act on the serious 
threats that we continue to face as a nation, and it puts off the tough 
decisions indefinitely. Where it does take a substantive action, 
instead of taking meaningful steps to fix the problem it blames the men 
and women of the intelligence community for failing to follow a 
politically correct policy, even though that policy was ratified by 
Members of Congress at the highest levels. I think we have heard this 
story before.

The Managers Amendment contains the text of 22 Democratic amendments, 
and no Republican amendments. The Committee minority was not consulted 
on a single one of these amendments--in fact, one of them continues to 
reverse a bipartisan agreement on notification reform from last year.

Instead of taking meaningful steps to address critical national 
security problems such as the threat posed by bringing Guantanamo 
detainees to the United States, the flaws revealed in our intelligence 
sharing by the Fort Hood and Christmas attacks, and the issues posed by 
American citizens who join terrorist groups abroad, it would require 16 
new reports, to bring the total for the bill to at least 57 new 
reports. And instead of supporting the men and women of our 
intelligence community, it would create a new criminal offense that not 
only would duplicate an existing law--it would apply only to our 
intelligence personnel. How's that for gratitude?

Instead of trying to provide proper procedures are in place to govern 
the conduct of covert action activities that could impact American 
citizens, the Majority believes it is more important to order yet 
another duplicative report on foreign language proficiency when the 
Committee is already briefed regularly and repeatedly on the efforts 
that are ongoing in this area.

Instead of trying to fix the intelligence sharing problems that were 
laid bare at the Fort Hood shooting and shown to be critical during the 
Christmas bombing attack, the Majority has instead chosen to put its 
head in the sand and order up a report on events in Argentina between 
the mid-1970s and the mid-1980s.

Instead of resolving the serious problems in coordinating the 
interrogation of the high-value detainees that became apparent when 
Miranda rights were read to a foreign radical jihadist, the Majority 
has chosen to require the intelligence community to write up not one, 
but two new reports and a ''Task Force'' on cybersecurity even though 
the Committee is in the middle of a series of comprehensive briefings 
and hearings on the subject and has conducted repeated oversight.

Madam Chair, I can't think of a single terrorist plot that has ever 
been disrupted by a report to Congress.

In addition to these more fundamental issues, I need to note for the 
record some specific serious problems with this amendment.


First, the amendment does even further damage to the bipartisan 
agreement that had been reached on reform of congressional 
notification. Instead of providing a mechanism that respects the 
separation of powers and the various equities of the President and the 
Congress, this amendment has ceded the decision of which Members of 
Congress will be briefed on sensitive covert actions entirely to the 
President, apparently to avoid the White House's veto threat on the 
bill. That is ironic for a majority who has claimed so long and so 
loud--despite clear records and the recollection of others to the 
contrary--that it was never briefed on intelligence policies that they 
explicitly helped to ratify on a bipartisan basis.

Second, the amendment does even further damage to years of carefully 
developed practice and procedure for how the congressional intelligence 
committees conduct oversight by attempting to cede its responsibility 
to the GAO. The original bill was flawed because it would have provided 
the GAO with virtually unfettered authority to insert itself into 
intelligence community matters without applying


the same rules that govern the congressional intelligence committees or 
limiting the dissemination of any work product to protect sources and 
methods.

It was so bad that even the Obama administration objected that the 
bill ''would fundamentally shift the longstanding relationship and 
information flow between the IC and intelligence committee members and 
staff.'' This Managers Amendment makes these problems even worse by 
allowing the Comptroller General to unilaterally develop procedures for 
handling of highly sensitive material with no requirement that it 
follow House or Committee rules, and in fact would allow committees 
other than the intelligence committees to request GAO review of the 
intelligence community.

This is contrary to the Rules of the House and the recommendations of 
the 9/11 Commission. How many times do we have to learn the simple 
lesson that intelligence oversight is most effective when it is 
conducted by the intelligence committees--at least when those 
committees do more than just require new reports.

Third, buried deep within the 22 amendments contained in this 
Managers Amendment is an extraordinary provision that would create a 
new criminal offense that would only apply to the men and women of the 
intelligence community. Title 18 of the U.S. Code, section 2340A, 
already gives effect to the Convention Against Torture and makes 
torture a criminal offense in the United States. Torture is already 
against the law.

Apparently, that's not enough for the Majority--it has to have a 
special offense that would apply only to the men and women of the 
Intelligence Community--just as Attorney General Holder has appointed a 
special prosecutor to investigate them. There is no legal reason to do 
this--it apparently exists only to make a political statement. The 
intelligence operatives on the front lines deserve our thanks and our 
support for doing hard things in hard places, like the men and women 
who made the ultimate sacrifice this year in Khost, Afghanistan. They 
do not deserve to be singled out for special criminal offenses. I 
believe that this is wrong.

Madam Chair, I strongly oppose this amendment.