# None
## `377d6d07e5de91cc6aa0d60d405fe8ac`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, I am glad that you are 
part of our majority-making Members that came here and gave house 
Democrats the majority. And the way it went on in the Senate, even 
though there is just one majority Member there that put the quit the 
Senate Democratic majority. But there is still a lot of work to be 
done.

As I sit here, and Mr. Ryan knows and Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones 
knows, we have been on this floor before in the 108th and 109th 
Congress, and saying if it was about politics, we would just not come 
to the floor. We would allow the Republicans, and I am not 
generalizing, those that are in the position of standing with the 
President, not with the American people, that works politically for 
Democrats. The majority will even get greater, Mr. Speaker, if we just 
sat in our office or we just went to committee meetings and didn't come 
to the floor burning the midnight oil here tonight. But it is not about 
politics. It is about the country, and that is the reason we are here.

I just wanted to point one thing out. Folks get excited about the 
war. But you saw the $10 billion figure I had on the whole war cost 
for, this is a little clearer here, $10 billion right here per month. 
This whole child health insurance package is $35 billion over 5 years, 
Mr. Speaker. Five years, $35 billion. That is 3/1/2/ months of the cost 
of the war in Iraq. Five years versus 3/1/2/ months.

The President's action is one thing. The Republican minority allowing 
it to stand is another thing.

You see, I want to give the American people some homework, because I 
think it is important. We can't say well, you know, the President, you 
know, they are not going to have another opportunity to stand in 
judgment on some given Tuesday on the President of the United States. 
But they will every 2 years have an opportunity to stand in judgment of 
every Member of the U.S. House of Representatives. I think that is 
something very, very important.

Also, Mr. Ryan, you know that we have worked very hard on veterans. 
Mr. Murphy, you know we have worked hard. All of us have worked hard. 
We have made the largest increase in VA assistance in the history of 
the republic. Since the VA has been created, it has received more 
health care assistance from this Congress than any other time, any 
other time in history.

Now, my mother before me who served here in the House said the thing 
about the House, the main thing about being elected, is bringing your 
experiences to the floor. I just wanted to take 2 minutes to tell you 
about an experience.

I have a 10-year-old and I have a 12-year-old daughter. We take pride 
in at least once a week riding the Mall, what we call here the Mall, 
from the Capitol on down to the Washington Monument on to the World War 
II Memorial, and we take a hard left to go over to the Jefferson 
Memorial on our bicycles, and we come around and we go to the Lincoln 
Memorial.

I just wanted for a minute for Members to realize what is going on 
down there at the Lincoln Memorial. You have the last outpost of 
Vietnam vets that are there running off a generator for power, standing 
there for the missing in action, raising money, selling patches and 
things of that nature, who have to renew their lease every 21 days to 
stay there on that Mall. They have been there for years, since the 
Vietnam Memorial was set up.


I talk to these gentleman, my kids talk to these gentleman 
constantly, because they are our heroes. But they are out there showing 
the medication and the kind of cocktail they have to use to even deal 
with what happened over 20 years ago.

I think when we start looking at governance here in this house, we 
have got to look at it beyond what the paper is going to print the next 
day. We have to do what is right on behalf of the country. So when we 
look at 5 years, a $35 billion program, versus 3/1/2/ months of 
operations in Iraq, we can't help but think of good governance.

I want to put the pressure to the point where the Members here 
willing to stand with the President on this very bad decision in the 
face of uninsured children in this country, that they make sure that 
they understand that when folks walk in on some given Tuesday voting 
for representation, need it be Republican, independent, Democrat, what 
have you, yes, your


children too, that they didn't walk in grasping the hands of the 
President of the United States to take some sort of talking notes from 
some conservative think tank, and I will let you talk about that, to 
talk about how they are going to deny children health care in this 
country.

I go back to saying nothing is perfect, but I can tell you one thing, 
it has to be better than what we are facing right now, the program that 
needs to be reauthorized and children have to have health care.

So I want my Republican colleagues that voted against this 
legislation for all, and as far as I am concerned, and this is my 
individual reason, I know people have reasons, but I think it was 
largely political, when you think about it, in the final analysis, I 
want them to feel the pressure when they step off the plane or the 
train or the car or whatever the case may be, and I don't care if you 
are Republican, independent, thinking about voting one day, 17-years-
old, you are going to get your voter registration card, put the 
pressure on your Member of Congress on this issue.

I think it is very, very important. The bottom line is, if a Member 
has a problem with what I am saying, you know, it is a beautiful 
country. It is America. Thank God the flag is flying over the Capitol 
right now. I am going to say it. And I think it is important that 
Members understand that this is serious business.

We are down to children now. This is not about somebody walking 
around with a suit or something on. This is about the children of this 
country. Not Iraq. Mr. Speaker, time after time, Mr. Ryan, you know, 
Ms. Jones, Mr. Murphy, you know, as I yield over to my friends, Members 
come to this floor and pound and shake and throw paper and carry on on 
behalf of the Iraqi children.

What about the American children? What about them? What about those 
individuals that are catching the school bus in the morning? What about 
that parent catching the early bus taking their kids to school? What 
about the folks that work here in this Capitol that have people that 
live next door to them that don't have health care? What about them? 
Get emotional about them. Pound and shake your fist about that.

I hope we have the kind of paradigm shift when that vote comes up to 
override the President of the United States, that we have some of our 
colleagues on the Republican side that go see the wizard; get some 
courage, wisdom and heart, and stand up against this President, and 
don't allow those individuals that I see down here that are trying to 
block democracy from happening coming down here from the White House 
saying ''stick with us.'' Stick with who? Stick with the President, or 
the American children?

I yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio.