# None
## `3786608c128b7b16fec7dc04dac82d54`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER â€” 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Thank you, Mr. Yarmuth.

It's great to be standing on the floor with gentlemen who have been 
elected by the people in 2006 to change the way this Nation is being 
run, and to provide the hope that we need to deal with the problems 
you've outlined. And we can do this, we know we can do this. This is a 
time where we change the focus from the wealthiest 1 percent to the 
hardworking people of middle America. This is the time for hardworking 
Americans. And we're going to provide, based on this stimulus package, 
a package of different approaches to help middle Americans, hardworking 
Americans, we're going to provide them with refunds so that there will 
be some money in their pocket, not just in the pocket of the wealthiest 
1 percent, but in the pockets of everyone across America. Ronald Reagan 
used to talk about trickle down. Well, that's not how the economy 
works, it works trickle up. It's a flood up. If people in the middle 
have money, they spend it, and that will generate all sorts of new 
business in America.

We're also going to provide stimuli that will create many new jobs, 
whether it's in the energy sector. We can improve how we're dealing 
with health care and increase jobs there. But this is a time when we 
really are going to change how Washington is conducting business. The 
President would like us just to focus on the wealthiest. He would like 
us just to keep things the same. We're not doing that. We're here to 
provide hope to people and change so that people in their everyday 
lives know that they've got folks here who were elected to fight for 
them. And we are going to change things by providing a whole new 
approach to the economy this year.

We hope to provide a package that will be $100 billion, that's about 
10 months in Iraq, that's nothing, where we can help this country 
really get on a solid footing economically, and then for the long-term 
future, really develop a whole new energy system that will provide 
thousands and thousands and thousands of jobs across this country, as 
well as revamp our health care system that has become such a drag on 
the economy.

This is a time when we have to look very hard and be realistic about 
the problems that face us. But when America really turns its attention 
to something, it changes the future. And that's what this Congress is 
going to do. That's our job. That's why we were sent here was to change 
the future and to provide hope to people.

With that, I would like to turn this over to my friend from 
Wisconsin, Steven Kagen. And with that, sir, would you let us know what 
you think of this stimulus package that the Speaker is talking about.