# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `378d220cd47730da59425af11c3ac0f2`
`Mr. VITTER — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. VITTER. Mr. President, I rise to encourage all of my colleagues, 
Democrat and Republican, to support the Cochran amendment as a 
responsible action. The situation in Iraq is deeply controversial and 
divisive. As we debate it, everyone here and in the country say they 
are clearly for supporting our troops in the field and giving them what 
they need once they are put there to do their mission. That is why just 
a week or two ago huge numbers of Members of the Senate supported the 
Gregg resolution, 82 Senators saying clearly: We are going to support 
the men and women in uniform in the field; likewise, they supported in 
huge numbers the Murray resolution, 96 Senators, to support the men and 
women in uniform in the field.

I am afraid the path some are urging us to go down today belies that 
statement, contradicts that statement, and does not support those men 
and women in uniform in the field.

We all know the consequences of the Reid language. That language 
insists that the President pull our troops out of Iraq on a date 
certain with no regard at all for the conditions on the ground or the 
progress being made by our troops or the Iraqi Government. It 
micromanages the war, taking what is in the purview of the Commander in 
Chief and bringing it to Congress. The Reid language will absolutely 
draw a veto from the President. What would that do? It would delay for 
a significant amount of time getting aid, money, help, and equipment to 
our troops in the field.

We should not go down this path. This language will earn a veto from 
the President. Indeed, it would earn a veto from any President because 
it micromanages his responsibilities as Commander in Chief, and that 
will delay getting resources to folks in the field.

Our military leadership has said in no uncertain terms that they must 
get this supplemental funding to support the troops in the field by 
mid-April. This language will push all of that well beyond that 
deadline, will delay it by 5, 6 weeks or more, and endanger our troops 
in the field by not getting them the resources and equipment they need. 
That is not right. That is exactly contrary to what almost all Members 
of this body have spoken for: supporting our troops in the field.

This supplemental appropriations bill also has important help for the 
victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the gulf coast, emergency 
measures that are supported by the President and the Congress but have 
not yet been fully funded. Just as we are playing politics potentially 
with our troops in the field with this veto scenario, we would be 
playing politics with this language, drawing a veto from the President, 
with the victims of the worst natural disaster in U.S. history. That is 
not right. It is politics over people. Worse than that, it is politics 
over our people in uniform. It is politics over our people who suffered 
the worst natural disaster in history. We should not go down this path. 
We should not be so cynical and callous. We should put our people in 
uniform first and get them the funds and support they need in the field 
as we promise to do speech after speech after speech.

Words are cheap. Actions, votes lead to consequences. That is what 
this debate and what these votes are all about--supporting our troops 
in the field, supporting the victims of the worst natural disaster in 
U.S. history.

I yield the floor.