# REMARKS IN HONOR OF CAPTAIN ROBERT VALLEJO II, TEXAS NATIONAL GUARD
## `378de626e226877a718743935f4ae18b`
`Ms. GRANGER — 3 October 2008`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the courage of a 
brave and dedicated hero of the state of Texas and of our Nation.

Captain Robert Vallejo II was a soldier in the Texas National Guard 
and a true American hero. Robert gave his life in the service of his 
country on September 18, 2008, when the helicopter he was co-piloting 
went down near Tallil, Iraq.

Assigned to 2nd Battalion, 149th Aviation, 36th Combat Aviation 
Brigade as a pilot, Captain Vallejo did his part during a time of war, 
a fact that speaks volumes about his character and patriotism.

Robert graduated from Brewer High School in 1998 and graduated from 
Texas Christian University as part of the Reserve Officer Training 
Corps in 2005. After graduation from college, he attended flight school 
at Fort Rucker, Alabama. Becoming a pilot fulfilled his long-time dream 
of flying. Becoming a military pilot fulfilled his desire to, as his 
mother put it, ''be a part of history and leave his mark.''

He served as a soldier for nine years and was on his first overseas 
tour when he died.

Shortly after Robert's death, his family learned that the baby his 
wife is expecting in January would be a boy. Captain Vallejo's son will 
be named Robert Cale Vallejo III and will learn of his father through 
his family and friends, who described Robert as a kind, outgoing, and 
intelligent man with a wonderful sense of humor.

Our thoughts and prayers are with Captain Vallejo's wife, sisters, 
parents, and all of his family and friends. His community and nation 
honor his memory and we are grateful for his faithful and distinguished 
service to America.

Captain Vallejo will not be forgotten. His memory lives on through 
his family and the legacy of selfless service that he so bravely 
imprinted on our hearts.
