# None
## `378df6d65310a611daa3bdeb7f1f90c8`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Ryan, it's interesting. You 
mentioned Chairman Murtha. Chairman Murtha was fine with the 
administration as long as he was voting with the administration in the 
minority, being the ranking member on Defense Appropriations. They 
didn't have a problem with him. As a matter of fact, he was held up as 
a hero, decorated veteran, longstanding member of the Defense 
Appropriations Committee in the House, ally, called to the White House 
for his advice.

As soon as Mr. Murtha figured out that, not only was the intelligence 
that the Congress was given was inaccurate, and as soon as he figured 
out that we could not win ''war militarily,'' and he went through a 
long assessment in figuring this out, and talking with professionals 
and talking with generals, talking with those that are still enlisted, 
going into theater, that's what you're supposed to do as an 
appropriator, making sure the American taxpayer dollars are being spent 
appropriately; making sure that what they're telling you here on 
Capitol Hill is actually reality, is the actual reality out in the 
field.

A lot of folks look to the Middle East when they think of the war. 
Well, the


effects of the war are felt right here in this country. You go to the 
military bases and you talk to these families. It's hard to go to many 
of these military bases because you see the children, you see the 
husband or the wife that's left behind. You see those that have lost 
their loved one, or those that are now, have their loved one coming 
back without an arm or a leg, or mentally affected by going into 
theater without the necessary time back home to recover mentally and 
physically from being in the middle of a civil war. I think it's 
important for us to realize that and understand that there's great 
gravity on this issue.

And the President may believe, in his own mind and also within his 
advisors that are standing around him, that he has to stick to his 
guns, he has to, you know, it's a fight at the OK Corral or here in the 
Capitol city. It's not a fight. We're all Americans. We're all on the 
same side. We salute one flag.

I think it's important for us to understand that there are some folks 
here, some of them wear blue jeans, some of them wear, you know, shop 
at big box stores and small stores in the small town, some folk never 
walked in a mall before, and if they walked in a mall they couldn't 
afford many of the things that are in the mall. These are a number of 
our, a super majority of the folks that are represented within the 
Armed Services. They aren't the only ones that serve their country, but 
many of them are financial challenged. And their voice is just 
as strong as the next person, or should be.


And so when we talk about just the simple things on behalf of the men 
and women in uniform and making sure that we bring some sense to this, 
because if the President had his way, we would be there, my children's 
children will have an opportunity to see this war continue.

And I think it's very, very important that we talk about 
accountability; not talk about it, act on it. And that's what we're 
doing. We're acting on it.

Let's look at what the President is all concerned about. The 
President must determine that substantial progress, I must add, is made 
on security, political and reconstruction benchmarks by July, 2007. 
Well, the President can just say, well, you know, I think that's fine. 
I think we're making progress.

If the President cannot certify progress, redeployment must start by 
July with a goal of being completed, and it has to be certified, that 
if in July, certification is made, redeployment of U.S. troops may 
begin by August 1 of 2007, with a goal to be complete within 180 days, 
by March 31, 2008.

This is sending a message to the Iraqi government that they have to 
whip themselves in shape; they have to make sure that we train the 
troops. Now, this is combat, this is not cutting off training. Training 
will continue. The things that will take U.S. troops out of harm's way 
will continue.

We're patrolling the streets of Baghdad. We're patrolling the streets 
of Tikrit and other places. You hear reports of security forces, Iraqi 
security forces, it's very slim. But you hear an uptick in U.S. troops 
that are taking place, I mean, that are taking place right now. And so 
I think it's all important that we understand that accountability 
measures are in place.

Now, Mr. Ryan, when we talk about accountable. It's interesting. On 
the prescription drug plan there were benchmarks. You had to be 
enrolled by a certain date. And if you weren't enrolled by a certain 
date then there would be penalties for not enrolling by a certain date.

It's very, very important that Americans and the Members of this 
Congress understand that anything, to bring about progress, has to have 
benchmarks and goals.

To kind of just say, well, hey, here's $1 million. Don't worry about 
it. We don't care if you provide what you say that you're going to 
provide. We don't care how you spend it. You use your own discretion. 
You spend it. We're not going to say anything.

Well, that's been the case for about 4 years in this Iraq war. And 
now we're saying that we want to march by a different drummer's beat, 
one of accountability, one of making sure the integrity of what we tell 
the American people is actually, you actually see it, you actually are 
able to follow through with that, what you said that you were going to 
do, that you actually do it, Mr. Ryan.

And the problem is that the President is finding himself having to be 
accountable. And I can tell you right now that the political question, 
it's not an issue here, because the election took place last November. 
The people have spoken, so we don't even need to get on that issue.