---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `378e9e6bdd22915719ba85d70bf37bd7`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, there is no more important 
issue facing our Nation today than the prolonged, painful, deadly war 
in Iraq. Next month America's courageous and determined troops start 
year 5 of combat operations inside Iraq.

As Iraq continues to deteriorate into a failed state of endless 
killing, President Bush has decided not only to stay the course but to 
escalate America's combat presence.

The resolution we debate tonight puts Congress in step with the 
American people in rejecting the President's escalation of the war. 
This resolution supports our troops and sends a clear message to 
President Bush that he is increasingly isolated in believing that 
Iraq's future can only be salvaged by sending more Americans into their 
civil war.

Let us remember that year 5 in Iraq will start with over 150,000 U.S. 
troops in the midst of an Iraq civil war. Year 5 in Iraq will start 
with 2,600 Minnesota National Guardsmen and -women who have already 
served and sacrificed for a year, being ordered to serve an additional 
4 months of duty. Year 5 in Iraq starts with over 3,100 American troops 
having sacrificed their lives and nearly 24,000 troops having 
sacrificed their bodies.

To all of our veterans and their families, I offer my prayers, and I 
pledge my support in the difficult months and years ahead. With a true 
sense of humility and respect and admiration for their service and 
sacrifices, I thank you, I thank your families for what you have 
endured.

Our troops have always done their jobs with skill, with determination 
and courage. And now it is time for the elected leaders of this Nation 
to respond with courage and skill and forethought to the challenges 
presented in Iraq. It is time for the people of Iraq, the diverse 
ethnic groups, the religious sects, their tribal leaders, to decide for 
themselves whether their future is to be one of ongoing murder, 
revenge, civil war, or reconciliation, peaceful cooperation and 
security. It is time to end Iraq's dependence on U.S. troops and to 
fully transfer the responsibility for security and governance to the 
Iraqis. It is time to start the process of bringing American troops 
home safe, soon. It is time to bring this war in Iraq to an end. 
Achieving peace in Iraq will require an Iraqi political solution.

Peace requires a robust, active, tireless diplomacy from the United 
States, in partnership with Iraq's neighbors and the entire world 
community. This Congress has the opportunity and the obligation to 
advance a foreign policy vision rooted in the belief that Iraq's future 
requires shared global commitment.

Tomorrow Congress will pass this bipartisan resolution. This 
resolution is important because it is the second step in putting the 
White House on notice. The first notice was delivered to President Bush 
by the American people last November when they elected a new majority 
to Congress. The American people elected this majority because they 
wanted this very debate to take place, because they reject the ''stay 
the course'' status quo in Iraq.



Instead of hearing the American people, instead of acting on the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, instead of learning from his 
past mistakes in Iraq, President Bush decided to escalate the war.

Rather than take the counsel and the advice of experienced statesmen 
and trusted military leaders, President Bush acted alone and decided to 
escalate the war.

Now our President calls himself ''The Decider.'' In America, the 
people, not the President, are the ultimate deciders in our democracy, 
and the people and this Congress have decided that the escalation of 
combat troops into Iraq is misguided. This Congress has the authority 
and the obligation to hold the President accountable, and this House is 
ready to exercise its constitutional powers.

The American people are demanding action to end this war in Iraq. Let 
us listen to the American people. Tomorrow let us pass this important 
resolution and begin the process of working together as Americans to 
end the war in Iraq.