---
---

# None
## `37aa30d0f6fdec3d140e94a4e943e37c`
`Mr. KRATOVIL — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. KRATOVIL. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the en bloc 
amendment to H.R. 2647. Two specific amendments that I offered are 
included in this package. I encourage my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to support these efforts.

The first modifies the congressionally mandated Report on Progress 
Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan. The amendment requires a 
comprehensive assessment that improves our understanding of the role 
being played by our coalition partners in Afghanistan.

My amendment requires that the report include any specifics on 
existing agreements with NATO countries as well as non-NATO troop 
contributing nations regarding the following: mutually agreed upon 
goals, strategies to achieve those goals, resource and force 
requirements, and commitments of support regarding troop and resource 
levels.

It also requires a listing of the unfulfilled commitments of 
coalition partners, as well as the location and staffing requirements 
of each provincial reconstruction team led by a nation other than the 
United States.

The second amendment I offered allows defense facilities to receive 
financial incentives for implementing energy management policies. 
Current law permits installations to receive financial incentives for 
implementing energy management measures only from an electric utility, 
not from a third-party energy management provider.

Andrews Air Force Base, as an example, was poised to accept $300,000 
in financial incentives for reducing their usage, but was advised that 
they had no authority to accept the incentive from an entity other than 
a utility.

My amendment would give defense facilities the authority to accept 
these financial incentives from third-party energy management 
providers.