---
---

# None
## `37b8c73567a4a8e27b72e7d6d332c6ca`
`Mr. HAGEL — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I rise today to wish the U.S. Army a happy 
birthday. It was 232 years ago today, June 14, 1775, that the 
Continental Army of the United States was formed.

Over the past 232 years, millions of men and women have served in the 
oldest branch of our Armed Forces. Their honor, courage, sacrifice, and 
service are the foundation of America's greatness. The Army principles 
of ''Duty, Honor, Country'' represent the core values of America. Every 
generation of Americans who have served in the U.S. Army--from the 
Continental Army to our fighting men and women serving today in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and elsewhere--has been shaped by these principles. They 
inspire us and will continue to serve as role models for future 
generations.

The Army has steadfastly protected our way of life and has never 
turned from a challenge. As the Army Song so eloquently says:



 First to fight for the right,


 And to build the Nation's might,


 And The Army Goes Rolling Along,


 Proud of all we have done,


 Fighting till the battle's won,


 And the Army Goes Rolling Along.


Today's soldiers are the newest generation in a long line of 
dedicated professionals who have put service to the Nation over self. 
These soldiers, just as those who have gone before them, will continue 
to protect our democracy and make the world more secure, peaceful, and 
prosperous.

On this 232nd birthday of the U.S. Army, we recognize and thank all 
those who have served or are serving our country with pride and honor 
in the uniform of the U.S. Army, especially those serving today in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

''Happy Birthday'' to the U.S. Army.