---
---

# None
## `37c3588ca18c98076d7234f8fc3f0fee`
`Mr. DURBIN — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I will respond to the Senator from Texas, 
as he is deserving of a response.

Look what has just happened. Senator Reid of Nevada has asked for a 
registry for those in the United States afflicted with Lou Gehrig's 
disease. He wants us to at least get the names and identities of people 
who are dying from this disease so that we can start to find treatments 
and cures. The objection came from the Republican side from Senator 
Cornyn of Texas to a registry for patients suffering from Lou Gehrig's 
disease because he insists that we have to also agree to go to a debate 
on funding for the war in Iraq--$50, $60, $70 billion.

The Senator from Texas conceded my point that we were told by the 
Secretary of Defense there is adequate money to continue this war until 
the end of February or first of March. So to say we have to move to 
this immediately is hardly a compelling argument when those are the 
positions taken by the Secretary of Defense.

Then I came in with a request--my own unanimous consent request--to 
go to a veterans bill to deal with traumatic brain injury, the 
signature injury of this war in Iraq, and again the Senator from Texas, 
saying he was speaking on behalf of the Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. 
Coburn, objected to taking up this veterans legislation to provide 
additional health care to deal with the homelessness problem among 
veterans and to increase the travel rate for veterans living in remote 
and rural areas who have to go to clinics and hospitals far from home.

I think it is pretty clear: Almost any excuse will do on the 
Republican side of the aisle to object to moving to legislation. I am 
going to give them one more chance.