---
---

# None
## `37d857164ab0b60aa67bf8301d7b4dc0`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure that 
I rise today to commend the efforts of Operation Smile during their 25 
years of service to the United States and to the world. I would like to 
thank my distinguished colleague, Congresswoman Drake, for sponsoring 
this resolution and bringing it to the floor. As we both represent the 
city of Norfolk, VA, the home of Operation Smile, I would just like to 
say a few words about Operation Smile and its efforts to help children 
around the world.

What Operation Smile has accomplished since its inception is truly 
remarkable. Since its first mission in the Philippines in 1982, 
Operation Smile volunteers have treated more than 100,000 children and 
young adults and have trained thousands of health professionals around 
the world. In addition, through pure determination, Operation Smile has 
built bridges and built trust. As a result, it has created a presence, 
earned the respect of governments and ministries of health, and united 
cultures in over 25 developing countries.

Operation Smile consists of a diverse group of volunteers from 
various countries and cultures, who come together with the common goal 
of repairing childhood facial deformities. Through these missions, the 
strongest bonds of friendships are forged as people who have very 
little in common work together to change a life. Operation Smile has 
demonstrated an ability to find working partnerships amid unstable and 
controversial conditions. Through diplomacy and leadership, coupled 
with medical aid and technology, it is able to heal and inspire cross-
cultural cooperation.

While promoting medical diplomacy, Operation Smile continues to cross 
borders, bridge cultural and ethnic divides, and encourage 
collaboration and commitment. Its success has been astounding and as a 
result, Operation Smile has become the largest volunteer charity of its 
kind. Its efforts go beyond children and their families--Operation 
Smile changes communities, students, medical professionals, and 
healthcare systems.

Just this past year, Operation Smile traveled to Jordan on two 
separate occasions in order to provide life-changing surgeries to 138 
Iraqi children who were transported to Amman from Baghdad, and it 
worked with the Mercy ships to treat 54 children in Bangladesh. These 
missions consisted of volunteers from over a dozen countries who worked 
together side by side to help these children. In this time of war, the 
volunteers of Operation Smile managed to bring a bright light to the 
lives of these children that will last a lifetime.

In the war against terrorism, hatred of Americans by other 
populations is a significant problem. The work of Operation Smile is 
immeasurable in developing good will to counteract that hatred. The 
doctors and other volunteers who work with Operation Smile and the 
children who have been helped by Operation Smile will serve as 
perpetual evidence of our good will and the best America has to offer. 
I cannot think of better ambassadors for the United States than the 
founders of Operation Smile, Dr. Bill and Kathleen Magee.

In 1982, Bill and Kathleen saw a need both abroad and here at home to 
help children with deformities live a better and happier life. Because 
of their diligence, and that of the many volunteers and donors that 
have worked with Operation Smile over the past 25 years, Operation 
Smile has not only created smiles, but has changed the lives of 
hundreds of thousands of children across the globe.

I would like to once again commend Operation Smile on the occasion of 
their 25th anniversary, and I wish them continued success bringing 
smiles to the faces of children and families worldwide.