---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `37f6765b080563ff12c7600b4d2d927a`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 16 June 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor SPC William C. Yauch, 23, 
of Batesville who died in Jalula, Iraq, in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. According to initial reports, Specialist Yauch died of 
injuries sustained when a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device 
detonated near his patrol. He is survived by his wife of Batesville, 
his mother of Cave City, and his father of Saint Charles, MO.

My heart goes out to the family of Specialist Yauch who made the 
ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. Along with all Arkansans, I 
am grateful for his service and for the service and sacrifice of all of 
our military servicemembers and their families. I am committed to 
ensuring they have the full support that they need and deserve. Our 
grateful Nation will not forget them when their military service is 
complete.

More than 11,000 Arkansans on active duty and more than 10,000 
Arkansas reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 
11, 2001. These men and women have shown tremendous courage and 
perseverance through the most difficult of times. As neighbors, as 
Arkansans, and as Americans, it is incumbent upon us to do everything 
we can to honor their service and to provide for them and their 
families, not only when they are in harm's way but also when they 
return home. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.

Specialist Yauch was assigned to B Company, 5th Battalion, 20th 
Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry Division, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA.
