---
---

# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `3806a6d9480c679779b179594b82c743`
`Mr. HODES — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague.

I am happy to be here tonight with my colleagues to speak about the 
issue that predominates in the minds of the people of this country, 
certainly in the minds of my constituents.

We are in a disastrous and unnecessary war in Iraq. I have received 
literally thousands of letters, phone calls and e-mails from the 
constituents of the Second District of New Hampshire, the people I 
represent, the people who sent me to Congress, telling me one thing 
loud and clear: They want us out of this miserable war. They want our 
troops out of the impossible trap of being caught in multiple sectarian 
conflicts.

I have only been in office for 6 months, yet I have received 
thousands and thousands of communications from the people I represent. 
It is past time to change course.

Now, when we do change course, and it is inevitable that we will 
change course, we must do it responsibly and with a view towards 
ensuring that our core values and our vital national security interests 
are protected. We are not talking about precipitous withdrawals. Today, 
when we passed the Responsible Redeployment From Iraq Act, we made sure 
that we set a stage for a responsible course for redeployment of our 
troops, not a precipitous withdrawal.

Day after day, poll after poll, letter after letter, plea after plea, 
the American people, and certainly the people of New Hampshire, are 
demanding we bring this war to a responsible end. As we sit here today, 
we unfortunately are witness to a stunning lack of leadership, a 
failure of leadership, a failure to face the reality from the Bush 
administration.

The President's sad and sorry statement today was counterpoint to the 
mistakes that have been made in the past. In the absence of leadership 
from the White House, Congress has the duty to pick up the ball. We 
have the duty to exercise the moral leadership, the courage and the 
boldness that the American people know will be necessary to forge a 
responsible and comprehensive strategy to protect our security 
interests and lead this country back to a place where our military is 
strong, where our troops are fighting the right fight against al Qaeda, 
and where the American people's trust is restored in their leadership.

So I am glad to be here tonight, and I yield back to you, Ms. Sutton.