---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `3811bd31c0fcb021269c86291cc018d2`
`Mr. CARPER — 31 January 2008`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Improper 
Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2008.

At first glance, a bill with a name like that might not seem too 
exciting. But I can assure my colleagues that it addresses a serious, 
largely unknown problem that is a real threat to our fiscal well being.

Each year, agencies are required to look at all of their programs and 
activities and determine which are susceptible to significant improper 
payments. For those that are deemed at risk, agencies must produce 
estimated error rates that are included in their year-end financial 
statements. They must also come up with action plans for reducing their 
errors.

In fiscal year 2007, agencies are estimated to have made nearly $55 
billion in improper payments. That is an astounding number, Mr. 
President.

We spend so much time around here throwing around numbers like $55 
billion that they begin to lose their meaning. So I want to take a 
minute or so to put that number in perspective.

I was surprised to learn that $55 billion is more than the total 
budget for the Department of Homeland Security. It is also twice as 
much as we're projected to spend to protect the vehicles our soldiers 
are using in Iraq against roadside bombs.

To illustrate further the amount of money we are talking about, $55 
billion is just a little bit less than the total GDP of Vietnam. It is 
a little bit more than the GDPs of Croatia and Slovakia. Most 
astoundingly, $55 billion equals the combined GDPs of 44 of the smaller 
countries in the world.

So our Federal Government is likely wasting more money than the total 
populations of many countries produce in a given year.

But $55 billion is not even a real number. It is likely just the tip 
of the iceberg. It includes no error estimates for massive programs 
like TANF, SCHIP, and the Medicare Prescription Drug Program. So I 
expect that we will see more than $55 billion in improper payments next 
year and the year after.

My colleagues and I on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee's Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management have held six 
hearings focused on this issue now, including one this afternoon. What 
we


have learned is that, in some cases, agencies are just not taking their 
responsibility to deal with and address their problems with improper 
payments and the management weaknesses that can cause them. The bill I 
am bringing forward today addresses just about all of the failures and 
deficiencies we've learned about through our oversight.

My bill starts by improving transparency. OMB right now has set the 
reporting threshold for improper payments too low, meaning millions of 
errors go unreported--and potentially unaddressed--each year. I want to 
lower the reporting threshold so that Congress and the general public 
have a better picture of the problem we face.

My bill would also help to prevent improper payments from happening 
in the first place by requiring that agencies come up with stronger 
corrective action plans and aggressive error reduction targets. It 
would also implement a recent recommendation from GAO that called on 
OMB to develop a process whereby agencies would receive regular audited 
opinions on the financial controls used to prevent improper payments 
before they happen.

My bill would also force agencies to be more aggressive in recovering 
improper payments they make. Some agencies--and most private sector 
firms--regularly go over their books to identify payment errors and get 
back overpayments made to contractors and others they do business with. 
We haven't done that enough in the Federal Government. Even as the 
agencies are reporting more and more improper payments, the amount 
recovered remains miniscule. I want to change this by requiring that 
all agencies with outlays of $1 million or more perform recovery audits 
on all of their programs and activities if doing so is cost effective.

Finally--and perhaps most importantly--my bill would hold agencies 
accountable. Today, as I mentioned, some agencies do not appear to be 
taking improper payments very seriously. I want to force agencies to 
hold top managers accountable for their progress--or lack of progress--
in doing something to take better care of the tax dollars we entrust 
them with.

I look forward to working with my colleagues to get these important 
reforms enacted. I am sure we can all agree that allowing this level of 
waste to continue unchecked is reckless and unacceptable.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.