---
---

# None
## `38183986f8b5c8bdd34f9453d6f5cf13`
`Mr. McHUGH — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. McHUGH. Madam Chairman, let me say at the outset I appreciate the 
gentleman's intent here, and I take at face value and both understand 
and in large measure agree with his intent to serve to clarify the base 
provision in which he is acting on this day.

Having said that, I do have some concerns. I would disagree with the 
gentleman's assertion, as I understood it, and I have to apologize, 
Madam Chairman, because the acoustics were rather difficult and I'm not 
sure I heard everything the gentleman said, but I do believe he was 
saying that there was a predicate reality in the underlying language 
that assumed that military reaction was a given or at least a part of 
it.

I want to make very clear for the record that on our side, Madam 
Chairman, we feel it is critically important, when speaking on this 
important issue to the Iranian people, and particularly the Iranian 
leadership, that they understand that in our mind this is an 
extraordinarily serious issue.

When we were marking up this provision in the full committee, I made 
the comment that ambiguity, lack of clarity, on world and military 
affairs has cost us dearly in the past. One can make the argument that 
at least in significant measure, for example, the Korean War began on 
ambiguity, a lack of clarity as to what the United States would do if 
the Chinese and North Koreans were to take military action, as they 
ultimately did. Similarly, when Iraq, under Saddam Hussein, invaded 
Kuwait, I think you can make the case that Saddam Hussein 
misinterpreted the American position as to what the reaction of this 
Nation would be upon such an invasion.

So we think that clarity should not be confused with militarism. 
Clarity should not be mistaken for belligerence; that clarity, 
particularly when we are talking in matters of warfare, is important.

Having said that, Madam Chairman, I do believe that Chairman Spratt, 
the distinguished member of the Armed Services Committee, has an idea 
that bears consideration here.

I do have a question. I would ask the gentleman from South Carolina, 
and this is not part of the prearranged script and I'm not trying to 
play ''gotcha,'' but I was curious if the gentleman would yield for a 
question that I would like to pose to him.

