---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3836cb78cee3e5e663bc09a08c4d475c`
`Mr. TESTER — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Webb amendment. I 
am pleased to be a cosponsor of this amendment. Much has been made 
about this amendment and the well-being of our troops and their 
families. Make no mistake, this amendment is about ensuring that we do 
not do permanent damage to the military's most valuable asset--its 
people.

Congress must make the health and well-being of our men and women 
overseas a priority. We know multiple deployments with short periods of 
rest back home raise the incidence of PTSD. Studies have shown that the 
likelihood of a soldier being diagnosed with PTSD rises by 50 percent 
when he or she is on a second or third deployment.

We know multiple deployments are causing a massive strain on our 
junior officer corps. Earlier this year, the Army's Deputy Chief of 
Staff told Congress these officers are getting out of the Army at 
nearly double the rate that the Army says is acceptable. That is why 
until this war, we have always given our active-duty soldiers a ratio 
of 2 days at home for every day in combat, and we have always given the 
National Guard and Reserve 5 days at home for every day in combat. That 
has been the standard until this war.

That is why the National Military Families Association supports this 
amendment. That is why the Military Officers Association of America 
supports this amendment. The Military Officers Association says:




 If we are not better stewards of our troops and their 


 families . . . we will be putting the all-volunteer force at 


 unacceptable risk.


I urge my colleagues to listen to what our officers and their 
families are saying through their support of the Webb amendment.

As my colleagues know, I am a farmer; I am not a military expert. But 
I believe and the people of my State believe in no uncertain measure 
that we need to continue to have the strongest military in the world, 
not only today, not only 6 months from now, but 6 years from now as 
well.

The good news is we have a strong military. I represent 3,500 Air 
Force personnel, more than 300 of whom are serving in Iraq and other 
places around the world today. I represent another 3,600 Guardsmen, 
many of whom have spent a tour or two in Iraq. I can tell my colleagues 
that these people are the best in the world at what they do, and I am 
proud to represent them.

But the bad news is what I am hearing is we are in danger of losing 
too many young leaders in our military today who are leading a platoon 
but whom we will be relying on to lead brigades and entire divisions in 
the future.

I know some people on both sides of the aisle have raised the 
question of how this measure will impact the schedule for the surge 
General Petraeus has outlined. The fact is, even if this amendment 
becomes law, the Pentagon would still have another 4 months to prepare 
for the change in policy, and if there is a national emergency, there 
is an opportunity for even more time. The fact is, this amendment will 
have a much greater impact on tomorrow's military than it will impact 
on the military surge.

I believe we need the Webb amendment to ensure that we maintain a 
strong military today, tomorrow, and for years to come.

I congratulate Senator Webb for this amendment. This has been a good 
debate. For the most part, it has been thoughtful and respectful. There 
have been differences of opinion, but it is time to allow this measure 
to have an honest vote before the Senate. Let's not simply debate 
whether to debate this amendment. Let's have an up-or-down vote on the 
measure. Our troops, their families, and the American people deserve 
nothing less.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.