---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3963, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE  PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `383e4325e606cc2d626e8af6fc81029b`
`Mr. SESTAK — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. I rise in 
support of it because this is the sole reason I ran for Congress. I owe 
this Congress. I owe this Nation for what it did for me. A lot of 
people think because I spent 31 years in the military that I got in 
because of Iraq. I did not. It was this bill.

In my last year in the military, my 4-year-old daughter was diagnosed 
with a malignant brain tumor, my sole daughter. She was given 3 to 9 
months to live, and my entitlement from the Federal Government gave her 
an opportunity to be here today.

But during that period of time, there was a young boy, Lance, 2/1/2/ 
years old, who was, as she began her chemotherapy, my daughter's 
roommate. And that first day he was there, we listened as the parents 
of that child sat with social workers for 6 hours who came and went to 
see if that young boy would be given the same opportunity, the same 
entitlement as an American citizen, my daughter, had. It is for Lance 
that I got in this race.

I owe you because my daughter is here today because of the medicine 
that you voted for as a military member. I would like to see every 
young child in America have that one opportunity my daughter did, to 
have the opportunity to be a productive, healthy child and contribute 
to this Nation.

So thank you for the opportunity to speak today and thank you, both 
sides, for giving me the chance for my daughter and, hopefully, Lance 
in the future to be all they can be. I appreciate it.