---
---

# None
## `384106acb1f7d88717fc2451e0c2fc30`
`Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee. Thank you for yielding time.

It's interesting that we stand here and talk about public 
transportation. I represent northeast Tennessee, a rural area, and I 
tell you the people who live in northeast Tennessee don't have access 
to public transportation.

People in rural America are hurting. Young families are hurting. 
Senior adults are hurting. Small businesses are hurting. Sheriffs' 
departments and police departments are hurting.

Let me tell you about two groups. The first is Vern Long. Vern lives 
in Jefferson County, Tennessee. I met with him last Saturday when I was 
back home in the district. Vern is an Iraqi war veteran. He has a wife 
and a child. He lives in Jefferson County and drives to Knoxville, 
Tennessee to work every day. He makes $8 an hour. He's an apprentice 
electrician. He wants to go on to be an electrician. He has to drive 
into Knoxville, and it costs him $90 a week, $90 a week to fill up his 
tank. He told me, ''Congressman, if the Congress doesn't pass an energy 
bill to bring these gas prices down, I may have to go on welfare and 
quit my job. And I want to protect my family. I want to be there to 
protect my future.''

Let me tell you about Sheriff Steve Burns. Sheriff Burns is from 
Greene County, Tennessee. I met with him last Saturday. He told me he 
put his budget together for Greene County this past February and March. 
He said, if it passes in the county commission as he presented it, he 
will be $50,000 in the hole because of high gas prices.

Public transportation bills to send bureaucrats to work in Washington 
will not help rural America. America is hurting. We need an energy 
policy. We don't need more excuses, and we don't need more bills that 
make it sound good and look like we're trying to do something here. We 
need an energy that actually uses American oil, natural gas, coal-to-
liquid technology,


clean coal technology. We need to use nuclear power. Yes, we need green 
energy. We need all of the above. The American people are demanding 
action, real action, not excuses from Washington.

Please, I beg the majority. Let's take this burden of high gas prices 
off of people like Vern Long and off of sheriffs' departments like 
Sheriff Steve Burns'. Let's pass some real energy legislation. No more 
excuses.