---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `38649eb357121443184f172708209bda`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, the Wall Street Journal accused us of 
trying to micromanage this war. Well, this President has not listened 
to the generals. He hasn't listened to the American people. And he 
hasn't listened to the Iraqi people. He has micromanaged this failure.

Four and a half years ago, Madam Speaker, on this floor I stood in 
this Chamber, along with 295 of my colleagues, to support the 
resolution authorizing the President to attack Iraq. I regret that vote 
deeply. And I told my constituents in my district 1/1/2/ years ago that 
I made a mistake. Down the street they make no mistakes. They are 
infallible.

I did so because the premise on which we authorized this war was 
false, the military plan for victory has been weak, and more than 5 
years later, this war has made our Nation less safe.

We stand ready to vote on a different resolution that could take a 
significant step towards remedying the historic mistake we made in 
October of 2002. The troop escalation advocated by President Bush will 
only widen our involvement in this conflict and put more brave American 
troops in the middle of a vicious civil war. Voting in favor of the 
President's escalation plan is an historic error, and I stress the 
historic nature of this debate because I am a firm believer that 
history is telling of the future.

The history of this war shows that this President cannot form the 
right policy for victory. He should have sent additional troops in 2003 
when the generals asked him to do that, when it was possible to restore 
order in Baghdad, instead of now in 2007 when violence reigns supreme.

The history of Iraq shows it has been wracked by sectarian and ethnic 
division long before it was even a state, a fact conveniently ignored 
by this President and his supporters on their march to Baghdad.

Remember, Iran and Syria and others are possibly fighting a proxy war 
by


supplying insurgents against an unpopular foreign occupier, the same 
role that we played in helping the Afghans to fight the Soviets 20 
years ago; and we know how that conflict turned out.

In history I see the lessons, Madam Speaker. As I speak today, in 280 
B.C. when King Pyrrhus of Greece defeated the Romans during the Pyrrhic 
War, his army suffered irreplaceable casualties in battle. And when he 
was congratulated on his victory, he replied: ''Another such victory 
like that over the Romans and we are undone.''

We have heard the word ''success'' and we have heard the word 
''victory'' so many times that they are now as pyrrhic, empty, 
fleeting, hollow.



The lesson is clear. The President's escalation plan offers an 
illusion, when only the real hope is that it offers a Pyrrhic victory 
at best.

Our Armed Forces have been used, abused, refused and accused. They 
have been overstretched. They were ill-equipped from the very 
beginning. Don't tell us we don't support the troops, when you did not 
give what they deserved in the field of battle. Our military readiness 
to fight the ongoing war on terror is now in serious doubt because of 
this war. Don't question our patriotism. Don't question our support or 
the American people's. Listen.

By the way, Madam Speaker, have we asked the Iraqis what they feel? 
Well, 80 percent of them want us out. Don't they count? Can't we ask 
and listen to at least the very people whose country we occupy, this 
sovereign nation? This is unbelievable. It is illusionary at best. And 
what will we say to these Iraqi people? I want to hear the answer from 
the other side. What is your answer for them when they say, Don't stay 
here, and certainly don't escalate. I ask the loyal opposition to our 
resolution to tell the American people how much do the intentions of 
the Iraqi people really matter to you?

The epicenter of our fight against terror is on the border of 
Afghanistan and Pakistan. Many of us have been there. Many of us have 
gone there. You have forgotten that part of the world, which many did 
not even know on September 11, 2001, where Afghanistan was in the first 
place.

The clear message we send to the Iraqi people and the American people 
is that we will bring freedom to Iraq, even if it takes the blood of 
every Iraqi and the lives of more American soldiers. That is not good 
enough. That is not acceptable.

You have heard the statistics from speaker after speaker. Previous 
escalations in this war have not worked. Why will this one work? Our 
ill-fated presence in Iraq is being used as a propaganda tool for the 
enemy, al Quaeda, and other terrorists worldwide.

