# MAKING CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `386a47722b9f266fcd7e0946785178a5`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to speak 
about the continuing resolution on which the Senate will soon vote. The 
resolution itself is a reasonable product that is largely the result of 
bicameral, bipartisan discussions. The resolution will allow the day-
to-day functions of our Government to continue and will provide at 
least some of the additional funding that is necessary for our troops 
in Iraq and Afghanistan to execute the mission with which they have 
been tasked. It is also worth noting that the resolution does not 
attempt to use its inherent leverage to force any significant or 
controversial policy changes. I urge my colleagues to support passage 
of the resolution.

But as we come to the end of the fiscal year, I must express my deep 
concern about the lack of progress toward enacting the appropriations 
bills. This lack of progress is not the fault of the Appropriations 
Committee. Under Chairman Byrd's leadership, the committee reported all 
twelve bills in ample time to be considered by the full Senate over the 
course of the summer. But for whatever reason, to date the Senate has 
passed only four of the twelve regular appropriations bills, and 
prospects for consideration of the remaining bills appear uncertain at 
best.

Last year, under Republican leadership, the Senate failed to send all 
but two of the appropriations bills to the President. We were roundly 
criticized for this, and rightly so. As a result we left Federal 
agencies to limp along on a continuing resolution for 5 months, and 
were then presented with a full-year, formula-driven joint funding 
resolution to which no Senator had an opportunity to offer amendments. 
That is a process that I hope will not be repeated. No Senator should 
want that.

We simply need to buckle down and do our work. It is true that the 
President has said he will veto many of the appropriations bills based 
on his concerns about spending levels. It seems that there are people 
on both sides of the aisle and both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue who 
feel strongly about that question, and who are quite anxious to have 
that debate. But we can't have the debate if we don't call up the 
bills. The President can't veto what we haven't presented to him, and 
Congress can't vote to uphold or override a veto that never gets 
executed.

I understand that completing action on the remaining bills seems like 
a daunting task. But I know of no better way to complete such a task 
than to roll up our sleeves and get to work. I am pleased to hear the 
majority leader suggest that next week we will consider the Defense and 
the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bills. This is good news. I 
urge my colleagues to offer their amendments promptly when these bills 
are called up and to recognize that the opportunity to offer amendments 
to the subsequent bills is dependent on completing action on the 
pending bills.

It is particularly critical that we complete action on the Defense 
appropriations bill and the supplemental appropriations necessary to 
support the men and women in our Armed Forces and our diplomatic corps. 
While I am encouraged that we may consider the regular Defense 
appropriations bill next week, I am seriously concerned about reports 
that Congress may not consider a supplemental appropriations bill for 
the global war on terror until next year. While the continuing 
resolution we will pass tonight contains some ''bridge'' funding to 
support the troops through November 16, is an inadequate amount for the 
longer term.

As directed by Congress, the President submitted an FY 2008 war 
supplemental request in February. We expect to receive an amendment to 
that request any day. The Appropriations Committee held a hearing on 
these requests on Wednesday, and should be prepared in short order to 
act on legislation to fund our troops in the field. Delaying 
consideration of such legislation until next year is simply 
unacceptable. We have spent the last 2 weeks, and much of this 
Congress, in earnest and often useful debate on Iraq war policy. 
Amendments have been offered and votes have been taken. Deeply felt 
disagreements remain.

But the fact is that we have tens of thousands of American men and 
women in Iraq and Afghanistan performing the mission that their 
Government has assigned to them. The new fiscal year is upon us, and it 
is time for us to get on with the business of providing our men and 
women in uniform the resources they need to perform that mission 
successfully. To try to change American policy in Iraq by slowly 
starving our troops of those resources is unfair, and it is dangerous 
to American interests.

I urge the Senate to both forge ahead to complete action on the 
regular appropriations bills and to act promptly to provide our troops 
with the supplemental funds that they need.