# None
## `386cd6a4d78139e2b9e1260e86450d82`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. If I was one of those high-priced 
political consultants and a prospective candidate came to me and said, 
listen, this is what I want to be for, this is what I want to be known 
for, I want to stand with the President every turn, make sure we stay 
in Iraq for as long as we can. I think I am also going to be against 
children's health care insurance. I am going to try to defend the


status quo on our health care system. I think it's about right, I think 
we got it right.

Also, I think I also want to be against affordable college. I think I 
also want to fight against increases in Pell Grants and Stafford loans 
and all the rest. If I was that political consultant I might sort of 
look at my watch, look at my date book, and, you know, take a pass on 
that one.

You know why? It's not about Republicans or Democrats. It's what the 
American people are asking for; it's what the American people have been 
crying for. They want a new direction in Iraq. They want help with the 
cost of getting by every day, which certainly includes the cost of 
health care and college affordability. They want a place that is 
listening to them again instead of listening to the White House and the 
banks and everyone else that has had the run of this place for a while.

It will be another good week here, and I hope sooner rather than 
later some of our friends across the aisle join us in standing up for 
what the American people have been crying for for a real long time.