---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `38712279959d75e6dfad94ebdffebe27`
`Mr. HUNTER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, thank you, and I wanted to take this couple 
of minutes to expand on my conversation with the majority leader.

Mr. Speaker, it has been said a number of times that we went over the 
berm and went into Iraq without body armor. In fact, no American troops 
until just a couple of years ago, from the time that we were first a 
Nation and deployed military forces on our homeland or around the 
world, in all those years, in that entire history of the United States, 
we never had body armor. I never had body armor in Vietnam. Nobody ever 
saw it. We had no body armor in Korea. We had no body armor in World 
War II, except perhaps in very, very specialized operations where 
perhaps specialized custom-made body armor, that is, bulletproof armor 
would be manufactured for some special forces teams or special 
operations.

Now, I have in front of me a comparison. This comparison is between a 
soldier in 1999, at the end of the last administration and the 
equipment that he has, and a soldier today. Now, as you can see, this 
is a soldier in 1999. He has a number of accessories. In fact, he has 
an M-16; he has a flak jacket; he has gloves; he has load-carrying 
equipment; he has protective goggles. He does have a night vision 
device. He has also got a helmet and accessories that can be utilized 
when he is in combat.

Now, the soldier today has a lot more. That soldier has, for example, 
instead of an M-16, he has an M-4 carbine. He has now body armor, 
including an outer tactical vest body armor. He has enhanced small arms 
protective inserts, called SAPI plates. He has deltoid auxillary 
protection and side plates. He has knee pads. He has more sophisticated 
aiming equipment and night vision equipment than his counterpart of 
just a couple of years ago.

My point is that whenever new systems are introduced into the force, 
and the first thousand or so systems or several thousand systems go 
into the force and a battalion or even a brigade has those pieces of 
equipment, you can by definition say that everybody else that doesn't 
have them is now deficient in equipment. But, in fact, they are not 
deficient in equipment. This point was made by a leader in the 101st 
Airborne who pointed out that one of his battalions that they looked 
at, which was rated the top level of readiness, that is C-1 readiness, 
ready to go, ready to fight, in 1999. If you took all of the new 
equipment that troops have today and put that new equipment on as a 
requirement for that same battle-ready battalion in 1999, they would be 
rendered C-4, or unready for battle by definition because they don't 
have the new equipment.

So I think one thing we need to do, as we lean on the Army, the 
Marine Corps, and the other services to move equipment into the field 
quickly, let's not penalize them, and when they move the first several 
thousand sets into the field, let's not say, Congratulations, you've 
just rendered on paper the rest of your units unready because they 
don't have the new stuff you're moving in. That will have a chilling 
effect on


what is already a very cumbersome process and a very steep bureaucracy 
to get through in terms of moving equipment to the field.

I wanted to just make that point.

What I would like to do at this point is yield as much time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Forbes).