---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `387c26d51eee46173ff1e59b6e5be839`
`Mr. LEAHY — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I see the distinguished senior Senator from 
Michigan on the Senate floor, the chairman of the committee, and the 
distinguished Senator from Alabama, a key member of the committee. I 
will speak on the Wartime Enforcement of Fraud Act. This was introduced 
last night. It is one I hope the Senate will wholeheartedly accept.

For more than 5 years, America has been fighting wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. In fact, we have been there longer than we were in World 
War II. But efforts to investigate contracting fraud during these wars 
continue to lag. Part of the reason is not because the authorities 
don't want to find out whether there has been fraud, but it is 
difficult to uncover fraud when you are in a shooting war and conflicts 
continue.

The problem is not new--this has happened before--and the solution is 
not new. Current law extends the statute of limitations for contracting 
fraud offenses during wartime to address this problem. In other words, 
if fraud has occurred, you have a certain statute of limitations. We 
would simply extend it. This commonsense law was passed by Congress 
during World War II with the support of President Roosevelt. A similar 
provision was passed in World War I. Those were wars in which we were 
involved for less time than we have been involved in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Current law only applies to declared wars and not to 
circumstances where Congress only authorizes the use of military force 
rather than officially declaring war. So the extension of the statute 
of limitations doesn't apply to the ongoing wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

The bipartisan Wartime Enforcement of Fraud Act will close that 
technical loophole. It will apply the law that we already have on the 
books, but it will apply it not only to declared wars but also to the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I was pleased to join with Senator 
Grassley of Iowa earlier this year to introduce this legislative fix, 
and the Judiciary Committee reported this measure before the August 
recess. With each passing day, we are losing the legal authority to 
prosecute fraud in Iraq and Afghanistan because the existing law that 
extends the statute of limitations does not apply to these wars.

We have an obligation, no matter whether one is for or against the 
war in Iraq, to protect the public interest and certainly to protect 
taxpayer dollars during times of war. This simple amendment will allow 
us to do so. We have done that in past wars. Iraq and Afghanistan 
should be no different.

We have well-documented reports of fraud and abuse, as we have seen 
in other wars. When we are spending billions of dollars, often in a 
hurry, it is an open invitation for people to put their own interests 
ahead of the interests of the country, and those people who then 
defraud our great Nation at a time of war should be punished for it. 
They should not be let off the hook. Too many brave men and women are 
putting their lives on the line in Iraq and Afghanistan. Too many 
brave, patriotic Americans are doing everything they possibly can over 
there, risking and often losing their lives every day. We should not 
allow those who want to make money out of their sacrifice and defraud 
the Government to get away with it. The bill being paid by the American 
taxpayers for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is high enough. As in 
past wars, Congress should do all it can to ensure their money is not 
lost to waste and fraud.

I hope Senators will join in this effort. This is not creating a new 
crime. It is simply saying those who do commit crimes, who do defraud 
America, who do defraud people who are over there serving our country, 
ought to be punished. I find it hard to think Members would disagree 
with that.

I yield the floor.