# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `38832b8d9e35241f811d0787d20bb5d7`
`Mr. BAUCUS â€” 1 October 2008`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague Senator 
Tester, to recognize MG Randall D. Mosley, Adjutant General for the 
great state of Montana. MG Randall D. Mosley has served our Nation and 
the State of Montana for over 38 years and has recently retired. The 
Montana Guard was established in 1889. Since then, few adjutant 
generals have faced as many challenges as Major General Mosley. We 
Montanans were so lucky to have such a great citizen soldier at the 
helm of our National Guard. I want to take a few moments to recount the 
career of this great Montanan.



General Mosley's career is a model of public service and serves an 
example for all those in the military. He never backed down to any 
challenging issue, of which he had many. During his tenure, duty called 
several thousand Montana National Guard members to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The deployments put great strains on the soldiers and 
airmen that answered the call, as well as the families of the soldiers 
that stayed at home. General Mosley worked tirelessly before, during, 
and after each deployment to support his troops and their families.

General Mosley understood that troops returning home from overseas 
need the support of the whole community. General Mosley worked to 
improve community awareness of the challenges troops face upon 
returning from combat. As it became clear that the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan were creating new forms of injuries, he led an overhaul of 
Montana's postdeployment health reassessment program. General Mosley 
put together a task force with community leaders from around the state. 
The task force developed better ways to care for his troops as they 
returned home.

Thanks to General Mosley's leadership, the Montana National Guard has 
one of the best yellow-ribbon programs in the country. It is a model 
for the rest of the nation to follow. Improved mental health care is 
now available to Montana's guardsmen and their families. The Guard 
offers training workshops to help troops transition back to everyday 
life. Montanans are truly grateful to General Mosley for his leadership 
on this critical issue.

I now yield to my colleague from Montana, Senator Tester.