# RECOGNIZING THE 938TH ENGINEER DETACHMENT
## `38851d98d18dd1e351af474c6605127b`
`Mr. CRAPO — 11 September 2008`

---

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, it is an honor for me to recognize 
the remarkable achievement of a group of Idaho citizen soldiers, the 
938th Engineer Detachment from Driggs. The 938th was recently awarded 
the Meritorious Unit Commendation, one of the U.S. Army's highest 
honors. According to BG Alan Gayhart, an Idaho unit has not won this 
award since the days of World War II, over 60 years ago. The 938th 
Engineer Battalion participated in Operation Iraqi Freedom from 
February 2003 to March 2004. The unit operated in the capacity of fire 
prevention and combat aircraft protection for the 101st Airborne 
Division in northern Iraq. This was a difficult mission, and one that 
they executed with professionalism, skill, and excellence. The 
firefighters worked tirelessly in their protection and prevention 
efforts in defense of freedom, and I am happy for their safe return to 
family and friends. I also keep the families and friends of those who 
made the ultimate sacrifice in prayer as they continue on without their 
loved ones.

Idaho has a proud history of military service. Her sons and daughters 
have been serving our Nation in uniform far from home since the days of 
the Spanish American War in the early 20th century. The Meritorious 
Unit Commendation which the 938th Engineer Battalion received is 
awarded to military commands that display exceptionally meritorious 
conduct in the performance of outstanding service, heroic deed or 
valorous actions. The unit was recommended for the award by the U.S. 
Army's higher headquarters and was selected by the Pentagon for the 
commendations.
