# None
## `38887c0204e55a2abfd43ddf5bc93d2d`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I thank the gentleman from Kentucky and the 
gentleman from New York. I certainly agree with all the statements you 
have made and would just share a few of my own thoughts on the budget.

A budget is a statement of our values, as Americans, collectively. We 
are not Democrats, we are not Republicans, we are not independents, we 
are Americans. We all are putting a lot of money, hard-earned money 
into the government. The question is what's going to be done with it. 
What is the best value that can be used to help people achieve a better 
life, help our economy, help job creation and all those things that are 
important to our communities.



The biggest concern that I have with the budget that is being 
proposed by the administration is to me it is more of missed 
opportunities. We know that we have a difficult economy right now. 
Certainly in Florida where we have had tremendous growth over the last 
number of years, all of a sudden things have stopped. The real estate 
market and all of the various businesses that are affected, and 
homeowners that are affected by a real estate market that has slowed to 
a standstill, we need to help people through the foreclosures and 
various other things. But what does this budget do, something that all 
of us said we were going to change.

In this body we have PAYGO, pay as you go. We can only pass 
legislation that is paid for in advance. My two friends here are fiscal 
hawks. We believe in a deficit that has to be brought down and a 
balanced budget. That is the way we live our personal lives. In the 
State legislature, we had balanced budgets. That is the way you run 
your business.

What does this budget do? First of all, it is over $3 trillion. The 
amount of money going into the Federal Government is extraordinary from 
an administration that said they wanted smaller government and less 
spending.

Put that issue aside for a second, this continues the budget deficit 
and increases it by another $400 billion. This is after, as the 
gentleman from New York said, this does not stop the biggest tax 
increase, the alternative minimum tax, which we tried to fix. We had a 
very good way of fixing it this year, and the President refused. Some 
people on the other side of the aisle in the Senate refused to do it. 
It has to be fixed.

The President in his proposal cuts Medicare and Medicaid. I don't 
know about you; I am sure you are hearing the same thing I'm hearing. 
Our doctors, our hospitals, our providers, they are taking care of our 
Medicare population in our communities, and they are feeling it. They 
have been cut and cut and cut, and it is not keeping up with the cost 
of operating a practice. We know that they need to receive fair 
compensation. That is unacceptable. I don't think that is something 
that this Congress is going to support. So again, an assumption that 
doesn't have any bearing on where things are going.

The President, who has been a big supporter of the Iraq war, as we 
know, and has continued to ask for more and more money, hundreds of 
billions of dollars, interestingly enough, in this budget sets it up 
for $70 billion of additional expenditures only through January 20. 
Now, what is January 20? That is Inauguration Day of a new President, 
whoever that may be.

But boy, is that an unrealistic way of looking at it, particularly 
after he has been criticizing Members of Congress saying that you can't 
put a date at the end of funding because you are going to cut off our 
troops, cut off funding of the bullets and all of the necessary 
support, which we are not prepared to do, but he is doing.

He is saying on January 20, if you pass this budget, there is no more 
money after that date to fund the Iraq war, not because he doesn't want 
to fund the Iraq war, but that is how he is creating a smaller amount 
of a big deficit. Instead of $400 billion, it would be $500 billion or 
something like that.

So the question is what can we do, because I think there are a whole 
lot of assumptions here that are incorrect.

I have a chart here that I have talked about before, and I think this 
is totally unacceptable. The lack of fiscal discipline of this 
administration over the last 6 or 7 years has resulted in increasing 
debt to an unacceptable amount in terms of us bringing our budget in 
line.

So, although the financing of the war, which has been off the books, 
the financing of all of these various things that the President wanted 
to fund, instead of cutting spending or being a little more fiscally 
responsible, we have been borrowing, and borrowing from foreign 
investors. Those are foreign countries. We are a debtor country to 
China and Mexico, and the list goes on and on.

Under this administration, in trillions of dollars we are talking 
about, in 2001 the amount of foreign-held Treasury securities was $1 
trillion. That is a massive amount of money. In the last 6 years, it 
has now doubled to $2.3 trillion. Just to put it in perspective, the 
amount of interest that we are paying this year, strictly interest, not 
principal, not amortizing of the principal and interest together, just 
interest is over $300 billion. To me, that is money we are just 
flushing down the drain.

If there was some fiscal discipline like the House leadership has 
been pushing, we could take that money and do a number of things. We 
could take care of Americans first. How about all of us, whether it is 
health care, job creation, job training, so many infrastructure issues 
in our communities; these are the issue of our day.

And instead of sending that money overseas to pay interest, not even 
principal, that is $300 billion that is being thrown out the door 
offshore to some other country because we don't have the wherewithal, 
as we do in this House, because the President hasn't been willing to 
work with us in bringing this budget in line.

Mr. Speaker, there are many Republicans as well, but certainly the 
Democrats have stood together on this, and we welcome everyone as 
Americans to focus on this together. We have to get the budget in line. 
The budget that is being proposed by the President right now is 
something that is relying on a lot of unrealistic assumptions that will 
never pass because the American people don't want them to be cut, 
whether Medicare and a number of other things, and we have to find a 
way to get the budget deficit under control. That is essential. We 
can't mortgage the future of our country. We cannot allow our children 
to have to pay and our grandchildren to have to pay for something that 
this generation wasn't prepared to stand up and say, Yes, we can live 
within our means. Yes, we can have a strong economy and fight wars when 
necessary. And yes, we will take care of Americans when there are 
natural disasters, and it can all be done under a fiscally responsible 
way, and that has not been the record of this administration. We are 
going to work hard in a bipartisan way to get this under control.

I appreciate the fact that the gentleman from Kentucky brought this 
to us, and I look forward to working with him and the gentleman from 
New York on fixing this problem.