# DOES ANYBODY CARE? HAS ANYBODY NOTICED?
## `3894f69ef1fe326ef6a89bd39592fb9d`
`Mr. PAUL — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Madam Speaker, does anybody care, has anybody noticed, 
that:

Our policy toward Iran is hostile and provocative, and thus war seems 
inevitable?

That we have seized Iranians in Iraq, who claim they are diplomats, 
and now we have announced that any Iranians found in Iraq may be shot?

Has anybody noticed that large numbers of Iranians go back and forth 
into Iraq for many reasons, including family, religious and medical 
reasons, and probably for their own security as well?

Iraq Prime Minister Maliki has expressed opposition to the surge of 
U.S. troops?

That the violence in Iraq has sharply escalated since Saddam Hussein 
was hanged?

That the American electorate voted for deescalation of the war, and 
yet the war is being expanded with no new strategic goals?

That Iraqi officials, from the government we installed, have held 
conciliatory talks with Iranian officials, something we refuse to do?

That our own CIA acknowledges that Iran is not likely to have a 
nuclear weapon for at least 10 more years?

That Iran has a right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes under 
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, yet we claim they do not? By 
denying this right to Iran, we actually are violating the NPT.

The neoconservative propagandists promote the idea that President 
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad speaks for the Iranian people and her government, 
even though he lacks real power, in order to stir up hatred and 
generate popular support for an attack on Iran?

We completely ignore the leaders of Iran's National Security Council 
who have made reasonable statements about the United States and are 
open to direct talks with us?

That our threats and sanctions against Iran compound the problem by 
unifying the Iranians against us and undermining the moderates who are 
favorable toward America?

The latest accusations against Iran sound like a replay of the same 
charges against Iraq 5 years ago?

But not only does Iran not have a nuclear weapon, it has no 
significant military power; it is a Third World nation that could be 
wiped off the face of the Earth by the U.S. or by Israel if it ever 
attempted hostilities toward us?

One thing for sure, the Iranians are not suicidal?

But our policies toward Pakistan, India and North Korea serve as a 
great incentive for nations to seek a nuclear weapon, and thus gain 
respect at home and abroad while greatly lessening the odds of being 
attacked by us?

The promoters of military confrontation, who glibly criticize those 
who do not support preemptive, aggressive war are themselves the most 
extreme diplomatic isolationists, refusing any dialogue with our 
enemies or potential enemies?

There is no definition for victory in Iraq, and our goals are 
constantly changing, while the supporters of the war refuse to 
recognize that a war without purpose, by definition, cannot be won?

That it is now argued that after 4 years of killing, we cannot leave 
Iraq because a worse chaos would ensue?

That the U.S. naval buildup in the Persian Gulf has ominous 
overtones, none peaceful?

The world is preparing for a significant escalation of hostilities in 
the region, but are the American people prepared?

Most Americans in the November election asked for something quite 
different?

Our proxy war to bring about regime change in Somalia and gain 
control of the Horn of Africa scarcely has been noticed by the American 
public or the politicians in Washington?

That few observers noticed that we have placed in power some of the 
same warlords who humiliated us in 1993 in Mogadishu?

That the empty slogan ''War on Terror'' has no meaning and, 
therefore, it has no end?

That it serves as an excuse for endless war, anyplace, anytime.

That terrorism is a mere tactic and does not describe the nature of 
the enemy?

That acts by criminal gangs do not justify remaking the Middle East 
and Central Asia?

The careless support for this international war on terrorism has 
permitted the U.S. to intervene militarily and to bring about regime 
change in three countries: Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia. Now we are 
provoking Iran so we can have an excuse to do the same thing there. But 
who knows, maybe we will have to deal with a regime change in Pakistan 
first, a regime change that will not be to our liking.

Let us hope Congress comes to its senses soon and starts to defund 
our interventionist policies before we go broke. Time is short.
