---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `38a5676de00183bafb4c0714e37ccea5`
`Ms. HARMAN — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Speaker and I thank the 
gentleman for yielding, and commend our leadership for organizing this 
very thoughtful and sober 3-day debate on a very serious issue.

Mr. Speaker, as Co-chair of the Blue Dog National Security Working 
Group, I rise to oppose the surge and to support tough and smart 
security strategies, including those outlined in H. Res. 97, authored 
by the Blue Dogs, to end war profiteering, put future war costs on 
budget, and adopt a Truman Committee to make those who have engaged in 
fraud and abuse in Iraq accountable for their actions.

As we conduct this historic debate, however, I am mindful that, eight 
time zones away, crouched in a tank somewhere in Baghdad, a 19-year-old 
private is doing his best to restore order to a city descending into 
all-out civil war. We owe this soldier, his mates, and their families 
so much. They volunteered to put their lives on the line to keep this 
country safe.

We in this Chamber also want to keep this country safe, but we do not 
share those day-to-day risks. Only a handful here have relatives in 
Iraq living the life of the soldier I described.

Mr. Speaker, as we have sadly learned, the intelligence that took us 
to war was wrong. Some of the most inaccurate claims--that an 
operational relationship existed between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein, 
that vast WMD stockpiles existed with their locations pinpointed--were 
presented by the administration as fact, even though the Intelligence 
Community had discredited them. That was shameful.

Most intelligence agencies around the world thought, however, that 
Saddam Hussein had WMD and the intention to use it against his people 
and U.S. interests. They believed it, and so did I. But they were 
wrong, and so was I.

The actions taken 4 years ago in Iraq created a failed state. We took 
out its government and occupied the country, unsuccessfully. About one 
year later, millions of Iraqis courageously elected a government, but 
that government barely functions, and we continue to occupy Iraq 
militarily.

Mr. Speaker, there are no good military options left in Iraq.

To the soldier currently in harm's way, I say, ''You are a hero. You 
are doing your best to follow orders and to serve your country.'' But I 
also say, ''We have given you a mission impossible, and that mission 
must change.''

We have a moral obligation to leave Iraq in better shape than we 
found it, and that will not be achieved by surging 21,500 more troops 
into Baghdad. The surge will not work, and I oppose it.

But abandoning Iraq is not a viable alternative. We must invest in 
strategies to contain and ultimately reduce violence there in order to 
create stability in Iraq and in the region. That must now be our focus.

The Iraq Study Group made important recommendations to do this, 
including changing the military mission in Iraq; tying future U.S. 
support to measurable progress on national reconciliation; security and 
governance; and aggressive diplomatic outreach to Iraq's neighbors--
including Syria and Iran. But this administration rejected them.

Two weeks ago, a Saban Center report by Daniel Byman and Ken Pollack 
carefully assessed options to contain the spillover from an Iraqi civil 
war. They include not trying to pick winners between the Sunnis and 
Shia; pulling back from population centers; providing support for 
Iraq's neighbors; and laying down ''red lines'' to Iran. All of these 
ideas have merit.

Further good ideas come from David Schaeffer, a former U.S. 
ambassador-at-large for war crimes issues, to put the Iraqi Government 
on an ''atrocity watch'' and warn its leaders that they can be 
prosecuted for war crimes if ethnic cleansing occurs.

Mr. Speaker, the Bush administration has made calamitous mistakes in


prosecuting this war. The surge, I fear, is yet another one. With this 
resolution, Congress starts action to force a change in strategy and to 
bring that soldier in downtown Baghdad and his comrades home safely--
and soon