# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `38ac3ced2f9d03fcf114dcc506819b83`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk, 
amendment 4238, which I will call up at the appropriate time, but for 
now I would like to explain to my colleagues what this amendment is 
about.

This amendment is very similar to a provision Senator Gregg included 
in the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget resolution. It would stop Congress's 
addiction to emergency spending. It would create a point of order 
against any spending over a designated amount set aside for 
emergencies--called an ''emergency reserve fund.'' By now Congress 
knows that we will have emergencies every year.

We should, therefore, set aside a designated amount for true 
emergencies to meet that obligation and try to stick to it, rather than 
continuing on with an unlimited emergency designation that just invites 
abuse and irresponsible budgeting.

When I was Governor of Ohio I had a rainy day fund, or a savings 
account, for those economic downturns or unforeseen events beyond the 
control of even the best money managers. Soon after I arrived at the 
statehouse, I discovered that Ohio's rainy day fund was at 14 cents, 
but by the end of my eight years as Governor, I had increased the rainy 
day fund balance to $906.9 million.

Again and again, the United States Congress has abused the emergency 
designation to skirt around budget limits and pay-go. We all understand 
that on occasion we face natural disasters or unanticipated crises such 
as Hurricane Katrina and 9/11 that require emergency resources. For 
this reason, we cannot estimate all of our emergency spending in the 
budget each year.

But I am extremely concerned that Congress has abused the emergency 
designation in recent years to spend large sums of money outside the 
budget for purposes that are not true emergencies. Congress doesn't 
even count the money as spending. If spending is designated as 
''emergency,'' it is exempted from budget controls and spending limits. 
Congress doesn't even count the money on spending.

An example of the sort of abuse of emergency spending that concerns 
me is the designation of funding for the 2000 Census as an emergency, 
even though the U.S. Constitution has required a census be conducted 
every 10 years since 1790. The definition of ''emergency'' uses words 
like ''sudden'' and ''unforeseen.'' But in 2000 we had known about the 
census for 210 years. This is absurd.

As part of my effort to reign in wasteful spending and conduct 
meaningful oversight of government programs, I asked the GAO to review 
trends in so-called ''emergency'' and ''supplemental'' spending over 
the decade stretching from 1997 through 2006, as well as propose 
reforms to ensure that emergency funding truly is for real emergencies 
and not simply a way to camouflage spending that is driving up the 
national debt.

GAO found that $31 billion over a 10-year period did not fit the 
definition of an ''emergency,'' 35 spending accounts received emergency 
funding in at least six out of 10 years, and over one-third of 
emergency spending has no time limit on when agencies can spend the 
money.

My amendment would state that the fiscal year 2009 emergency 
designation can only be used for $65 billion worth of spending-
reserving $50 billion for the global war on terror and leaving another 
15 billion for any legitimate emergencies. Of course, this $50 billion 
would be in addition to the $70 billion already in the Budget for Iraq 
and Afghanistan-and so my amendment would allow $120 billion total for 
the global war on terror outside the discretionary spending limits.

This point of order could be raised against any spending over the 
designated amount set aside for emergencies and would make clear that 
this increase in spending would have to bust through the regular 
budget. Of course, the Senate could still bust the budget with 60 
votes, but at least someone would be throwing a penalty flag so that we 
are being honest about it, instead of using the emergency label to 
claim we are staying within the budget when we are not.

Mr. President, $50 billion is based on the 5-year average for 
emergency defense spending and $15 billion is based on the 10-year 
average for certain other types of emergencies, as estimated by the 
GAO. These levels are based on a recent study conducted at my request 
by the Government Accountability Office evaluating recent trends in 
emergency spending.

I hope that my amendment can find broad bipartisan support, and that 
we can begin to eliminate some of the outright abuses of the emergency 
designation.

It is time for us to be honest with the American people about the 
true state of our nation's fiscal health and stop relying on smoke and 
mirrors. The longer Congress waits before it gets serious about fiscal 
responsibility, the heavier the burden will be for our kids and 
grandkids. And it all starts with honest and transparent budgeting.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.