---
---

# None
## `38b8b9d430baa0a846b3ced2495f7f97`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. I would like to thank my colleague from New York and 
also my colleague from Indiana.

Mr. Chairman, you know, it's interesting to have that discussion 
about what is a haircut. At this very time this would lead, if I am not 
mistaken, this actual amendment would lead to about a $150 million cut 
to assistance in Israel. At no time is there a more precarious moment 
in Israel's history since the founding of the State of Israel, since 
you have now a war in Lebanon that is affecting the security of the 
State of Israel. You have the Gaza strip, which has been turned over to 
Hamas, an enemy of the United States. There is no time that is a more 
precarious moment in Israel's security.

You have what's going on in Lebanon on its northern side. You have 
what's going on in Iraq, Jordan, dealing with over 1 million Iraqi 
refugees; Gaza being taken over by Hamas, which is committed to 
Israel's destruction.

And what do our Republican colleagues recommend? A cut in assistance 
to the only democracy in the Middle East that is facing its most 
serious threat on its northern border, its southern border and, in 
fact, what's going on to its near eastern border. This is a precarious 
moment in Israel security.

I do believe there can be cuts. I find every time we want to cut 
assistance to big oil companies, you guys can't find the will. But when 
it comes to cutting assistance to Israel, you find the will to do that. 
When it comes to cutting assistance, when it realizes with our military 
commitment to our allies


around the world, you know what, since everybody wants to make a quote, 
talk is cheap. Talk is cheap when it comes to standing next to your 
allies. We must put our resources to the only democracy in the Middle 
East.

This would directly affect Israel. It would directly affect Egypt. It 
would directly affect the countries we rely on as the bulwark against 
the spread of terrorism in the Middle East.

I would hope you understand. I see the politics. I know a little bit 
about politics. I see the politics in a simple half-percent cut. It 
happens to be politics at the expense of our allies who are on the 
front line in the fight against terrorism.

I would think better of you, of what you have always said 
rhetorically on the floor about your commitment to democracies in the 
Mideast.