---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `38be14971475e48ab0a3c1f39d5f85a0`
`Ms. STABENOW — 20 March 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, first of all, I thank the distinguished 
chairman of the Budget Committee for his outstanding work and his 
commitment day in and day out to putting together a new direction for 
the country in this budget and meeting our fiscal responsibilities, and 
thanks to his staff for their hard work as well. Also, to our ranking 
member, the former chairman, we disagree in approach, but I have great 
respect for him and his staff and the way in which they conduct 
business and their professionalism.

Before talking about why this is a good budget resolution, let me 
start out by, in fact, disagreeing with the distinguished Senator from 
New Hampshire. He says everything is going great all across the 
country, everything is going great. But just last week, in the 
newspaper here, the Washington Post, we had a story about a national 
survey showing a soaring number of homeowners failed to make their 
mortgage payments. The number of foreclosures of all homes jumped to 
its highest level in nearly four decades, according to the survey by 
the Mortgage Bankers Association. The highest level in nearly four 
decades? Is that because people just don't want to pay their mortgage? 
Of course it is not. It is because the average people--middle-class 
families, people working hard every single day--are not feeling the 
benefits of what the distinguished Senator was talking about.

It is true that you can show numbers--stock market up 58 percent, 
real GDP up 32 percent, real corporate profits up 36 percent. But the 
median household income--the majority of Americans working hard every 
single day, who care about their families and are trying to make a 
better life for themselves, have seen their incomes go down--in fact, 
$1,253 over a 5-year period, from 2000 to 2005.

Why? First of all, we have lost 3 million manufacturing jobs in 
America under this President and during the previous Congress--3 
million manufacturing jobs. What does that mean? Good-paying jobs, good 
wages, pensions, health care benefits, a chance at the future, the hope 
of sending your children to college--good-paying jobs, 3 million of 
them lost. I have a list here of just some of those in manufacturing: 
computer and electronics manufacturing, 543,900 jobs, good-paying jobs, 
people who have a very different view than what was presented earlier 
about how great it is right now economically in America. Vehicle parts, 
machinery, fabricated metal products and primary metals, and right on 
down, transportation equipment, furniture products, textile mills--43 
percent drop in textiles--leather products, right on down through 
chemicals.

The reality is too many people in this country, the majority of 
people in this country, have not benefited from the rosy picture we 
have heard about and we are going to continue to hear about on this 
floor. Why? Because they have not been the priority under this 
administration and the previous Congress. They have not been the 
priority.

The good news about this budget is that in this budget, they are the 
priority. We are in a new direction through this budget. We are, in 
fact, returning to fiscal discipline. Yes, we value paying the bills. 
No more borrow and spend, borrow and spend, over and over again, 
borrowing, adding up mounds of debt. We are putting us back on the road 
to fiscal discipline, and we are putting middle-class families first. 
That is the value base for this budget. That is what we are looking at 
in the big picture.

In fact, the budget is our value statement. It is about our values 
and our priorities. It reflects who we are as a country and allows us 
to shape who we want to be in the decades ahead. This budget is about 
making sure everybody has a chance to make it. Folks working hard every 
single day want to know that they are going to see their lives improve, 
not just some numbers for some people.

Last November, the American people sent a clear signal that they were 
unhappy with the way this Government was doing business. They chose new 
leadership for America. They wanted a new direction, a direction that 
builds on our common values and places a premium on putting our middle-
class families first.

We have already made great strides in delivering on those promises 
and the potential of last year's election. The Senate has passed an 
increase in the minimum wage for folks working hard every day, working 
not one but maybe two or three jobs, probably without health insurance, 
trying to make ends meet for their families. We finally engaged in an 
open, important, a critical debate on the war in Iraq, and we have 
taken concrete steps to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 
Commission to make our families and our communities safer.

But in many ways, this budget debate, the budget in front of us, is 
our first big test about who we are and what are our priorities. We are 
faced with a very simple question: Will we bend to business as usual 
and deliver a budget that fails, again, to live up to the mandate the 
country has asked of us or will we do what the American people have 
charged us to do--deliver a budget that reflects middle-class values 
and works for American businesses, farmers, workers, and families? That 
is what our budget resolution does.

It will not be easy. We have inherited a fiscal mess, quite honestly. 
We have tough choices to make. I love seeing that the wall of debt, the 
wall that was actually created by the distinguished Budget chairman 
talking about where we have come from in the last 6 years--I remember 
in the Budget Committee when we had the largest surplus in the history 
of the country, over $5.6 trillion. We at that time, the Democrats, 
indicated in the Budget Committee that we wanted to see a third of that 
go to tax cuts, a third of it to investments and opportunity and 
science and the future--education and health care--and a third to 
prefund the liability on Social Security. We wouldn't be where we are 
in the Social Security debate if we had done that back in 2001. But 
that is not what happened. Virtually all of it was put into supply-side 
economics,


tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, and then we went into a war that 
has not been paid for, et cetera. So we are in a hole. We are in a huge 
hole.

One of the things we always talk about is: If you are in a hole and 
you want to get out, the first thing is to stop digging. This budget 
stops digging the hole and puts us on a path of fiscal responsibility. 
Just like every family in America, the Government has the 
responsibility to balance its checkbook, and we are committed to 
putting us in that direction and getting that job done.

We are committed to a return to fiscal discipline and putting a stop 
to the bad habits of the last 6 years of writing checks the Government 
cannot cash. Under our budget resolution, we begin to chip away at the 
problem immediately with the target of 2012, 5 years from now, for 
completely erasing the Federal deficit.

We know we can do that. It is simply a matter of prioritizing and not 
spending money we do not have. I was proud to be part of a Congress 
that balanced the budget in 1997, working across party lines, to keep 
spending in check. It was not easy. But we understood the long-term 
health of the American economy and the long-term well being of our 
middle-class families and our businesses were dependent on making tough 
choices.

The irresponsible fiscal policies of this administration have gutted 
our record surpluses and driven us into record deficits. Thank goodness 
we are beginning now to come out. But it has hurt our families, it has 
hurt our businesses, and it has put our way of life at risk. We are 
committed to stopping that.

Second, as we put our fiscal house in order, we need to focus on the 
priorities that matter to American families, and that is what this 
budget does. I should mention in talking about that, when we hear about 
all this spending being talked about, only 17 percent of all the so-
called domestic discretionary spending, the money we have the ability 
to make decisions about, in terms of science and health care and 
education and environment, public safety, and so on, that the 
discretionary part of the budget is 17 percent of the whole budget--17 
percent. It is invested in the quality of life and the future for the 
families of this country. Those are critical investments.

What are we suggesting? Well this budget, in fact, focuses on what 
matters to middle-class families the most. First, people want to know 
we are going to be investing in education and opportunity in the future 
for themselves and their children. We commit to health care for every 
child. We commit to making sure every child who does not have health 
insurance is able to get health insurance, so that families who go to 
bed tonight don't worry about what is going to happen--and pray to God, 
please do not let the kids get sick tonight--they will know there is 
health care available to them. Frankly, it needs to be step one to make 
health care available to every American.

Third, we keep our promises to our veterans. This ought to be a 
given. This budget resolution guarantees that. We provide middle-class 
tax cuts. We are all for tax cuts; it is about time the middle class 
got some. That is what this budget resolution does. We restore key 
investments in law enforcement, health care, technology, protecting our 
environment. Key investments the President has tried to cut, we have 
put back and restored those.

Let me speak for a moment about education. Everyone understands the 
world economy is changing. Our increased reliance on technology and the 
growing competition in the global marketplace means that today, more 
than ever, we need to be investing in the best education system 
possible for our children. We all say that. We all talk about 
education.

We had a wonderful hearing this morning in the Finance Committee on 
education. This budget actually does more than talk about it; it takes 
critical investments and places them as a top priority for us because 
we know this is the only way we are going to be able to have our 
businesses competitive and create real financial opportunities for 
working-class America.

In real-world terms, that means investing more in education and 
focusing more on innovation. Education policy is economic policy. We 
understand that. Creating opportunity for everyone who works hard to 
make it is what America is all about. It is one of the pillars, the 
foundations of our economy and a huge focus for our families and a huge 
focus in this budget.

Unfortunately, what did the President do when it came to education 
last year? Well, he and the Republican Congress, back in Christmas of 
2005, cut $12 billion out of student loans. Then the President came 
back in 2006 with the largest proposed cut in the history of education. 
Our children deserve better. This budget resolution reflects our 
commitment to education. Under our budget proposal, we invest $6.1 
billion more in education funding than the President's proposal for 
2008.

Let me speak for a moment about health care. This is a major priority 
in this budget. I believe health care should be a right, not a 
privilege, in this country. We need to be about the job of changing the 
way we finance it in total and getting it off the back of business. 
Your ability to remain healthy should not be tied to your employment 
status or depending upon where you were born or what kind of family you 
were born into.

In America, we can do better than we are doing, and this budget moves 
us in the right direction. We spend more on health care, per capita, 
than any other Western Nation. Yet we have nearly 50 million people 
with no health insurance. There is something wrong with this picture. 
We intend to fix it. Americans who do not have regular access to health 
care also put a strain on our system economically, produce less for 
society, while at the same time saddling business with the skyrocketing 
cost of employee health care is making it more and more difficult for 
our manufacturers and our other businesses to compete globally.


This is an economic issue as well as a quality of life issue. Our 
budget proposal, this budget resolution, begins to tackle this issue 
where common sense dictates we should start--America's children. Our 
children have no choice when it comes to access to health care. They 
also represent the segment of our population that will reap the most 
long-term benefits in the introduction of regular, reliable, affordable 
access to health care.

Programs that exist, namely SCHIP for children, already exist, and it 
covers millions of American children who do not have insurance 
otherwise. But this needs to be expanded, and we need to create a 
priority to say that every child without insurance should have access 
to this program.

The President's budget designated only $2 billion for children's 
health care, for SCHIP, $2 billion. To say that this will not get the 
job done is an understatement. That is why our budget has designated 
$50 billion, 25 times more than that over 5 years, to fully fund health 
care for children in America.

Now I might say as an aside because that is a lot of money, we are 
talking about $10 billion a year to make sure every child in America 
has access to health care, $10 billion. That is about what we are 
spending in 1 month in Iraq--1 month in Iraq. We can take 1 month in 
Iraq for American children. That is what the budget does. It is time to 
get beyond talking about how children are our future. It is time to 
walk the walk.

That is what this budget does. Americans also want us to keep our 
promises to our veterans. The revelation about conditions at Walter 
Reed Army Hospital over the past few weeks have brought into focus the 
concerns that many of us in this Chamber have been voicing about the 
treatment of America's veterans over the past few years. No group of 
individuals, no group, deserve our respect, support and admiration as 
Americans more than those who selflessly and voluntarily choose to wear 
the Nation's uniform.

They put their lives on the line for us every day, and all they ask 
in return is that when they come home from the battlefield, their 
Nation, our country, keeps its promises to them, including providing 
the health care they need and deserve. It is not enough to make 
statements on Veterans Day or remove military leadership when problems 
arise. It does not get any simpler than this: If the money is not in 
the budget then our veterans do not get what they need and deserve.



Now we are not talking about the type of issues that have reared 
their ugly head at Walter Reed, we are also talking about systematic 
issues that touch America's veterans in all our 50 States. Inadequate 
access to doctors and the facilities, extremely long drive times for 
care, which frequently happens in my State of Michigan, patient 
backlogs that would make you cringe, our budget addresses what we 
believe are the shortfalls in the President's plan when it comes to our 
veterans and their health care.

We have set aside an additional $3.5 billion for veterans health care 
in 2008 alone. What is most important is that, for the first time, this 
Senate has a budget resolution that reflects the recommendations of the 
independent budget, which is the budget of all the veterans 
organizations about what they believe is needed to adequately fund 
veterans health care and other critical needs.

Finally, let me say a few words about tax cuts. My friends on the 
other side of the aisle will try to paint Democrats in this budget as 
being antitax cut. Nothing could be further from the truth. You know we 
are going to hear all of this; it does not matter what the document 
looks like. We also know in advance what the mantra is going to be 
because it has been that way for years. It has been that way for years. 
But the reality is very different. I have to say that the--