---
---

# VETERANS BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC WELFARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2010
## `38d00abfcdd6eb3ad6dba095540fa570`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in 
support of H.R. 6132, The Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare 
Improvement Act. This bill combines several measures into one solid 
piece of legislation that will serve our veterans by helping them 
transition into the job market and improving the disability claims and 
appeals process, among other things.

Included in this legislation is a bill I introduced to help improve 
the disability claims process, H.R. 5549, The RAPID Claims Act. The 
RAPID Claims Act codifies the already successful Fully Developed Claim 
pilot program that Congress created in 2008, with a few improvements.

Since veterans who participate in the Fully Developed Claim program 
are gathering their evidence without VA assistance, they should be able 
to notify VA to mark their date of disability compensation as soon as 
they begin to put their case together. The RAPID Claims Act ensures 
this date is protected.

Additionally, if VA decides that a claim submitted by a veteran for 
the Fully Developed Claim program is actually ineligible for that 
program, VA should immediately notify the veteran of what is needed to 
substantiate the claim to allow it to proceed efficiently through the 
normal disability claim process. If VA adjudicates an incomplete claim 
without notifying the veteran, the result would be more inaccurately 
processed claims and a longer appeals backlog. The RAPID Claims Act 
requires VA to assist such veterans in putting together a regular 
disability claim to prevent unsatisfactory decisions and unnecessary 
appeals.

Finally, The RAPID Claims Act ensures that veterans receive an 
appeals form at the same time as the decision on their disability 
claim. This will help veterans more quickly prepare and file an appeal 
if necessary.

I am proud to have worked with the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of 
America and the Disabled American Veterans in crafting this 
legislation, as well as 60 bipartisan colleagues who support it.