---
---

# THE STATE OF OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
## `38d610af4e91910b22d482d58250ea99`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. I guess, Mr. Speaker, I would like to agree 
with the gentleman from Colorado because, you know, many of us, 
including the gentleman from Colorado, including the gentleman from 
Iowa, were very vociferous in saying that there would come a time where 
it would be obvious to the world that these civilian trials wouldn't 
work for enemy combatants that are terrorists that were taken off the 
battlefield in Afghanistan or Iraq or wherever it might be, because we 
knew that this would give al Qaeda and other terrorist groups a perfect 
opportunity, a staging ground, as it were, to be able to manipulate our 
system.

Not only does it give them the ability to have discovery where they 
are able to potentially undermine our security apparatus and gain 
information that is critical to protecting our agents in the field, but 
this also gives them the ability to claim all kinds of things before 
the world. And of course you know the security elements of it are 
astonishing. And of course they use our own court system and our own 
court rules to make it very possible for them to escape justice.

I thought, to paraphrase President Bush, he said something like this. 
He said, We should not allow our enemies to use, to destroy liberty by 
using the forums of liberty to destroy liberty itself. And the reality 
is is that sometimes we can become victims of our own ostensible 
decency.

And this administration, in its kowtowing to terrorists, has been 
more committed to protecting terrorist rights than it has been to 
protecting the lives of American citizens. And I think that is profound 
beyond anything I could suggest.



Because it just tells me that somehow the administration has a 
philosophical bent that is going in a way that I think endangers 
American freedom and future generations. And I am hoping that somehow 
they will wake up in time. But yes, the gentleman is correct that 
WikiLeaks, among other things, has exposed once again this 
administration's effort to try to put these combatants in different 
countries to try to avoid the trap that they have set for themselves in 
America by insisting that this be done in civilian trials.

And again, it is a disgrace beyond words that this man that was 
instrumental in the murder of about, I think it was 224 people, Mr. 
Lamborn, and yet he gets conspiracy to destroy government property. And 
that is unfortunately--you know, sometimes the administration thinks of 
these things always in sort of academic terms. But this is real life. 
And national security in the 9/11 age is something we should all be 
focused on. And this administration seems to be asleep at the wheel. 
And I just wonder if my colleague from Iowa might have any thoughts on 
that.