---
---

# CELEBRATE SAFE COMMUNITIES
## `38e10158a41ae63c11644d30416f5d0e`
`Mr. DURBIN — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, 12 years ago when I came to the Senate, I 
was joined by a new Senator from Nebraska, Chuck Hagel. Chuck became a 
friend, and we have worked together on a number of issues over the 
years. He also, in a weak moment, agreed to do my cable show. I went to 
his office. We talked about his background; first, his service in 
Vietnam, something I particularly admire, the courage he showed in 
volunteering to serve in our Army, and then coming together with his 
brother in the same unit and both of them under fire. Both of them 
served our country in combat. He came back and was a successful 
businessman. He went on to serve the people of Nebraska and eventually 
to serve in the Senate.

We have worked over the years together. I have always found him to be 
a gentleman. His word is good, and he has the courage to step up and 
take a position once in a while that may not be popular, even in 
Nebraska.

I know his leadership on the issue of the war in Iraq will be 
remembered because, during the last 2 years when we struggled to find a 
way to bring this war to a close, he is one who would cross the aisle 
and join us in an effort to find a reasonable way to end this conflict 
in an honorable manner. I respect him so much for that.

I have one special little measure of gratitude for Chuck Hagel. There 
is a bill I introduced which is as near and dear to me as any I 
considered. It is called the DREAM Act, to give literally tens of 
thousands of children across America who came to this country, were 
brought here by undocumented parents, grew up as Americans, never 
knowing any other life, any other culture, maybe not knowing any other 
language but English, and now find themselves graduating high school 
with no country. They are told officially by American law they are not 
wanted or needed and asked to leave. They have nowhere to go. This is 
home. They want a chance, just a chance to be part of America's future 
in a legal way.

This DREAM Act has been controversial because it relates to 
immigration,


and that is not an easy issue. Chuck Hagel stepped up and cosponsored 
that legislation with me, and I will never forget it. It meant a lot 
for him to show that kind of courage.

Even though we did not prevail, someday we will, and when that day 
comes, I will honor him on the floor for his exceptional courage on 
this matter that means so much to so many young people across our 
country.
















 Pete Domenici


Pete Domenici of New Mexico has been an institution in the Senate for 
many years. It has been a pleasure to serve with him for 12. I once 
visited New Mexico and went to a roadside stand where they sell these 
Christmas wreaths made out of chili peppers. There was a Mexican-
American lady. I started to buy the Christmas wreath to take home to my 
family, and I said to her: So I understand you have a Senator in this 
State named Domenici. Oh, I love Pete Domenici, she said, and went on 
and on about what a great man he was, how much she liked him. She said: 
You know, I am a Democrat, but I am a Domenici Democrat. I always voted 
for Pete. I think he is a good man.

He is a good man. He and his wife Nancy have raised a good family. He 
has done so many things. He feels passionate about so many issues, but 
the one I wish to particularly credit him for leadership on is the 
issue of mental health parity.

He and Paul Wellstone stood up on that issue when nobody else would. 
Paul passed away 6 years ago in a plane crash. We have continued to 
find a way to pass that bill. We still have a chance in the closing 
hours of this session, and I hope we do.

In a magnanimous gesture, Pete came forward and said this should be 
known as the Wellstone-Domenici bill; Paul Wellstone deserves top 
billing on it. I am glad he did that. It showed character and the kind 
of man he is. We need to pass that bill before we go home, not just for 
Pete Domenici and the memory of Paul Wellstone but for the millions of 
people across America counting on us to make sure victims of mental 
illness are given fair treatment under hospitalization policies across 
this Nation. He certainly deserves it.

















Wayne Allard


The last is Wayne Allard. Wayne Allard is a colleague of mine who 
made a promise to the people of Colorado that he would not run for 
reelection, and he kept his word. He did not stand for reelection this 
year. Wayne and I had an interesting responsibility, assignment, to 
deal with the legislative appropriations bill. It does not get a lot of 
attention because it just deals with Capitol Hill and the people who 
work here. But this Nation's Capitol is a great American treasure. 
Wayne took it so seriously. He held more thoughtful hearings about this 
Capitol and the new Capitol Visitor Center. He asked the hard questions 
and did it in a respectful, gentlemanly way. I was honored to sit next 
to him and to participate in those hearings.

I came to know him and his family and respect him. We get to see one 
another in the Senate gym in the morning. I go there in the morning for 
no obvious reason, but I get to at least socialize with Wayne and a 
number of other colleagues. I am going to miss him and wish him the 
very best.

Those Senators leaving our ranks leave positive memories for this 
Senator from Illinois. The fact that I have been able to serve with 
them, know them, and count them as friends, I count as one of the real 
blessings of my service in the Senate.