# RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF THE 65TH INFANTRY BORINQUENEERS
## `38e1e476386625c7fc85b22bda972327`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 18 September 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 443, 
recognizing the service of the 65th Infantry Borinqueneers during the 
Korean War, honoring the people of Puerto Rico who continue to serve 
and volunteer for services in the Armed Forces and make sacrifices for 
this country, and commending all efforts to promote and preserve the 
history of the 65 Infantry Borinqueneers. I thank my colleague from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for bringing this measure before the 
House.

In 1908 the United States Congress directed that a unit be 
established and comprised primarily of individuals from Puerto Rico, 
which was then renamed in 1920 as the 65th Infantry Regiment. Our 
brothers and sisters of the 65th Infantry Borinqueneers fought 
valiantly and gave their lives during the Korean War and the two World 
Wars.

Since 1917 the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has been a part of the 
United States and home to almost 4 million U.S. citizens. During the 
Korean War, Puerto Rico lost a disproportionate number of 
servicemembers relative to the population of the island as a whole. 
Eight soldiers of the 65th Infantry Regiment received the Distinguished 
Service Cross, and 129 were awarded the Silver Star for their heroism 
during the Korean conflict.

House Resolution 443 highlights an important group of servicemembers 
who have helped forge the foundation of the freedoms that we enjoy 
today. The 65th Infantry Borinqueneers are to be recognized for their 
tremendous sacrifice. We should not forget those who are serving today 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

The people of Puerto Rico and all Americans can be proud of the 
tremendous contributions these men have made to the defense of our 
Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 443.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.