---
---

# None
## `38e7f4baad45529813bb6844ce322dbe`
`Mr. POE — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentlelady from Florida for 
yielding me the time.

There has been a consistent message that has been put forth by 
Congress that we are not interested in permanent bases in Iraq, but 
that should not diminish our need to have a presence there at this 
time. We must not jeopardize United States security interests. At issue 
here is the definition of the word ''permanent.'' No one can quite 
agree on what that really means.

This bill is similar to one we passed earlier when we passed language 
in the supplemental on this topic. The point is, we do not intend to be 
in Iraq permanently. We are not interested in Iraqi oil.

I do believe our military is stretched too thin throughout the world. 
We literally have a U.S. troop presence in almost every country on the 
globe, from military bases in Germany to Korea and other places in 
between. Some of those bases seem like they are permanent because we 
have been in those areas for so long. Our troops in those nations 
remain an issue of really another debate.

The issue here is over permanent basing in Iraq. We should have 
installations or naval ships in an area where our troops can quickly 
deploy, and Iraq really should be no different. But we've never set out 
to occupy any nation. We are not an imperial Nation. We do not intend 
to violate the sovereignty of another nation by occupying it. This has 
always been United States policy. The United States came to liberate, 
not conquer, Iraq, and this is our policy.

In a letter one of my colleagues addressed to Chairman Peter Pace, 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Pace was asked his 
thoughts on the need to have the U.S. enter into and retain the ability 
to enter into agreed military basing rights agreements with Iraq and in 
Iraq. In his response, General Pace stated it's the intention of the 
United States military to ''work closely with Iraq's sovereign 
government to decide the terms and what foreign military forces . . . 
will remain in Iraq.''

Historically, basing rights agreements have been a necessary part of 
diplomatic relations with foreign governments, but they've always been 
agreed to by the United States and that other nation. These agreements 
outline guidelines and conditions for operating American military bases 
and troops worldwide.

It is both common and responsible for the United States to enter into 
temporary basing agreements with other countries hosting our troops. 
This is being done in every country hosting United States troops, and 
the representative Government of Iraq should not really be an 
exception. And we should continue to work with them on temporary 
basing, but not permanent basing.

We shouldn't somehow put Iraq in some type of different category than 
we have other allies in the world, but we should make it clear that our 
basing rights are only temporary. So, designating that we may have 
temporary basing rights is only logical in Iraq, but a permanent 
presence in Iraq is not desired. And it has been the statement of this 
Congress before.

So I support this legislation.