---
---

# TRIBUTE TO U.S. ARMY STAFF SERGEANT ERIC D. COTTRELL
## `38ed16d201d306d43080c0dbc2399538`
`Mr. CALVERT — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Eric D. Cottrell. 
Today, I ask that the House of Representatives honor and remember this 
incredible man who died in service to his country.

Eric, born January 25, 1986, graduated from Rubidoux High School. 
Eric, an Army Medic, was assigned to the 5th Battalion, 82nd Field 
Artillery Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort 
Bliss, Texas. Cottrell, who joined the Army in 2004, was awarded the 
Purple Heart, National Defense Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, Army Good 
Conduct Medal and Meritorious Unit Commendation and was posthumously 
awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. Staff Sergeant Cottrell 
was killed by a roadside bomb on August 13, 2007, in Qayyarah, Iraq.

In reading about Eric's life I was impressed by his devotion to his 
fellow soldiers. He had clearly earned the respect of his fellow 
soldiers because they called him ''Doc.'' Eric was right there on the 
front lines, ready to help his brothers-in-arms who had been hurt. The 
recent tribute to Eric's life and sacrifice at Fort Bliss, Texas 
demonstrated Eric's impact on his fellow soldiers and how deeply he 
will be missed.

Staff Sergeant Cottrell is survived by his parents, Alan Waters and 
Mannie Cottrell of Riverside, California; his wife, Sherri Cottrell of 
El Paso, Texas; two daughters: Megan Cottrell and Brandy Cottrell, both 
of Pittsview, Alabama; two sons: James Christensen and Eric Cottrell, 
both of Pittsview, Alabama; and two brothers: Norris Alan Waters of 
Pennyslvania and Christopher Waters of Hawaii.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Eric, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day Eric's 
family had to lay him to rest was probably the hardest moment the 
family has ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and deepest gratitude 
for their sacrifice goes out to them. There are no words that can 
relieve their pain and what words I offer only begin to convey my deep 
respect and highest appreciation.

Staff Sergeant Cottrell's wife, sons, daughters, mother, father, 
brothers and all his relatives have given a part of themselves in the 
loss of their loved one and I hope they know that Eric, the goodness he 
brought to this world and the sacrifice he has made, will be 
remembered.
