---
---

# IN TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL POLLY A. PEYER
## `38f02f7522429ba9ad196e4ee0d9efda`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise 
today not only as the Representative of the 8th District of Georgia, 
but also as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, to honor 
the exemplary service and accomplishments of Major General Polly A. 
Peyer on the occasion of her retirement from the United States Air 
Force.

Maj. Gen. Peyer distinguished herself through exceptionally 
meritorious service to the Air Force and to the Nation during more than 
thirty-four years of active military service in peace and war, 
culminating as the Commanding General, Warner Robins Air Logistics 
Center, Air Force Materiel Command, Robins Air Force Base, Georgia.

Madam Speaker, throughout her career, Maj. Gen. Peyer has been in the 
forefront of Air Force logistics, serving in all command positions from 
squadron to wing level and has


held major command and headquarters-level positions. Among her many 
accomplishments, Maj. Gen. Peyer was directly responsible for ensuring 
the highest quality support to maintenance programs supporting the C-
130, F-15, C-17, and C-5 aircraft, among others. Her commitment to 
excellence directly led the Warner Robins Air Logistics Center to 
garner 61 national, Air Force, and command organizational awards, and 
resulted in the Air Force's ability to achieve goals set for the troop 
surge in Afghanistan, while simultaneously supporting ongoing 
operations in Iraq.

Dedicated to the well-being of Team Robins, Maj. Gen. Peyer oversaw 
the development of the ''You Matter'' program to raise awareness of 
suicide and develop understanding, recognition, and skills to 
proactively prevent it. Maj. Gen. Peyer was also a staunch advocate of 
workplace safety and implemented the Commander's Safe Site Challenge to 
implement tenets of OSHA Voluntary Protection Programs. Furthermore, 
Maj. Gen. Peyer and her husband, Colonel (Retired) Brian Grady, were 
untiring advocates for various organizations, causes, and issues 
including one of our Nation's most outstanding gems, the Museum of 
Aviation.

Madam Speaker, Major General Peyer leaves the United States Air 
Force, the Department of Defense, the Nation, and the Warner Robins Air 
Logistics Center stronger through her vision and leadership. Her 
dedication to excellence and devotion to duty, honor, and country have 
marked her distinguished service. Her record of achievement and manner 
of service throughout her long career in positions of enormous 
responsibility are commensurate with honoring her in the Congressional 
Record. I thank her for her service.
