# REPUBLIC DAY IN TURKEY
## `38f1c8488dd8c3754373390a3fd4180e`
`Ms. FOXX â€” 18 November 2010`

---


Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I would like to congratulate the citizens of 
Turkey and Turkish Americans on the 87th anniversary of the 
proclamation of the Republic of Turkey on October 29, 1923. This is one 
of the most important dates in Turkey's history. And it is equally 
meaningful to the United States as it formed the cornerstone which 
enabled Turkey to become a strategic partner and close NATO ally.

After the 600 year old Ottoman Empire disintegrated, Mustafa Kemal, 
also known as the George Washington of Turkey, led a three year war of 
independence. This culminated with the newly founded parliament 
formally abolishing the Sultanate, on November 1, 1922, thus ending 723 
years of Ottoman rule. The Treaty of Lausanne of July 24, 1923, led to 
the international recognition of the sovereignty of the newly 
established ''Republic of Turkey'' as the successor state of the 
Ottoman Empire.

Following considerable debate and discussion, the Turkish Parliament 
proclaimed the Republic on the evening of October 29, 1923. Fifteen 
minutes after the Parliamentary proclamation, Mustafa Kemal (later 
known as Ataturk), was elected President of the Republic. This historic 
decision was marked by a 101 gun salute. The significance of the event 
was also noted by Ataturk, who stated that, ''the proclamation of the 
Republic was enthusiastically received by the nation. This enthusiasm 
was manifested everywhere by brilliant demonstrations.''

Turkey's economy has grown at an impressive rate, and the country is 
now a member of the G-20, a European Union candidate, and an active and 
important player in various international organizations. Turkey and the 
U.S. have been close friends, partners and allies for many decades. 
However, the Turkish-American relationship goes beyond a simple 
bilateral friendship. Rather it has become a strategic partnership 
based on shared values, interests and ideals. U.S.-Turkish cooperation 
extends across a wide range of issues, including combating terrorism, 
promoting economic trade and energy security, fostering peace and 
stability in Afghanistan and Iraq, and advancing principles of 
democracy and freedom throughout the globe.

I hope my colleagues will join me in congratulating Turkish Americans 
and the Turkish public on this important occasion.
