---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `38fcc1f383907c80a5471d4d83e056df`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arizona for 
yielding, and I want to thank the gentleman from Missouri for being an 
honorable gentleman during this tough time.

Mr. Speaker, I want to start with a couple of warnings. First, I 
would suggest anyone on the Republican side shaking hands with the 
majority might want to be careful because they have been licking their 
fingers and sticking them into the political wind.

Second, government opinion by polls may lead to short-term success at 
the ballot box, but in this case it could lead to a catastrophe on a 
global scale.

We in this House best serve the United States, Iraq, and the world 
community if we establish conditions in Iraq that allow for a somewhat 
orderly transition to autonomy for Iraqis. A quick withdrawal from Iraq 
would set off a fuse that would eventually blow up not only Iraq but 
quite possibly surrounding countries as well.

Iraq foreign minister on Monday warned against a quick withdrawal by 
the United States, saying, ''The dangers could be a civil war dividing 
the country, regional wars, and the collapse of the state.''

Today when we talk about the Holocaust or when we talk about Rwanda 
or when we talk about the Sudan, we ask how could good people stand by 
and let this happen. It is an important lesson to remember as we pull 
out our voting cards today. Remember, we are trying to help. If we pull 
out of Iraq, we guarantee that the Tigris and the Euphrates will run 
red with the blood of innocents. We guarantee a safe haven for the 
training camps of al Qaeda. We guarantee more free rein for the death 
squads of Moqtada al Sadr. We guarantee a civil war between Shiites and 
Sunnis. We guarantee even more or worse instability in the region, 
perhaps for decades.

No matter how we vote today, we are not going to stop the war. We may 
stop fighting, but we are not going to stop the war. As Indonesian 
jihadist leader Abu Bakar Bashir said, ''All Muslims should fight to 
create an Islamic state. There are only two options for Muslims, to win 
or to die.''