---
---

# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `38fe6be67d04313e54aadfac053d2f2e`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Thank you. The gentleman from New Mexico, the good 
doctor from Texas and other speakers have touched upon a fundamental 
point. I wish to stress what General Petraeus said in terms of what an 
American victory would look like and then ask a question of those who 
would support an immediate withdrawal.

In his own letter to the troops, General Petraeus said that what we 
need is for the Iraqis to become solely responsible for their own 
security. That means a very small footprint, if at all, of the United 
States in Iraq militarily. Secondly, it will depend upon the local 
reconstruction, reconciliation, and security of the average Iraqi which 
will then drive the national reconciliation. Between those two pillars 
of local reconciliation and security will come a stable and free Iraq 
that no longer creates terrorists, but captures them instead.

But as we are the children of liberty, as we are a Nation that 
proudly proclaims it is conceived in liberty, that since every human 
being has an unalienable, God-given right to breathe free, to have the 
right to pursue life, liberty and happiness, I ask my fellow Americans 
who support the immediate withdrawal this: If we betray our fundamental 
commitment to liberty to the people of Iraq and watch them be 
slaughtered in the sands, what will we ever be able to offer them again 
to turn them from the enemy and towards us? If we betray our own 
profession of the desire to liberate them, to let them share in their 
God-given rights the same way we have, we will be ideologically 
disarmed in the war for freedom.

I assure you we will rue the day that we betrayed not only them but 
the inherited legacy that we have received from the greatest 
generations of Americans who preceded us and allowed us to live in the 
majestic America that we know today.