---
---

# None
## `3901d744575f768e3f849bf4e5d43dcd`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, just in response to the last speaker, 
this gimmick that the Republicans have brought to the floor is really 
just that--a gimmick. $120 million a year they're going to save. Let me 
just put that in perspective. Just two policies dating from the Bush 
administration--tax cuts and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan--
accounted for over $500 billion of the deficit in 2009, and will 
account for almost $7 trillion of deficits in 2009 through 2019, 
including the associated debt services cost.

We need to get serious about dealing with the debt and dealing with 
our deficit. But let's make one thing clear: When Mr. Bush came to 
power, President Clinton left him a budget surplus. No deficit. We're 
paying down the debt. When Mr. Bush left office, he left Barack Obama 
with a record deficit that he is now trying to dig us out of in the 
midst of one of the worst economies since the Great Depression. So when 
they get on the floor with these gimmicks, let's understand what they 
are--they are gimmicks. If you want to get serious about reducing the 
debt, then let's get serious about it.

I will tell you one thing I do disagree with him on very strongly. 
Again, I'll go back to the article I referred to before when Minority 
Leader Boehner talked about raising the retirement age of Social 
Security to 70 and taking that money and not putting it in Social 
Security to keep that program solvent, but then moving it to pay for 
the wars. I think that is wrong. I think our seniors deserve better 
than that.

I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. Bean).