---
---

# RECOGNIZING PIZZA 4 PATRIOTS
## `39039c50e82a10ccb1040feb03755783`
`Mr. QUIGLEY — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize the 
extraordinary efforts of the Pizza 4 Patriots Organization, Uno Chicago 
Grill, and DHL, in teaming up to provide Chicago-style deep dish pizzas 
on Independence Day to our service men and women serving in both Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The cumulative effort brought 28,000 pizzas to the 
troops, allowing them to celebrate our nation's day of independence 
with a taste and feel of home.

The initiative of retired Air Force Master Sergeant Mark Evans, Pizza 
4 Patriots is a non-profit organization that seeks to honor the service 
of the United States' Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. With pizzas 
provided by Uno Chicago Grill and international delivery service 
provided by DHL, Operation Pizza Surge broke the record for the 
''World's Largest Pizza Party,'' and will go down in the Guinness Book 
of World Records as such.

As our service men and women continue to courageously protect our 
freedom and liberties throughout the Middle East, the services provided 
by Pizza 4 Patriots, Uno Chicago Grill, and DHL are of the utmost 
importance. In garnering donations from individuals and organizations 
to make Operation Pizza Surge possible, they have helped raise 
awareness and recognition of the outstanding and courageous job that 
the United States' military continues to do to protect the liberty and 
safety of the American people.

We must always remember and pay tribute to the courage and sacrifice 
of those proud men and women who serve and protect the American people. 
The efforts of Pizza 4 Patriots, Uno Chicago Grill, and DHL remind us 
that as we celebrate our independence at home, it is the efforts of our 
armed forces that allow us to do so.

Madam Speaker, today we congratulate Pizza 4 Patriots, Uno Chicago 
Grill, and DHL for a successful completion of Operation Pizza Surge, 
and we thank them for providing our brave troops with a slice of home 
while they protect our country and our freedoms abroad.
