---
---

# None
## `39176433f5b67d74ad6cb587caf4a63a`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I can't tell you how 
disappointed I am with the majority for not allowing a fair and free 
debate on some very important issues. Obviously this bill spends too 
much money. It has earmarks that have never been vetted. But we brought 
other issues of equal importance, things that the American people 
deserve to hear. I had an amendment. It says we need to stop 
Mirandizing terrorists in foreign countries, Afghanistan, for attacking 
our troops and being detained. Miranda rights--You have the right to 
remain silent. You have a right to a lawyer. It's happening now. And 
the worst part of this is that even the majority wasn't briefed or, if 
they were, they're not talking about it. We have one opportunity to 
stand up today and say, Enough. You can't criminalize the battlefield.

We have FBI agents who, after our soldiers picked them up and after 
trying to kill members of the 82d Airborne or the 101st or our Marines, 
take them to the detention facility, and they read them their rights. 
They're non-United States citizens. They're foreigners. We just wanted 
the opportunity to tell America, We think that's crazy. You're going to 
tell a terrorist who just came off the battlefield that you have the 
right to remain silent. How much information will they not give that 
might save the life of one of our soldiers in Afghanistan today? And 
the biggest travesty today is, you never gave us the opportunity to 
talk about it, to move the issue forward.

We've had about three different opinions from this administration on 
if they are or are not doing it. Well, I can tell you--I've been there, 
and I've seen it. Our soldiers are going to get frustrated. I know our 
FBI agents are frustrated. Our law enforcement community is frustrated. 
And the best you can do is say, Debate is inconvenient for us today, 
and some things are just better left unsaid, like the billions of 
dollars in this bill that spends too much money, money that we don't 
have, that we're going to have to borrow from the Chinese or the 
Russians or the Saudis. Or the fact that we look those soldiers in the 
eye and say, We can't even have the opportunity to talk about it on the 
floor of the House.