# EMERGENCY MEDIC TRANSITION ACT OF 2010
## `391ecb8ed6ac8e6e3f099bc0c795a2ef`
`Mr. WHITFIELD — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today also in support of H.R. 
3199, the Emergency Medic Transition Act.

This legislation would provide grants to States with a shortage of 
EMTs to assist veterans who have completed military emergency training 
and assist them in becoming State-licensed or certified EMTs.

Through their service in the Armed Forces, these veterans have 
received some of the best emergency response training available. Our 
Nation is currently blessed with thousands of men and women who, 
through their honorable service in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the 
world, are equipped with unmatched credentials and vast practical 
experience.

We have heard of stories from around the country of there being a 
shortage of EMTs and about the training and licensing barriers 
returning veterans face when they transition to the civilian workforce. 
If the Federal Government has provided training in emergency management 
services to these veterans, it would be beneficial to use that 
investment to fill EMT needs in communities once the veteran has left 
the service. It makes sense to me that we should help veterans with 
life-saving skills to use them in our communities after they come home.

I would certainly like to thank also Congresswoman Harman and 
Chairman Pallone as well as Congressman Buyer of Indiana, all of whom 
have worked hard on this legislation.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.