# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `391fc8983e8de7d85641e7ba684abeb0`
`Mr. MAFFEI — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. MAFFEI. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in support of H.R. 3590, the 
Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act. It is important that the brave 
men and women currently serving our country have an opportunity to take 
advantage of programs such as the First-Time Homebuyer Tax Credit. I 
was proud to introduce similar legislation with the same goal of 
extending the opportunity for service men and


women to take advantage of the tax credit for twelve months. I ask that 
all my colleagues Hon. support the Service Members Home Ownership Tax 
Act.

Currently, there are approximately 190,000 U.S. troops fighting wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are making the ultimate sacrifice for 
their country. These brave men and women are putting their lives on the 
line every single day, and we, in Congress, must do all in our power to 
ensure that they are not excluded from participating in programs like 
the First-time Homebuyer Tax Credit because they are overseas.

In fact, a constituent of mine called my office to ask if anything 
was going to be done to ensure his son, a soldier, could benefit from 
the First-time Homebuyer Tax Credit. While these brave men and women 
are sacrificing to serve our country, we must ensure that they can take 
advantage of the same economic recovery resources the rest of us are 
enjoying.

The Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act also makes sure that 
members of the armed services are not required to pay back the tax 
credit if they are forced to sell their home because they have been 
deployed to a different location. This legislation, like mine, shows 
Congress's commitment to our troops, and I encourage other Member's to 
join me in supporting the Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act.



