# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3938af423b62cc355194657cf65cd27c`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, I thank my colleagues from Rhode 
Island and Michigan for yielding me some time. I appreciate it. Their 
expertise in this area has been invaluable not only to the Senate but 
to all Americans. I could not think of two people who have shown light 
more on this issue than the Senator from Michigan and the Senator from 
Rhode Island.

Where are we now, Mr. President? Somehow--and there will be many 
debates as to how--what we are doing in Iraq has largely evolved into 
fighting a civil war, into patrolling a civil war, into policing a 
civil war, and, yes, into fighting it at times. The age-old enmity 
between the Sunnis and Shiites, of course, has exploded. Once Saddam 
Hussein was gone, it was perhaps inevitable that it would occur, 
particularly without any real authority in large parts of the country.

Most of what our soldiers are doing, and most of those who come back 
from making the ultimate sacrifice, dying or making a large sacrifice 
by being wounded, are doing is not fighting terrorism but, rather, 
policing, patrolling, and even fighting in a civil war. That is not 
what the American people bargained for. That is not what President Bush 
stated when we began going into Iraq. In fact, he has never stated 
that.

Now they say we need to bring order to allow their government to 
work, but that is a fallacious argument for two reasons. First, we may 
bring temporary order to Iraq but, make no mistake about it--you don't 
have to be a Ph.D. in middle eastern studies to realize that the minute 
our troops leave, whether it is 3 months or 3 years, the fighting 
between the Sunnis and the Shiites will continue. We will have lost 
lives, and men and women will have lost limbs, but not much will have 
changed--even in the medium term.

Second, the absurdity of what we are doing is shown by this: We are 
sending more troops to create a temporary peace to bolster a government 
that we don't trust, like, or believe in. Prime Minister Maliki is 
almost universally regarded poorly, not just at this end of 
Pennsylvania Avenue but at the other end as well. Their government 
seems incompetent. The government seems unable to accomplish the most 
basic things. The government, of course, created a terrible drama, 
almost, when they could not complete the execution of Saddam Hussein in 
a way that would have conformed to how it should have been done. So 
their government is incompetent. It is also controlled, in large part, 
by someone we do not like, Sadr. The Sadr party is the Prime Minister's 
base. He cannot do anything, even should he want to, in terms of 
actually bringing peace and creating a government that is friendly to 
America.

So here we are with this escalation, a surge to bolster a government 
we don't like or trust. Here we are, instead of fighting terrorism, 
policing a civil war. The American people know that. We have seen all 
of the data and all of the polls. The overwhelming majority does not 
support the President in Iraq. So we need a change in strategy. 
Substance dictates it, people see it, and our job in the Senate is to 
do that. That is what we are attempting to do in this debate.

The proposal that most of us on this side of the aisle are behind is 
a very simple one. We require the President to change strategy. Instead 
of policing a civil war, fighting a civil war, our troops should have 
the far more limited mission of protecting us in America from 
terrorism. That means that if al-Qaida sets up a base anywhere in Iraq, 
we should take it out--do what it takes to take it out. But it doesn't 
mean that our soldiers should be patrolling the streets of Baghdad 
simply because the Sunnis and Shiites are fighting with each other. 
That will require a change in mission and will require fewer troops, 
and those troops need not be in harm's way. It makes eminent sense.

We set a deadline of a little more than a year from now, during which 
time the mission will have changed. The number of troops will be 
greatly reduced. We don't set a number. That is up to the President. It 
is our job in the Congress to debate missions and the broad context of 
foreign policy and then, should we pass a law, have the President carry 
out the details.

Now, some on the other side have said that any debate means you are 
not supporting the troops. Well, I have talked to the troops--to 
generals and enlisted men and women. They want debate, Mr. President. 
The more demagogic the other side is, saying if there is a debate, you 
are not supporting the troops--frankly, that is not the American way. 
Of course, we debate issues. In fact, their view is that basically the 
only way to support the troops is to rubberstamp the President's 
policy. We don't agree with that. We are supporting the troops. We are 
supporting the troops when they are in the field by trying to get them 
the body armor and humvees and blood-clotting bandages they have not 
had. We are supporting them when they come home by trying to fully fund 
the Veterans' Administration. Don't talk to us about supporting the 
troops. We are walking the walk and putting our money where our mouth 
is.


So, sadly, our colleagues on the other side, instead of joining us in 
this debate, often seek to thwart it, as they did last time. I hope 
they will not do that again because America is demanding debate. We 
hope they will come together with us, as we did last year in the Levin-
Reid resolution, in a bipartisan change of mission. That is what the 
people are asking for.

I know my colleagues on the other side are in an uncomfortable 
position. They are torn between the policy of our President, their 
party leader, and what their constituencies want. By the way, the 
constituencies across America want this. I have seen the polling data. 
It is not just in places such as Rhode Island, New York, and 
Pennsylvania where the people are asking for a real change in strategy; 
it is also in places such as Kentucky, North Carolina, and Mississippi. 
It is throughout America. They are not doing it because they don't 
support the troops or for some nefarious reason. They are doing it for 
a reason that is as plain as the noses on our faces: what we are doing 
now is not working--whether it be with 140,000 or 150,000, 160,000, or 
200,000 troops.

So we are here in the hallowed tradition of our Constitution to 
debate what we are doing in foreign policy and war policy and whether 
it is right. We will stand together on this side of the aisle and state 
that, as patriots who support our troops, we desperately need a change 
in strategy and in mission. We will bring up this issue on the floor of 
the Senate again and again and again, until our colleagues on the other 
side join us, until our colleagues on the other side understand that 
the wishes of their constituencies are for a change in strategy, until 
our colleagues on the other side have the courage to tell the President 
that on this issue he simply is wrong. That is part of the hallowed 
tradition of this country. We are proud to do what we are doing.

Mr. President, I hope and pray that our colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle will allow this debate to go forward, that they will put 
forward their ideas, and we will put forward ours. Debate it we will 
and debate it we must. I hope and pray that debate starts to yield the 
change in strategy that our troops in Iraq, our people in America, the 
Iraqi people, and the people of the world so desperately need.

With that, I thank my colleague from Rhode Island for the time.

I yield the floor.