# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `3945508910d75029074e2e2d73915e23`
`Mr. THUNE â€” 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I wish to thank the Senator from New 
Hampshire for yielding and also to just elaborate on some of the things 
he talked about with regard to his motion. I congratulate him on 
offering this motion to instruct because I believe it gets at the heart 
of this issue, which is whether we are going to continue this economic 
expansion, the job growth that has come with it, the explosion in 
Government revenues associated with the tax relief that was enacted in 
2001 and 2003 or whether we are going to go down the opposite path and 
increase taxes by, as he said, the largest amount in American history.

Now, up until this last year, this budget we are talking about today, 
the largest tax increase in American history happened in 1993. That was 
$293 billion in increased taxes that was put through the Congress in 
that year. What has been proposed this year, through the budget process 
in the other body, in the House of Representatives, was a $916 billion 
tax increase, and, as the Senator from New Hampshire has noted, here in 
the Senate it is a $700 billion tax increase.

The only question really before us is whether this conference 
committee which is going to meet is going to adopt the House version, 
which is triple the largest tax increase in American history, or adopt 
the Senate version, which is double the largest tax increase in 
American history. Either way, whether we adopt the Senate-passed budget 
or the House-passed budget, we will be adopting the largest tax 
increase in American history--if we adopt the House version, three 
times the largest tax increase in history and, if we adopt the Senate 
version, more than two times the largest tax increase in American 
history.

So the gentleman from New Hampshire, the Senator who has proposed a 
motion that would instruct the conferees who will be meeting, the 
Senate conferees who will be meeting with the House conferees to work 
out and reconcile the differences between these two budget 
resolutions--one, as I said, is the House, which is triple the largest 
tax increase, or the Senate version, which is double--his motion would 
essentially instruct the Senate conferees to go into that conference 
with a position that doesn't accept the House tax increase or the 
Senate tax increase; rather, it allows these existing tax cuts to stay 
in law--in other words, not to allow them to expire.

I have a chart here which illustrates a little bit about what I am 
speaking of today, and this chart essentially shows what is included in 
that $900 billion tax increase. As I said earlier, the Senate, in its 
budget resolution, adopted a position that restored about $180 billion 
of the tax relief that would expire under the House-adopted budget 
resolution. As we can see, this is the amount taxes will go up if this 
budget is adopted. This is the amount the Senate said we will put back 
with the Senate budget resolution here, which our colleagues on the 
other side were able to get through the Senate. It puts back $180 
billion.

I will give the House credit because the House voted yesterday on a 
motion to instruct their conferees to adopt the Senate language. That 
makes sense because I think they heard what a lot of people said when 
they went home and met with their constituents; that is, we don't want 
to see the largest tax increase in American history. We don't want 
another $900 billion in taxes imposed on the American economy at a time 
when the economy is growing and expanding and creating jobs.

Just look at the last few years here: 7/1/2/ million new jobs, 
unemployment at 4.5, 4.6 percent, the lowest historical average in the 
last three decades, 21 consecutive quarters of economic growth.

This is the counterintuitive part about this because, as was pointed 
out back in 2001 and 2003 when these tax cuts were being debated, if we 
reduce taxes the revenues are going to go down. Well, in fact, the 
opposite has happened. What has happened is what has happened 
throughout the course of history--under the Harding administration in 
the 1920s, the Kennedy administration in the 1960s, the Reagan 
administration in the 1980s, and now currently; that is, when you 
reduce marginal income tax rates, capital gains income rates, what 
happens? People take their realizations, they pay their taxes, they 
reinvest, and you get not less Government revenue but more Government 
revenue--in this case, dramatically more Government revenue.

Between 2004 and this year, we have seen Government revenues increase 
by $300 billion; that is, revenue coming into the Federal Treasury 
between 2004 and 2005 was up almost 15 percent, 14.7 percent; between 
2005 and 2006, around 13 percent; and in this current fiscal year, the 
first 7 months of this current fiscal year, Government revenues are up 
11.3 percent over last year. In fact, in the month of April, we have 
$70 billion more Government revenue than April a year ago.

These tax cuts are working not only to stimulate the economy and to 
create jobs but, as I said before, miraculously, to generate more 
Government revenue. We have $300 billion more Government revenue coming 
in as a result of reducing taxes, which again proves the historical 
fact that when you reduce marginal income tax rates and capital gains 
tax rates on the American people, they take their realizations, they 
pay taxes, they invest, they create more jobs, the economy continues to 
expand, and you get not less Government revenue but more Government 
revenue.


So I think what is happening here in the Senate is an attempt to 
provide a fig leaf of cover when it comes to this issue of taxes. The 
problem with that is this particular cover is a cover not for the 
taxpayers in this country, it is perhaps a cover for the tax raisers in 
this country. It is a small cover, however, because if you take $180 
billion of tax relief that is restored under the budget resolution 
adopted here in the Senate, you can cover some of this stuff.

What they propose is that we are going to put back some of the 
marriage penalty that would come back into play under the House-passed 
version, and we are going to restore some of the 10-percent tax rate--
the lowest tax rate, which applies to people making $15,000 and less--
and we are going to provide some death tax relief. We will lower the 
top death tax rate from 55 percent to 45 percent. Well, what does that 
do? What do you do, then, about the alternative minimum tax, which is 
going to hit 20 million additional taxpayers if this budget is adopted? 
What about the child tax credit, which under the Democratic plan is 
slashed from $1,000 back to $500? What about lower tax rates throughout 
the rest of the rate schedule? Even if you fix, as they attempt to do 
with this small amount of tax relief, the 10-percent tax bracket, the 
lowest tax bracket, you still have tax increases in every other tax 
rate on the schedule. In fact, those who are paying 25 percent taxes 
are now going to go up to 28 percent. Those who were paying at the 28-
percent rate currently will see their tax rate going up to 31 percent. 
Those paying at the 33-percent rate are going to see their tax rates go 
up to 36 percent. Those fortunate few paying at the 35-percent rate, 
the highest marginal tax rate today, are going to see their tax rates 
go up to 39.6 percent.

My point is, you can provide a fig leaf to say that we are doing 
something to allow for some of these tax cuts, this tax relief which 
has benefited our economy and the American people into the foreseeable 
future, but what about the rest of all these tax breaks that are going 
to expire, which means the largest tax increase in American history?

If we look at what the motion of the Senator from New Hampshire does, 
it says we want to extend these tax breaks to include the deduction for 
student loan interest. There are a lot of working families trying to 
put their kids through college who are taking advantage of that tax 
break.

How about the earned-income tax credit, which is helping a lot of our 
military families, many of them serving in Iraq and Afghanistan?

As I said before, the child tax credit is being slashed from $1,000 
down to $500, essentially cutting in half the amount of credit a 
working family can get for their children when they file their tax 
returns. That was something


which was put in place to help working families.

I can go right down the list. Let's take senior citizens' dividend 
income--currently taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent, but 
under this proposal it goes up to 39 percent. We have a lot of seniors 
in this country who have invested and now have dividend income, capital 
gains income. Their capital gains income rates are going to go up as 
well. If they have capital gains income they are going to show, that 
will go up from 15 percent to 20 percent.

My point very simply is that if you pay taxes in America today, the 
prescription in this budget resolution which was adopted here by the 
Senate, put forward by our colleagues on the other side and the one 
adopted by the House, has one prescription: higher taxes. Every working 
American who pays taxes today is going to see their tax bill go up. In 
fact, in my State of South Dakota, which I will use as an example, the 
average tax increase on a working family in South Dakota would be 
$2,596 under this budget, with 2,840 jobs being lost and $262 million 
lost in our economy. That is in my State of South Dakota, and probably, 
if you take any other State, you would find the numbers to be 
dramatically higher in terms of job loss, in terms of the loss to the 
local economy and the impact it is going to have on taxpayers.

Again, just in an attempt to summarize what I am saying here, the 
Democrats have attempted, in the form of a fig leaf, to provide some 
amount of tax relief cover in this budget. What they do not tell us is 
that the amount of tax relief does nothing to cover the increase in 
taxes that will occur under this budget. They take about $180 billion 
off the table and say to the American people: Keep that. But they are 
still going to be raising taxes by over $700 billion, even if the 
Senate version of this budget resolution is adopted in conference. If 
the House version ends up being adopted, it will be over a $900 billion 
tax increase--the largest tax increase in American history by three 
times in the House, over two times in the Senate.


Again, if you take this amount, this fig leaf, and you say: We are 
going to put the 10-percent rate back, we are going to do something to 
provide some marriage penalty relief because we think married couples 
ought not to be penalized for being married, which I happen to agree 
with, and that was part of the tax relief passed in 2001 and 2003, and 
I think they realize that is a popular piece of tax relief, so they are 
going to attempt to restore some of these things--that still doesn't do 
anything about capital gains and dividends, which will hit seniors, or 
anything about R&D tax credits or the per-child tax credit or anything 
on the rate structure, the rates which go from 25 percent up to 28, 
from 28 to 31, from 33 to 36, and from 35 to 39.6. Every rate on the 
rate schedule is going up under this particular proposal.

So I am here today to support the motion of the Senator from New 
Hampshire to instruct the conferees as they go into conference between 
the House and the Senate to leave these tax cuts alone. Don't allow 
them to expire. Don't permit the largest tax increase in American 
history at a time when the economy is growing and expanding and 
creating jobs and we are seeing not less Government revenue but 
dramatically more Government revenue, to the tune of a $300 billion 
increase in Government revenues just in the past 3 years alone.

These tax cuts are working. They are having their desired effect. 
They are accomplishing what was intended in the first place when this 
Congress, in its wisdom, enacted these tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. It 
would be a shame to take a fig leaf and try to say to the American 
people, to the taxpayers of this country, that we are going to provide 
a little bit of cover for the tax raisers here in the Congress, but we 
aren't going to do anything to provide cover for the American taxpayer, 
those people who are going to pay higher rates in all these areas if 
this budget is passed and if the conference report comes back either 
with the Senate version or the House version, both of which increase 
taxes, it is just a question of by how much.

So I hope we can adopt and get the votes necessary to pass the motion 
of the Senator from New Hampshire to instruct our conferees to allow 
these tax cuts to stay in place. Don't allow them to expire, don't 
raise taxes, don't do something that would harm our economy and the 
jobs being created by passing the largest tax increase in American 
history.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.