---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `394aa3e365fa9fa19c8f05c466536d99`
`Mr. INHOFE — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, first of all, let me say to my good friend 
from Iowa that while there are so many things in which we find 
ourselves in agreement as the months and years go by, in this area we 
find disagreement. I have to say this. I wasn't going to mention 
Guantanamo, but since that is a subject of interest to everybody--and 
it certainly has the interest of the Senator from Iowa--I only mention 
this. I have done this before on the Senate floor. I am very much 
concerned about this obsession we seem to have in this country 
politically to take care of these terrorists who are responsible for 
committing acts and killing Americans.

I was down at Guantanamo several times. One time was right after 
everything started escalating and they started arriving there. 
Everybody was concerned about the methods of questioning these 
individuals, interrogating the prisoners. I remember going down and 
seeing a lot of them doing everything they could to antagonize the 
troops that we had down there to police that situation. It was really 
kind of pitiful. You sit there and look at these people, and these are 
prisoners who probably have never eaten better in their lives, have 
never had better medical attention in their lives, have never really 
lived better than they are living in Guantanamo. Yet these are 
individuals who are terrorists. These are the worst, and some have 
killed Americans. We all seem to have this propensity to be more 
concerned about them than we are for the lives of Americans.

I want to give a different perspective. I have had the honor, I 
believe, of being in the Iraqi AOR--not always in Iraq, but the area of 
responsibility--more than any other Member. I have watched this on a 
monthly basis since we have gotten into this thing. As I look at it, I 
very carefully chose the word of ''invasion'' on Iraq as opposed to a 
''liberation'' of Iraq.


I remember so well right after the first Iraqi war, I was honored to 
go over to Iraq the day that it was actually declared to be over. This 
was in Kuwait City. We had a thing called the ''first freedom flight.'' 
Tony Cohelo was on that flight with me. Certainly, the Chair remembers 
him well.

We also had one of the Kuwaiti nobility and his young daughter with 
us at the time. We got there, and they were burning the oil fields. It 
was obscure. Even during the daylight hours you could not see anything. 
The Iraqis didn't know that the war was over--those who were down there 
at that time. I remember so well seeing the devastation.

This little girl, I think, was 7 years old at the time. They wanted 
to go back to Kuwait to go to their mansion on the Persian Gulf, a 
beautiful place, so she could go up in her bedroom and see her little 
dolls and animals. I remember going up there with her, and we found out 
that their residence had been used as one of Saddam Hussein's torture 
chambers. I remember going up to her bedroom with her and, in fact, 
that bedroom had been used as a torture chamber, one of Saddam 
Hussein's headquarters. There were body parts--ears, hands, just strewn 
all around the room. You thought: What kind of a monster could this 
Saddam Hussein be? This guy had spent 30 years of his life terrorizing 
his fellow citizens. We saw things like a little boy with his ear cut 
off. He was 9. The reason it was done was he had a little American flag 
in his pocket, and I guess they found that on him, and they considered 
that to be inappropriate.

Looking into mass graves and hearing the stories of individuals going 
through grinders and begging to go head first so they would not torture 
them quite as long, being dropped into vats of acid, begging to be 
dropped in feet first. These are the kinds of terrorists that we are 
talking about over there. This is what Iraq was like. This is what 
Saddam Hussein was like.

While I don't want to get into the debate about weapons of mass 
destruction, I never had that as the argument. It is a fact that 
training was taking place there; whether it was al-Qaida or not we 
don't know. In Salman Pak in Iraq, they were training terrorists to 
hijack airplanes. Whether they trained in that area the particular 9/11 
perpetrators, I have no way of knowing. Nonetheless, this is something 
that had to be--all you had to do was look into the mass graves and 
hear the stories about weddings taking place and how they would raid 
them and rape the women and bury them alive. That was the scene, and 
that is what we were doing over there.

I really came to the floor to voice my objection to the Levin-Reed 
amendment, No. 2087. Winston Churchill once said:




 Never, never, never believe any war will be smooth and 


 easy. . . . Always remember, however sure you are that you 


 could easily win, that there would not be a war if the other 


 man did not think he also had a chance.


That was just as true in World War II when Churchill made the 
statement as


it is today. Today, we face an enemy that is determined and willing to 
go to any means of terror and violence to win. He cannot be negotiated 
with. You cannot negotiate with a terrorist. We keep hearing that we 
need to negotiate with them, but we cannot do that. They will not be 
satisfied until the whole world is brought under their dreadful 
ideology. We have seen this kind before in Stalin and Hitler, but never 
before has our enemy metastasized this way.

In a way, you could say it is more dangerous now than it was back 
then during Hitler and Stalin because the mentality is different. These 
are people who want to die and who are willing to die. This is their 
way of going to heaven. It is a totally different environment than 
under the other cultures in the different wars. There is no centralized 
headquarters or one leader that we can eliminate. There is no country 
involved. I don't think we have ever been involved in a war against an 
enemy who didn't have a country. When you defeat a country, you win the 
war. Well, there is nothing centralized that we can point to. Victory 
would come the way it always has: Destroy the enemy, undermine the 
support network, and expose the fact that they cannot win.

Any plan to leave Iraq before we have had a chance to understand the 
outcome of the troop surge tells the enemy, first of all, they have 
been successful and that their methods worked. Those individuals who 
were perpetrating the crimes of terrorism will come back and do them 
again. It gives them patience to wait us out.

Do you believe they do not watch our news or that they are not 
watching us right now, scouring our media for any chink in our resolve? 
Their survival depends on it, and they cannot win by force of arms. 
They can only win by attacking our resolve.

Our country represents the light of freedom and democracy. Yet I fear 
that we have begun a terrible introspective and downward cycle. Our 
resolve lasts for a few months, or maybe a year, but all it takes is 
enough time and then we break. Our enemy knows this. Look at our 
mission in Somalia. I remember it so well. So does the Presiding 
Officer. They were dragging the naked bodies through the streets of 
Mogadishu and our resolve was broken. Look at our reaction to the 
bombings in Lebanon at Khobar Towers. Look at Vietnam.

I am saying that we have to realize that while this introspection 
guarantees our freedom, it is also our greatest weakness. I recognize 
there have been mistakes made in Iraq. In his January 10 speech, the 
President also recognized this and has taken full responsibility for 
mistakes, which are made in every war. Yet we still find ourselves in 
difficult situations about the best way ahead.

These decisions affect many lives, both of our soldiers and the 
American people they pledged to protect.

We should debate. That is what the Senate body intends to do. It is 
what we have been doing. But how we fight and when we leave will 
determine the fight our grandchildren face. I think we all agree that 
it would be disastrous to leave Iraq precipitously. If we do, we know 
what we can expect: increased levels of violence and the spread of 
extremist ideology. Iraq itself would collapse into anarchy. We know 
this.

A personal friend of mine, DIA Director General Maples, said this:




 Continued coalition presence is the primary counter to a 


 breakdown in central authority. Such a breakdown would have 


 grave consequences for the people of Iraq, stability in the 


 region, and U.S. strategic interests.


DNI John Negroponte and CIA Director General Hayden have also agreed 
with that statement and analysis. It is not too late to avoid this 
breakdown. I don't think it is time to start cutting our losses and 
hope all of this will somehow disappear, somehow it will go away. If we 
can assist Iraq to reach the point of sustainable self-governance, then 
we can bring defeat to our enemies and bring stability to the region. 
We all want this to happen.


To those who say we cannot win, I look to Bosnia. I have to say, Mr. 
President, I was wrong in this case. That was a situation that many 
said and I said was intractable, that we would be bogged down for years 
and suffer thousands of casualties. I really believed this situation. I 
went back to Bosnia. It is peaceful. This is directly because of our 
military involvement. So I learned a lesson in Bosnia.

When I heard President Bush ask for our support for a troop surge, I 
heard the same message from many soldiers whom I have talked to in 
Baghdad, Fallujah, Tikrit, Balad, Mosul, and other areas. They said 
they want to fight the enemy there and not at home. This is what the 
troops have told me on these 14 trips I have made over there. They said 
they are in a fight to win and that they will accomplish the mission. 
Their morale is very high, and they back this up by reenlisting in 
record numbers.

I watched one of the Sunday shows, and they are trying to say: Look 
at the dissatisfying level. You can ask a question of all the troops 
over there and pull out some kind of answer that can be misinterpreted. 
The true test is those individuals who are fighting the hardest and 
facing the most risk are the very ones who have the highest 
reenlistment rate we have seen in modern history. We are seeing 
reenlistments in record numbers right now, and the sacrifice our 
service men and women pay demand we pursue every possibility to leave 
stability in our wake.

The permanent Iraqi Government has only been in power since May. Many 
of the leaders have never had any kind of opportunity to run any kind 
of government before, let alone under the terrible circumstances they 
face. While Saddam was in power, they were in jail or were in exile. 
They were on the outside. Now they have to build coalitions and a 
democracy that took us many years to achieve in this country. I think 
sometimes we forget that fact.

Last week, Hassan al-Suneid, a Shiite legislator and adviser to Prime 
Minister al-Maliki, was quoted in the Washington Post. This is what he 
said, an adviser to al-Maliki:




 If the Americans withdraw, the militias and the armed 


 groups will attack each other, and that means a sure civil 


 war. What concerns me really is that U.S. troops might submit 


 to the Democrats' decision and withdraw without thinking 


 about Iraq's situation and what will happen to the Iraqi 


 people.


We owe it to the sacrifice of the brave servicemember, we owe it to 
the Iraqi people, and we owe it to our children and grandchildren. Give 
our soldiers everything they need to win, and if Iraq doesn't step up, 
then it will be time to go but not until then.

We haven't given enough time to see if the surge is working. July 15 
was supposed to be an interim White House update. We know the 16 
benchmarks. It is my understanding eight are proceeding as planned, 
eight are not, and two are mixed signals. We know the surge has enabled 
a number of things to happen, such as a new engagement strategy, which 
I will talk about in a minute. It is called the joint security 
stations. We have gotten a huge increase in tips. Tips are pieces of 
information that come from the Iraqi people that tell us where IEDs 
are, that tell us where individuals are, where terrorists are. These 
are the qualified tips. They are accelerating on a daily basis. It has 
enabled us to stage offensives throughout Iraq without significantly 
diluting our troops in Baghdad. It has enabled the commanders to chase 
down al-Qaida and keep them from regrouping and attacking areas that 
have been historical sanctuaries of al-Qaida.

September 15 is when General Petraeus will give us a report. Let's 
not forget, that is what the law says. We passed a law. We passed a law 
either in March or May. The law says September 15 is the date he will 
come forth, this great general, General Petraeus, who is over there 
right now. It will give him time to say what our situation is and what 
we should do if a change is necessary. We owe it to him at this time.

A total surge, of course, has just been in place for 2 weeks. We have 
some good indicators that the time to make that kind of change is 
September. We cannot change the terms of the deal now. That was the 
deal, and that is written into law.

My colleague Senator DeMint stated it well:




 If we're going to govern effectively, we can't change our 


 minds every week.


Let's not give a knee-jerk reaction to the headlines of IEDs and 
sectarian killings. This is exactly what the enemy is aiming its 
propaganda toward. I recognize this is not the fight we thought we were 
going to be getting


into, but it is the fight that is before us now.

I admire Prime Minister Maliki's assessment. I quote him again:




 A fundamental struggle is being fought on Iraqi soil 


 between those who believe that Iraqis, after a long 


 nightmare, can retrieve their dignity and freedom, and others 


 who think that oppression is the order of things and that 


 Iraqis are doomed to a political culture of terror, prisons 


 and mass graves.


I want to share one last point. Before I do, I want to put up a 
chart. If my colleagues will remember, we had the Webb amendment which 
would have dictated terms of how we do our troops deployments. At that 
time, I used this chart. We have to keep in mind that one of the 
problems we had in orchestrating a surge and trying to address this now 
is that we went through a pretty tough climb back in the 1990s.

As this chart shows, if we look at the black line, this is the 1993 
baseline increase by inflation. In other words, if we did just what we 
took in 1993 and only increased it by inflation, this is where we would 
be in the year 2000. The Clinton administration is represented by this 
red line. If we take the difference between the status quo and what his 
recommendation was in his budget, it is $412 billion total. We, in our 
wisdom, saw we were able to raise it to this green line in the middle. 
But it still is $313 billion less.

I suggest that a lot of that represents our troop levels because the 
most expensive thing we have in defense is the troop levels. We are in 
the situation now where we have to see if this is going to work, if it 
changes, the surge, General Petraeus and all his efforts are taking 
place.

I mentioned the President's speech of January 10. I did it for a 
reason because I went back and reread that speech. If you read it, it 
talks about the victory being in a bottoms-up situation. In other 
words, instead of the top down, from the top political leaders down, it 
is going to be from the roots, from the people in these various 
communities. That is exactly what I witnessed.

Mr. President, I will share with you what I witnessed the last time I 
was there. Keep in mind that just a few weeks ago, long before the full 
surge effect was taking place, I spent a lot of time in Anbar Province 
in Ramadi, Fallujah, as well as in Baghdad. I saw some changes. I think 
a lot of it was due to the fact that we have had a lot of the cut-and-
run or surrender resolutions and the Iraqi people are very much 
concerned that is what we are going to do, and that all of a sudden got 
their attention.

What I will share with you, Mr. President, I know we spend a lot of 
time and it is important we talk about the political leaders. Al-
Maliki, we do talk about him. He is the Prime Minister. We talk about 
Prime Minister Jasim and Dr. Rubaie. What I noticed last time is a 
bottoms-up dramatic improvement, not coming from the political leaders 
but the religious leaders. This is what I witnessed.

My colleagues might remember, we stood on the Senate floor a year ago 
and said the terrorists are saying Ramadi will become the terrorist 
capital of the world. Now Ramadi is secure. If you go next door to 
Fallujah--and we remember the World War II type of door-to-door 
activities that were taking place there. The marines did a miraculous 
job, but Fallujah at the time I got over there on this last trip was 
secure. The important thing is it was secured by the Iraqi security 
forces. They were the ones providing security at that time.

I mentioned a minute ago the joint security stations. This is a 
bottoms-up type of thing. I noticed in Baghdad, where, instead of our 
troops going out into the field and coming back to the Green Zone at 
night, they stayed out there. They bed down in the homes with the Iraqi 
forces. I talked with people who experienced this, theirs and ours. I 
didn't see that in any of the previous trips over there.

If I can single out one thing that is causing the bottoms-up 
improvement we have seen so far as a result of this surge announcement 
that was made just a few months ago, it would be the attitude of the 
clerics and the imams in the mosques. We monitor these, by the way. Our 
intelligence is at all these mosque meetings where they meet once a 
week. As most of us do on Sunday in our churches, mosques meet at 
different times. Nonetheless, they have weekly services. In weekly 
services prior to January of this year, 85 percent of the messages that 
were given in the mosques by the clerics were anti-American messages. 
They started reducing, and by April we went through the entire month 
without one mosque giving an anti-American message. That is why we are 
getting the support of the people, the bottoms-up we are talking about 
and the President was talking about back on January 10. We are seeing 
these individuals doing the same thing.

I don't think there is a person watching us or present in this 
Chamber today who isn't from a State that has such programs as the 
Neighborhood Watch Programs. That is what they have over there right 
now, and they are watching and they are going around with spray cans 
and spraying circles around undetonated IEDs so that our troops don't 
get into them. This is the type of cooperation we have not seen before.

This is what the President asked for on January 10. I think anything 
prior to our legal timeline of September 15 and getting an ultimate 
report from General Petraeus would be a great disservice to our 
fighters over there as well as to Iraqis.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.