# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `394b974c5d5360eeceecc082bf720880`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding a request for


funding I made of the House Appropriations Committee for inclusion in 
H.R. 3326, the Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2010.

Specifically, all of the projects are included in Title IV, Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation (RDTE).

















 RDTE, Army


Highly Integrated Lethality Systems Development. $4 million. The 
entity to receive funding is the U.S. Army at Picatinny Arsenal, 
Picatinny, New Jersey 07806. The Department of Defense has a clear 
requirement to close the capabilities gap identified by various 
military users including Remotely Operated Weapon Systems, Joint 
Services Small Arms, Program (JSSAP), and Future Force Warrior (FFW) to 
improve precision through coordination of technical and tactical fire 
control. The application of Coordinated Lethality will make all weapons 
and munitions products developed and supported by the Armaments 
Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal 
more valuable to the warfighter. This program will help the U.S. Army 
to achieve success on the battlefield of the future, increasing combat 
power by networking sensors, decision makers, and shooters to achieve 
shared awareness, increased speed of command, higher tempo of 
operations, greater lethality, increased survivability, and a degree of 
self-synchronization.

Advanced Technologies, Energy and Manufacturing Science. $7 million. 
The entity to receive this funding is the U.S. Army at Picatinny 
Arsenal, Picatinny, New Jersey, 07806. This effort will identify 
solutions to meet a wide array of diverse challenges including 
Energetics & Insensitive Munitions (IM) development, Directed Energy & 
Laser Vulnerability of Weapons and Munition Systems, armaments power 
and energy, and advanced materials manufacturing processes. These 
technologies are the underpinnings for the evolutionary improvement and 
revolutionary invention of weapon systems for the Army's Future Force. 
They also will significantly improve Army capabilities by providing 
lighter weight, stronger and more durable materiel that will improve 
the readiness and performance of soldiers and their weapons systems and 
enhance battlefield survivability and sustainability. This program 
helps the Army to meet the urgent need to develop and field a breadth 
of innovative technology solutions to the joint warfighter with a focus 
on the lethality and survivability demands for munitions and armaments.

Developmental Mission Integration. $7 million. The entity to receive 
this funding is the U.S. Army at Picatinny Arsenal, Picatinny, New 
Jersey 07806. This program responds to the critical need for the U.S. 
Army Armament Research Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC) to 
have the capability and flexibility to ''bridge the gap'' between its 
armaments research activities and Current Force requirements through a 
dedicated effort to mature, update, prototype and ''spin out'' armament 
and munitions technologies needed by the warfighter in the near term (6 
to 12 months). This program helps the Army develop, demonstrate and 
transition critical armaments, munitions and logistics technologies 
needed by Army Brigade Combat Teams and Special Forces prior to (i.e. 
reset periods) and during deployment.

Reliability and Affordability Enhancement for Precision Guided 
Munitions. $6 million. The entity to receive this funding is the U.S. 
Army at Picatinny Arsenal, Picatinny, New Jersey, 07806. Reliable 
precision guided munitions provide distinct advantages against a range 
of targets, where their use reduces risks to U.S. forces and can save 
U.S. lives. These weapons can also reduce unintended harm to civilians 
during combat, by producing less collateral damage to civilians and 
civilian infrastructure than unitary weapons. This program will meet 
the Army's urgent need to develop and provide a breadth of innovative 
technology solutions for joint warfighter with a focus on precision, 
safety, lethality and survivability demands for munitions and 
armaments.

Armaments Academy. $3 million. The entity to receive this funding is 
the U.S. Army at Picatinny Arsenal, Picatinny, New Jersey, 07806. This 
program would establish an ''Armaments Academy'' at Picatinny Arsenal 
that is recognized formally as the Department of Defense's executive 
agent for training and certifying armament engineers and scientists for 
all services. This academy would develop an exceptional workforce of 
employees with multiple and integrated skill sets, capable of adapting 
quickly to DoD's changing armament mission. In the process, the Academy 
would ensure a sustainable talent pool for the growth and development 
of DoD's armament development community, accelerate developing new 
incoming DoD armament Scientists & Engineers

(S&E) increasing productivity and value to DoD and the Warfighter.

Joint Munitions and Lethality Mission Integration. $2 million. The 
entity to receive this funding is the U.S. Army at Picatinny Arsenal, 
Picatinny, New Jersey, 07806. The Joint Munitions & Lethality Life 
Cycle Management Command (JM&L LCMC) was established to support the 
Army's overarching goal of transforming into a more lethal and agile 
force. This program will assist the integration and transition of 
research, development and engineering (RDE) technologies into Program 
Executive Office (PEO)/Program Manager (PM) systems. This effort will 
allow the JM&L to integrate critical munitions and lethality missions 
across all stages of the life cycle (R&D, Production, Sustainment and 
Demilitarization) to more efficiently and economically support the 
joint warfighter.

Rapid Insertion of Developmental Technology. $2 million. The entity 
to receive this funding is the Stevens Institute of Technology at 
Castle Point on Hudson, Hoboken, NJ 07030. Continued operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan have necessitated the rapid development, qualification 
and fielding of newly developed military technologies that enhance 
lethality, situational awareness, and warfighter effectiveness and 
survivability. There exist opportunities to rapidly field developmental 
technologies through spiral development into existing and future 
systems. This ongoing program will address five areas of need for rapid 
development: Intelligent Armor Systems; Micro-ElectroMechanical Systems 
(MEMS) for Weapons Applications; Intelligent and Precision Weapon 
Systems; Manufacturing Sciences Modeling & Simulation and Microchemical 
Platforms for Nanoenergetic Materials and Critical Defense Chemicals. 
This funding will be used to enhance the Army's ability to accelerate 
the fielding of new systems and technology that are crucial to the 
success of ongoing military operations.

GreenArmaments/Rangesafe. $2 million. The entity to receive this 
funding is the Stevens Institute of Technology at Castle Point on 
Hudson, Hoboken, NJ 07030. During current and ongoing training and test 
operations the Army expends millions of rounds of ammunition containing 
heavy metals such as lead, tungsten and depleted uranium. This program 
is developing innovative technologies to reduce the environmental 
impact of Army armaments, munitions and operations on natural 
resources. All ongoing projects are aimed at directly supporting the 
Army's Environmental Requirements and Technology Assessment (AERTA), to 
allow the Army to maintain its training and test and production 
facilities at the top operational level enabling their continued use to 
ensure war-fighting readiness.

Armament Systems Engineering--ASEI2. $2 million. The entity to 
receive this funding is the Stevens Institute of Technology at Castle 
Point on Hudson, Hoboken, NJ 07030. The dynamically changing mission 
requirements in numerous and diverse points of engagement for the Army 
can only be met by efficient, accelerated and affordable development, 
integration and fielding of new capabilities and systems. This ongoing 
program is developing and implementing new methods and practices in 
systems architecture, system engineering methodologies and tools, 
systems integration and prototyping, modeling and simulation 
capabilities for complex and intelligent systems, and network system 
engineering.

Nano Advanced Cluster Energetics. $2 million. The entity to receive 
this funding is the New Jersey Institute of Technology at University 
Heights, Newark, New Jersey 07102-1982. Advanced Cluster Energetics 
(ACE) combines simple, established particulate coating and handling 
processes to achieve net shape manufacturing of energetic products with 
''perfect'' composition uniformity, dramatically higher energy density 
and an order of magnitude smaller process cost. The Nano Advanced 
Cluster Energetics program (n-ACE) seeks to extend ACE technology to 
incorporate nano-scale components that will result in performance gains 
even greater than those already demonstrated at the micro-level. There 
currently is no existing technology that can process nano-particulates 
at production scale. Nano ACE benefits will touch all aspects 
of manufacturing and performance of military munitions: 50 percent 
manufacturing cost reduction; insensitive munitions through 
encapsulated uniform compositions munitions products of superior 
packing density in the same volume leading to greater performance and a 
reduced logistics tail.


Lightweight Packaging System for Enhancing Combat Munitions 
Logistics. $2 million. The entity to receive this funding is Frontier 
Performance Polymers, Picatinny Innovation Center, Picatinny, New 
Jersey, 07806 The Army and Marines have learned in Iraq and Afghanistan 
that current ammunition packaging is too heavy and bulky. This program 
is initially focusing on developing advanced multifunctional 
lightweight materials, cost-effective fabrication processes and 
optimized packaging systems for 120mm mortar ammunition. Research has 
already resulted in a reduction of 30 percent in system weight and 20 
percent in system cost. There has also been success with increased 
shipping capacity, greater portability by one soldier, ease of access 
to ammunition and reduced loading, assembling and packing costs. 
Acceleration of


this advanced material and fabrication capability for the production of 
the lightweight munitions packaging systems will ultimately enhance 
force readiness, reduce the logistics footprint, increase handling and 
supply efficiency, enhance safety and improve a soldier's mobility, 
agility and survivability, especially at the time of additional U.S. 
troop deployments to Afghanistan.

Ink-based Desktop Electronic Materials. $2 million. The entity to 
receive funding for this project to Honeywell Corporation, 
headquartered at 101 Columbia Road, Morristown, New Jersey 07962. 
Today's Army has a demonstrated need for low-production volume, short-
use life and quickly-deployable electronics that enable field-based 
circuit design, implementation and repair. Ink-based printable 
electronics technology is faster and less expensive than traditional 
manufacturing processes and will allow electronic materials to be 
printed in the field much closer to the user. This program is 
developing specialized inks that are capable of fabricating electronics 
that would be printed on a desktop printer and then incorporated into 
communication technologies such as laptop computers, mobile phones, 
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, displays, antennae, radar, 
etc.
















RDTE, Air Force


M-PACT Pure Air Generator (PAG). $2 million. The entity to receive 
funding for this project is Marotta Scientific Controls, 78 Boonton 
Avenue, Montville, New Jersey 07045. This is a request is for Air Force 
RDT&E to develop an enhanced Small Diameter Bomb (SDB) Alternate 
Compressor System to be used in missile seeker cooling and pneumatic 
weapons ejection and designed to meet the specific operational 
requirements of the Small Diameter bomb. As a direct follow-on to 
current funding, enhancements are needed to improve the reliability of 
the system, ensuring higher performance and lower cost to the Air Force 
for the system over the product life cycle.

Large Area APVT Materials Development for High Powered devices. $2 
million. The entity to receive funding for this project is II-VI 
Corporation, 20 Chapin Road, Suite 1005, Pine Brook, NJ 07058. This 
project is developing a domestic technology and manufacturing base for 
large area (100mm diameter), high quality silicon carbide (SiC) 
materials. These materials are needed for highly energy efficient, high 
frequency, and high power applications for the Department of Defense 
which has specific future mission requirements for solid state power 
substations, all-electric and hybrid vehicles (Air Force, Army and 
Navy), and next generation radar devices (Air Force and Navy), all of 
which will rely upon devices manufactured with Silicon Carbide (SiC).

















 RDTE, Navy


Advanced Fuel Filtration (AFF) System. $1.5 million. The entity to 
receive funding is Filtration Solutions, 432 Sand Shore Road, Unit 8, 
Hackettstown, NJ 07840. This program seeks to finalize a system that 
was developed under the Navy SBIR program for the replacement of the 
DDG shipboard centrifugal fuel oil purifier. This equipment will save 
$25 million per year for the Navy from maintenance and operation cost 
after it is fully implemented to the DDG-51 and CG-47 class ships.
