---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `39537f6d7212826763bd28a191a35f1d`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 5658, 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. This 
legislation authorizes $601.4 billion for defense programs in FY 2009, 
including $70 billion in emergency funds authorized specifically to 
support operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is funding that is 
critical to our nation's defense, as well as to the troops serving so 
valiantly in the wars being waged on two fronts.

Thanks in a large part to the leadership of Chairman Skelton, this 
legislation provides greater funding than had been requested by the 
President for equipment depleted by the war in Iraq, including new 
combat vehicles, new battle gear for the Army National Guard and 
reserves, military pay raises, and shipbuilding.

H.R. 5658 authorizes $25.4 billion for defense health-care programs, 
and blocks the president's plan to raise user fees for programs such as 
Tricare and deductibles for service members and military retirees. This 
legislation will also authorize an increase of 7,000 active-duty Army 
personnel, and provide for 5,000 more Marine Corps personnel than 
current levels.

This legislation also provides for a 3.5 percent pay raise for active 
duty military, rolls back proposed benefit reductions to spousal 
benefits, and increases funding for military housing upgraded for bases 
like Fort Bragg, North Carolina, located in my district.

Mr. Chairman this is a good bill for our troops. It is our duty, our 
charge as members of this body, to ensure that those who protect and 
defend our nation in this all-volunteer army receive the best health 
care, pay, and living conditions that we can provide for them. We owe 
this to them.

I support this legislation and I would urge my colleagues to do the 
same.