---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `395c08d690e5392df10e3a0fab44be89`
`Mr. BYRD — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Texas.

It has been 4 years since the President sent our troops into Iraq, 4 
long years. That is longer than it took to win World War II. More than 
3,300 troops have sacrificed their lives in Iraq, and nearly 25,000 
have been wounded--many severely.

With passage of this conference agreement, Congress will have 
appropriated more than $450 billion for the war in Iraq. Did my 
colleagues hear that? Four hundred and fifty billion dollars. That 
compares with the $296 billion which the United States spent on World 
War II. Yet in the 4 years since our troops succeeded in removing 
Saddam Hussein from power, the President has failed--and I say this 
with all due respect when I speak about the President--the President 
has failed in his mission to bring peace and stability to the people of 
Iraq. The troops had the courage and the strength to win the war, but 
the President has not had the wisdom to win the peace. It is time--past 
time--for a new direction in Iraq.

The agreement before us today provides that new direction. But rather 
than admit the need to change course, the President--and I say this 
with all due respect--continues to try to mislead the American public 
about the war in Iraq.

He recently asked Congress to ''put partisanship on hold.'' But then 
he, the President, voiced the incredible assertion that the attacks on 
9/11 are linked to the war in Iraq. That is not true, and the American 
people know it.

The President complained that Congress is holding funding for the 
troops hostage to funding for domestic needs. President Bush claims 
that Democrats are adding porkbarrel spending to a bill intended for 
the troops. The President has charged that Democrats are ''legislating 
defeat'' in Iraq.

President Bush has tried to scare the pants off the public by 
suggesting that our bill could result in death and destruction in 
America. What utter nonsense. What hogwash. This Senate must not be a 
rubberstamp for this or any President. Under the Constitution, Congress 
has a duty to question the war policies of this or any President. We 
must listen to the voices of the people, and the American people have 
sent a very clear message to Washington: It is time to start to bring 
our troops home from Iraq.

The Congress has responded, crafting a new direction that will spur 
the Iraqi Government to pursue real political reconciliation in that 
country. The American people do not support an open-ended U.S. military 
occupation in Iraq. It is time for the truth; it is time for the White 
House to stop the fear mongering and face the truth.

In the book of John, chapter 8, verse 32 of the King James version of 
the Holy Bible are these words:




 And ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you 


 free.


The Congress is not holding funding for the troops hostage to 
domestic porkbarrel spending. The $6.9 billion for rebuilding the gulf 
coast after Hurricane Katrina is not pork barrel spending. Ask the 
citizens of New Orleans. The $1.8 billion for the VA to provide first-
class health care to our wounded veterans is not porkbarrel spending. 
Ask the troops who are waiting for care, and ask their families. I know 
$20 million to repair Walter Reed Hospital is not pork barrel spending. 
The $650 million for the SCHIP child health program to deal with the 
shortfall in 14 States is not porkbarrel


spending. Ask the parents with sick children. The $2.25 billion for 
securing the country from terrorist attack, including port and border 
security, transit security, funds to improve screening for explosives 
at airports, and/or screening cargo on passenger aircraft is not 
porkbarrel spending. It is homeland security to prevent the death and 
destruction which President Bush warns about.

This country must not forsake critical domestic needs because of this 
President's single-minded obsession with his failed mission. Congress 
has appropriated more than $38 billion for rebuilding Iraq, and this 
agreement adds another $3 billion. I simply do not understand why this 
President--our President--is eager to commit billions of dollars to 
rebuild Baghdad but absolutely opposes additional money to rebuild the 
gulf coast here in America. Why does President Bush decry needed funds 
for the Veterans' Administration to build a first-class health care 
system for our brave troops?

Porkbarrel spending? I think not. The conference agreement that is 
before the Senate today totals $124 billion. It is lower than the House 
bill. Yet essential funding for gulf coast recovery, veterans medical 
care, homeland security, and agricultural disaster relief remains.

The conference report also includes an increase in the minimum wage--
the first increase since 1997. It is needed, it is fair, and it is long 
overdue.

There is also $4.9 billion in tax incentives for small businesses 
that are fully paid for in the bill. Small business is the backbone of 
our economy and these incentives will help economic growth.

This bill includes more than $100 billion for the Department of 
Defense--nearly $4 billion above the President's inadequate request. It 
protects the troops by including $1.2 billion above the President's low 
number for mine-resistant vehicles.

This bill cares for the troops by providing $2.1 billion more than 
the President for health care, including more resources for troops with 
traumatic brain injury. Porkbarrel? I think not.


The President--our President--claims this is a partisan bill. The 
President claims Congress is trying to micromanage the war, 
substituting our judgment for the judgment of our generals. The 
President knows better.

The Constitution says that ''the Congress shall have power''--do you 
know what that means? The Congress, that is us--''the Congress shall 
have power to . . . provide for the common Defence.'' It is the 
Congress--yes, it is the Congress--that is given the sole power to 
declare war. The Congress is sworn to ''raise and support Armies.'' The 
Congress has heard the voices of the people, and we have responded as 
we are elected to do.

This conference agreement provides a new directive for the war in 
Iraq. It is patriotic, not partisan, to help the President to see the 
truth--the truth. It is our duty. It is a duty born of love for this 
great country, the Constitution, and the American people.

If the President decides to veto the bill, he will be holding funding 
for the troops hostage to his stubborn insistence on going into Iraq 
and the resulting disaster caused by his, the President's, war 
policies.

I encourage all Members to vote for this conference report. We can 
send a strong message to the White House. We can help this President 
face the truth. Four years after our troops removed Saddam Hussein from 
power, the President's policies simply are not working. They must 
change. We must come together as a country to repair the damage caused 
by this horrendous war--this horrendous war--and chart a new direction 
in Iraq.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.