---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `39650508b5c63e7fd2692826d7148924`
`Mr. FILNER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I rise in support of this resolution.

Let me just say, as Chair of the Veterans' Affairs Committee of this 
House of Representatives, no matter where we stand on this war, no 
matter where we vote on this resolution, we are going to make sure that 
the brave young men and women who come home get all the care and all 
the support they need from a grateful Nation. We will show what support 
of the troops means when they do come home.

Now, those who voted for the war back in 2002 are sometimes asked, 
Knowing then what you know now, how would you have voted?

Well, Madam Speaker, we knew then what we know now, and we know now 
what you are going to know a year or two from now.

Let me read to you what I said 4/1/2/ years ago when we had the 
debate on Iraq: ''I rise in opposition to this resolution to grant 
unilateral authority to the President. I cannot believe that the 
Members of this body are ceding our constitutional authority to this 
President. And they can give me all the fancy whereases and phrases and 
put all the fig leafs and write all the report language they want, but 
this is a blank check. This is a Gulf of Tonkin resolution. This is a 
violation not only of our Constitution but will lead to a violation of 
the U.N. charter.

''Wake up, my colleagues. Why would anyone vote to do that? That is 
not our constitutional responsibility. And when we vote on this 
resolution, will America be safer? No, I think America will be less 
safe. We will dilute the war against terrorism. The destabilization of 
the area will lead to the increased probability of terrorists getting 
nuclear weapons. Al Qaeda is probably cheering the passage of this 
resolution. Now is their chance to get more weapons.'' I said that 
then.

Then we talked about the imminent threat. You guys threw the imminent 
threat at us. What a lie. And what are you saying now? We are 
emboldening our enemies and demoralizing our troops. I heard the word 
''sabotage.'' I heard the word ''retreat.''

I will tell you what demoralizes our troops, my colleagues. What 
demoralizes our troops will be the failure to provide adequate health 
care when they get home. What demoralizes our troops is the story of 
just a couple weeks ago when a young marine went to a VA hospital in 
Minnesota suffering from PTSD, and they said, You have got to go on a 
waiting list. And this young man committed suicide. That is what 
demoralizes our troops. That is what we have to prevent here, and that 
is what we are working on to do.

I said back in 2002: ''I have heard all my colleagues on the other 
side calling us appeasers, those who are going to vote against this 
resolution. We are


wishful thinkers. We have our eyes closed. We sit on our hands.'' And, 
of course, now we want to cut and run.

Well, I tell you, Madam Speaker, no one on this side is suggesting 
cutting and running. Making peace is hard work. Just ask Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. Ask Gandhi. Ask Nelson Mandela. They didn't cut and 
run. They were peacemakers. And they changed the history of this world.

So let us not hear talk of retreat and sabotage and surrender. We 
want action for peace. We want it now, and we want the United States to 
be part of that action.

I said also in 2002, Madam Speaker: ''There is a whiff of Vietnam in 
the air. I had a constituent call me and say, 'You know, if you enjoyed 
Vietnam, you are really going to love Iraq.' The mail is running 10-1 
against this war. Protests have already begun around the Nation and 
around the world.''

I said to the President then that ''you came to the office as a 
uniter, not a divider. Yet we have gone down the road to division in 
this Nation. You can see it. You can smell it. You can hear it. And we 
are going to get more.

''So let us not go further down that road, Mr. President. Rethink 
this policy. A country divided over war is not a country that is going 
to make any progress. Let us have a rethinking of this war.''

That is what I said in 2002. You guys didn't want to listen to us 
then. The President didn't want to listen to us then. You really should 
listen to us now and listen to the people of America who voted in 2006 
to change this policy.

Let us respond to the American people. Let us vote against 
escalation. Let us begin to bring the troops home. Vote ''yes'' on this 
resolution.