---
---

# None
## `39699cc3373e3b46033f347acca9aeb6`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. And let's be clear about this whole issue of 
deadlines. There was a deadline that came out of the House version, for 
the political junkies that are paying attention, Mr. Speaker. There was 
a hard deadline that came out of the House version, not in the Senate 
version. And the compromise that just went to the President had the 
goal, just the goal of maybe getting out of Iraq. No hard deadline, 
just the goal, because we knew that he would veto a hard deadline. And 
as much as we don't like it, he is the President of the United States. 
But there is the goal of leaving. This President, Mr. Speaker, can't 
even think about the goal of getting out of Iraq. He doesn't even want 
to talk about it.

There is no deadline in this supplemental that he just vetoed, no 
hard deadline at all. The language said, the goal of getting out. So 
let's be very, very clear.

Now, when people ask, well, why do we need to get out. People I think 
feel why. There's a lot of really good examples, not just from 
Democrats as some of our friends may like to think, but from a variety 
of others.



Here's what is happening in Iraq, as the Washington Post reported, 
''A department of the Iraqi Prime Minister's Office is playing a 
leading role,'' this is the Iraqi Prime Minister's Office, playing a 
leading role ''in the arrest and removal of senior Iraqi Army and 
National Police Officers, some of whom had apparently worked too 
aggressively to combat violent Shiite militias, according to U.S. 
military officials in Baghdad. Since March 1, at least 16 Army and 
National Police Commanders have been fired, detained or pressured to 
resign. At least 9 of them are Sunnis.''

So now they are removing police and military people that are cracking 
down on the wrong, somehow the wrong group of terrorists. And some 
folks say this is not like Vietnam.

How about Senator Hagel, leading Republican, conservative. I read 
today he had an 85 percent rating from a conservative think tank. So he 
is clearly a conservative Republican. He just got back from Iraq. 
Here's what he says in Mr. Novak's column of yesterday, or 2 days ago. 
''This thing is coming undone quickly, and Maliki's government is 
weaker by the day. The police are corrupt, top to bottom. The oil 
problem is a huge problem. They still can't get anything through the 
parliament. No hydrocarbon law, no deBaathification law, no provincial 
elections.''

That's Chuck Hagel, our friend in the Senate, our colleague in the 
United States Senate. Republican from Nebraska; 85 percent conservative 
rating from a conservative group here in Washington.

We're saying that we need to change direction, Mr. Speaker. We're 
saying that the Iraqi government has had over 4 years to try to piece 
this thing together, and that we've done all that we can do. And the 
American people do not want to lose any more soldiers to this war. And 
we want a deadline. We want to get out. We want to get out with 
respect. We want to get out with dignity, we want to get out and 
protect our troops.

But it turns out that the presence of the United States in Iraq is 
inciting violence. We're inciting the civil war. We're the ones being 
attacked, as well as others around. And in April, it's been the sixth 
highest month of American soldiers getting killed in the entirety of 
the war.

Let's fix this. Let's go in a new direction. This is not time for 
bravado. This it not time for ego. This is time for the American people 
to come together and the Congress to come together, the President to 
recognize that this has not worked, and for us to try to re-establish 
some level of credibility in the world. And this President needs to 
listen to the will of the American people.

And I want to make one final point, because we have this tremendous 
debate in the country that is not always framed the right way. But I 
want friends who we run into in the street, and someone says I'm pro-
choice and I'm pro-life, and I think we're all pro-life. But the debate 
has been framed as such that pro-life Americans take their role and 
their issues very seriously.

And I find it extremely ironic, as a pro-life Democrat who voted for 
the partial birth abortion bill, that this President has two vetos. His 
one veto is on stem cell research, because that's a pro-life issue. And 
his second veto is to continue a war in which thousands of American 
soldiers have been killed and injured, and in which tens of thousands, 
if not hundreds of thousands of Iraqi citizens, innocent, many of them, 
have been killed. And by keeping this open-ended, by keeping this open-
ended, we know that there will be more death and destruction.

So I find it ironic that this President has two vetos; one pro-life, 
supposedly, and the other pro-war. And how they reconcile that on the 
other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, I'll have no idea. But I think it is 
important for us to recognize how sometimes dysfunctional the 
philosophy, Mr. Meek, of this President and this administration has 
been.

And so, let's, on the anniversary of ''Mission Accomplished,'' and 
recognizing the failures of the past, let's do what Americans do, and 
that's fix the problem. Americans are full of problem solvers, and 
that's what we do in this country. We fix things, whether it's the car 
or the computer, or the truck, we fix things.

And I hope that the President will find it in his heart to sit down 
with Speaker Pelosi, to sit down with Leader Reid and the leadership 
from this Congress, and draw on the knowledge of Ike Skelton, the Chair 
of our Armed Services Committee, who's been in this institution, I 
think, over 30 years. Draw on the knowledge of Jack Murtha, who's been 
in this Congress almost 40 years on the Defense Appropriations 
Committee. And stop listening to those people who got us in this 
situation.

I yield to my friend.