---
---

# CONGRATULATIONS TO PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
## `3977349e61177c4cae9d1767f100c8e3`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, as co-chairman of the 
Afghanistan Caucus, I want to congratulate President Hamid Karzai on 
his inauguration for a second term in Afghanistan. In his speech, I am 
pleased President Karzai stated that he is committed to tackling 
corruption and restoring security in his nation.

I support the position of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who 
attended the inauguration, that President Karzai has his chance to 
''have accountability and tangible results that will improve the lives 
of the people.'' In my nine visits to Afghanistan, I have learned of 
the dedication of Defense Minister Abdul Raheem Wardak and Interior 
Minister Haneef Atmar. I know firsthand of the capabilities of the 
Afghan police and army units, who were trained by my former National 
Guard unit, the 218th Brigade led by Brigadier General Bob Livingston, 
2007-2008, of the South Carolina Army National Guard.

It is vitally important that in order for Afghanistan to turn the 
corner, the U.S. must do everything promised to the people of 
Afghanistan to provide for a secure and stable society. We must grant 
the necessary resources with our NATO allies to President Karzai to get 
the job done.

I was grateful to learn last night at a dinner with Slovak Foreign 
Minister Miroslav Lajcak to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the 
Velvet Revolution that Slovakia is doubling its troop commitment in 
Afghanistan. Slovakia is a revered partner of America promoting freedom 
and democracy.
