---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `3979a763640603013c42b2beb5597131`
`Mr. KERRY — 7 December 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, thank you very much, and I thank Senator 
Baucus for the time.

My friend from Oklahoma asked how many patients I take care of in 
terms of Medicare. I must say that is not the essential ingredient of 
being able to exercise common sense and to make some judgments about 
this issue. I could turn to him and ask, how many buses has he driven, 
but he votes on transportation policy; how many wars has he fought in, 
but he sends people to Afghanistan; how many courtrooms has he 
practiced in and tried a case in, but he is willing to limit attorney's 
fees. That is not the measure here. The measure is, what does the 
policy do?


Let me be very clear. The Medicare Advantage Program was put in 
place. It is a private plan that is run by the insurance companies. We 
put them in place, and they grew, in 2003, and gained the name 
''Medicare Advantage'' because they were going to be run more 
efficiently and at lower cost. Originally, we were paying about 95 
percent to the repayment, but that has angled up now to the point where 
MedPAC itself--not AARP. This is not AARP. This is MedPAC. Here is the 
MedPAC report. MedPAC says:




 Currently, Medicare pays Medicare Advantage plans 14 


 percent more than it would spend for similar beneficiaries in 


 [the Medicare program], pays a subsidy of $3.26 for each 


 dollar of enhanced benefits. . . .


So the Medicare folks are subsidizing additional payments to a 
program that is paying more than is regularly paid, and it goes 
straight to the insurance company. It does not make sense for tax 
dollars to be spent that way.

Finally, let me just say, the Senator referenced Massachusetts. Let 
me read a quote from the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation. It is the 
most conservative--it is constantly protecting the expenditure of tax 
dollars. Everyone in the State looks to it on issues of tax policy, 
expenditures. Here is what it says about our plan in Massachusetts:




 [T]he cost to taxpayers of achieving near universal 


 coverage has been relatively modest and well within initial 


 projections of how much the state would have to spend to 


 implement reform, in part because many of the newly insured 


 have enrolled in employer-sponsored plans at no public 


 expense.


That is what happens.

The final comment I make to him: We are blessed to have five 
physicians in my immediate family--my daughter, my son-in-law, her 
father-in-law, and two nieces--and every single one of them would 
overwhelmingly disagree with the comments made by the Senator from 
Oklahoma. They hope we will pass this legislation, as do millions of 
other doctors.