---
---

# EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES TO ITALIAN EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS
## `397b5badb5b4a1a1c9f9b93757ad34df`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 15 June 2009`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Speaker, just a short while ago I returned from Afghanistan. The 
fifth largest contingency in NATO is from Italy, so we have many 
reminders through history and specifically now of what our relationship 
is between the United States and Italy. So we rise to support this 
resolution, H. Res. 430, expressing our deepest sympathies to the 
citizens of Italy.

This earthquake was devastating, Mr. Speaker. It ruined a large part 
of the Abruzzo part of Italy. The magnitude of this earthquake is 
understood by many Americans. The university town of L'Aquila, along 
with 26 other surrounding cities, towns, and villages, suffered massive 
destruction. You already have heard of how many people were killed; 
15,000 buildings destroyed. They were historic. They were cultural 
landmarks. Seventy thousand people were displaced. So we extend our 
deepest sympathies. The homes and churches can be rebuilt, but we can 
never replace loved ones.

Despite the aftershocks that continued to devastate the region for 
days after, rescue workers demonstrated true heroism by pulling over 
100 survivors from the wreckage. Their efforts, along with those of 
humanitarian aid organizations around the globe who continue to work 
tirelessly to return people to their homes and rebuild the region, 
deserve commendation. After traveling to Italy earlier this year, I can 
attest to the resiliency and the strength of the Italian people. And I 
remind us again of the 2,350 troops that fight alongside our brave men 
and women in Afghanistan.

It is trying times like these that allow us to recognize the deep and 
binding ties between our nations, the United States of America and 
Italy. This tragedy only brings our two nations closer together.

I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the many 
organizations in the United States, including the National Italian 
American Foundation, NIAF, who are continuously working to raise funds 
to aid the rebuilding efforts in Abruzzo. The Italian American 
community's support and solidarity with the nation of Italy has only 
increased in the aftermath of this natural disaster.

I also want to commend the Italian Ambassador, Giovanni Castellaneta, 
for his leadership and commitment to the Italian American community.

I urge my colleagues to join me in passing this resolution to offer 
our sincere condolences to the nation of Italy for its tremendous loss 
as well as pledge our continued support to the Italian Government. I 
will do so also this afternoon when I greet President Berlusconi.

The G-8 summit is being held July 8, 9, and 10, and that has been 
moved to L'Aquila in the Abruzzo region to redirect funding to that 
region to help with the general reconstruction. Canada, France, 
Germany, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, of 
course, and our President, President Obama, will be there with our 
Italian friends.

I urge the passage of this legislation. I want to thank the chairman 
and the Speaker. I want to thank the ranking member for all of your 
courtesies. This is something we need to get involved in, to commend 
American organizations for reaching out to our brothers and sisters.