---
---

# STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `398173dd1f7e59c49b0abaacbb2ca79b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 7 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is a very personal 
debate, and it is a serious one. But I would only ask my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle to entertain the thought that we are, 
today, addressing the lives of Americans, and we can't fool around with 
life and death issues that impact on the lives of Americans. Millions 
of Americans today, a collective number of 110 million, are dealing 
with the diseases of diabetes, Alzheimer's, some with spinal cord 
injuries, and many others impacted by the inertia of this body. And so 
let me applaud my colleague, Congresswoman DeGette, because this 
legislation, as my colleagues realize, is imperative for it to move as 
S. 5, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. We know that if 
this bill does not pass, it does not get to the President's desk, and 
lives of millions of Americans will be impacted. It is a simple bill. 
It says that ''the stem cells were derived from human embryos that are 
donated from in vitro fertilization clinics for the purpose of 
fertility treatment and were in excess of the needs of individuals 
seeking such treatment. The embryos would never be implanted in a woman 
and would otherwise be discarded. Such individuals donate the embryos 
with written informed consent, and receive no financial aid or other 
inducements.'' These embryos otherwise would be discarded.

What is our challenge in America? To rise to our higher angels?

This rule is constructed to save lives. Our friends will have the 
privilege of a motion to recommit, but we have the responsibility of 
saving the lives of 110 million Americans, children, family members of 
yours, loved ones, husbands and wives and others. Some are our soldiers 
on the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan. We can do no less today. 
Pass S. 5. Vote for the rule, and vote against the motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 5, the ''Stem Cell 
Research Enhancement Act of 2007,'' which the House passed in 
substantially similar form by a vote of 253-174 on January 11, 2007. 
The legislation passed the Senate by a nearly veto-proof majority of 
63-34. The only difference between the version passed by the House and 
the Senate is that


the Senate version contains a provision directing the Secretary of HHS 
to conduct and support research on alternative human pluripotent stem 
cells.

Mr. Speaker, once again we find ourselves in a position to pass 
legislation that will provide our nation's scientists with the valuable 
opportunity to save lives. It is our duty as representatives of the 
people to help Americans who are suffering. The President should put 
away his veto pen and listen to the American people. They want him to 
sign this bill. Signing this bill will help bring about the new 
direction in leadership and responsiveness that American people voted 
for last November.

In 1998, the very first stem cells were isolated, leading to the 
immediate realization of the enormous possibilities this discovery 
presents. Suddenly treatments, even cures, seemed possible for 
devastating illnesses like Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's, 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), cancer, and spinal cord injuries.

Despite restrictions on federal funding imposed by President Bush in 
2001, the states of California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Illinois, and 
Maryland have provided funding for this important research. In 2005 and 
again last year, we learned that in spite of the President's continued 
opposition to stem cell research, support for it in Congress 
transcended party lines.

Unfortunately, the embryonic stem cells currently permitted by law 
for research are not sufficient for scientists' needs. According to the 
National Institute of Health (NIH), of more than 60 stem cell lines 
that were declared eligible for federal funding in 2001, only about 22 
lines are actually available for study by and distribution to 
researchers. These NIH-approved lines lack the genetic diversity that 
researchers need in order to develop effective treatments for millions 
of Americans.

In spite of recent scientific breakthroughs that suggest alternate 
means of obtaining stem cells, I must caution my colleagues from 
thinking that embryonic stem cell research is no longer necessary. I 
applaud Dr. Anthony Atala and his team at Wake Forest University and 
Harvard University for their very recent outstanding discoveries. 
However, I must repeat the caution of Harvard researcher George Daley 
in saying that these newly discovered cells ''are not a replacement for 
embryonic stem cells''--on the contrary, research for these is entirely 
complementary. In addition, while we know very little about these new 
methods, much progress has already been made in the research of 
embryonic, or pluripotent, stem cells, the most adaptable and unique of 
all the stem cell varieties. They currently provide scientists with the 
most possibilities for research and for the discovery of life-saving 
treatments; as such, we must allow these scientists the opportunity to 
do so.

It is understandable that many Americans may have moral conflicts 
with this issue if they believe that embryos need to be destroyed in 
order for this research to be implemented, but this is not the case. It 
is estimated that more than 400,000 excess frozen embryos exist in the 
United States today and that tens of thousands, and perhaps as many as 
100,000, are discarded every year.

Further, S. 5 ensures that none of the embryos used in stem cell 
research is intended for implantation in a woman. All of these embryos 
would otherwise be discarded. Mr. Speaker, denying people in our nation 
who suffer from debilitating illnesses the possible medical benefits 
that could result from embryonic research is not only cruel but a waste 
of these valuable life-sustaining stem cells.

This is indeed a matter of ethics--we cannot morally argue that it is 
better to deny suffering people hope for a cure. Let us provide all 
people in this world with possibilities for a better future by 
supporting stem cell research. Let us create the potential for miracles 
in the lives of paralyzed individuals, those with cancer, or those in 
need of organ transplants.

This bill provides a limited--yet significant--change in current 
policy that would result in making many more lines of stem cells 
available for research. If we limit the opportunities and resources our 
researchers have today, we only postpone the inevitable breakthrough. 
Our vote today may determine whether that breakthrough is made by 
Americans, or not.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill, to vote in favor 
of scientific innovation, and to vote in favor of a perfect compromise 
between the needs of science and the boundary of our principles.