---
---

# None
## `398919d30feacd3ef461a315d6d81f9b`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand some effort is being made 
to pursue the amendment offered by Senator Specter, which is very 
troubling to me because if it were to pass, it would reverse the 
Military Commissions Act of 2006 that we passed last September on final 
passage, 65 to 34. Passage of this amendment would result in a veto of 
the Defense authorization bill by the President of the United States.

The first amendment we have up that is being pushed to a vote against 
the pleas of people on this side would result in a veto of the Defense 
authorization bill. The second amendment may well raise the same issue, 
I understand. Not only that, we have very controversial amendments that 
are being made filed to this bill and that have been offered for a vote 
on this bill which are very controversial and are not related to the 
defense of America--for example, the hate crimes amendment. People have 
differing views on that. They have offered an amendment on hate crimes 
on this bill. There is also the amendment on the DREAM Act, which is an 
immigration amendment that would provide citizenship to people who come 
here in our education system at a certain age, and even though they are 
illegally in the country, they would be provided in-state tuition and 
student loans subsidized by the Federal Government. That is a very 
controversial matter too. So that is all going to be put on this piece 
of legislation, apparently.

It raises questions in my mind whether there is any serious desire on 
the part of the Democratic leadership to see the Defense authorization 
bill passed. The bill came out of the Armed Services Committee, of 
which I am a member, and it didn't have the reversal of the Military 
Commissions Act of 2006 and the grant of habeas corpus to illegal enemy 
combatants, noncitizens on foreign soil. It didn't have that or hate 
crimes or the DREAM Act.

I just say to my colleagues that we need to do the right thing for 
our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and guardsmen who are serving 
our Nation now. They are in the field this very moment. They are out 
walking the streets somewhere in Iraq--160,000 of them--executing this 
very complex and very important and, so far, effective 
counterinsurgency strategy that was devised by General Petraeus. They 
are living with Iraqi soldiers and Iraqi police and doing the things 
they were asked to do. This bill has a pay raise for them and wounded 
warrior language that provides additional care for those who are 
wounded while serving our country. We owe them every single benefit we 
have to give them. We have military construction to make sure we are 
able to carry through on the BRAC process. It has acquisition reform. 
We need to do a better job with the money we spend in acquiring new 
weapons systems and aircraft and ships and all the things that go with 
it.

I just say to my colleagues, let's remember now that everything is 
not required to be placed on this bill. If we pass this amendment to 
provide habeas corpus protection to illegal enemy combatants, not 
citizens, not on American soil, not required by the Constitution of the 
United States, according to decided case authority of Federal courts, 
that is going to result in a Presidential veto even if it passes. 
Hopefully, we won't pass that. Why do we want to do that? We need to be 
spending our time thinking about how we can help those whom we have 
sent into harm's way to execute a policy that has been decided upon by 
the Congress of the United States. That is what we need to be doing--
not creating more and more lawsuits, not engaging in more and more 
political flapdoodle and emotional arguments about restoring habeas 
corpus, when we have never provided habeas to prisoners of war in the 
history of the Republic, nor has any other advanced nation provided 
those kinds of rights.

I urge my colleagues to push back from this brink. Let's don't take 
action that could result in the failure of a defense authorization 
bill. It would be the first time we have failed to pass a defense 
authorization bill since 1961, 46 years ago. Let's don't break that 
record while we have soldiers in harm's way serving our national 
interests, attempting to execute the policies and assignments we have 
given to them. Let's don't do that. Let's don't pass a bill that is 
going to come back like a ball off of the wall because it will be 
vetoed by the President. What good is that? Why are we obsessed with 
this? It wasn't passed in the Armed Services Committee, and it doesn't 
need to be pushed now.

I urge my colleagues to become fully aware of the dangerous territory 
which we are entering. We are entering a circumstance in which, if we 
continue to pursue issues unrelated to the core responsibilities of the 
Congress to deal with the war we are confronting, we will have failed 
in our responsibilities and actually fail to pass this important 
legislation.

In addition, we need to finish up with the Defense bill and go on to 
the Defense appropriations bill. The fiscal year ends September 30. We 
need to pass the Defense authorization bill so that we can get to the 
Defense appropriations bill by next week. That needs to move. We do not 
need to still be arguing over the DREAM Act, arguing over hate crimes, 
arguing over providing habeas corpus rights to illegal enemy combatants 
held somewhere around the world by the American military, a privilege 
that has never been provided by any nation to people it captures on the 
battlefield. That is not the right way for us to go. This Congress, if 
it is a responsible Congress, should move forward this week on the 
authorization bill and do the appropriations bill next week.


What are the core issues? We have some core issues we ought to debate 
about the defense of America and our military. Let's stay on those 
issues, not on extraneous issues.

There is no doubt that we have heard the report of GEN Jimmy Jones's 
commission, the Government Accountability Office report the week before 
last, and then last week we heard from General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker. We need to have time to discuss seriously--and this side has 
certainly agreed to that and it is contemplated that we will have a 
generous time to discuss our commitment in Iraq, what it is, what our 
goals are, how we can achieve those goals, what the troop levels should 
be, how they are going to be drawn down, are they being drawn down fast 
enough, and what other issues are relevant. Those are legitimate issues 
on which we should spend time.

I am very concerned these other issues will be distracting us from 
those issues, that we will be utilizing time that ought to be on the 
core issues of


defense of this country, and I hope those leaders, particularly our 
Democratic leadership, are not going to put us in a position where we 
will not meet our responsibilities.

For the past 46 years, we have passed a Defense authorization bill. 
At the rate we are headed, even if we pass it, it is going to be vetoed 
because of amendments wholly unrelated to the Defense of this country. 
We need to pass a Defense appropriations bill, and we need to get on 
that quickly because the fiscal year is ending. For my colleagues' 
information, we are going to have to do something to continue to fund 
defense because if we do not pass a Defense authorization bill, the 
fact is that no money can be spent in the whole Department of Defense 
unless we are being attacked. It is very troubling, and it could have 
tremendous disruptive impacts throughout the entirety of our defense 
establishment.

Under the Antideficiency Act, if Congress does not appropriate money, 
the executive branch cannot spend it. It cannot spend what has not been 
appropriated. That is the Constitution, and that is what the 
Antideficiency Act says. The budget and last year's appropriations end 
September 30. We need to pass a new bill so we can go forward into next 
year.

We have a pretty good bill that came out of committee. There will be 
some disagreement here, there, and on a few other matters. We will 
bring those up, and good people will disagree. I certainly understand 
that point. We need to be working on those issues, not being distracted 
on matters unrelated to the core of defending America in this time of 
terrorism.

I share those thoughts and hopefully our colleagues in the leadership 
can continue to work and some way we can avoid the end toward which it 
appears we are heading.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.