---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `398b49c07fdf99baf86beb94710ce1c9`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I commend the conferees for including 
the Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act as part of this conference agreement.

I am grateful to the chairman and ranking member for supporting this 
needed provision, and I also appreciate the support of Senators Smith, 
Hagel, Biden, Brownback, Lieberman, Leahy, Snowe, Voinovich, Feinstein, 
Collins, Obama, Dole, Menendez, Mikulski, and Clinton, who joined in 
sponsoring the original amendment when it was adopted by the Senate by 
voice vote during our debate on this bill.

The Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act requires the Secretary of State to 
establish a refugee processing program in Iraq for Iraqis threatened 
because of their association with the United States. Applicants must 
demonstrate they have a well-founded fear of persecution. Iraqis who 
will now be able to apply directly to the United States rather than 
going through the United Nations referral system,--include: Iraqis who 
were or are employed by or worked for the United States Government in 
Iraq; Iraqis who were or are employed in Iraq by a media or 
nongovernmental organization headquartered in the United States, or by 
an organization that is closely associated with the United States 
mission in Iraq and that has received U.S. Government funding through 
an official documented contract, award, grant, or cooperative 
agreement; and Iraqis who are members of a religious or minority 
community with close family members in the United States.

The act allows the Secretary to suspend in-country processing for 
periods of 90 days, with a report to Congress on the reasons for any 
suspension.

In addition, the act makes available 5,000 special immigrant visas 
each year for the next 5 years for Iraqis who have worked for the U.S. 
Government in Iraq and are endangered as a result. Applicants must have 
a positive recommendation or evaluation from a senior supervisor and be 
approved by the U.S. Ambassador in Iraq or his designee. The provision 
sunsets after 5 years. These visas, because of their special status, 
are not counted against immigrant caps nor are they counted against 
U.S. Refugee Admissions Program caps.

Under the act, Iraqis granted special immigrant visa status are 
eligible for 8 months for the full array of benefits traditionally 
provided to refugees by the State Department's Bureau of Population, 
Refugees, and Migration and the Health and Human Services Department's 
Office of Refugee Resettlement. The provisions under the act would 
defray the cost of transportation and provide prearrival admissions 
assistance and up to 8 months of postarrival resettlement assistance to 
those Iraqis who come to the U.S. on special immigrant visas. Senators 
Cardin and Levin are the primary authors of this provision and, have 
spoken eloquently for it.

The act also allows reapplication by Iraqis in the United States who 
have been denied asylum, in part, because conditions in Iraq changed 
after the fall of Saddam Hussein's government.

In addition, the act directs the Secretary of State to designate a 
high-level special coordinator at the Embassy in Baghdad to handle 
issues related to Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons. The 
coordinator will be responsible for overseeing in-country processing of 
refugees and special immigrant visa applicants, and will have authority 
to refer persons directly to the U.S. refugee resettlement program. 
Similar positions would be designated in the American embassies in 
Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria.

The act also requires the Secretary of State to consult with other 
countries about resettlement of refugee populations and to develop 
mechanisms in countries with significant populations of displaced 
Iraqis to ensure the refugees' well-being and safety. U.S. financial 
assistance would be provided in such cases to help meet the cost of 
caring for the refugees and protecting them.

These measures are urgently needed to address the immense human costs 
of the war in Iraq and its tragic effect on the millions of Iraqis--
men, woman, and children--who have fled their homes and often their 
country to escape the violence.

A significant number of courageous Iraqis have worked with the 
American military, the staff of our Embassy, or with American 
organizations to support our mission in Iraq. Their support and loyalty 
have cost too many lives already, and their families have often been 
forced to flee their communities or even their country because of the 
danger.

The target of the assassin's bullet is on their back, and we owe them 
enormous gratitude. But instead of giving them needed help and 
protection, we have too often offered only bureaucracy and dubious 
hopes.

Regardless of where we stand on the war, Congress is united in 
believing that America has a fundamental obligation to assist Iraqis 
who have courageously supported our forces and our efforts in Iraq and 
whose lives are in peril as a result. The provisions in the agreement 
are a long-needed attempt to fulfill our commitment to them.

Despite the clear and present danger faced by many Iraqis because of 
their ties to the United States, their religious affiliation, or their 
work with media, nongovernmental or humanitarian organizations, the 
vast majority of Iraqi refugees must go through a long and complicated 
referral process of approximately 8 to 10 months, in which the United 
Nations serves as an intermediary outside Iraq. This act cuts through 
much of that redtape.

Obviously, we cannot resettle all of Iraq's refugees in the United 
States. But we need to keep faith with the Iraqis who have worked so 
bravely with us and for us and supported our mission in Iraq, and whose 
lives are in serious danger now because of it.

A few months ago, I had the honor of meeting SGT Joe Seemiller, a 
young man who is haunted by the military motto, ''Leave No Man 
Behind.'' Sergeant Seemiller is dedicated to helping the translator he 
was forced to leave behind in Iraq. On countless occasions, his 
translator helped to avoid serious American and Iraqi casualties. He 
braved innumerable death threats and the horrific murder of his 
brother. Finally, he had to flee to Syria, where he waited more than 2 
years for the opportunity to be resettled in the United States.

The Refugee Crisis Act, makes clear that America has a fundamental 
obligation to assist Iraqis whose lives are in danger because of their 
close ties to our Nation. I look forward to working with the 
administration in the months ahead to implement this important 
humanitarian legislation.

I urge my colleagues to support the conference agreement.