# TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007
## `39933e8d9d102628f9ed40752949c7a9`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, this is a cooked-up survey that was just 
referred to. In the words of the former IRS Commissioner, Mark Iverson, 
appointed by President Bush, he testified that the IRS can collect 
Federal taxes more cheaply, more efficiently than private companies. I 
rest my case.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 3056. This legislation is designed 
to protect taxpayers by repealing the authorization for the IRS to use 
private contractors to collect Federal income taxes.

Few would disagree that the collection of Federal taxes is an 
inherent government function. We have seen, through multiple hearings 
in Ways and Means, that privatizing and outsourcing this fundamental 
role has been a mistake on many levels. We've learned of numerous cases 
of harassment, not overexaggeration, on the record, abusive calling, 
violations of the rights of taxpayers. We've discovered that some 
taxpayers, many of whom were elderly, have had to endure literally 
hundreds of phone calls from private collectors. We listened to those 
phone calls. We had them on tape. Tapes are a terrible thing, you know. 
They don't lie.

Other cases involve people in nursing homes, those who have served in 
Iraq, and low-income taxpayers facing economic hardships. And as if 
taxpayer harassment was not enough, we have also seen that the program 
is inefficient. So far, privatizing tax collection has actually cost us 
money. Currently, we are $50 million in the hole. The IRS has spent $71 
million to collect a net of $20 million. This is just like the postal 
department with the privatizing of providing mail throughout the United 
States. Now they're backing off, finally. It has been a disaster.

After paying $5.5 million in commissions to the private debt 
collectors, they make a commission of $5.5 million, and they can't do 
the job. This just doesn't make sense.

Mr. Speaker, if $70 million was spent on IRS employees instead of 
private contractors, statistics project that they would have collected 
over $1.4 billion. That's quite a difference, indeed. And taxpayers 
deserve more. They expect to deal with their government when they have 
a tax problem.

Private debt collection must end, and today we do that. I thank 
Chairman Rangel and John Lewis, chairman of the Ways and Means 
Oversight. I thank Congressman Rothman from the State of New Jersey for 
his persistence. I implore all of my colleagues to vote in favor of 
this legislation.