# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3995dc5a10641dc6a48798bf4ecf4a1e`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, of course I rise today in strong 
opposition to this resolution.

It occurs to me, Mr. Hunter, that I need to thank you not only for 
your service, but for your son's service in the Marine Corps. It is one 
of those little twists of those things that I served my whole life in 
the Marine Corps, and my son is serving in the Army. You served in the 
Army, and your son is serving in the Marine Corps. And I don't know if 
we will ever untwist this. But I thank you and him for his service.

Mr. Speaker, the proponents of this resolution will have us believe 
that this resolution supports and protects our military personnel while 
criticizing the President for changing course.

We have listened to several speakers today who, like me, served in 
Vietnam and witnessed firsthand the micromanagement of the war from 
Washington. Ironically, they stand here today endorsing the same 
incompetent policy of interference. Instead of President Johnson 
choosing bombing targets, however, we have 535 legislators dictating 
General Petraeus's reinforcement levels; yes, dictating his tactics. It 
was wrong in 1967, Mr. Speaker, and it is wrong in 2007.

I notice that the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee has risen several times today to point out his belief that 
what the President is doing is not a change of strategy, it is a change 
of tactics. And I would say to my good friend, that great gentleman 
from Missouri, that if that is right, if this is tactics, then in fact 
this resolution is trying to do just that, micromanage the tactics of 
this war.

If congressional micromanagement were the only problem with this 
resolution, I would still argue vigorously for its defeat. But it is 
not the only problem. Understanding the purpose and intent of this 
resolution, its proponents have revealed their true intentions in the 
course of this debate. They intend for this resolution to be the first 
step on the path to defunding our troops, withdrawing them, and 
allowing Iraq to become a chaotic, ungoverned space that will act as a 
training ground for al Qaeda and the radical jihadists that we are at 
war with.



Though few in the West knew it, a new war had already begun during my 
days as commander of Marine aviation forces in Somalia. In the intense 
battle in the back alleys of Mogadishu that inspired the movie 
''Blackhawk Down'' and the bombing of vulnerable U.S. embassies in 
Tanzania and Kenya captured America's attention briefly, but it took an 
unprecedented attack on our homeland for the country to realize what 
Islamic extremists had long known: The United States was at war. And I 
think Mr. Saxton did a very thorough and eloquent job of explaining the 
length and nature of this war. Every country was now a potential front 
and every city a battlefield in the enemy's war against Zionist 
crusaders and nonbelievers. Whether by design or not, Iraq has become 
the front in not only a physical war of attrition, but in the war of 
wills between free societies and Islamic jihadists who seek to destroy 
them.

The proponents of this flawed resolution prefer to ignore reality. 
They believe that repeating the mistaken belief that Iraq is not a 
central front in the war against Islamic jihadists will make that 
perception real. Unfortunately for those who hold this belief, the 
enemy, our enemy has a say in the matter. Al Qaeda's second in command, 
al-Zawahiri, in December 2006, made it quite clear where al Qaeda 
stands. In a video posted on jihadist Web sites, al-Zawahiri sent a 
clear message: ''The backing of Jihad in Afghanistan and Iraq today is 
to back the most important battlefields in which the crusade against 
Islam and Muslims is in progress. And the defeat of the Crusaders 
there, soon, Allah permitting, will have a far-reaching effect on the 
future of the Muslim Ummah, Allah willing.''

We have heard repeatedly that al Qaeda and the jihadist terrorists 
understand that Iraq is the central front in this war against radical 
Islam. Thankfully, the U.S. military leadership has also recognized 
this fact.

In his recent testimony before the Senate, General David Petraeus was 
asked if he believes that Iraq affects the overall war on terror. His 
response was clear and unequivocal: ''I do, sir.''

Clearly, there are elements of the greater al Qaeda network of 
international extremists that want something very different than most 
Iraqis want, and want something very different in that region and in 
the world.

Many mistakes have been made as our military, unparalleled in 
conventional strength and maneuver, has changed strategy and tactics to 
fight the counterinsurgency battle. In response to the frustration at 
the lack of progress felt by those in Iraq and at home, the American 
military demonstrated its greatest strength: the ability to adapt to 
new conditions on the ground and develop new strategy.

To those who have lived and studied the art of military strategy and 
tactics, the plan we debate this week, developed by American commanders 
in Iraq and here at home, represents a fundamental shift. In a study 
updated last week, Anthony Cordesman from the nonpartisan Center for 
Strategic and International Studies, declared that, ''Much of the 
criticism of the new Bush approach has been unfair. The new strategy is 
considerably more sophisticated and comprehensive than the details the 
President could fit into his 20-minute address,'' or, I might add, Mr. 
Speaker, than I can include in this 10-minute address, ''presuming it 
combines political, military and economic action in ways that do offer 
a significant hope of success.''

But rather than acknowledge the comprehensive nature of the new 
Baghdad and al-Anbar security plan, opponents prefer to ignore the 
pleas of General Petraeus to provide him with the troops necessary to 
turn the security situation in Iraq's capital city around. Instead, 
they pat him on the back, wish him ''Godspeed'' in his endeavor, and 
then promptly move to deny him that which he has requested and needs to 
succeed. As a Vietnam veteran, I cannot in good conscience watch as 
Congress once again undercuts the morale of those in uniform.

I will not stand idly by and watch others resurrect the ghost of that 
painful conflict, and we have heard it resurrected many times this day, 
Mr. Speaker, without acknowledging the slaughter and humanitarian 
disaster that resulted from the fall of Saigon. And it was a 
humanitarian disaster. Millions died. Just as in 1974, decisions we 
make today in this body will have consequences for entire nations and 
generations to come. History stands ready to judge the wisdom of this 
body, its ability to learn from past mistakes and its ability to 
comprehend the ramifications of its actions. In spite of countless 
warnings, I fear we will come up short in the eyes of posterity.

Opponents call for the administration to heed the advice of its 
generals, only to reject the commanders' pronouncement when such states 
are at odds with their own misguided perceptions. They criticize the 
''cherry-picking'' of prewar intelligence, and then proceed to do just 
that, while reading the most recent National Intelligence Estimate, 
choosing to ignore the dire warnings of the Intelligence Community's 
most authoritative written judgments on national security issues.

But to those who criticize this new security plan and offer no 
solutions for success, only demands for capitulation, we must demand 
that they answer a vital question they choose to ignore: What will 
happen if the Iraqi Government does not succeed and we withdraw 
prematurely?

One critic of the administration's handling of Iraq, a very vocal 
critic, and a man who I knew and admired throughout my Marine Corps 
career, retired General Anthony Zinni, the former commander of Central 
Command, spelled it out bluntly when he noted that, ''We cannot simply 
pull out, as much as we may want to. The consequences of a destabilized 
and chaotic Iraq sitting in the center of a critical region in the 
world could have catastrophic implications.''



The recent National Intelligence Estimate was even more specific in 
its analysis. If the United States were to withdraw rapidly, the Iraqi 
security forces would likely collapse, neighboring countries might 
intervene openly in the conflict; massive civilian casualties and 
forced population displacement would be probable; and al Qaeda in Iraq 
would attempt to use parts of the country to plan increased attacks in 
and outside of Iraq.

It seems pretty clear to me, Mr. Speaker, what we are debating here 
is success or failure.

Let us not support that catastrophe. Let us not promote a 
humanitarian disaster which is almost unimaginable. Let us support 
success in Iraq. Let us support the new commander in Iraq and give him 
what he needs to succeed in this mission.