---
---

# IRAQ
## `3999c4e54a633513a35686024fd66d24`
`Mr. CORNYN — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I come to the floor this morning to 
express my concerns about the growing politicalization of the debate 
over the war in Iraq. The reason I am concerned is because I think the 
revolving door of resolutions we have seen emanating from Washington, 
DC, has caused confusion. Now, I would be happy if the confusion were 
limited to our enemies. But, unfortunately, I think that confusion 
extends to our allies and perhaps even to the troops who are now 
serving in that war-torn country.

I do not believe that confusion is called for; rather, clarity is 
what we ought to be producing here. But this revolving door of 
resolutions being produced by those primarily on the other side of the 
aisle has seemed to contribute to our inability to speak with one voice 
on the one subject where we ought to be speaking with one voice; that 
is, our Nation's security. We ought not to be playing politics of any 
kind when talking about the lives of our troops or the resolutions 
which might have the unintended consequence of undermining their morale 
or causing our friends and allies confusion as to whether we are 
willing to stay the course in this battle of wills. This is a battle of 
wills.


If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle feel so strongly--as 
some of them clearly do--about the conflict in Iraq, then I believe 
they have an obligation to cut off funding. We have at least two 
Senators who have offered those kinds of resolutions--Senator Dodd and 
Senator Feingold. I would put it this way: If my colleagues really 
believe all is lost in Iraq and there is no possible way to succeed, 
then I think Senators could justly reach the conclusion that the only 
moral decision would be to deny funding to send them into harm's way. 
But instead what we see is an uncontrollable desire to tinker with our 
military operations, deciding in some cases what individual Members of 
Congress think should be done on the ground and then on the other hand 
what kind of decisions ought to be left to commanders. I suggest to my 
colleagues that strategy will lead us nowhere. Congress should not be 
involved in micromanaging the day-to-day tactics of military commanders 
on the ground. Our Constitution provides for a single Commander in 
Chief, not 535 chieftains who can make tactical decisions about 
something as sensitive and challenging as war operations in Iraq.

We have heard there are between 5,000 and 6,000 members of al-Qaida 
in Iraq, primarily in Anbar Province. It makes no sense to me for us to 
pull out our troops until we have defeated those terrorists. Certainly, 
I disagree with those who say we ought to pull out our troops before we 
are able to stabilize Iraq in a way that it can sustain itself, defend 
itself, and govern itself because I think we know what will happen if 
Iraq becomes just another failed state in the Middle East, particularly 
with those 5,000 to 6,000 members of al-Qaida present in Iraq: It will 
become another Afghanistan.

As we all know, when the Soviet Union left Afghanistan, Afghanistan 
became a failed state, giving rise to the Taliban and al-Qaida in Iraq, 
the likes of Osama bin Laden among them. Of course, it was because they 
had a safe haven in Afghanistan that they could then plot and plan and 
train and recruit and finance their terrorist operations, and it allows 
them the safety and convenience to plan an attack against the United 
States, which they did on September 11, 2001.

Of course, we know, because they have told us, that one of al-Qaida's 
major goals in Iraq is to increase sectarian violence between the 
Sunnis and the Shias. Al-Qaida cannot defeat us on the battlefield; we 
know that and they know that. The only way they can prevail is if we 
give up, if we pull our combat troops out of Iraq until al-Qaida is no 
longer a threat there. We know that Sunni extremists, including al-
Qaida, want to create a civil war that will tear the country apart. The 
only way al-Qaida will be successful in doing that is if we allow them 
to do so.

We need to let our military do the job in Iraq. We can't pretend to 
be able to make the best decisions from here in Washington, DC, about 
what kinds of tactics are likely or reasonably calculated to be 
successful several thousand miles away.

As recently as Sunday, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee appeared on a weekend talk show. I would like to read a 
little bit of the questions and answers which were produced from that 
interaction because I think it demonstrates exactly the kind of 
confusion I am talking about that I think ill-serves our troops and 
ill-serves our Nation during a time of war.

The question was this:




 Will you set a goal for withdrawing combat troops?


Senator Levin says:




 We would. We would follow basically the pattern that was 


 set or proposed by the Iraq Study Group, which was to set a 


 goal for the removal of combat troops, as you put it 


 correctly, by March of next year.


Mr. Russert:




 So how many troops would that be by March of next year 


 would be taken out?


Mr. Levin said:




 We don't have a specific number, nor did the study group, 


 but it would be most. There would be a limited number of 


 troops that would be left.


Mr. Russert said:




 So out of 150,000, we would take out how many?


Mr. Levin:




 I would say most.


Mr. Russert:




 What would be left behind?


Senator Levin said:




 It would be a limited number, which would--


Mr. Russert said:




 Ten thousand, 20,000?


Senator Levin said:




 I don't want to put a specific number on it because that 


 really should be left to the commanders to decide how many 


 would be needed to carry out these limited functions.


I think this brief Q-and-A demonstrates the kind of confusion that 
occurs when Members of the Senate, notwithstanding their best 
intentions, tinker with tactical decisions made with fighting a war 
several thousand miles away.

We know the power Congress has under our Constitution, and if, in 
fact, there are those, as I said earlier, who believe that all is lost, 
then I believe the only appropriate action to take would be for those 
people who hold that belief to try to bring a resolution to the floor 
that would cut off funding for this ill-fated, in their view, conflict. 
But my colleagues can't have it both ways. On the one hand, they can't 
say we should leave it to our commanders in the field to determine the 
number of troops, and yet when General Petraeus says he needs 21,500 
troops to fight the terrorists in Iraq, these same individuals would 
tell him: No, you can't have them.

This is a question and answer from the nomination hearing for GEN 
David Petraeus.

Senator McCain asked him:




 Suppose we send you over there to your new job, General, 


 only we tell you that you can't have any additional troops. 


 Can you get your job done?


General Petraeus said:




 No, sir.


The kind of confusion I think we have seen emanating from Capitol 
Hill is directly related to the revolving door of resolutions we have 
seen since the beginning of the year.

First, there was the Biden resolution. Senator Reid, the 
distinguished majority leader, said, ''Tomorrow the Senate will proceed 
to S. Con. Res. 2, the bipartisan Iraq resolution.'' He said that


on January 31, 2007. Then Senator Reid said later the same day, ''There 
will be a bipartisan group of Senators who believe the more appropriate 
matter is the Warner resolution.''

So first we had the Biden resolution, then we had the Warner 
resolution, and then there was the Levin resolution. Senator Reid said, 
on January 31, 2007, ''In my caucus there was near unanimity for the 
Levin resolution.'' Then--I mentioned this a moment ago--there are 
those such as Senator Feingold who said: ''I oppose the weak Warner-
Levin resolution as currently written because it misunderstands the 
situation in Iraq and shortchanges our national security interests.'' 
He said that on February 1.

Then there was the Reid-Pelosi resolution. This was the one on which 
the majority leader said, ''I think it is so much more direct. We 
support the troops. We are opposed to the surge. Perfect.'' He was 
asked this question: I was asking you why you prefer the House 
resolution to move forward. This is the press asking the majority 
leader. He said, ''I think it is so much more direct. We support the 
troops. We are opposed to the surge. Perfect.'' That is the majority 
leader on February 13, 2007.

Then one of the Democratic candidates for President, Senator Chris 
Dodd of Connecticut, made this observation, and I happen to think he is 
exactly right. He said: ''We have a sense of Senate resolution on 
asparagus. They don't mean a whole lot.''

Well, I have heard a lot from my constituents back in Texas who just 
wonder what in the world are we doing here in Washington debating a 
series of nonbinding resolutions. Senator Dodd has it exactly right. To 
show the dignity of these nonbinding resolutions, we even have a Senate 
resolution on asparagus. It is demeaning and inappropriate, in my view, 
for us to be talking in those kinds of terms when it comes to something 
as serious as Iraq.

Then there was the Murtha plan, named after Representative Jack 
Murtha, the Democrat from Pennsylvania. This is Representative Murtha's 
plan. He said:




 They won't be able to continue. They won't be able to do 


 the deployment.


This is his plan.




 They won't have the equipment, they won't have the 


 training, and they won't be able to do the work. There is no 


 question in my mind. We have analyzed this and we have come 


 to the conclusion that it can't be done.


So this is what the Democrats in the House have had to offer in terms 
of resolutions: Let's not vote to cut off funding, but let's tie our 
troops in so much redtape and deny them the ability to be successful 
with the new plan the President has proposed in Iraq. That was on 
February 15.

Representative Jim Cooper, a Democrat from Tennessee, I think tagged 
it right, tagged Representative Murtha's plan correctly. He said on 
Murtha's clumsy strategy:




 Congress has no business micromanaging a war, cutting off 


 funding or even conditioning these funds.


That was what Representative Jim Cooper said on February 23 in the 
Washington Post.

Congressman Chet Edwards from my State of Texas, another Democrat, 
said:




 If you strictly limit a commander's ability to rotate 


 troops in and out of Iraq, that kind of inflexibility could 


 put some missions and some troops at risk.


He said that on February 23 in the Washington Post.

The latest resolution, the Biden-Levin proposal, was described by 
Senator Joe Biden of Delaware, the chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee in the Senate, another Democrat candidate for President: 
''And that resolution can be simply entitled: Revoke the 
authorization.''

What he is talking about is revoking the authorization of the use of 
military force that Congress passed in 2001. He is talking about, in 
2007, going back to 2001 and revoking the original authorization for 
use of military force that has resulted in 130,000 American troops 
currently in Iraq.

Senator Biden said this:




 The next best step is to revoke the authorization the 


 United States Congress gave to the President to go to war in 


 the first place.


He said that in Des Moines, IA, on February 17.

Senator Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, a 
Democrat of Michigan, said:




 We should limit the mission. One thought is that we should 


 limit the mission to a support mission. In other words, an 


 anti-terrorist mission to go after al-Qaida in Iraq, to 


 support and train the Iraqi Army, to protect our own 


 diplomatic personnel and other personnel in Iraq.


So Senator Levin's proposal would be to limit the mission, to put 
conditions on our troops and on the rules of engagement that would deny 
them the ability to be successful, if they were otherwise able to be 
successful. He said that on September 19.

Representative Chet Edwards, again of Texas, a Democrat, I think 
nailed it. He said:




 I think Congress begins to skate on thin ice when we start 


 to micromanage troop deployment and rotation.


He said that on February 23, 2007.

Then there are other resolutions by other candidates for President.

The Senator from Illinois, Mr. Obama, on his resolution said:




 The time for waiting in Iraq is over. The days of our open-


 ended commitment must come to a close. The need to bring this 


 war to an end is here, and that is why today I am introducing 


 the Iraq War Deescalation Act of 2007.


That was on January 30, 2007. He wanted to cap troops who could be 
deployed into Iraq and opposed the President's plan.

Then Senator Clinton, on her proposal, said:




 I don't want to defund our troops, I am against that, but I 


 want to defund Iraqi troops.


Just remember, a moment ago Senator Levin in his resolution said he 
wanted to train and equip the Iraqis, and now Senator Clinton says she 
wants to defund the Iraqi troops. She said:




 I want to defund the private security going for the Iraqi 


 government if they don't meet these certain requirements.


She said that on FOX News, a special report with Brit Hume on January 
18, 2007.

I could go on and on. I know the Senator from Florida is here and 
wants to speak on the same topic. But the plethora of resolutions that 
seem to be emanating from the other side of the aisle can't do anything 
but engender confusion about our aims in Iraq and in the Middle East, 
not only for our troops who put themselves in harm's way but for Iraqis 
who have allied themselves with us, who have helped us. I would think 
that out of the new majority, at least there ought to be a consensus on 
what it is we ought to be doing there, that we ought not to be leaving 
our troops with any doubt in their minds about our commitment to 
support them. We ought not to be leaving any of our friends in Iraq, 
who have allied themselves with us by helping us, to doubt, wondering 
whether we would pull our troops out precipitously and leave them 
exposed to a huge humanitarian crisis and a huge ethnic cleansing by 
the violence that would ensue.


My hope is we will give this new plan a chance. As the Iraq Study 
Group said, they believe they could support a surge, under appropriate 
conditions, on page 73 in that report--a bipartisan report of a group 
who have been given great weight in Congress. They have studied the 
issue and made recommendations to the President. The President has 
consulted broadly with a large number of people, military experts, 
people on both sides of the aisle, and has come up with not only a new 
commander but a new plan, and we have a new Secretary of Defense.

I fail to understand, and I cannot understand, why it is there are so 
many people who are determined to see that plan be unsuccessful by not 
providing the troops, by not providing the funding, and by tying our 
troops' hands with redtape, in terms of the rules of engagement and the 
conditions under which they fight.

Mr. President, I ask our colleagues on the other side of the aisle to 
work with us and come up with some plan that can have the support of 
the Members of Congress. As I said, it used to be that differences 
between political parties stopped at the water's edge, particularly on 
a matter so important as our national security. A confusing message is 
sent by these revolving-door resolutions that are mutually 
contradictory and inconsistent and do nothing to help us win the war 
there, to stabilize Iraq, and to bring our troops home as fast as we 
can.

I yield the floor.

