---
---

# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `399b83a792d823c3818655c49bc68dea`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, this is the last week before the July 4 
break, and we have a series of bills to suitably commemorate July 4 
with bills that will really aid our veterans who have made July 4 
possible.

I rise in support of the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act of 2009, S. 407, which is a companion to the House bill, 
H.R. 1533, which was introduced by one of our new members on the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs and sure to be one of our body's most 
productive members, Mrs. Kirkpatrick of Arizona. I thank the gentlelady 
for her leadership on this important bill.

The House leadership demonstrated its commitment to our Nation's 
veterans, their families, and their survivors by getting this bill to 
the floor, after reporting from the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and 
by getting this companion bill, sponsored by Senator Akaka, to the 
floor shortly after receipt in the House.

As it has done every year since 1976, Congress, with the passage of 
this measure, directs the Secretary of Veterans' Affairs to increase 
the rates of basic compensation for disabled veterans and the rates of 
dependency and indemnity compensation, DIC, to their survivors and 
dependents along with other benefits in order to keep pace with the 
rising cost of living.

This disability COLA would become effective on December 1 of this 
year and will be equal to that provided on an annual basis to Social 
Security recipients. Last year, the COLA was set at 5.8 percent, an 
increase we all agree was direly needed, as the financial crush of the 
recession closed in on many of our disabled veterans' households.

While it is likely to be a lesser percentage of an increase this 
year, the measure will now move to the President's desk for his 
signature. Enactment ensures that veterans get a matching increase to 
the Social Security COLA on that date.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will benefit each of the nearly 3 million 
disabled veterans and their survivors, whether they are from the World 
War I era through the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We would be derelict in our duty if we failed to guarantee that those 
who sacrificed so much for this country receive benefits and services 
that keep pace with their needs. We fund the war; let's make sure that 
we fund the warrior and his or her families and their survivors.

I urge my colleagues to support passage of the Veterans' Compensation 
Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, S. 407, without delay.



I reserve the balance of my time.