---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `39a6bbd8d8945dbb45220eede65da5da`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding 
the time.

I rise to give compliments to Chairman Norm Dicks of the subcommittee 
for having worked with the minority and the majority, as well as the 
President of the United States, to develop a very good Defense 
appropriations supplemental appropriations bill for our troops who are 
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill provides the equipment necessary for those troops to carry 
out their mission. The bill provides for training. The bill provides 
for self-protective measures to keep our troops safe while they fight 
the war they were sent to fight.



The only problem I have is we're not going to vote on that bill. 
Although this is supposedly a defense supplemental, that bill is not 
going to be voted on. That bill was reported and approved by the 
subcommittee back in May, but yet there has been no consideration 
beyond that date. The subcommittee approved it back in May after the 
President requested it.

The members of the Appropriations Committee have not had an 
opportunity to vote on a Defense supplemental appropriations bill. The 
Members of the House have not had an opportunity to vote on a Defense 
appropriations supplemental bill. There's something wrong with that.

Chairman Dicks did a good job. He worked with us, as did Chairman 
Murtha before him, and it was a good bipartisan effort. We're not only 
not going to vote on that good bill, but we're not even going to have a 
chance to vote on the Senate version of the bill that's not quite as 
good as the House version, but it's better than nothing. And it's time 
that we provide the funding for our troops in the field, deployed and 
exposed to danger, so that they're provided with what they need.

I have a problem with this. I said the subcommittee approved the bill 
back in May. The full committee has not considered it. As a matter of 
fact, we are rapidly approaching the 1-year anniversary of the last 
time the Appropriations Committee met to consider an appropriations 
bill. Now, that's unusual. It seems to me like it flies in the face of 
the Constitution, because Article I, section 9 makes it very clear that 
the executive branch of government cannot spend money from the General 
Treasury that has not first been appropriated by Congress. And if the 
Appropriations Committee doesn't meet to approve the bills or to report 
the bills to the House, how are we going to meet that constitutional 
responsibility? It's pretty tough.

July 22 last year was the last time the Appropriations Committee met 
to consider an appropriations bill. So I compliment Chairman Dicks for 
creating a good bipartisan product that the President of the United 
States supported, and I am just disappointed that we're not going to 
have a chance to vote on it. Our troops in the field need to know that 
we are supporting them with whatever it is that they need to carry out 
their mission.

I am opposed to all of these amendments that we are considering 
because none of them do anything to support our troops in the field, 
which is what this bill is supposed to be all about. These amendments 
are not good, and it's just a real shame that we are not considering 
the needs of our troops who are deployed, to provide what it is that 
they need in order to accomplish the mission that we sent them to 
accomplish and to protect themselves while they're doing it.

Mr. Speaker, typically, I would use my time talking on a Supplemental 
as the Ranking Member of the Defense Subcommittee to congratulate 
Chairman Dicks on a fine bi-partisan package that he and his staff put 
together. I would thank him for treating us fairly and listening to the 
minority's concerns, and suggest that we pass the bill as quickly as 
possible.

Regrettably, I cannot do that today because the bill before us is the 
product of such an abuse of power and process that we aren't even 
voting on Chairman Dicks' bill.

Instead, we find ourselves voting on the Senate defense supplemental 
in the hope of getting the Department of Defense the desperately needed 
funds for on-going Afghanistan operations before they run out.

And I must say that really upsets me. While this is our best chance 
of getting badly needed funds to the Department, Chairman Dicks and his 
staff had produced a very fine, truly bi-partisan supplemental bill . . 
. one that in my opinion was much better than this Senate bill.

But because of his leadership, that bill never saw the light of day. 
Not because it was controversial, or contained something bad, but 
because procedurally a small group of Members couldn't find a way to 
get unrelated, extraneous domestic spending items attached to it.

So instead today, maybe it is in my best interest for me to use this 
time making a case for my old spot on the Armed Services Committee.

That may seem odd, but I can only wonder how much longer the 
Appropriations Committee will exist . . . if it still does.

I do thank Mr. Dicks for his courtesy and cooperation. I only regret 
that his leadership


decided to play politics with what was a good bill which supported our 
troops.