# HONORING THE 437TH AIRLIFT WING
## `39aedf0a3ab2df9a5242c320cfcf5057`
`Mr. DeMINT — 6 August 2009`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, Senator Graham joins me today to 
congratulate the men and women of the 437th Airlift Wing stationed at 
Charleston Air Force Base, SC, for their outstanding service in 
defending our Nation and for their great achievements at the Air 
Force's Air Mobility Command Rodeo Competition.

It is been 8 years since the attacks of 9/11, and the record of 
continuous operations for the 437th is an inspiration to us all. 
Shortly after the attacks, Charleston leapt into action, dropping 
humanitarian aid into Afghanistan only hours after bombers began 
pounding al-Qaida and Taliban insurgents. Later, when we put boots on 
the ground, the 437th led the first-ever C-17 combat dirt landing in 
the barren wilderness of Afghanistan to establish a critical forward 
operating base. Since then, Team Charleston has led the airlift of 
MRAPS to protect our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and performed some 
of the largest training exercises in Air Mobility Command. Over the 
years, they have delivered a staggering 1.3 billion pounds of cargo to 
support our troops and provide relief for friends and allies around the 
world.

However, when the 437th is not saving lives and delivering freedom, 
they are winning awards and bringing home trophies. We are especially 
proud of the 437th's accomplishments at the 2009 Air Mobility Command 
Rodeo Competition. The 437th competed with more than 100 teams and 
2,500 people from the United States Air Force and allied nations. They 
led the C-17 aircrew competition and finished first in two out of three 
competitions, earning trophies for ''Best C-17 Air Refueling Crew'' and 
''Best Short Field Landing Crew.'' Furthermore, Team Charleston 
continued their distinguished record of world-class maintenance and 
added ''Best C-17 Preflight Team'' to their long list of awards. These 
are impressive achievements that bring great credit upon the 437th.

We recognize the outstanding achievements of Rodeo team members CPTs 
Robert Lowe, Joseph Beal and Jonathan Magill; MSgt Ricky Clark; 
Technical Sergeants Harold Bordeaux, Paul Eaton, and Richard Pate; 
SSgts Jessy Martin, Brian Parmerter, Hector Schunior, Nicholas White, 
John Paull, and Veronica Bankey; Senior Airmen Dennis Adams and Joshua 
Ramalia; and Airman First Class Daniel Jones.

I know the Wing is especially proud of the Rodeo team, but on behalf 
of the people in Charleston, the State of South Carolina, and our great 
country, Senator Graham and I salute the outstanding work of the 437th.



We are amazed by their stories and humbled by the immense burdens 
they have shouldered. Their dedication, and their families' sacrifices 
are an inspiration, and our country owes them a debt of gratitude for 
their patriotic service.
