---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `39be5242b56582b59e76d59ac56ae756`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.

I would like to speak for a moment about civilian casualties in 
Afghanistan.

According to the United Nations, airstrikes continue to be a leading 
cause of civilian casualties. Days into the Marjah military offensive, 
12 Afghans died when two rockets fired by NATO forces hit the wrong 
house. Ten of the 12 Afghans killed were from the same family. U.S. 
military officials initially apologized for the death of the civilians, 
but later backtracked, claiming they were insurgents. An Italian aid 
group working at a hospital just outside of Marjah accused allied 
forces of blocking dozens of critically wounded citizens from receiving 
medical attention at the hospital. A February 21 NATO airstrike 
conducted by U.S. Special Forces helicopters killed over 27 civilians 
and wounded dozens more after minibuses were hit by helicopters 
''patrolling the area hunting for insurgents who had escaped the NATO 
offensive in the Marjah area,'' over 100 miles outside of Marjah in the 
southern province of Uruzgan.



The Wall Street Journal cited Afghan and NATO representatives, 
explaining that the air strike was ordered because it was believed that 
the minibus carried fresh Taliban fighters who were sent to help those 
under attack. However, the source of intelligence used to determine 
that the minibus carried insurgents has not been made known.

Admiral Mike Mullen, Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, claimed the 
goal of the Marjah operation was to have no civilian casualties.

I submit for the Record a Brookings Institution 2009 report estimate 
that 10 civilians die for every militant killed in a drone strike.



I submit for the Record an article published in The Nation, written 
by journalist Anand Gopal, titled ''America's Secret Afghan Prisons,'' 
which reveals the existence of secret detention facilities at Bagram.

The daily night raids and indiscriminate aerial bombings must stop. 
The alleged torture of Afghans who are accused of supporting the 
Taliban who are captured in such night raids and the slaughter of 
innocent civilians in drone attacks only serve to embolden popular 
support against the United States.







[From the Brookings Institution, Mar. 10, 2010]












 Do Targeted Killings Work?














(By Daniel L. Byman)




 July 14, 2009.--Killing terrorist leaders is difficult, is 


 often ineffective, and can easily backfire. Yet it is one of 


 the United States' few options for managing the threat posed 


 by al Qaeda from its base in tribal Pakistan. By some 


 accounts, U.S. drone activity in Pakistan has killed dozens 


 of lower-ranking and at least 10 mid- and high-ranking 


 leaders from al Qaeda and the Taliban.



 Critics correctly find many problems with this program, 


 most of all the number of civilian casualties the strikes 


 have incurred. Sourcing on civilian deaths is weak and the 


 numbers are often exaggerated, but more than 600 civilians 


 are likely to have died from the attacks. That number 


 suggests that for every militant killed, 10 or so civilians 


 also died.



 To reduce casualties, superb intelligence is necessary. 


 Operators must know not only where the terrorists are, but 


 also who is with them and who might be within the blast 


 radius. This level of surveillance may often be lacking, and 


 terrorists' deliberate use of children and other civilians as 


 shields make civilian deaths even more likely.



 Beyond the humanitarian tragedy incurred, civilian deaths 


 create dangerous political problems. Pakistan's new 


 democratic government is already unpopular for its 


 corruption, favoritism, and poor governance. U.S. strikes 


 that take a civilian toll are a further blow to its 


 legitimacy--and to U.S. efforts to build goodwill there. As 


 counterterrorism expert David Kilcullen put it, ''When we 


 intervene in people's countries to chase small cells of bad 


 guys, we end up alienating the whole country and turning them 


 against us.''



 And even when they work, killings are a poor second to 


 arrests. Dead men tell no tales and thus are no help in 


 anticipating the next attack or informing us about broader 


 terrorist activities. So in any country with a functioning 


 government, it is better to work with that government to 


 seize the terrorist than to kill him outright. Arresting al 


 Qaeda personnel in remote parts of Pakistan, however, is 


 almost impossible today; the Pakistani government does not 


 control many of the areas where al Qaeda is based, and a raid 


 to seize terrorists there would probably end in the militants 


 escaping and U.S. and allied casualties in the attempt.



 When arrests are impossible, what results is a terrorist 


 haven of the sort present along the Afghanistan-Pakistan 


 border today. Free from the threat of apprehension, 


 terrorists have a space in which to plot, organize, train, 


 and relax--an extremely dangerous prospect. In such a haven, 


 terrorist leaders can recruit hundreds or even thousands of 


 potential fighters and, more importantly, organize them into 


 a dangerous network. They can transform idealistic but 


 incompetent volunteers into a lethal legion of fighters. They 


 can also plan long-term global operations--terrorism 


 ''spectaculars'' like the September 11 attacks, which remain 


 one of al Qaeda's goals.



 Killing terrorist operatives is one way to dismantle these 


 havens. Plans are disrupted when individuals die or are 


 wounded, as new people must be recruited and less experienced 


 leaders take over day-to-day operations. Perhaps most 


 importantly, organizations fearing a strike must devote 


 increased attention to their own security because any time 


 they communicate with other cells or issue propaganda, they 


 may be exposing themselves to a targeted attack.



 Given the humanitarian and political risks, each strike 


 needs to be carefully weighed, with the value of the target 


 and the potential for innocent deaths factored into the 


 equation. In addition, the broader political consequences 


 must be evaluated; the same death toll can have vastly 


 different political consequences depending on the context. 


 But equally important is the risk of not striking--and 


 inadvertently allowing al Qaeda leaders free reign to plot 


 terrorist mayhem.



 We must not pretend the killings are anything but a flawed 


 short-term expedient that at best reduces the al Qaeda 


 threat--but by no means eliminates it. Even as U.S. strikes 


 have increased, Pakistan has suffered staggering levels of 


 terrorism as groups with few or limited links to al Qaeda 


 have joined the fray. Al Qaeda itself can also still carry 


 out attacks, including ones outside Pakistan in Europe and 


 even the United States. Thanks to the drone strikes, they are 


 just harder to pull off. The real answer to halting al 


 Qaeda's activity in Pakistan will be the long-term support of 


 Pakistan's counterinsurgency efforts. While this process 


 unfolds, targeted killings are one of America's few options 


 left.