# None
## `39bfe5b89c9b4c6b195f4d50824d6b87`
`Mr. INOUYE — 26 January 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise to speak in opposition to an 
amendment offered by the Senator from Oklahoma. Once again, we find 
ourselves debating an amendment that at first blush sounds like a good 
thing. But when Members take the time to actually read the amendment 
and understand the programs it impacts, they will discover this 
amendment causes harm to our national and international security and to 
our economy.

Let me begin by discussing the last section of the amendment, section 
16. Section 16 of the Coburn amendment is based on assumptions that 
reflect a lack of understanding about both what constitutes 
discretionary unobligated balances as well as about Federal funding and 
oversight for certain critical procurement programs.

The Senator from Oklahoma claims that $100 billion would be rescinded 
from an estimated $657 billion in unobligated balances. First, this 
amendment assumes a rescission amount based on erroneous assumptions. 
Specifically, the majority of the $657 billion in unobligated balances 
would not be eligible for rescission under criteria outlined in the 
amendment because they are either mandatory funds or they are not older 
than 2 years.

Second, because of the small amount of unobligated funding eligible 
for rescission, this amendment indiscriminately rescinds prior year 
unobligated funding from certain critical programs, jeopardizing our 
national defense, our homeland security, our economy, and the well-
being of our citizens.

For example, we require the Department of Defense to budget up front 
for all the costs required to procure military equipment, such as ships 
or aircraft. But I think all of us are aware it takes several years to 
complete construction.

For shipbuilding specifically, funds provided to the Department of 
Defense are available for obligation for 5 years. Rescinding 
unobligated funds would now require the Navy to cancel contracts for 
ships under construction and lay off thousands of workers across the 
Nation's shipyards.

In terms of our veterans who have returned from war or have fought 
bravely in past wars, section 16 also severely impacts the construction 
of new hospitals by the Veterans' Administration.

Like for defense procurement, the VA requests full funding for the 
construction project in the first year. As a result, the Veterans' 
Administration has 43 active major construction projects at various 
stages of completion, totaling over $1.6 billion in unobligated 
balances. Over 49,000 construction jobs would be terminated with the 
loss of this funding, further delaying critical services to our brave 
men and women who have served us.

Rescinding unobligated balances in the Department of Homeland 
Security would stop the construction of the Coast Guard National 
Security Cutter and would rescind funding for the purchase of explosive 
detection systems.

Rescinding unobligated balances in NOAA would create a minimum 6-
month gap in coverage for the geostationary weather satellite system, 
which focuses directly over the United States, and constantly and 
accurately monitors storm conditions. Over 200 employees would lose 
their jobs.

The reasoning for the amendment of the Senator from Oklahoma is a 
catch-22 for those of us on the Appropriations Committee with 
responsibility for overseeing our taxpayers' dollars. We are criticized 
for having funding that is unobligated for more than 1 year. Well, a 
ship is not built in a year, a hospital is not built and equipped in a 
year, and the next generation satellite is not built in 1 year.

The Coburn amendment proposes to rescind an additional $20 billion 
from programs he perceives to be redundant. We can go around and around 
about what is redundant and what is not because one's perception of 
what is or is not a duplicative program is based on subjectivity. It is 
that simple, and this amendment reflects what the Senator from Oklahoma 
alone believes is redundant. But what is clear is that this amendment 
proposes to cut $20 billion in funding that the Congress voted on and 
agreed to provide just months ago.

The impact of these cuts has significant consequences for many 
critical services. For example, the Senator's amendment proposes that 
the intent is to consolidate duplicative programs serving the homeless. 
However, in reality, this language simply calls on the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to implement a 5-percent reduction across 
the Department's programs. The bulk of the funding increase recently 
provided by Congress to HUD covers the increasing cost of providing 
affordable housing to our Nation's low-income citizens. According to 
HUD's Annual Homeless Assessment Report, on any given night there are 
over 650,000 people who are homeless. However, HUD's resources fund 
183,000 beds. During this difficult economic time, it is not the time 
to cut housing for the Nation's poorest individuals.

This amendment also takes aim at nursing education programs, claiming 
they are duplicative, when in fact they are not. While there are 
several programs that promote nursing education, each of these programs 
addresses different needs in our Nation's effort to address a profound 
nursing shortage. We have a loan repayment program to get nurses to 
rural areas, a program to incentivize nurses to teach, and a program to 
expand nurse training in geriatric care.

The amendment instructs the Secretary of the Interior to consolidate 
programs for dealing with the impacts of climate change. The truth is, 
each of the three agencies named by the Senator deal with a different 
aspect of climate change, and each brings a special expertise to the 
problem. They are not duplicative; they are complementary based on 
specific expertise.

For the Department of Energy, the Building Technologies Program is 
not a grant program to weatherize existing residential and commercial 
buildings in the same fashion as the weatherization program does for 
residential homes. There is a difference between a residence and a 
building. It is a research and development program aimed at new 
technologies. There is simply not overlap or duplication in these 
programs.

The amendment proposes to rescind funding for the 2010 census. Any 
reduction in funding for the constitutionally mandated 2010 census at 
this critical time would jeopardize the completion of a timely and 
accurate count, which is necessary, sir.

The amendment proposes to cut $2.2 billion from critical Department 
of Homeland Security programs.

The attempted destruction last month of Northwest flight 253 near 
Detroit is our most recent reminder that terrorists continue to 
threaten our homeland and the security of all Americans. This amendment 
would reduce funding for the purchase of explosive detection equipment 
at the very time the Department of Homeland Security Secretary has 
asked us to address the need for further increases in airport security.

In closing, the author of this amendment arbitrarily rescinds funding 
with no true justification. The rescission of $100 billion from the 
$657 billion in unobligated balances, as we know, would wreak havoc on 
ongoing procurement. The rescission of $20 billion is based on the 
claim of redundancy in programs where no redundancy exists.

This is a bad amendment with bad consequences. It is time for Members 
to act responsibly. We have a well-established process for funding the 
Federal Government. It involves a Budget Committee that sets our 
allocations and involves the consideration and approval by the Senate 
of every appropriations bill. It is not passed in the dark of night.

I can assure my colleagues in this Chamber that the Appropriations 
Committee takes its responsibilities seriously, and every agency budget 
is reviewed and oversight is provided throughout the year. Each year, 
the Appropriations Committee recommends rescissions of funds that are 
not needed. But those rescissions are based on detailed oversight and 
understanding of the programs, not indiscriminate action.

This amendment is not based on careful review and would harm many


worthwhile programs, and it fails to meet the test of proper oversight. 
I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.















 Amendment No. 3308


I will also speak on another amendment. I will speak in opposition to 
the amendment offered by the Senator from Alabama, Senator Sessions.

We are all concerned with the growth of the deficit and the need to 
control the debt of the United States. I support that goal, as I 
imagine all of us in this Chamber support the goal. None of us disputes 
the ultimate threat to the standard of living of our citizens posed by 
long-term deficit spending.

However, the amendment offered by the Senator from Alabama is not the 
appropriate way to attack the issue, for several reasons. As I 
understand the amendment, it would have the effect of freezing any 
increases in nondefense discretionary spending for the next 5 years.

In addition, the amendment would impose caps on emergency spending 
that could potentially cripple our ability to respond to emergencies, 
such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or terrorist attacks.

The amendment also contains unrealistic spending caps that would 
restrict funding needed to support our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Let's start with the facts. For fiscal year 2010, the government 
spent $2.9 trillion, of which about $1.2 trillion was discretionary. 
The remaining $1.7 trillion we declare as being mandatory. Of the $1.2 
trillion that was discretionary, approximately $526 billion, or less 
than half, was for nondefense purposes. Therefore, this amendment 
attempts to reduce the deficit of the United States by constraining 18 
percent of total government spending. If the goal is to reduce 
government spending, I am unclear on how constraining growth on just 18 
percent of that spending will be at all effective.

In addition, if we examine the actual numbers involved here, it 
becomes even clearer that this amendment will simply not achieve its 
stated goal. From fiscal years 2006 to 2009, the Federal debt was 
increased by approximately $4.4 trillion. During that time, the total 
increase in nondefense discretionary spending was approximately $93 
billion, as compared to $4.4 trillion.

Doing the math, for the past 4 years, the increase in nondefense 
discretionary spending has accounted for 2 percent of the increase in 
the national debt--just 2 percent.

What do we get for this 2-percent savings? Aside from the obvious 
challenge of funding vital government programs without even an 
adjustment for inflation, we also put our country and our citizens at 
risk.

Arbitrary spending caps would impede the delivery of resources needed 
to keep Americans safe from terrorist attacks and violent crime. Such 
subjective across-the-board restrictions would hinder our ability to 
protect our homeland and secure our borders. As more and more of our 
service men and women are returning from the battlefield, this measure 
would restrict our ability to provide our military personnel and 
veterans with the medical care and support they need.

These are only a few examples of the damage that would be done to 
vital programs, all for a projected savings of 2 percent.

Even more troubling, this amendment would impose a roughly $10 
billion annual cap on emergency spending. Emergency spending is, by its 
very nature and definition, impossible to predict. To deliberately 
impede the government's ability to respond to natural disaster or major 
terrorist attack I say is deeply irresponsible.

Recent history clearly demonstrates the folly of attempting to affix 
a set price to future emergencies. More than 4 years later, the gulf 
coast is still recovering from destruction wrought by Hurricane 
Katrina. Over $100 billion in Federal resources has been needed to 
respond to this one disaster alone.

We have all seen the horrible suffering that has resulted from the 
devastating earthquake in Haiti. What if a city in California were to 
experience a similar disaster? This reckless amendment could delay or 
block the timely delivery of resources needed for an appropriate 
Federal response.

The recent Christmas Eve airline bombing attempt serves as a stark 
reminder of the grave threats that continue to face our Nation. In the 
event of a major terrorist attack on our soil, the Federal Government 
must not be constrained by an emergency spending cap.

Remarkably, this amendment would also restrict funding needed to 
support our men and women in uniform fighting overseas. Based on 
earlier budget projections that no longer reflect fiscal reality, this 
amendment provides $130 billion for the current fiscal year and $50 
billion per year thereafter for ''overseas deployments and other 
contingencies.'' The President's recent decision to increase troop 
levels in Afghanistan will almost certainly require additional 
resources from Congress.

I find it very difficult to imagine that the Senator from Alabama 
genuinely believes that $50 billion would suffice to cover the cost of 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

If this amendment were adopted, with defense and overseas caps, in 
statute, are we expecting Congress to cut defense to pay for these 
operations? That is what this amendment authorizes.

Spending restraints that would deny funding needed to support our 
troops are not fiscally prudent; they are deeply irresponsible.

Finally, I remind my colleagues that we already have a 60-vote 
threshold to overcome budget points of order to appropriations bills. 
As we all know, 60 votes is not a minor hurdle to overcome. By 
increasing that threshold to 67 votes, we turn over decisionmaking to a 
small portion of the Senate. We should not let those who represent only 
one third of this body exercise control over bona fide emergency 
spending.

This country must face the challenge of reducing our deficit. We all 
agree to that. But we must do so in a meaningful and effective way. I 
do not believe this amendment does either.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting against the Sessions 
amendment.

I yield the floor.