# HONORING STAFF SGT JASON DAHLKE
## `39c1796b8d23fb6d837791330ea23e39`
`Mr. MICA — 8 September 2009`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
Staff Sergeant Jason


Dahlke, 29, who died August 29, 2009, while serving our Nation in 
Afghanistan on his sixth deployment in support of the War on Terror. 
Staff Sergeant Dahlke was a distinguished soldier serving with Company 
A, 1st Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment.

SSG Jason Dahlke was born on November 8, 1979, in Tampa and was 
raised in Jacksonville with his brother and three sisters. Prior to 
joining the Army, he attended the University of Central Florida where 
he graduated with a degree in Criminal Justice and married his grade 
school sweetheart Niki Marie Norvell Dahlke. Mrs. Dahlke recalls her 
husband as her ''best friend'' and ''hero.''

We should all remember SSG Dahlke's courage and his ultimate 
sacrifice for our nation. The freedom and liberty we enjoy and the 
peace in the world for others for which he fought are part of the great 
legacy that SSG Dahlke leaves behind. He was laid to rest at the new 
Jacksonville National Veterans Cemetery on September 5, 2009. SSG Jason 
Dahlke is the first American killed in combat to be interred at 
Florida's newest veterans cemetery.

SSG Dahlke will be remembered as a dedicated servant of the country 
he loved. During his time in the Army, SSG Dahlke received a Purple 
Heart and two Army Commendation Medals that he never mentioned to his 
parents. They only learned of their son's achievements by way of the 
internet. In one of his last conversations with his parents, SSG Dahlke 
told his family that he loved his job and that he would continue to do 
it as long as he could serve. Col. Michael E. Kurilla, 75th Ranger 
Regiment commander stated that SSG Dahlke ''embodied the Ranger Creed 
and all that is good, noble and honored in our Rangers.''

With the passing of SSG Dahike, America has lost an outstanding 
citizen and a shining example of service to our Nation. He will be 
remembered as a patriotic American, a pillar of our community and a 
compassionate husband and a loving son.

To his wife Niki, his mother Deborah, his father Roger and his loving 
family and friends, we offer our deepest sympathy.

Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to recognize SSG Jason Dahlke's 
contributions and to ask that all Members of the U.S. House of 
Representatives join me in recognizing his heroic service in our 
Nation's Armed Forces.
