---
---

# SGT. LUKE SHIRLEY AND SPECIALIST JOSHUA SHIRLEY
## `39c6565141014b58501287118b8a3fed`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 13 May 2008`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor two 
soldiers and brothers, Sgt. Luke Shirley and Specialist Joshua Shirley 
of LaBelle, Florida.

Sgt. Luke Shirley and Specialist Joshua Shirley bravely served their 
country in Iraq when Luke was severely injured by a land mine in 
December 2007. Upon returning home, Joshua received orders to return to 
Iraq. Joshua felt he could best serve his brother and his country by 
helping his brother and fellow soldier, Luke, recover and petitioned to 
stay in the United States.

The Department of the Army reassigned Specialist Joshua Shirley to a 
post in the Washington, DC area to allow him to be close to his 
recovering brother. Sgt. Luke Shirley's courage in battle and 
Specialist Joshua Shirley's devotion to his brother and his country 
exemplify what it is to be true American heroes. These brave young men 
put their lives on the line to serve our country. America owes them a 
debt of gratitude.

On behalf of LaBelle, the 16th District, and the United States, I 
would like to express my immense gratitude to Sgt. Luke Shirley and 
Specialist Joshua Shirley. Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring 
these remarkable young men.

Below is a poem written by Bert Caswell to honor the Shirley 
Brothers.















The Book of Luke



 The Book of Luke . . .


 Written by a fine young Man, of Character, Courage, Honor and 





 Truth!


 Who went off to war, as had all his fine family of patriots . 





 . . so many times as before.



 It's all about a family. . . .


 Who but for, God and Country. . . . so much pain and 





 heartache endured! All for Our Freedom to ensure, as 





 what they have given. . . . all in their living, they 





 bore!



 Luke, an Army Man. . . .


 Who as one fine warrior, of strength in honor . . . and 





 character does stand!


 As him and his brother Josh too, both were on their third 





 tours. . . . as together they would band!



 When, in The


 Face of Death!


 With, only but an arm and leg so left . . . he would stand . 





 . . all in this his most heroic quest!


 To rebuild, as his heart to all so instills . . . of what is 





 good, is great . . . of what is best!



 For in him, there are no regrets!


 Not looking back, for in life it's only about what you do in 





 your short time . . . in those pages you have left!


 As he has our Nation so blessed, as his soul to our's does so 





 caress!



 As this book he so writes . . .


 To all hearts so invites, for us to look into our own live's 





 . . . between what's wrong, and is right!


 To so find in this world, what it is which burns bright . . . 





 and what really counts, on this very night!



 Chapter and Verse!


 What have the words, of our lives so versed?


 What have we so written, which so comes first?


 For it's only the few, who have so who . . . have written and 





 so shined so too . . . that for Heaven does search!



 For we write the words, that our Lord and his Angels have 





 read and so heard . . . which burn bright!


 Found in all of our lives of courage, faith and sacrifice . . 





 . are inspiration, touching all souls here tonight.


 When, all is said and done . . . in what's really to be won 





 when we leave this light!



 Could we but write?


 With our hearts and our souls, such a courageous fight . . . 





 to march off into the dark, to leave the light!


 To go off to war, for your country . . . such heartache and 





 burdens bore . . . and rebuild, with no hope in sight!






 In The Book of Luke, he has spoken . . .


 Of chapters of faith he's invoking, of character and courage 





 spoken . . . all in his actions invoking . . .


 Of an American Hero, A Tale of Hope then . . . and 





 Inspiration, To Teach our children, worth quoting!



 The Heart!


 The greatest of all things, which can not so be stopped nor 





 so broken!


 Which pound's, with his words of faith, courage and hope 





 then, in The Book of Luke he has spoken!




 In honor of Luke Shirley, and his brother Josh both in The 


 United States Army . . . who came home with him to help him 


 heal, and their family of generations who have fought for our 


 country and given so much throughout the generations so we 


 could live free. . . . Their uncles, Dwight Harris Williams 


 Jr., Kenneth Wayne Williams, John Dennis Williams were all 


 Marines and did tours in Vietnam.
