---
---

# RECOGNIZING COLONEL RICHARDSON AS THE FIRST FEMALE GARRISON COMMANDER  OF THE FORT MYER MILITARY COMMUNITY
## `39d3887a083f978d39bd54f65d85bb83`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a 
distinguished individual who will take command as the 100th Garrison 
Commander of the Fort Meyer Military Community. Colonel Laura 
Richardson assumed command of Fort Myer in Arlington, Virginia and Fort 
Lesley J. McNair in Washington, DC on July 24, 2007. Colonel Richardson 
is the first female Garrison Commander in the history of the two 
installations.

Colonel Richardson grew up in Colorado and was commissioned a Second 
Lieutenant Aviation Officer upon graduation from Metropolitan State 
College in Denver, Colorado. Colonel Richardson's military education 
includes the Aviation Officer Basic and Advanced Courses, Army Rotary 
Wing Course, UH-60 Blackhawk Course, Air Assault School, Airborne 
School, United States Army Command and General Staff College, and the 
Industrial College of the Armed Forces.

Among her many accomplishments, Colonel Richardson served in 
Washington, DC as Military Aide to Vice President Al Gore. Later, she 
served as Commander of the 5th Battalion, 101st Aviation Regiment, and 
deployed to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Following 
battalion command, Colonel Richardson was assigned to the Army Staff 
and served as deputy director and director of the Army's Transformation 
Office. Following the Pentagon tour, she was assigned to the Industrial 
College of Armed Forces at Fort Lesley J. McNair in Washington, DC.

Colonel Richardson's awards and decorations include the Defense 
Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit Medal, Bronze Star Medal, Army 
Meritorious Service Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters, Air Medal 
(seven),


Joint Service Commendation Medal, Army Commendation Medal with Oak Leaf 
Cluster, Humanitarian Service Medal, Meritorious Unit Citation, Air 
Assault Badge, Parachutist Badge and the Senior Army Aviator Badge.

Madam Speaker, I commend Colonel Richardson for her well-deserved, 
historic achievement. I am truly honored to have her as a constituent 
and wish her all the best as she commands the Fort Meyer military 
community.
