---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SSG JEFFREY ALAN HALL
## `39d769b830aa47cff03954077e91d7dd`
`Mr. GRIFFITH — 9 June 2009`

---


Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of SSG 
Jeffrey Alan Hall.

On June 1, 2009, Jeffrey Hall and two other soldiers were killed in 
Afghanistan by a roadside bomb west of Kabul. Jeffrey was part of


the U.S. Army's 2nd Battalion in the 10th Mountain Division and had 
achieved his lifelong goal of earning the distinction of serving as a 
U.S. Army Ranger. As our nation and my community struggles with this 
sudden loss, I would like to pause and recognize Staff Sergeant Hall 
and the ultimate sacrifice paid by him and his family.

Jeffrey was an eight-year veteran of the United States Army, earning 
many well-deserved awards and decorations including two Army 
Commendation Medals, the National Defense Service Medal, a NATO Medal 
and a Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal. This was Jeffrey's 
third tour in Afghanistan. He was an American Hero who believed in his 
mission and told his father that this was a sacrifice he was willing to 
make to protect his country and the freedoms we enjoy.

Jeffrey Hall was a soldier but he was also a loving son to his 
parents Charles and Annette, a devoted husband to his wife Allison and 
eleven months ago became a father to Audrey Faith. Jeffrey loved life 
and his family and the outpouring of love and affection by his family 
and friends is the real tribute to the man that he was and the life 
that he led.

Staff Sergeant Hall is an inspiring example that we can all look up 
to and aspire to be like. He put the safety of all Americans before his 
own, and the people of this nation will be forever grateful. He 
motivated and inspired those around him and will be greatly missed by 
all who knew him, and by those who never had the honor and privilege of 
meeting him.

Our country lost a great soldier and an even better son last Monday. 
All of us in north Alabama are deeply saddened by Jeffrey's passing. On 
behalf of the entire community in the Tennessee Valley, across Alabama 
and a grateful nation, I rise today to remember SSG Jeffrey Allen Hall 
and to pay tribute to his honor, his sacrifice and his memory.
