---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `39d73d35ba2502ed479280f4432a1163`
`Mr. LEAHY — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I commend the Senator from Illinois for his 
statement. I appreciate that he mentioned his grandfather and others 
who were helped by the GI bill of rights. There are so many people I 
know in Vermont who were able to get an education because of that bill.

I also commend the Senator from Washington State. As always, she 
carries out Herculean tasks on this floor and does it in the best 
tradition of the Senate.

I thank Chairman Byrd and Senator Cochran for their work on this 
supplemental bill.

The Appropriations Committee has a long tradition of bipartisanship, 
and the two leaders, the Republican leader and the Democratic leader, 
have always demonstrated that, just as I have tried in the Foreign 
Operations subcommittee, working with Senator Gregg and his staff. We 
worked closely together to make difficult choices, including finding 
funds for urgent humanitarian needs that the President's budget 
overlooked.

For the first time, we require the Government of Iraq, which has an 
oil surplus--with oil selling for over $120 a barrel--to match U.S. 
funds dollar for dollar. It is time for Iraq to pay a larger share of 
its own reconstruction. This requirement, included by Senator Gregg and 
myself, would lessen the burden on American taxpayers.

We provide $450 million to Mexico and Central America, to help our 
neighbors to the south combat the drug cartels. This is the first down 
payment on a multi-year program. I spoke in this chamber at greater 
length about the Merida Initiative yesterday.

We have significantly increased funding for refugees, including Iraqi 
refugees. I thank Senator Gregg for helping us provide $650 million for 
assistance for Jordan, and I thank Senator Edward Kennedy for the money 
included for Iraqi refugees. Thanks to Senators Biden and Lugar, the 
bill includes essential authority to enable the administration to help 
dismantle North Korea's nuclear facilities.

As other Senators have mentioned, this bill also provides funds for 
critical domestic needs, from repairing decaying infrastructure in 
America to disaster relief for American victims of floods, tornadoes, 
and other disasters. We are helping to rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan, 
but we are also providing funds to help the American people the 
President's budget left out. I wish the President had considered these 
needs in his supplemental request. He wants to fix roads in 
Afghanistan, but we also need to fix roads in America. He wants to 
repair infrastructure in Iraq, but we need to repair infrastructure in 
America. My State and the States of every Senator are waiting for help 
from the Federal Government. Working together, both parties, we have 
addressed important national security interests, but we have also 
addressed the urgent needs of the American people at home.