---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `39db48cf2a4fd45dd2a9f5980350f5d2`
`Mrs. BOXER — 8 November 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, thank you very much.

Mr. President, I rise to express my opposition to the nomination of 
Judge Michael Mukasey to be our next Attorney General. I thank Chairman 
Leahy and his committee, including Senator Specter and members I see 
here, Senator Kennedy, for working hard to examine the nominee's record 
and, frankly, for asking the tough questions, which I think gave us a 
real look into the mind and the heart of this man.

I have respect for Judge Mukasey's background, his dedication to 
public service, his reputation as a distinguished jurist, and as a good 
man. But when evaluating our Nation's chief law enforcement official, 
we must weigh far more than background and likability. Particularly 
now--particularly now--when we are following the disastrous tenure of 
Alberto Gonzales, particularly now, when we have lost so much more 
leadership in the world because of what is happening in Iraq, and, 
unfortunately, what has happened in Abu Ghraib, we need to look past 
likability and qualifications.

We must firmly believe our next Attorney General must always put his 
loyalty to the Constitution above his loyalty to the President. We have 
a President and a Vice President who have dangerously abused their 
Executive power and who have undermined the public trust. This is not a 
partisan opinion.

Listen to what John Dean, White House Counsel to President Richard 
Nixon, wrote:




 Not since Nixon left the White House have we had such greed 


 over presidential power, and never before have we had such 


 political paranoia. . . . History never exactly repeats 


 itself, but it does some rather good imitations.


When an administration spies on its own citizens without a warrant, 
strips habeas corpus rights from those held by America, and fires its 
own U.S. attorneys for political reasons, that is a shocking abuse of 
Executive power.

When an administration thinks it can just ignore an entire coequal 
branch of Government, even using signing statements to reinterpret or 
disregard more than 750 laws that Congress has passed, that is a 
shocking abuse of Executive power.

When an administration silences its own officials, rewriting 
testimony, redacting testimony, shelving reports, refusing to let 
experts publicly speak the truth, that is a shocking abuse of Executive 
power.

I have seen this so many times with this administration. The latest 
time was with global warming experts whose truths the White House find 
''inconvenient.'' And what did they do? They redacted testimony of the 
CDC Director, the Center for Disease Control Director, when we asked 
her to come before the Environment Committee of the Senate and tell us 
what would the health effects of unfettered global warming be. What 
would happen? The White House muzzled her by slashing her testimony. 
They gave all kinds of excuses as to why it was done. None of them were 
real.

Then, when I wrote to the President, and I said: Mr. President, we 
need to hear what Dr. Gerberding has to say about the impacts of global 
warming on the health of our people; Mr. Fielding, White House Counsel, 
wrote back: Oh, gee, we are not going to send you her original 
testimony you have asked for. Oh, no, that would be an abuse of 
executive privilege. Let me restate that: That would be an abuse of the 
separation of powers. And he asserted executive privilege. Imagine 
asserting executive privilege for something like the health effects of 
global warming. It is unbelievable.

So now we need an Attorney General who is going to be the people's 
lawyer, not the President's lawyer, not the one who is going to tell 
us: Oh, yeah, we just cannot do anything about it, Congress.

We need an Attorney General who is going to check this unprecedented 
abuse of power, not rubberstamp it.

Unfortunately, because of the deep and thorough questioning of the 
Judiciary Committee, and my reading of that, I cannot support Judge 
Mukasey.

Judge Mukasey ruled that President Bush had the authority to detain 
American citizens as enemy combatants without criminal charges or 
habeas corpus rights; likewise, during his confirmation hearing, Judge 
Mukasey failed to demonstrate that he would independently evaluate this 
President's broad assertion of executive privilege.

When asked if he would permit the U.S. attorney to execute 
congressional contempt citations when the White House refuses to 
provide documents to Congress, Judge Mukasey did not say yes. He should 
have said yes.

The statute is clear. The statute is clear that when Congress issues 
a contempt citation, the U.S. attorney is required to bring the matter 
to a grand jury.

What Judge Mukasey said was, he would have to look at it. He would 
have to see if it really was reasonable. The fact is, that is not what 
the statute says. There is no ''reasonable'' test. When the Congress 
issues a contempt citation, the U.S. attorney is required to bring the 
matter to a grand jury. If the President says ''executive privilege,'' 
it does not matter. But the judge said he would look at it and see if 
the President was being reasonable.


So we have to send a clear and unequivocal message to the Justice 
Department staff. We have to send a clear message to the American 
people and to the world that the United States honors and respects and 
will never turn away from our Constitution.

It is so amazing to me. We have a crisis in Pakistan where a 
dictator--unfortunately, is what I am saying General Musharraf is 
behaving like--has suspended the Constitution--and everyone here, all 
of us, feel terrible about this, including the President of the United 
States, who, as I understand it,


talked to him on the phone and told him to restore the Constitution--
and here we cannot get papers from this White House.

I am not comparing that in any way, shape, or form to the kind of 
suspension of the Constitution we see abroad. But I am saying in this 
country--in this country--everyone assumes the Constitution will be 
followed. That is why we need an Attorney General now, in 2007, who is 
going to be so strong on the point.

Yes, he should have said if Congress issues a contempt citation, of 
course, we will do what we have to do under the law. So it is not 
enough to hope the nominee will exercise independent judgment and stand 
up to this President and Vice President. We must know from the record 
before us that this nominee will uphold the Constitution and our laws 
and do it clearly and unequivocally.

Now, that is a high standard. I admit that. But that is what the 
people of this great Nation deserve, nothing less. Unfortunately, Judge 
Mukasey's response to questions about torture do not meet the standard.

During his confirmation hearing, the nominee was asked whether 
waterboarding is illegal. Now, I know a lot of people have discussed 
this, and perhaps we are all being repetitious. But I think we need to 
say how we feel.

This is a moment for this Senate. This has been a long day for all of 
us. I know for me it has been a big day. I helped to lead, along with 
Senator Inhofe, an override of a very important bill. I had a hearing 
on global warming. I had a briefing on global warming. I have been at 
it, just as we all have.

But I came out to the floor because I think this is an important 
moment where Members have to be heard. We must know from the record 
before us that the nominee will uphold the Constitution and our laws. 
And, yes, it is a high standard that the people deserve.

So when the nominee was asked whether waterboarding is illegal, he 
responded if waterboarding is torture, then, in fact, it is 
unconstitutional. So I have to ask this rhetorical question: If 
waterboarding is torture? If? We are talking about a brutal 
interrogation technique that simulates drowning.

Not surprisingly, members of the Judiciary Committee were not 
satisfied with this answer. And I praise them. They probed, they 
questioned, they asked again: Is waterboarding illegal?

This time, the judge responded with a four-page letter that, once 
again, failed to answer. He called the question ''hypothetical.'' He 
said his legal opinion would depend on ''the actual facts and 
circumstances.'' Depend on ''the actual facts and circumstances'' if 
waterboarding is torture? Is this the message we want to send to the 
world, that our evaluation of a brutal tactic depends on ''facts and 
circumstances''?

In fact, Judge Mukasey's answer was a bit too similar to a statement 
by Alberto Gonzales that the legality of torture techniques ''would 
depend on circumstances.''

This is not a clear answer. This is not unequivocal. And it is not 
what we need in an Attorney General now, in 2007, when the world is 
turning away from America as a moral leader.

Teddy Roosevelt did not have to consider the ''facts and 
circumstances'' in 1902 when he court-martialed and removed an American 
general in the Philippines for allowing his troops to engage in 
waterboarding. That was 1902, the last century, the turn of the last 
century, and we have someone equivocating on this point? President 
Roosevelt said then nothing can justify the use of torture or inhuman 
conduct by our military.

Senators McCain, Warner, and Graham did not have to consider ''the 
facts and circumstances'' when they wrote to Judge Mukasey:




 Waterboarding, under any circumstances, represents a clear 


 violation of U.S. law.


Waterboarding today is not a hypothetical. It is used in Burma 
against supporters of democracy. Waterboarding is an unconstitutional 
form of cruel and inhumane treatment. It is illegal under U.S. laws--
from the Torture Act, which prohibits acts ''specifically intended to 
inflict severe physical or mental pain or suffering,'' to the Detainee 
Treatment Act, which prohibits ''cruel, inhuman or degrading 
treatment.''

It is illegal under international laws, such as the Geneva 
Conventions, which are not quaint. Those conventions prohibit cruel, 
humiliating, and degrading treatment.


Following World War II, the United States convicted several Japanese 
soldiers for waterboarding American and allied POWs. Let me repeat: 
Following World War II, the United States convicted several Japanese 
soldiers for waterboarding American and allied POWs. What kind of 
statement are we hearing from Judge Mukasey? Our law and our history 
are crystal clear, so why can't Judge Mukasey state in unequivocal 
terms that waterboarding is torture and that is illegal?

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute and I 
will sum up.