---
---

# REGARDING H.J. RES. 52
## `39e68b83f4897d07b8adaa8e43baba53`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 15 October 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker. I rise to oppose the 
escalating rhetoric in Washington that is dividing our Nation, 
diverting attention and resources from the needs of Americans, and 
extending President Bush's failed policy in Iraq. I join the majority 
of Americans in seeking an end to the Iraq war and allowing U.S. troops 
to return home safe and soon.

Americans are united in support of our troops. Americans are 
beginning to unite behind ending the war. Ratcheting up rhetoric only 
divides Americans and distracts from the stark reality facing our 
Nation--our Nation is bogged down in President Bush's Iraq war.

My vote to recommit and amend H.J. Res. 52 was a vote to return to 
substantive debate of policy and priorities. This was a vote against 
the rising level of incivility in American political discourse. This 
was a vote to repudiate the MoveOn.org advertisement questioning 
General David H. Petraeus' loyalty to our Nation.

While members of MoveOn.org have been allies with Democrats and the 
majority of Americans who are seeking an end to the Iraq war, the 
decision by the group's National leaders to attack General Petraeus 
only contributed to the vitriol in Washington and provided a rally 
point for those who wish to extend the failed Iraq policies of 
President Bush and Congressional Republicans.

Just as the Swift Boating of Senators John Kerry and Max Cleland 
poisoned the political process and disenfranchised the public by 
questioning the patriotism and character of honorable men, the attempt 
to discredit General Petraeus is equally damaging. General Petraeus is 
an honorable person who deserves respect, even as the public deserves 
to hold him accountable for the policies he implements.

Irresponsible and heated rhetoric has resulted in the current impasse 
on Federal funding for Government operations. To prevent funding 
shortfalls that would force a Government shutdown, Congress was forced 
to pass H.J. Res. 52 as a stopgap bill.

With bipartisan support, the House of Representatives has passed all 
12 of the appropriations bills necessary to fund Government operations 
in Fiscal Year 2008 under pay-as-you-go balanced budget discipline. 
However, President Bush's combative posturing and veto threats have so 
thoroughly blocked progress that the Senate has only approved a third 
of those bills.

During the short 9 months that Democrats have led the House of 
Representatives, we have taken America in a new direction by developing 
a fiscally responsible record accomplishment. We are putting the needs 
of the American people first and making long-delayed investments in our 
future with no new deficit spending. We are investing in health care 
for America's children and veterans, strengthening homeland security to 
better protect the American people and creating American jobs by 
building safer roads and bridges.

President Bush has responded with vetoes, tough talk of veto threats, 
including a threatened veto on the bipartisan reauthorization of the 
Children's Health Insurance Program H.R. 976, which passed the House 
with 45 Republicans joining the vast majority of Democrats. A veto of 
this legislation by the President would deny 10 million low-income 
children the health care they need and deserve.

While President Bush claims that a $35 billion increase for 
children's health care is too much, he is seeking $190 billion in 
additional funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan--the largest 
single-year amount so far. The President continues to pursue an open-
ended and dangerous commitment of American troops in Iraq and an open 
wallet from the American people to pay for it.

It is time for Americans to stand together--Republicans and 
Democrats--to end the Iraq war.
