# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES STAFF SERGEANT ZACHARY TOMCZAK
## `39e73dd350a3a9420b3fdfe247bc2124`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute to SSG Zachary 
Tomczak and his heroic service to our country. As a member of the 
Army's 325th Airborne Infantry Regiment of the 82nd Airborne Division 
based in North Carolina, Staff Sergeant Tomczak was serving in support 
of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On September 25, 2007, he was killed in 
action in Baghdad.

A Huron native, Zachary joined the Army in June 2002 and took great 
pride in serving his country. His graduation from Ranger School at Fort 
Benning, GA, in May is described by his father as ''one of the proudest 
moments for him and for me.'' His captain remembers him as ''a leader, 
mentor, warrior, Ranger, hero.'' Zachary was on his fourth tour of duty 
in Iraq and had earned the Purple Heart and Bronze Star Medal, among 
other awards.

A hard worker, Zachary enjoyed hands-on projects and worked for a 
construction company during high school. He also enjoyed spending time 
four-wheeling, pheasant hunting, and deer hunting. Friends and family 
will remember Zachary's love for life and easygoing personality.

Sergeant Tomczak gave his all for his soldiers and his country. Our 
Nation owes him a debt of gratitude, and the best way to honor his life 
is to emulate his commitment to our country. Mr. President, I join with 
all South Dakotans in expressing my deepest sympathy to the family of 
Staff Sergeant Tomczak. He will be missed, but his service to our 
Nation will never be forgotten.










Private First Class Christopher Pfeifer
