---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `39e869684904a3d6eed71487c40654ef`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H.R. 327, 
the Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act. As our soldiers 
continue to defend our country's freedom overseas, it is imperative 
that we at home continue to recognize their sacrifice by providing them 
with the support and services that they have earned.

H.R. 327 is named after an Iraq veteran Joshua Omvig, a 22-year-old 
Army Reservist who served honorably in Iraq, but returned home unable 
to cope with his memories of the war. Only months after his return from 
Iraq, he committed suicide.

The story of Joshua Omvig is not an isolated occurrence. In 2004, a 
study conducted by the New England Study of Medicine concluded that 
over 15 percent of veterans returning from a year in Iraq met screening 
criteria for major depression, generalized anxiety, or post traumatic 
stress disorder. Today, our soldiers are serving much longer than a 
single year and are returning from combat with severe psychological 
trauma.

H.R. 327 implements a comprehensive program that takes into 
consideration the special needs of veterans who are at high risk of 
depression and experience high rates of suicide. By directing and 
training the staff of Veterans Affairs in the proper screening, 
monitoring, and tracking of veterans, this legislation will lead to 
earlier diagnosis for those who may be prone to suicide.

Mr. Speaker, we have a responsibility to support our Nation's 
veterans. I stand in strong support of H.R. 327, and I encourage my 
colleagues to join me in voting for the Joshua Omvig Suicide Prevention 
Act.