---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `39f532680424d7163dc282db7a67970f`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, and I thank Chairman 
Skelton for his leadership and his dedication to the readiness of our 
troops and the continuing excellence of the United States armed forces.

The President continues to ask this Congress and the American people 
to ''stay the course'' in Iraq. Well, Mr. President, today the American 
people and the Congress say, ''No more!!''

Instead, I add my voice once again to the growing number of retired 
military generals, the Iraq Study Group, and untold thousands of rank-
and-file on the front lines who are calling for a new direction in 
Iraq.

The success of our military depends on a sound strategy. Yet, instead 
of fighting terrorists in the mountains of Afghanistan, our armed 
forces are overextended after four years of refereeing a civil war in 
the sands of Iraq.

The President's escalation of this war,--his so-called ''surge''--is 
not working. That much is clear. Since the escalation of this war 6 
months ago, more than 25,000 troops have been sent to Iraq, 600 more 
U.S. soldiers have died and more than 3,000 troops have been wounded. 
Countless thousands of Iraqis are dead, and today the violence in Iraq 
is at an all-time high!

Our troops have performed heroically in Iraq, but the Iraqi 
government has failed to meet any of the benchmarks endorsed by the 
President in January. Political reconciliation within Iraq is non-
existent. A change of course is long overdue.

The time has come for the United States to responsibly re-deploy our 
troops from Iraq and to refocus our efforts on protecting Americans 
from terrorism. The time has come for Iraqis to take primary 
responsibility for their country and their security.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will do exactly that.

Let me be clear on one additional point. Democrats support the 
troops. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have 
consistently voted to fund our troops and provide our soldiers in the 
line of fire with the resources they need.

I do this because our brave service men and women are not risking 
their lives each and every day for one political party or the other. 
They are risking their lives for America.

Our Nation owes our troops a strategy that is worthy of their 
sacrifice. But ''stay the course'' is not that strategy. It is a slogan 
that continues to fail them.

No, Mr. Speaker, if we really want to support our troops, it is now 
time to get them out of Iraq and re-deploy them to other areas where 
they can fight the terrorists who have attacked, and who continue to 
threaten our Nation.