---
---

# FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `39f78c35711922eecf0843832c807b16`
`Mr. INOUYE — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, this amendment is based on the absurd 
premise that the unemployment insurance benefits piece alone must be 
paid for, lest we contribute to the deficit. Never mind that this 
entire package contributes $858 billion to the deficit, of which only 
$51 billion is accounted for by the UI extension provision. It is clear 
that this amendment is not about deficit reduction; rather, it is about 
attacking programs that make a real difference to the everyday lives of 
our constituents. Meanwhile, this amendment leaves the tax benefits to 
the wealthiest Americans, those who need the least assistance, 
completely intact.

Let me be clear. There are a few ideas proposed in this amendment 
that make some sense. However, as part of the Appropriations 
Committee's annual and ongoing oversight responsibilities, the 
committee has already rescinded unobligated balances from those 
programs or reduced their funding for fiscal year 2011 as part of the 
fiscal year 2011 omnibus, which the Senate will consider this week. 
Every recommendation in the omnibus was made in collaboration with 
Republican


members of the Appropriations Committee, based on a detailed analysis. 
These decisions were not made rashly, nor because they might sound good 
in a press release.

Too often when the Senate debates cuts in unobligated balances, the 
proponents want to ignore the consequences of their recommendations and 
focus on broad generalizations. But in reality these cuts can cause 
serious problems. Accordingly, let me highlight the impact of a few of 
the programmatic cuts proposed by the Senator from Oklahoma.

For example, this amendment would require each Department to cut its 
workforce by 10 percent over 10 years, without considering the impact 
of the cuts. It seems as though Federal workers have become the newest 
punching bag for a few of our colleagues. FDA staff, necessary to 
ensure that the food we eat and the drugs we take are safe and 
effective, would be cut by nearly 1,000. The staff of the Food Safety 
and Inspection Service would be cut by an additional 1,000. These cuts 
are irresponsible and would put the American public at unnecessary risk 
at a time of breakthrough medical research when important new drugs are 
being produced and must be monitored. When more of our food supply is 
coming from around the world, preventing contamination is more 
important than ever.

More than 95 percent of the 280,000 employees of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs either work for the Veterans Health Administration or 
the Veterans Benefits Administration. To reduce the VA's overall 
employees by 28,000 over 10 years would mean that doctors, dentists, 
hospital administrators, and benefits claims processors would have to 
be reduced. As more and more of our veterans are returning home from 
Iraq and Afghanistan, this is not the time to be cutting their service 
providers.

This amendment would require a reduction of 600 to 800 Government 
Accountability Office staff, as well as a reduction in travel that is 
necessary for the GAO to conduct audits and evaluations. Travel is 
critical to GAO's ability to meet the requirements of Congress.

Rescinding funds from the FBI, DEA, ATF, and U.S. Marshals will not 
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse. Instead, cutting funding for these 
agencies means cutting agents who are serving on the front lines 
keeping our Nation safe from terrorist threats and cyber attacks, 
reducing the flow of drugs, and combating gun-related violence along 
the southwest border, strengthening immigration enforcement, and 
keeping children safe from sexual predators. That is the real impact of 
this proposal.

The 15-percent budget cut to the Executive Office of the President 
might sound reasonable, but it would cut key staff of the Council of 
Economic Advisers, the National Security Council, and the Homeland 
Security Council. This would severely hamper the President's ability to 
coordinate critical economic security and national security programs 
across the entire Federal Government. It would be particularly 
devastating considering that the rest of the Federal Government would 
also be shedding a significant number of staff under the Coburn 
amendment, leaving agencies currently managing the economic crisis and 
our national and homeland security programs not only short-staffed but 
also in chaos due to minimized leadership.

The Coburn amendment also would eliminate the State grant for the 
Safe and Drug-Free Schools Program. The Congressional Budget Office has 
previously recommended this action. However, this suggestion comes a 
year too late. The Committee on Appropriations removed $295 million in 
funding for the State formula grant funding from the 2010 
appropriations bill. There is no funding for the State grants program 
in the 2011 bill. The Appropriations Committee has already made this 
cut.

The Coburn amendment would also rescind $4 billion in fiscal year 
2011 for U.S. development and humanitarian programs in the world's 
poorest countries, from Haiti to Afghanistan. This would cut funding 
for programs for refugees and victims of natural disasters from Darfur 
to Pakistan; it would affect global health programs including HIV/AIDS 
prevention and treatment that mean life or death for millions of 
people; and it would weaken programs to support food security and 
nutrition, clean water, sanitation, and basic education, and to combat 
human trafficking, in countries where 95 percent of new births are 
occurring and over 2 billion people barely survive on less than $2 per 
day. The short-term effects of such a reduction in funding would be 
severe, the long-term effects would be devastating, and ultimately it 
would exacerbate global problems that directly affect U.S. security.

The amendment proposes to rescind funds focused on returning 
contaminated sites to productive use. The Brownfields Program has a 
track record of successfully restoring damaged properties--often in 
physically and economically distressed neighborhoods--to sources of 
economic growth, creating jobs for lower income people in the process. 
Many of our cities are among those communities hardest hit by the 
economic recession. Now is not the time to stall the cleanup of 
brownfields.

This amendment authorizes the Secretary of the Army in consultation 
with other Federal agencies to determine the definition of ''low 
priority'' Army Corps projects. This appears to be code for those 
projects not requested in the President's budget. Since when has the 
administration been the only source of wisdom for determining funding 
decisions? If there is surplus funding available, we should ask the 
Corps to identify those funds and propose them for rescission. However, 
it would become quickly apparent that this strategy is penny wise and 
pound foolish. These are all ongoing projects, previously funded by 
this or prior Congresses. It would not make economic sense to stop 
these projects. Demobilization costs and costs to make these 
construction sites safe for the public could end up costing more than 
continuing the projects.

These are just a few examples of the damage that would be done if 
this reckless amendment was actually agreed to. But I would conclude by 
saying that every Member of this Chamber who supports the tax cut deal 
should vote against the amendment being offered by the Senator from 
Oklahoma for the simple reason that it seeks to change the tax package, 
which reflects an agreement between the Republican leader and the 
President of the United States. The Republican leadership signed off on 
this deal because many of the provisions they wanted were included in 
exchange for a 13 month extension of unemployment insurance benefits 
with no offset. I would certainly hope that they will stand by their 
agreement.

Mr. President, this amendment would do serious damage to many 
necessary government programs. Unobligated does not mean excess or 
unnecessary. I urge all my colleagues to reject the Coburn amendment.