# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3a224adba5ee8931f504dc3566fdfd7b`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, before the Senate now is an issue of 
funding our military, the Department of Defense appropriations bill. 
This is a bill that is critically important because it provides the 
funding our men and women in uniform now risking their lives while we 
meet in the safety of our businesses and offices and homes in America, 
it funds their needs to make sure they will be safe to perform their 
missions effectively and come home. Without fail, every year this bill 
comes before the Senate and is a consensus bipartisan bill.

Regardless of our debates over foreign policy, we all want the men 
and women in uniform to know we stand behind them. As a consequence, 
this bill usually passes with an overwhelming number. I asked how this 
bill fared in the House of Representatives when it was considered 
yesterday. The vote was 395 to 34. There were 164 Republicans who voted 
yes on this bill. It was clearly an overwhelmingly positive bipartisan 
vote. There is no reason it would not be the same in the Senate.

But there is a problem. The problem is this: Tomorrow the funding for 
our troops runs out. It is the end of our continuing resolution in 
funding. We are not going to leave them high and dry, but we are going 
to leave them uncertain if we don't act decisively and quickly. Why 
would we do this to them?

Military families across America, as we go into the holiday season, I 
am sure, are saddened by the absence of their loved ones who may be in 
Iraq or Afghanistan, saddened by a separation from children and other 
loved ones they would like to avoid in their lifetime but they have 
offered it up for this great country. With this kind of uncertainty and 
sadness and emotion, why would we be uncertain when it comes to funding 
our troops?

Here is where we are: We offered this yesterday. We said: Let's vote 
for it. Let's vote for our troops and get this behind us so the 
Department of Defense appropriations bill was clear.

The other side of the aisle said: No. We want you to go through all 
of the hurdles that you have to go through under the procedures of the 
Senate for the most controversial bills. We want you to file a cloture 
motion which would put an end to a filibuster. We want you to fill the 
tree with amendments so that this bill isn't assaulted.

Believe me, the terminology would lose most people, including many 
Senators, but the bottom line is this: Instead of just doing what we 
know needs to be done and what should be done, Republicans have 
insisted we delay this process for at least 2 days.

Why? Why would we want to delay funding our troops in the middle of a 
war? Why would we want to say to our troops that the military pay raise 
they were counting on so their families can get by back home, and for 
those stationed in the United States, make sure that they have what 
they need, why would we say to them that we are going to raise a 
question as to whether we are going to put $29.2 billion into the 
defense health program, the health program for our military members and 
their families?

Why would the Republicans insist on delaying a vote for $472 million 
for family advocacy programs for military families who are separated, 
many of whom are going through extraordinary stress because of the 
separation? Why would they want to delay a pay raise for the military? 
Why would they want to delay $154 billion for equipment and training 
for our military?

I don't understand it. It would seem to me that we ought to come 
together by noon today and say: Let's do this. Let's not waste another 
minute in terms of helping our troops and showing them we stand behind 
them. But, no, the decision has been made on the other side of the 
aisle that we are going to delay this matter until tomorrow.

They say in politics, for every decision there is a real reason and a 
good reason. There may be some good reason they are giving on the other 
side of the aisle for delaying funding our troops, but the real reason 
is their hope that they can stop health care reform in the Senate. That 
is what is behind this. The lengths to which those on the other side of 
the aisle will go was demonstrated yesterday.

We had a defining moment when the leadership on the Senate Republican 
side insisted, through Senator Coburn of Oklahoma, that an 800-page 
amendment be read by the clerk. It is the right of a Senator to ask for 
that. It is an archaic right because people don't sit here hanging on 
every word to understand an amendment. That never happens. It didn't 
happen yesterday. But the clerk started reading.

Almost 2 hours into it, it was pretty clear that it would take 10 
hours to finish this 800-page amendment, despite the best efforts of 
the clerk's office. Why did the Senate Republican leadership want to 
take 10 hours out of a day for something that was meaningless--the 
reading, word by word, line by line, page by page, of an 800-page 
amendment? To stop debate on health care reform.



During that period, no one could debate it. No one could amend it. 
The Republicans have conceded that they are finished with the debate 
and amendment phase of health care reform. They have decided now that 
the only thing they could possibly do is to delay everything the Senate 
can consider in the hopes that maybe we get tangled up with our desire 
personally to be home with our families during the holidays and would 
not do our duty here.

They are wrong. We are determined to do this. We are determined 
because health care reform for this country is so absolutely essential. 
The Presiding Officer has an awesome assignment, succeeding the late 
Senator Ted Kennedy whom he counted as a close friend and served as a 
member of his staff.

In our cloakroom is a cover of Time magazine where Senator Kennedy is 
looking out with that smile on his face saying: We are almost there. It 
was an article he wrote before he died about health care reform. He, 
more than any person in the Senate, had the authority to speak to it. 
Senator Kirk told us in a meeting of our caucus the other day that it 
was 40 years ago when Senator Kennedy took to the floor as a young man 
and talked about the priority of health care reform. Forty years, when 
you think about it, 40 years of waiting for this moment to vote on 
health care reform. If he were here today--and I wish to God he were--
he would be back there at that desk--that was Kennedy's spot--
thundering in this Senate Chamber about this historic opportunity and 
how if it costs us Christmas Eve or costs us Christmas Day or even 
more, we cannot let down the people of this country.

I see the polls. This complicated issue of health care reform has a 
lot of people confused and even worried. They have heard some of the 
wild charges on the other side. At one point they were arguing about 
death panels; that ultimately the government was going to decide 
whether people would live or die. That was one of the cruelest 
distortions in this debate.

The actual issue was raised by Senator Johnny Isakson, who is a 
Republican of Georgia, whom I thought raised a serious and important 
consideration and one that all of us, though we might not want to, 
should reflect on. He said every person under Medicare ought to have a 
compensated, paid-for visit to a doctor if they want, voluntarily, to 
talk about end-of-life treatment. There is hardly a family in America 
who doesn't contemplate that possibility, doesn't have a husband say to 
a wife: Honey, I don't want any of that extraordinary stuff. Don't keep 
me on life support.

What Senator Isakson wanted to do was to give Medicare patients an 
opportunity to sit down with a doctor and say: What instruction should 
I leave? If this is what I believe, whom should I tell? That was a 
humane, thoughtful amendment. But the critics of health care reform 
twisted and distorted it into a death panel that was going to tell 
Grannie: We are going to pull the plug.

Sad. It was sad, when Senator Isakson offered such a good-faith 
amendment, to have it distorted. It is no wonder if the critics of 
health care reform would go to those extremes to try to defeat this 
bill, why other extreme things have been said about it. If you listened 
on the floor of the Senate over the last several weeks while we have 
debated health care reform and listened to the speeches from the other 
side of the aisle, you would believe that this bill is going to destroy 
Medicare. Many Republican Senators who historically did not support 
Medicare and wanted to privatize Medicare are now its most fervent 
champions. You might question their sincerity. We don't do that in the 
Senate because we don't question motives of people. But I will question 
their accuracy.


This bill, which is over 2,000 pages, knows the future of Medicare is 
important to all of us. If we do nothing today, Medicare will go broke 
in 8 years. We would not be bringing in enough money from payroll taxes 
to pay the Medicare services we promised in 8 years. That is a fact. 
But this bill is going to change it. This bill will add 10 years of 
solvency to Medicare. I wish it were more, but it is a step in the 
right direction to say to those receiving Medicare and those about to 
go into Medicare: This important program will be there when you need 
it; 10 years of added solvency in Medicare; Medicare on sound financial 
footing for 10 more years because of this bill.

There is something else it does. At the end of our conference between 
the House and Senate on health care reform, we are going to take care 
of a problem in Medicare. It is a serious problem. When we passed the 
Medicare prescription drug program, there wasn't enough money to fund 
it. They created this strange situation where if you were seriously ill 
under Medicare and receiving medication, this Medicare Part D plan 
would pay for prescription drugs up to a certain limit and then stop.

In the midst of a new calendar year, some could find several months 
into that year that Medicare Part D was not paying for any more 
prescription drugs. You would be responsible personally to pay for 
them. After you had paid a certain amount of money, the Part D coverage 
would kick in again. It was known euphemistically as the doughnut hole, 
that gap in coverage in Medicare Part D. When this is over, this health 
care reform is going to fill that gap, close that doughnut hole, give 
to 45 million Americans under Medicare the peace of mind of knowing 
that their prescription drugs will be paid for and they will not find 
themselves exhausting savings or going without it when it comes to 
basic medication.

That is why this bill is important. That is why some of the things 
that have been said in the debate are so misleading.

There is something else this bill does which we ought to take pride 
in as Senators. Most civilized and developed countries in the world 
have a health care system that protects their people. We are the only 
developed country on Earth where a person can die because they don't 
have health insurance. We are the only one.

You might say: Senator Durbin, aren't you getting a little carried 
away? Well, 45,000 people a year do. Let me give you an illustration: 
What if you had a $5,000 copay on your health insurance and you didn't 
have $5,000 and the doctor says: I am a little bit worried about some 
of the things you tell me, Senator. I think you need a colonoscopy.

That is something I can understand because my mother had colon 
cancer. I am very careful about this. I have a history in my family.

But if you had a policy that said the first $5,000 you have to pay 
for and went out and asked how much a colonoscopy cost, you would find 
in many places it is $3,000. There have been cases--a man from Illinois 
wrote me. He said: I didn't have the $3,000 so I skipped the 
colonoscopy.

Without health insurance, without coverage, without enough money to 
pay for that basic test, this individual is running the risk of 
developing a serious cancer that could claim his life or at least cost 
a fortune to take care of. That is what inadequate health insurance 
does to you. That is what no health insurance does to you.


At the end of the day, this bill will say, for the first time in the 
history of this great Nation, 94 percent of the people will have health 
insurance. Thirty million people today who have no health insurance 
will have it when it is over. Fifteen million will go into Medicaid 
because they are in low-income categories.

I met one of those people when I was back in my home State of 
Illinois. Her name is Judie. She works at a motel in Marion, IL. She is 
a hostess in the morning for their free continental breakfast--a sweet 
lady with a big smile on her face, in her early sixties.

She came up to me and said: Senator, I am not sure this health care 
reform is good for me.

I said: Judie, do you have health insurance?

She said: No, I've never had health insurance, and I'm a few years 
away from Medicare.

I said: If you don't mind telling me, how much money do you make?

She said: Well, they've cut our hours here at the motel because of 
the economy. I work about 30 hours a week now, and I make about $8 an 
hour. And she said: There isn't a person here you're looking at, 
working on this motel staff, who has health insurance.

I said: So does that mean your income each year is about $12,000?

She said: Well, I guess. It's the only job I have. I get by on it.



I cannot imagine how.

She said: I get by on it.

I checked into it, and I saw her the next morning before I checked 
out, and I said: Judie, under this bill we have, because you make less 
than $14,000 a year as an individual, you will qualify for Medicaid. 
For the first time in your life, you will have health insurance under 
an Illinois State Medicaid Program that you won't have to pay for 
because you are in a low-income category.

Well, she said: That's great because I have diabetes.

Think about that: age 60, no health insurance, low income, no doctor 
regularly available to her.

And she said: And I've had a few lumps I would like to get checked 
out too.

I thought: This poor lady. She is a classic illustration of what we 
are talking about in this bill. She is not lazy. She is a hard-working 
person. She gets up every day at the crack of dawn to be there to make 
sure people feel right at home at that motel, and she has no health 
insurance.

Ninety-four percent of the people in this country will have health 
insurance--people like Judie, who, for the first time in her life, will 
have health insurance. Is that worth something? Is it worth something 
in America for us to take pride in the fact that we are expanding the 
peace of mind which some of us take for granted of having health 
insurance coverage?

I think it is worth a lot. I think it is important for us and the 
critics to step up and acknowledge they have never come forward with a 
single proposal to deal with that issue--not one. We have never heard 
from the Republican side of the aisle how they would cover 94 percent 
of the people in America. They have never put together a comprehensive 
health insurance plan. They have never talked about submitting it to 
the Congressional Budget Office to make sure it does as promised, as we 
have.

They come to the floor with criticisms of what we are trying to do. 
It is their right as Senators to do that. But it is also our right to 
ask them the basic question: Does the fact that you do not have a 
Republican health care reform bill mean that you like the current 
system, that you do not want to change it? That is one conclusion.

The other conclusion is: This is hard work. Writing a bill that does 
this takes a lot of time and effort, and they have not put in that hard 
work. So they come emptyhanded to the floor with good speeches and good 
graphs and good press releases, but without good amendments to take 
care of the basic problems.

There is one other element in this health care reform bill too. How 
many times have you met somebody in your family or at work or through a 
friend who told you about a battle they had with a health insurance 
company when somebody got sick in their family? I have run into it a 
lot. A few years back, when I was a Congressman, in Springfield, they 
had a unique program where the Sangamon County State Medical Society 
would invite Members of Congress to accompany doctors on their rounds 
in a hospital.

The first time I was invited to do that, I called back and said: 
You've got to be wrong. You don't want me walking into a patient's room 
where you are talking about their private health situation.

They said: No, no, we ask permission. And it is interesting, people 
are bored in the hospital, and they are amused by politicians. So would 
you please come?

So I accompanied a doctor on his rounds. He was examining a nice lady 
in my hometown of Springfield, IL, who was suffering from vertigo, who 
had come to the hospital, and as a result of an x-ray, they discovered 
she had a tumor--a brain tumor--that needed to be removed. She lived by 
herself. She was falling down at home. He wanted to operate on her on 
Monday. This was a Friday. He wanted to keep her in the hospital 
because he was afraid if she went home she might fall, hurt herself, 
and he wanted her ready for surgery on Monday.

But before he could say to her: Be prepared to stay over the weekend, 
he had to call her health insurance company. I stood next to this 
doctor at the nurses station in St. John's Hospital in Springfield, IL, 
as this doctor was arguing with a clerk at a health insurance company 
somewhere in a distant location about why this woman needed to stay in 
the hospital, and the clerk was saying: No, we are not going to pay for 
it. Send her home. Bring her back on Monday for the surgery.

He said: I'm not going to do that.

The clerk said: Well, we're not paying for it.

He hung up the phone and turned to me and said: She's staying in the 
hospital. We'll fight this out later on.

Fight it out--those battles, those fights take place every day across 
America.

I have told the story on the floor here about a friend of mine--a 
great friend of mine--whom I have known since he was a young man. He is 
a baseball coach at Southern Illinois University. His name is Danny 
Callahan. Danny has been battling cancer for years. Danny is a young 
guy. He has a young family and a good wife, and he is a terrific guy 
from a great family. He has been battling cancer--chemo, radiation, 
even surgery, removing part of his jaw and trying to stop this advance 
of cancer.

His oncologist came up with a drug that is working. It is called 
Avastin. This drug is experimental. It works on some cancers. It is 
certified to work on them. But they found it works on others in an off-
label application. The oncologist wrote to the health insurance company 
and said: This is working. We have stopped the spread of his cancer. We 
want to keep using this drug. And they said: No. It costs $12,000 a 
month, and we won't pay for it.

What is he going to do? You do not make a fortune as a baseball coach 
at Southern Illinois University. His family pitched in, borrowed some 
money to cover a month of treatment. He is going to have a trial in St. 
Louis at Barnes Hospital, connected with Washington University there. 
He is trying his best to keep this going, but he is battling this 
insurance company that said no.

This bill gives people whom I have described a fighting chance. It 
gives them a chance to fight against the discriminatory, wrong 
decisions of health insurance companies. Is that worth anything? Is it 
worth it? I have yet to see an amendment from the other side of the 
aisle that does this.

We used to call this a Patients' Bill of Rights, and it used to be a 
bipartisan issue. Senator John McCain joined with Senator Kennedy and 
the two of them worked on this, saying that patients in America should 
have the right to fight insurance companies that turn them down because 
of preexisting conditions, that turn them down because the cost of care 
is so high, that turn them down because they have lost their job or 
turn them down because their child reaches the age of 24. This bill 
provides protections for those people.


So when people say: I heard Governor Dean--I like him; Howard is a 
friend of mine; former Governor of Vermont; former head of the 
Democratic National Committee--wrote a big article in the Washington 
Post this morning and said: Vote against this bill. It is not 
everything I want it to be.

Well, Governor Dean, it is not everything I want it to be either. But 
how could we in good conscience explain to 30 million Americans who 
would have health insurance for the first time in their life--such as 
Judie down in Marion, IL--''Judie, I am sorry, we won't be able to get 
you health insurance this time around. We couldn't get everything we 
wanted.'' That is not a very compelling argument, from my point of 
view.

How do we say to people who want to have a fighting chance against 
insurance companies that say no--and will have the legal right to do 
that--''I am sorry, you are just going to have to continue to do your 
best fighting these clerks at health insurance companies who say no 
because this bill does not have everything in it that we want.''

You learn in this business of life and politics that concessions and 
compromise are critical parts of achieving a goal. Within the 
Democratic Caucus there are conservative and liberal or progressive 
members, and we have to find that sweet spot, that middle ground, where 
they come together. I think we have, and I am sorry we do not have any 
Republican support for this.

It is a fact, though, we have spent an entire year debating health 
care reform on Capitol Hill, and the sum total of Republican support 
for health care reform by vote comes down to two. One


Republican Congressman from the State of Louisiana voted for the House 
bill, and one Republican Senator, Ms. Snowe of Maine, voted for a 
version of health care reform in the Senate Finance Committee. Not a 
single vote beyond those two in support of health care reform.

In fact, some take great pride in the fact that they are never going 
to vote for health care reform until it comes down exactly as they want 
it. We have invited them into conversation. In fact, my friend, the 
Senator from Iowa, who is on the floor here today, was part of a 
conversation with Senator Baucus and four other Members of the Senate 
that went on, I am told, for weeks, if not months, in an effort to find 
bipartisan, common ground, and they could not. I am sorry they did not. 
It would have been a better day if we had a real bipartisan effort 
before us. But I thank the Senator from Iowa for his genuine heartfelt 
efforts in trying.

But we come here today without a Republican alternative to health 
care reform. We come here today facing the reality that if we fail this 
time, we will not address health care reform, I am afraid, in my 
political lifetime or in the lifetime of many people following this 
debate. It took 16 years since President Clinton last offered an effort 
to try. If we wait another 16 or 20 years, I cannot imagine what is 
going to happen.

We know what is going to happen to health insurance premiums. Ten 
years ago, for a family of four, the average cost of their family 
health insurance premium was $6,000 a year--$500 a month. Pretty steep, 
right? The average cost today, for a family of four, for their family 
health insurance premium: $12,000 a year. It has doubled in a 10-year 
period of time, and it is going up so fast that it will double in the 
next 7 or 8 years to $24,000 a year.

Imagine working and earning $2,000 a month just to pay for your 
health insurance premium. That is it. Imagine how meager that coverage 
is going be because each year you know what happens. The cost goes up 
and coverage goes down. What will it be 10 years from now? If you talk 
to people who are negotiating for contracts, such as labor unions, all 
they talk about is health insurance. They do not talk about wage 
increases. They talk about health insurance. Those are the issues that 
break down the negotiations and end up in work stoppages and strikes, 
it has become that contentious and that difficult.

Are we going to accept that? Is that the best we can do in America? I 
do not think so. Are we going to accept a strategy which says: We are 
going to slow down the business of the Senate to a crawl, or stop it, 
as they tried yesterday, in an effort to defeat even having a vote on 
health care reform?

Don't we owe the people of this country, at the end of this debate, a 
vote on health care reform? Shouldn't it be in a timely fashion?

Shouldn't we first pass this bill that funds our troops that is 
sitting on the floor here that passed the House 395 to 34? Why would we 
delay that funding of our troops in the midst of a war? Why don't we do 
that today before we break for lunch and say to our troops: ''We took 
care of you.''

I might add, in here there is a provision that extends unemployment 
benefits. Is there any doubt on the other side of the aisle that they 
will vote to extend unemployment benefits in the midst of a recession? 
The last vote we had was 97 to 0 on the floor of the Senate to extend 
unemployment benefits, and that was a few weeks back. I assume 
Republican Senators feel as Democratic Senators do, that in the midst 
of a recession, in the midst of the holiday season, we owe it to these 
families to try to help them out.

How could we in good conscience go home and celebrate Christmas or 
Hanukkah or whatever our holiday might be and say we want to be in the 
comfort and love of our families, to sit and have a glorious Christmas 
morning before the tree, and enjoy the blessings of this great Nation 
and the blessings of life, and then turn down the unemployed when it 
comes to their benefits? We could not do that in good conscience.

Why don't we do that today? Why do we wait until tomorrow? Why don't 
we say: Regardless of what your strategy is on health care reform, 
let's not shortchange the troops. Let's not leave them with any 
uncertainty. Let's not leave those unemployed with uncertainty as to 
whether they are going to get benefits they come to expect and deserve. 
I hope we can.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
a recent article published in the New York Times relating to the trauma 
of joblessness in the United States.