# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3a463ff28d84589e23b0ac79b3268d4e`
`Mr. DREIER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, on the eve of the Civil War, that great 
philosopher John Stuart Mill wrote: ''War is an ugly thing but it is 
not the ugliest of things. The decayed and degraded state of moral and 
patriotic feeling which think nothing worth a war is worse.''

No one likes this war that we are in. As I said earlier, the 
President stood here just weeks ago, and in his State of the Union 
message he said, I wish very much that this war were over and that we 
had won. That is the goal. The goal is victory.

We need to make sure that our men and women in uniform, many of whom 
are paying the ultimate price every single day, as we look at the 
tragic loss of life, we need to make sure that they have everything 
necessary so that we can, as my constituent Ed Blecksmith, a father of 
a man who was killed 2 years ago last November in the battle of 
Fallujah, said, so that we can complete our mission.

Mr. Speaker, I believe very fervently that you cannot support our 
troops without supporting their mission. This resolution that is before 
us unfortunately undermines the ability of our troops to complete their 
mission.

We have had some very thoughtful proposals that have come forward. We 
just had Mr. Wolf stand here and talk about the opportunity that was 
denied him to have a vote on the very important bipartisan work of that 
Iraq Study Group. Much of what the Iraq Study Group has done has been 
already implemented by this administration, but there is more that 
needs to be done. Mr. Wolf was tragically denied an opportunity to even 
have a vote on whether or not we should support that bipartisan effort 
of the Iraq Study Group.

We also had testimony last night, Mr. Speaker, from a man who just 
yesterday marked the 34th anniversary from being freed after 7 years as 
a prisoner of war in Vietnam, our colleague from Dallas, Texas, Mr. 
Johnson. He was denied a chance to have a substitute that would simply 
say that we are not going to cut off funding for our troops.

Now, there are many who have argued, Mr. Speaker, that this 
resolution that we are going to consider in the next few days is simply 
a first step. It is a first step towards ultimately cutting off 
funding, and, Mr. Speaker, I think that would be wrong, and that is why 
I am urging defeat of the previous question. When we do that, we will 
be making in order, when we defeat the previous question, an 
opportunity for us to say that we will not cut off funding for our men 
and women in uniform.

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge a vote against the previous question; and if 
by chance we fail on that, I urge a ''no'' vote on this rule, and I 
urge a ''no'' vote on the underlying resolution which does, in fact, 
undermine the goal of completing our mission and bringing our men and 
women home.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

