# None
## `3a4d61827a5d907dc03c8f3dc6f33cab`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak in favor of S. 1390. 
But before I do, let me thank Senator Leahy for his leadership in 
introducing this anti-hate crime amendment. I am honored to be one of 
its cosponsors. I hope the Senate works its will and, in the interests 
of justice, adopts the amendment in due course.

As I said, I rise to support S. 1390, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010, the matter before the Senate 
today and this week. I wish to begin by commending Chairman Levin, the 
chairman of our Senate Armed Services Committee, and Senator McCain, 
the ranking Republican member, for their leadership and for the 
bipartisan example they have set in drafting and reporting out this 
bill.

This bill will keep our Nation safe and provide our troops with the 
support they deserve, and that is exactly what it ought to do. The bill 
will establish new programs to support the fiscal and mental well-being 
of our troops and their families. It will provide our fighting men and 
women a 3.4-percent increase in compensation. The fact is, nothing is 
more important than taking care of this extraordinary, gifted, brave 
generation of men and women who have volunteered to defend our country 
at a time of war.

I am also very pleased this bill will authorize the Secretary of 
Defense to grow the size of the Army in 2011 and 2012, a period when 
our soldiers will still be under stress, real stress, as the Army 
shifts its focus from operations in Iraq and Afghanistan but the 
overall level of deployment will probably rise. There is so much we can 
do to reduce the stress on those who serve us in the military and on 
their families. One critical thing we can do is to simply increase the 
number of men and women in uniform, particularly in the Army, because 
the more supply there is of troops, no matter what the demand, the 
amount of time every soldier can look forward to being back at base, 
back with families, not deployed in a battle zone, will decrease the 
stress they are under.

The additional troops--''end strength,'' as it is called in the 
vocabulary of this legislation--that are provided for in 2011 and 2012 
will ease the strain on our soldiers who have already been asked to do 
so much on our behalf. I intend to work with my colleagues in the 
Senate this week to amend this bill to extend the application of the 
method to increase end strength from 547,000 to 577,000 so it can begin 
in the next fiscal year, the year 2010, because that is probably when 
it will be most needed, as we are reducing our presence in Iraq but in 
a slightly more accelerated way increasing our presence in Afghanistan.

Let me focus, if I may, on the parts of this legislation that have 
come out of our Airland Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, a subcommittee which I have the honor of chairing.

I wish to start by thanking Senator John Thune for his service as 
ranking member of the subcommittee. It is a pleasure to work with 
Senator Thune on behalf of our Army and Air Force and all involved in 
air and land programs. We work closely together in a completely 
bipartisan manner to carry out our responsibilities concerning the 
matters in the jurisdiction of our subcommittee.

The Airland Subcommittee has broad responsibility for policy 
oversight over substantial parts of the Army and Air Force budgets but 
also, to a lesser extent, to a real extent, the Navy and the Marine 
Corps. So the subcommittee's portion of this year's National Defense 
Authorization Act is a large one. Our goal was direct: to promote and 
improve the current and, as best we can, the future readiness of our 
ground and air forces, while at the same time ensuring the most 
efficient and effective use of taxpayer dollars.

This year, the portion of the budget request falling under the 
Airland Subcommittee's jurisdiction included a total of $71.1 billion. 
That is made up of $55.4 billion in procurement and $15.7 billion in 
all-important research and development. As it stands right now, the 
full committee's recommendation is a net addition to the President's 
budget request of $2.9 billion to support activities under the Airland 
Subcommittee's jurisdiction.

In the past, the Armed Services Committee and the Senate have 
supported stability and funding levels as requested for Army readiness 
and modernization programs. This has been particularly true for the 
Army's Future Combat Systems, which has been the major modernization 
program of the Army.

However, the Army was forced to make some tough decisions in these 
tough budget times and decided in April to restructure the Future 
Combat Systems Program, including termination of the manned ground 
vehicle portion of that program. The Department has reoriented the Army 
modernization plans that have been in place for the last 6 years. That 
is the necessity the Army felt both for budgetary reasons and I believe 
for reasons of effectiveness. So the bill before us today supports the 
Department's decision, the Army's decision, with respect to the 
restructuring of the Future Combat Systems Program and recommends full 
funding for the ''spin out'' portions, the network portions of that 
program that will be carried forward.

This is a remarkable application of modern technology to the 
battlefield. The history of warfare shows, generally speaking, that any 
developments, any technological advances that have occurred over 
history, from the first fires that were made, to the wheel, and on to 
the railroad, et cetera, have found their way--obviously the ability to 
fly--into military use. And so it is with the remarkable capability to 
communicate with one another, to use telecommunications, and the 
computer particularly, that has found its way into applications in 
combat which greatly expand the capabilities of our solders, each and 
every one of them, to see the battlefield beyond what they can see with 
their eyes and to conduct the most effective warfare on our behalf.

The bill also requires and recommends full funding for a new ground


combat vehicle research and development program, as the Secretary of 
Defense agreed the Army needs.

In addition, this bill will direct the Department to establish a 
development program for a next-generation, self-propelled howitzer to 
take advantage of technologies already matured as part of the Future 
Combat System non-line of sight cannon program.

In other words, what we are trying to do, in the aftermath of 
Secretary Gates' decision to terminate the series of programs under the 
Future Combat Systems Program, is to harvest technological advances 
that were made as part of those now terminated programs.

To support our forces in Afghanistan, this bill also recommends a 
large sum for an important purpose, $6.7 billion for the Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected vehicle fund, which is an increase of $1.2 billion 
above the President's budget request for what is normally known as the 
MRAP--in this case, the MRAP all-terrain vehicles, a later version of 
the MRAPs, a more agile version of the MRAPs that have done so much to 
protect the lives and well-being of our soldiers in Iraq from the 
impact of IEDs and of bombs our enemies have set off. These MRAP ATVs 
will now be of tremendous assistance to the growing number of troops we 
are sending to Afghanistan. This is a version of the MRAP made 
particularly for our troops now fighting for us in Afghanistan.

In addition, in response to the Army Chief of Staff's unfunded 
priorities list, the bill also recommends adding $179 million to 
procure additional Force XXI Battlefield Command Brigade and Below 
systems to enhance the operational effectiveness of small units 
fighting on our behalf in Afghanistan and Iraq.

When it comes to air power, the bill also recommends an additional 
$560 million to buy FA-18E/F aircraft in fiscal year 2010 as originally 
planned in the program of record, rather than the nine aircraft 
requested by the President's budget. Our subcommittee believes these 
added aircraft are a sensible investment to make against a looming 
dangerous shortfall in our Nation's tactical aviation aircraft 
inventory. In other words, the new generation of tactical airfighters 
coming on will not be there early enough to help the Navy overcome the 
running out of the lifespan of the series of tactical aircraft they 
have now. That will put them way below what the Navy believes it needs 
in the years ahead.

The subcommittee has also recommended an additional $1.75 billion to 
buy seven F-22A Raptor aircraft rather than terminating the production 
program as requested by the Department. This was a judgment made by the 
full committee when it received our subcommittee report. Although this 
was a hard decision, the continued production of the Raptor will 
guarantee that we have balanced combat air forces in the future and 
support the transition between F-22A and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter 
programs.

The bill also includes an additional $20.4 million to support 12 
additional Blackhawk A-to-L model conversions to accelerate 
modernization of the Army's Active and Reserve component fleets.

In the area of efficiencies, the bill recommends making adjustments 
or reductions as follows: a decrease of $209.5 million for the C-130 
Avionics Modernization Program because of the delays in beginning the 
production program and a decrease of $90 million for the CSAR-X, the 
search and rescue helicopter program, because of the availability of 
prior year funds to cover fiscal year 2010 requirements.

There is one provision of this bill about which I myself have grave 
reservations. The full committee overturned the recommendation of our 
subcommittee that concerns the development of the alternate engine for 
the Joint Strike Fighter, a second engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. 
President Obama, as President Bush before him, concluded, after the 
competition was held, the one engine met the needs of our military for 
the Joint Strike Fighter Program without the additional cost required 
for a second engine development program.

The full committee overturned the judgment of the subcommittee and 
provided $439 million in the coming fiscal year for the second engine. 
The President, incidentally, has singled out that engine as an example 
of one that he says ''do[es] nothing to keep us safe'' and has said if 
the second engine is included in the bill, he will consider vetoing the 
bill. I intend to work with my colleagues this week to hopefully remove 
the funding for the alternative engine and restore it to where it was 
intended, which was to fund the development of the Joint Strike Fighter 
and to pay for 10 UH-1Y helicopters, familiarly known as Hueys, that 
were cut to pay for this program that otherwise would go to the 
Marines. Both the Commandant of the Marine Corps and the Vice Chairman 
of Joint Chiefs of Staff have described this as critical for our 
Marines fighting in Afghanistan. They need those 10 Hueys.

Despite that one reservation, the legislation and funding in the bill 
would end the Airland Subcommittee's jurisdiction. Indeed, the bill in 
general strongly supports our Armed Forces in a time of war and 
supports the flexibility the Department, under Secretary Gates, has 
requested as it charts a path to military modernization. I praised 
Chairman Levin in his absence. I don't want to miss the opportunity to 
praise him in his presence, along with Senator McCain, for the 
leadership both have brought to this committee and the extraordinary 
example of bipartisanship in the interest of national security that 
they together have demonstrated through their work on the committee.

There will be a lot of amendments and some will be controversial. But 
when it is all over and we come to adoption of the legislation, I hope, 
with confidence, that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will 
give the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010 the 
resounding bipartisan support it and our military deserve.

I yield the floor.