---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3a5db7a07e8c30395107f3d738beaec2`
`Mr. LAMPSON — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. LAMPSON. Mr. Speaker, today is, indeed, a day for thoughtfulness 
and courage in this House. As we debate the future of our involvement 
in Iraq, we must not forget that our troops are engaged in armed 
conflict a half a world away. It is their future and their sacrifice 
which necessitated this debate today.

Now is the time when this hallowed institution must dig deeply within 
its own conscience and rise above the politics and the platitudes which 
have plagued us for far too long. The American people and our troops 
demand and expect no less of us. Yet no simple solutions face us.

Let's look first at the decisions we have made.

We were advised that the conflict in Iraq would require more troops, 
a longer engagement, and an exit strategy. We did not heed that advice, 
and now we face an escalating insurgency and civil war.

We were told the cost was $50 billion. We were wrong. It cost more 
than $380 billion and climbing fast, and we have not been good stewards 
of the taxpayer money, as there has been much corruption and waste in 
our spending.

We were told of eminent success in Afghanistan, and we pulled out our 
troops in order to provide an earlier surge in Iraq. We were wrong, and 
we have seen a rise in violence in both countries.

We must break this pattern. We can ill afford any further 
misjudgments, because it is our obligation in this deliberative body to 
consider every option available.



We stand here today to engage in the first substantive discussion of 
the policies we need to implement in order to succeed in Iraq and bring 
our troops home. It is abundantly clear that Iraq has been and remains 
deeply embedded in the conscience of the American people. As this world 
watches, we must demonstrate from the well of this House that democracy 
flourishes only when honest and open debate occurs.

In this difficult decision, I believe this body has two primary 
obligations to the American people: one, to fully support our troops 
with resources they need in order to accomplish the missions they are 
assigned; and, two, to ensure full accountability for the vital 
resources that we have sent to Iraq. This House has neglected both of 
these obligations for too long, and it is time for us to exercise our 
responsibilities on behalf of our troops, the American people, and the 
world.

I stand here today in opposition to the proposed troop surge. We all 
agree that cutting off funding for our troops currently serving in Iraq 
is an untenable option that will send the wrong message to our partners 
and our enemies alike.



I will never vote to leave our troops stranded. But the question 
facing us now is, how can we vote to put upwards of 20,000 additional 
troops in harm's way without adequate resources and without a clear and 
detailed plan?

Because I stand in support of our troops, I cannot support this 
proposed surge. It is clear that the burden of our Nation's current 
struggle continues to rest with the brave men and women in our armed 
services.

It is no longer fair to our troops to rubber-stamp this war. I want 
them to know that we were deliberative in our decision. I fear this 
surge will not by itself be sufficient today. It is time for Members of 
both parties to listen to the experts for whose opinion we have asked, 
yet have ignored: our military leaders past and present, the bipartisan 
members of the Iraq Study Group, and soldiers returning from Iraq.

It is time for a strategic change in course in Iraq, one including 
diplomacy and education and an honest reconstruction effort. These 
actions partnered with the actions of the military will show our 
dedication to improving the lives of all Iraqis in making their nation 
one of peace, freedom, and democracy.

I am not here today to criticize the President or to engage in 
partisan grandstanding. This war is not a partisan issue. I have no 
doubt that one day the actions of our Nation will help bring peace and 
democracy to the Middle East. However, the strategy we are here to 
debate today remains flawed. Too many questions remain unanswered. 
While my loyalty to and my confidence in our troops remains steadfast, 
this Congress and this Nation must today seek a new direction.