---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `3a62c45d8638950786177c580156ccbf`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, on October 11, we marked the fifth 
anniversary of Congress's capitulation to the resolution authorizing 
the war in Iraq. I believe we should take this opportunity to tally up 
what this war has cost our Nation.

We are all very aware of the human cost. More Americans have died in 
Iraq than died on September 11. These are our friends and neighbors, 
fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, gone forever. Twenty-eight 
thousand men and women have come back home wounded, some with their 
legs or arms blown off by bombs, some blind from shrapnel in their 
eyes, some thrown into a state of mental shock from which they will 
never fully recover.

As for the Iraqi men, women, and children who have died in this 
conflict, we cannot even say. Some estimates say the body count is more 
than 100,000. As for the people who have been forced to abandon their 
homes, they are about to number 4/1/2/ million, a disproportionate 
number of them being children.

We all know that the Iraq war is a human calamity of vast 
proportions. It can be harder to visualize the direct damage that comes 
from the financial cost of the war, to see it as the cancer that it is, 
making our debt metastasize, threatening our budget, eating away at the 
financial stability of our entire Nation.

We are paying for this war with borrowed money, racking up massive 
debt, severely threatening the future of our country. We know our 
country has spent more than $450 billion on this war so far. We 
continue to spend about $10 billion every month. That does not just add 
up to a stack of bills that could have sat in the Treasury; it is 
equipment at ports that can scan for nuclear weapons and other measures 
that actually make the homeland more secure. It is children healed with 
better health care. It is more teachers in our schools, better training 
for our jobs, energy that is clean and does not strengthen repressive 
regimes in the Middle East, payment of our debts so future generations 
will inherit a country that is financially viable. Those are casualties 
we cannot fail to count.

When our money gets burned in Iraq, we deserve to know what we are 
trading away. What we are trading away cannot be summed up in one 
speech, however, so I will be coming back to the subject as many times 
as necessary to give each sacrifice fair attention.

When we add it all up, the bottom line is very clear: If we had never 
gone into Iraq, our lives would be better. The sooner we get out of 
Iraq, the better our lives will be. I will repeat this until our troops 
have come home. If we had never gone into Iraq, our lives would be 
better, and the sooner we transition out of Iraq, the better our lives 
will be.

Today, I wish to speak about what the failed war in Iraq has cost us 
in terms of our security here at home. The Bush administration likes to 
parrot the line that:




 We are fighting them over there, so we do not have to fight 


 them here.


Nevermind that the war has created more terrorists than there were 
before. Beyond that, it has directed funding away from programs that 
actually would prevent terrorists from attacking the homeland. The 
administration's budget for the failed war in Iraq is 13 times this 
year's budget for Homeland Security--13 times this year's budget for 
Homeland Security. Do we really think the Iraq war is 13 times more 
important to America than the Department of Homeland Security's 
mission? When it comes to our money, the administration's motto really 
is:


We are spending it over there, so we do not have to spend it here.

Every time we ride the subway or the bus, we put ourselves at risk 
because our public transportation systems are unnecessarily vulnerable 
to terrorist attacks. The American Public Transportation Association 
estimates that it will cost $6 billion to make them substantially more 
secure. That includes funding for personnel, training, communications 
systems, cameras, detection systems. Well, we spend that much--that is, 
$6 billion that the Public Transportation Association says would make 
us safer--we spend that much in Iraq every 18 days. Every 18 days. That 
is what the war costs. Security on public transportation versus 18 days 
in Iraq--what is our choice?

Money being spent in Iraq could have substantially improved security 
in our Nation's ports, where 95 percent of the cargo slips into the 
country without any inspection whatsoever. For the cost of 3 days of 
operations in Iraq, we could fund a year's worth, a year's worth of 
strong port security initiatives throughout our country--purchasing 
radiation detectors, giving individual grants tailored to the specific 
needs of each port, and drastically increasing the number of containers 
screened.

Here is an example. There is something called a container security 
device. It attaches to the hinges of a container and lets inspectors at 
ports know if the container has been tampered with from the port it 
came from. They cost about $25 each. You could provide a device for 
every one of the 11 million-plus containers that enter our ports every 
year for the same money it costs us to be in Iraq for 1 single day. We 
could take 11 million containers that enter our ports every year and 
for 1 single day in Iraq make our country more secure. That is what the 
war costs--electronic security for every container entering the United 
States versus 1 day in Iraq.

As we have considered the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations 
bill that we passed yesterday, it is as good a time as any to discuss 
how funding for the Iraq war impacts local police departments here at 
home. With the billions of dollars going toward a failed effort to 
secure the streets of Baghdad, we could boost our efforts to fight 
terror and violence of gangs on the streets of the neighborhoods we 
call home.

The FBI tells us that crime rates are going up in the United States. 
This is no coincidence considering the Bush administration has 
repeatedly cut funding for hiring new police, law enforcement 
technology, and successful prevention programs.

Luckily, this Senate under Democratic leadership has changed that 
course. We are taking action to reverse that situation. I was proud to 
cosponsor Senator Biden's amendment to boost funding for the COPS 
Program, one of the most successful Federal crime prevention programs 
in history. Eight hours of Iraq funding pays for that amendment to put 
community police officers on the streets of our Nation. That is the war 
cost--more police on the streets versus 8 hours of spending in Iraq. 
When it comes to our money, the message the administration is sending 
is clear. We are spending it over there so we don't spend it here. But 
in terms of security, if we had never gone into Iraq, our lives would 
be better. The sooner we transition out of Iraq, the better our lives 
will be.

Costs of the war for the United States are going only to escalate as 
Great Britain withdraws its troops. So the financial question we have 
to answer as a nation is as urgent as any we have ever faced. We have 
to decide what we value as a Nation: the war or keeping our country 
safe. These are the questions we are going to continue to ask to put a 
real sense of what it is costing us here at home in real terms. Today 
was about security. We will come back to the Senate floor and talk 
about education and health care and economic expansion and reducing 
debt, because we have to offer a real sense to the American people of 
what this war is costing us here at home.

I yield the floor.