---
---

# None
## `3a697ccdd9d7c5c589001fb8af6980a0`
`Mr. HOYER — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding.

I want to thank the chairman, who is one of the giants on behalf of 
national security, military defense, quality of life for our troops, 
who for decades has been one of the outstanding spokespersons for 
making sure that we had the defense we needed and that our troops had 
the equipment, the resources, the quality of life that we would expect 
to have our young people have. So I congratulate him. I thank Mr. 
McKeon, as well, for his cooperative spirit in bringing this bill to 
the floor.

Democrats in Congress have worked closely with President Obama to 
fight our enemies, promote our interests, and support our troops and 
their families, compiling a record of securing our Nation in stronger 
and smarter ways. We have strengthened America's military by putting 
new and better weapons into the battlefield, like more aerial drones. 
We have killed or captured much of the top leadership of al Qaeda and 
the Taliban. And for the first time, there is a clear plan for a way 
forward in Afghanistan, which, frankly, was neglected for years under 
the previous administration.

Democrats, often in the face of Republican opposition, have increased 
funding for human intelligence collection, cybersecurity, and security 
for our skies, our ports, and our borders. All of this was necessary 
and appropriate. We are looking out for our troops, our veterans, and 
our families.

Again, I say there is no Member of this body, and almost every 
Member, indeed, of this body on both sides of the aisle has worked 
together to maintain the quality of life for our troops and give them 
the resources they need; none more so than Chairman Skelton, however.

Democrats are making sure that our troops get the body armor and 
mine-resistant vehicles they need when they are in the field, and the 
health care and opportunity for college education they deserve when 
they return home. That's good for them and it's good for our country.

Today's defense authorization bill builds on that record, authorizing 
crucial national security programs for fiscal year 2011. It promotes 
efforts to disrupt and destroy terrorist networks and strengthens the 
ability of our special forces to act directly against terrorist 
organizations. It increases our international cooperation against 
terrorists, especially against the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

At the same time, it also insists on accountability, requiring 
semiannual reports from the administration on the status of the Taliban 
and the capacity of the Afghan Government and security forces. That 
accountability is important and necessary.

Because the threats we face have changed in a post-Cold War world, 
this bill also supports ballistic missile defense and nuclear 
counterproliferation, including the President's effort to secure all of 
the world's known vulnerable nuclear material in the next 4 years. The 
conference the President convened here in Washington was an 
extraordinary step forward in that effort.

Further, this bill invests in the well-being of our troops and the 
strength of our Armed Forces. It keeps TRICARE strong and ensures that 
the military families can keep their children on TRICARE policies up to 
the age of 26, just as all Americans can do under the health reform law 
that we passed.

It also reduces strain on our forces by providing for 7,000 more 
personnel for the Army and 500 for the Air Force, while helping all of 
the services rebuild the equipment and weapons systems that have been 
severely worn down by two wars. Now, maybe because there is an 
agreement on that we haven't talked about it very much.

Finally, the bill strengthens our military by providing for a process 
to repeal a discriminatory provision. Now, I want my friends to listen 
to this, and they are not going to be happy with me. I am 70 years of 
age. I was in college in the late fifties and early sixties. Now, Bill 
Clinton was in college in the late sixties. His generation of Americans 
were motivated by the Vietnam


war one way or the other. Now, frankly, I was a member of the State 
senate and supported that effort in the State senate.

But in the late fifties and early sixties, the motivating force for 
young people in this country was civil rights. It was about living out 
the promise of American equality. It was about a commitment of this 
country, which was the bedrock of this country, that all men were 
created equal and endowed not by us, but by their Creator with certain 
unalienable rights. And I will tell my friends, I have some rhetoric 
here that was used in 1940, 1941, 1942, 1943, 1944, 1945, 1946, when 
there were some Americans you didn't have to ask, they didn't have to 
tell, because you knew they were African Americans. There was no hiding 
that. And we segregated them.

And I heard Strom Thurmond stand on the floor of the Senate, he was a 
Democrat, speaking about discriminating against people because of the 
color of their skin. Separate but equal. I have heard the same 
rhetoric. Let me read some of it.

''The Army is the wrong place for social experiments. Keep African 
Americans in their place.''

I was angered in the 1950s and 1960s when I saw that kind of rhetoric 
because I thought that was not the America that I was so proud of. Hear 
that language that was used back in 1948 and read the transcripts 
today.

In 1990, I was the sponsor of the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
There was an amendment offered that said people with AIDS could not be 
waiters and waitresses. Why? Because people wouldn't come into 
restaurants if they knew that somebody with AIDS was serving them. Of 
course all the scientists, all the medical personnel said there was no 
way to transmit AIDS by handling plates or food. And I pulled out some 
rhetoric, interesting enough, from 1965, when the public accommodations 
law was considered on this floor. And guess what they said? They said, 
If we have African American waiters and waitresses, people won't come 
into our restaurant. That's why we don't have African American waiters 
and African American restaurants.

That was not the America for which I stand.

Strom Thurmond, however, said, and other Democrats--now, he didn't 
stay a Democrat, as all of you know, throughout his career--said no, we 
will keep people separate. And because you are driving down Route 1 
from New York to Florida, and you stop and your little girl asked when 
the Howard Johnson's comes by, ''Can I have an ice cream cone?'' And 
you say to your little child, ''I am sorry, you can't go in there. You 
are the wrong color. Can't stay at that hotel.''

Now, in their era they thought they were being good Americans, I 
presume, and there were filibusters after filibusters to stop treating 
people as people with their God-given, unalienable rights.

Ladies and gentlemen, look to your hearts and your conscience. Look 
at the debates of 1948.

Is there one of us, is there one of us that would say General Powell, 
as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, undermined the morale and the 
effectiveness of the United States Army? Is there one of us? I will 
yield to anybody who wants to say that he undermined the morale of our 
services. No one? No one? This is not a social experiment any more than 
that was a social experiment.



Anymore than 1990 when we wanted to deal with those with 
disabilities. It was a social experiment. It was the bedrock of what 
America is.

Now, I think it's unfortunate that we've spent so much time on this 
issue. Almost every speaker. In the beginning of my talk, I talked 
about the substance of this bill: fighting terrorists, keeping America 
safe, making sure that we have the strongest Armed Forces in the world 
bar none, that technically they are able to confront any enemy, 
anywhere, any time because we owe that to the American public to keep 
them safe. That is what we're committed to, a strong defense.

Barry Goldwater said when this issue came up, I care whether they can 
shoot straight, not whether they are straight. Why? Because he wanted 
to look at the content of their character, the content of their 
ability, the content of their commitment to this country and to their 
service. They were patriots. And he thought if they're patriots and 
they shoot straight--now let me tell you, something, friends. I don't 
want anybody bothering me. I don't care who they are. You hear me? And 
I don't want any male member of the Armed Forces bothering any female 
member of the Armed Forces, and I don't want anybody else bothering 
anybody else. Why? Because that's against the law, and it's against 
morality.

But I tell you, my friends, this bill is about our national security. 
This bill is about people who perform their service to our country. 
This bill is about making sure that America is safe. This bill is about 
making sure that we defeat terrorism and keep America safe. Let's focus 
on that. Let's not be distracted. Let's focus on protecting America, 
defeating terrorists, and taking care of our troops.