# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007-- MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3a797ef8a6cfa05aeb7f58b2a983083d`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today to praise the progress this 
body is making toward reducing our dependence on foreign oil. In 5 
short months, we have assembled and advanced a package of energy 
proposals that will strengthen the foundation of a new, clean energy 
economy for our Nation.

Senator Bingaman and Senator Domenici have led us to where we are 
today, as have the chairman and ranking member of the Finance 
Committee, the Environment and Public Works Committee, and the Commerce 
Committee. The bill before us today, H.R. 6, is a product of many minds 
and many good ideas.

The extraordinary progress the Senate has made in the last 5 months 
responds to a seismic shift in how Americans are thinking about energy 
and about our world. At no time in our history--at no time in our 
history--has energy been so clearly a matter of national security, of 
economic security, and of environmental security. The issue before us 
is fundamentally about the security of the United States of America.

Think back to 2000. At that time, it seemed that the threat of 
Islamic radicalism was confined to foreign soil. Few understood the 
urgency of combating climate change at that time. Gas prices at that 
time were $1.20 per gallon. That price cloaked the real costs and the 
real danger of our dependence and our addiction to foreign oil.

Today, this is all different, and fortunately, today, the people of 
America and this Senate are recognizing it is all different. In every 
corner of American society, the conventional wisdom about our energy 
policy has changed. The fact is, our dependence on foreign oil affects 
the lives of Americans each and every day. It touches our security, our 
pocketbooks, and our conscience.

Most strikingly, oil has become a major factor in global security. 
Our dependence--our dependence--our overdependence makes us vulnerable 
and weakens our standing in the world. Since 2001, China and Russia 
have partnered to lock up oil in central Asia, rolling us out of that 
region. Venezuela has wielded its resources to buy off its neighbors 
and to divide our hemisphere. Iran has used its oil resources to court 
Russia and China, convincing them to oppose our diplomatic efforts to 
stop Iran from building nuclear weapons.

Countries that wish us harm know about our addiction. They know any 
disruption in supply sends gas prices through the roof and slows our 
economy. They are happy--they are happy--our enemies are happy to 
profit from our addiction. Oil money lines the pockets of terrorists, 
extremists, and unfriendly governments. It funds the Hezbollah rockets 
and militias in Lebanon today. It reaches bin Laden, it reaches al-
Qaida, and it finances the militants in Nigeria who kidnap and 
terrorize westerners.

The sad truth is that today we are funding both sides of the war on 
terror. We spent over $100 billion last year to fight the extremists in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, extremists who are funded indirectly through the 
oil revenues we finance out of this country and around the world. This 
situation is absolutely crazy.

To make matters worse, our oil dependence is causing economic pain 
for Americans. With gasoline over $3 a gallon and holding, $50 and $80 
visits to the gas stations for family members to fill their cars are 
straining family budgets and frustrating small business owners. Across 
my State, the farmers and ranchers whom I fight for every day here are 
budgeting for the harvest, and they are having to budget for numbers 
that are astronomical that they never saw before. The question they ask 
themselves as they go to bed every night is whether they are going to 
be able to make enough money to pay off their operating line at the end 
of the harvest season.

Americans want affordable alternatives at the filling station.

So far they have few. We must move forward in providing those 
alternatives.

The third reason we are on the floor today with this legislation is 
our bill will help jumpstart a new energy economy. That new energy 
economy is


based on the environmental security threats we see from global warming. 
Climate change now stands as one of the greatest moral challenges of 
our time. It is an issue we are obligated to confront.

The desperation and disaster brought by Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane 
Rita, and a series of prolonged droughts, floods, and fire storms over 
the past several years have driven climate change to the center of 
American consciousness. We cannot afford to leave our children a legacy 
of an environmental disaster. We need to begin to work on that problem 
now, and this legislation begins to do that with respect to carbon 
sequestration.

This is not the beginning of our efforts here. In 2005, this Chamber, 
with most of the Members who are still here today, worked in a 
bipartisan fashion to pass the 2005 Energy Policy Act. The bill before 
us today is a significant step forward toward tackling the national 
security, economic security, and environmental security implications of 
our oil addiction. The 2005 Energy Policy Act was a first step in 
moving us in that direction.

We approached the 2005 Energy Policy Act much as we have this 
proposal today. It was a work Senators Domenici and Bingaman did--
Senator Domenici was chairman and Senator Bingaman as ranking member, 
and now their roles are reversed. They said we have an energy problem 
and we can craft a better energy policy, and that received nearly 80 
votes in the Senate. It is that same bipartisan approach that they have 
taken to this legislation. Other committees also contributed to the 
legislation before us today and have also taken that kind of approach. 
That is why, at the end of the day, we will succeed in moving forward 
with energy legislation in the Senate.

The bill in the 109th Congress, the 2005 Energy Policy Act, was 
perhaps the most important energy legislation passed in 20 or 30 years 
in this country. During that time, I traveled to all 64 counties in 
Colorado and spoke to the people of my State about that bill. By and 
large, they appreciated the balanced approach we took to the 2005 act. 
The bill kick started a renewable energy economy, made big investments 
in technologies, took a cut at consumption with smart efficiency 
measures, and it made sensible additions to our domestic oil and gas 
supply.

There remains much to be done, and that is why we are here today. We 
should not forget our bipartisan work of 2 years ago, which planted the 
seeds for our new energy economy; and today, in the week ahead, and in 
the following week, we will have an opportunity to build on the success 
of 2 years ago.

The new energy economy is in fact taking root. I don't think you will 
find a better example of how quickly Americans can change their 
approach to energy than in my State of Colorado. We have sparked a 
renewable energy revolution in Colorado in just 2 years, and the 
benefits have already touched every corner of my State. Our farmers and 
ranchers are leading the charge. In Weld County, Logan County, and Yuma 
County, which are remote and far away from Denver, we are seeing 
biofuel plants spring to life, creating new markets and new 
opportunities for our rural communities. So the ''forgotten America,'' 
in fact, is having new opportunities created for them because of the 
fact that we are embracing the clean energy revolution. Today, we have 
three ethanol plants that are already in production, where there were 
none 2 years ago. We have several others that are under construction 
and are being planned.

But it is not just biofuels. In the San Luis Valley, where my family 
has lived, ranched, and farmed for five generations, Xcel Energy just 
broke ground on the largest solar plant in North America. More and more 
wind turbines are turning on the plains of southeastern Colorado, 
powering front range homes, while providing incomes for the ranchers 
who own the land. Indeed, the current program with respect to the 
construction of wind energy farms in Colorado will mean that very soon 
we will be producing the same amount of electricity that is produced 
from three coal-fired powerplants in Colorado. That is enormous 
progress in a very short time.

How did we spark that renewable energy revolution in Colorado? The 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 helped, but it is not the only force of 
change. The National Renewable Energy Lab in Golden is the crown jewel 
of our labs, and it is a hub for innovation for our clean energy 
future. The President of the United States has visited NREL. Many 
colleagues in this Chamber have visited NREL. We do all we can here to 
support the work that the researchers are doing there today. We have 
created the Colorado Renewable Energy Collaboratory, which binds the 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden with the Colorado School 
of Mines, Colorado State University, and the University of Colorado. 
The collaboratory is an engine for ideas, technologies, and talent, and 
making sure those technologies are being deployed out into the private 
sector.

I have held a renewable energy summit in Colorado in each of the last 
2 years. We have tried to connect the business community and those 
people with the ideas to make sure that deployment occurs. These 
summits have been a huge success and were attended by the business 
community, environmental interests, farmers, and ranchers. This last 
year, we had over a thousand people who attended that summit, which was 
sponsored by the Governor of Colorado, Governor Ritter, as well as 
mayors and other leaders throughout the State.

In Colorado last year, 2007, we actually moved forward in enhancing 
our renewable energy standard, our renewable portfolio standard for our 
State. The renewable energy revolution underway in Colorado makes me 
all the more excited about the bill we are considering today. Its 
provisions are sensible and, by and large, they are bipartisan and 
should be noncontroversial.


The bill includes 3 key components. First, it dramatically increases 
production and the use of biofuels. The bill will quintuple the 
existing renewable fuels standard to 36 billion gallons by 2022, 21 
billion of which must be advanced biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol. 
That is more than enough to offset imports from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and 
Libya combined. I will say that again. The 21 billion gallons of 
advanced biofuels, combined with what we produce from corn ethanol, 
will get us to 36 billion gallons. That amount of production from 
alternative biofuels is enough to offset our imports from Saudi Arabia, 
Iraq, and Libya combined. I make that point to underscore the 
importance of the biofuels and alternative fuels title in this 
legislation.

Second, H.R. 6 also helps us reduce our dependence by making better 
use of what we have. The transportation sector accounts for a full two-
thirds of our oil consumption. It offers the cheapest and best 
opportunities for saving fuel. The bill helps automakers retool their 
vehicles by providing items such as loan guarantees for hybrids and 
advanced diesels. The bill will also make a reasonable increase in CAFE 
standards. The bill increases and incentivizes the engineering 
capabilities of our automakers.

Finally, the bill before us also begins to address the environmental 
consequences of our energy policy. The debate about how to tackle the 
threat of global warming will have few easy answers. It will be a 
difficult challenge for us when we get to specifically addressing the 
issue of global warming later in this Congress. But one thing we can do 
today is to determine how we can store the carbon we are currently 
putting into the atmosphere. Carbon sequestration technology is neither 
new nor complicated. It has been around in the oil fields in America 
for 50 years. We need to take that technology and refine our techniques 
for storing it and determine where we can store the carbon that is 
currently being emitted from powerplants and other sources around our 
country. This bill will help start us in that direction.

Mr. President, how much time do I have left?