---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3a7ef6955fbcd18dc911d35f35af5cfe`
`Mr. TIBERI — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. TIBERI. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution 
this evening.

The resolution we are debating this evening is a nonbinding 
resolution. It has no effect of law. It does nothing to change our 
direction in the war on terror. For those who oppose the war, this


resolution does nothing to end it. For those of us who would like to 
debate the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, this does nothing.

For those of us who would like to continue to show our support for 
the funding of the troops, it does nothing. For all of the chest 
pounding from the majority about a new direction or redeployment, this 
does nothing. This resolution could pass 435-0 and it still would do 
nothing.

Madam Speaker, there has been no opportunity for a free exchange of 
proposals this evening that could be useful in moving us forward. In 
fact, just this morning, one of Ohio's largest newspapers, the Columbus 
Dispatch, said it best in their lead editorial: ''Empty gestures. 
Democrat's resolution on Bush's Iraq war policy is political 
posturing.''

That says it all. Madam Speaker, your party has the majority in the 
House and in the Senate. Yet we have tonight before us a resolution 
that does not do anything. If the majority wants to exercise real 
leadership, let's have a true debate. Let's make real decisions, tough 
decisions, that is for sure, but real decisions.

Madam Speaker, let me tell you about a young marine corporal in my 
district. His name is Matt. Matt represents the best and brightest in 
America. Matt had a scholarship to go to college. He turned it down. He 
enlisted in the United States Marine Corps after Iraq was liberated.

Matt was on his second tour of duty just last month when he was shot. 
He returned home a few weeks ago. Matt will receive a Purple Heart. 
Weeks before he was shot, Matt sent an e-mail back to his family and 
friends in Ohio. In it he says: ''We have done a lot of good in Iraq, 
but on the homefront we likely will not see that reported.'' Matt said 
he has watched his fellow marines' hearts grow heavy when they talk to 
their family and friends, and that this is a tough part of war and a 
tough part of fighting for freedom.

I spoke with Matt a few days ago as we began debate on this 
resolution. Matt asked me to oppose the resolution and give him and his 
fellow soldiers the tools and the support that they need to help Iraqis 
help themselves take control of their own country, and together fight 
and defeat radical extremists.

Matt supports the mission. Matt does not want to see his children and 
grandchildren going back to Iraq to handle what can and should be done 
now. Our constituents elected us to lead, Madam Speaker. Our brave 
servicemen and -women look to us for leadership. We must not disappoint 
them.

Matt, God bless you and your fellow troops for your great and 
wonderful service to our country. I will vote against this resolution, 
this nonbinding resolution tomorrow, and will do all I can to support 
you and your fellow soldiers in your mission to fight and defeat 
radical extremists who seek to destroy our way of life.