# None
## `3a7f7858da7ebbf5dcf69522e4738b4c`
`Ms. CLARKE — 2 April 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. The gentleman from Florida really has emphasized what we 
know is a challenge for America right now. And we are making the 
marriage here in our conversation, the marriage between the fact that 
we have to disengage from Iraq, that we realize that our policies have 
failed there, that it is now a diplomatic mission more so than anything 
else. And, yes, there will be a cost to redeployment, but the cost to 
American families has been extensive. And as our brave men and women 
come back to the United States of America, come back to our respective 
communities and they face the economic challenges that we have all been 
facing over the past couple of months, couple of years in some 
communities, that just compounds the whole reintegration process that 
is going to be required, the health care, the ongoing health care that 
is going to be required. And I think that we have positioned ourselves 
as a Congress to really meet those issues. We know what the challenges 
are. We have heard firsthand.

And when you look at our first economic stimulus package that will 
provide child tax credits as a rebate to these families, when you look 
at that expansion of financing opportunities for those who may be in 
mortgage crisis; and, believe me that we can't separate the wounded 
warrior from the home they own in the community and the cost of 
gasoline to get back and forth to the VA hospital and the milk that 
they have to buy for their child.



This economic stimulus is going to be of support to those families as 
well. But they are going to face what we are facing as civilians in a 
very special way. And I know that the work we are doing here, Mr. 
Altmire and Mr. Ryan, is making a difference in their lives. That is 
why it was important for me to talk about the baseless rhetoric that I 
heard coming from across the aisle because I don't want Americans to 
overlook the fact that we have raised the bar and set the standard for 
how we are going to treat one another as Americans, how we face our 
challenges head-on, and come up with the solutions that are most 
important.

Right now there is a crisis in health care. There is a crisis in 
affordable housing and mortgage financing, and there is a crisis called 
Iraq. There is a direct correlation if you put the equation together, 
the type of money that we have been spending on this war in Iraq, and 
let's not forget our soldiers who are also fighting in Afghanistan, but 
the primary cost, the overwhelming cost is going into the war.

And our hope is that we will down surge, redeploy, have a surge in 
diplomacy and get our economic house in order in the United States of 
America and treat our veterans and their families as they ought to be 
treated, treat all Americans as they ought to be treated, and help them 
through this time of extreme pressure and extreme challenge.

I am proud to be a member of this Democratic caucus that has looked 
at the landscape in its entirety, that is dealing with it in a holistic 
way. We are not compartmentalizing these issues because one has a 
direct bearing on the other.

I see Mr. Ryan standing here in rare form, and I know he wants to 
chime in.