---
---

# EXPRESSING UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD
## `3a80e63bf264e502db0e2284bd25dd0a`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

I want to thank Representative Ginny Brown-Waite for introducing this 
resolution and my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for 
bringing it to the floor for our consideration.

As a proud co-sponsor, I am honored to have this opportunity to 
recognize the contributions of our citizen soldiers in the United 
States National Guard.

From the earliest days of our country's founding to today, average 
Americans have stepped forward to serve their Nation. Soldiers of the 
National Guard have served in every major combat throughout our great 
history, and since September the 11th, they have taken a tremendous 
role in support of the global war on terrorism in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Since these terrible attacks 6 years ago, 329,982 members of the 
National Guard have been mobilized for military operations around the 
world. Unlike their traditional military comrades, National Guard 
members are not career military soldiers. They are most often employed 
in other careers and serve when called upon to assist with combat 
operations and as first responders during domestic emergencies and 
rescue and recovery situations. This unique role underscores an immense 
dedication to their patriotic duty and to this Nation.

As a 31-year veteran of the Army Reserve and National Guard, I am 
honored to have known and worked with many of these extraordinary and 
dedicated individuals.



My former unit, the 218th Mechanized Infantry Brigade of the South 
Carolina Army National Guard is currently serving in Afghanistan under 
the leadership of Brigadier General Bob Livingston. Its 1,800 troops 
are the largest deployment of National Guard since World War II. I have 
visited the troops in June, August and November, and I know firsthand 
they are training Afghani police and military forces to help that young 
democracy stand on its own two feet. The best way to stop terrorism is 
to deny terrorists safe havens anywhere in the world. Additionally, my 
son, Alan, was deployed with the South Carolina National Guard to Iraq, 
along with my son, Julian, with Guard service in Egypt. And my family 
and I are grateful for their service and the service of their comrades, 
led by Major General Stan Spears, America's longest serving adjutant 
general. Our family knows that National Guard membership is rewarding 
for service for America and for our State while receiving extraordinary 
opportunities for education, travel and meeting talented people of 
competence and patriotism. I encourage every American to consider 
National Guard service.

With this resolution, we recognize the contributions of the Guard, 
but we also pledge to support their efforts with the necessary 
resources and express our deepest gratitude to the families whose loved 
ones serve this Nation. Above all, our deepest sympathies go to the 
families whose loved ones have been lost.

On behalf of my colleagues in the House of Representatives and the 
American people, I want to thank the brave men and women of the Guard 
for their service. In times of peace and times of war, there they are 
working to protect our Nation and our allies around the world and the 
citizens here at home. I want to thank Representative Ginny Brown-Waite 
for introducing this resolution. I encourage all of my colleagues to 
join me in supporting it and expressing our most humble appreciation 
for the citizen soldiers of the National Guard.