---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3a836b70ce5fdcd6a02d95c3a31b0fec`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, another month has passed, and more 
American troops lost their lives overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan. It 
is only right that we take a few moments in the U.S. Senate to honor 
them. Outside my office here in Washington, we have a tribute called 
''Faces of the Fallen.'' Visitors to the Senate from across the country 
have stopped by the memorial. I encourage my colleagues to come see 
this tribute on the third floor of the Hart Building.

Since the end of June, the Pentagon has announced the deaths of 88 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. They will not be forgotten. So today, I 
will read their names into the Record:




 SGT Stephen R. Maddies of Elizabethton, TN;



 CPL Jason M. Kessler of Mount Vernon, WA;



 1LT Benjamin J. Hall, VA;



 SPC Camy Florexil of Philadelphia, PA;



 CPL Sean A. Stokes of Auburn, CA;



 SSG Wilberto Suliveras of Humacao, Puerto Rico;



 MAJ Thomas G. Bostick Junior of Llano, TX;



 SSG William R. Fritsche of Martinsville, IN;



 PFC Cody C. Grater of Spring Hill, FL;



 SPC Daniel A. Leckel of Medford, OR;



 PVT Michael A. Baloga of Everett, WA;



 SGT William R. Howdeshell of Norfolk, VA;



 SPC Charles E. Bilbrey Junior of Owego, NY;



 SPC Jaime Rodriguez Junior of Oxnard, CA;



 PFC Juan S. Restrepo of Pembroke Pines, FL;



 SGT Courtney D. Finch of Leavenworth, KS;



 SSG Joshua P. Mattero of San Diego, CA;



 LCpl Robert A. Lynch of Louisville, KY;



 CPL James H. McRae of Springtown, TX;



 CPL Matthew R. Zindars of Watertown, WI;



 1SG Michael S. Curry Junior of Dania Beach, FL;



 SGT Travon T. Johnson of Palmdale, CA;



 PFC Adam J. Davis of Twin Falls, ID;



 PFC Jessy S. Rogers of Copper Center, AK;



 Hospitalman Daniel S. Noble of Whittier, CA;



 PFC Zachary R. Endsley of Spring, TX;



 LCpl Bobby L. Twitty of Bedias, TX;



 SGT Shawn G. Adams of Dixon, CA;



 CPL Christopher G. Scherer of East Northport, NY;



 SGT Jacob S. Schmuecker of Atkinson, NE;



 SFC Luis E. Gutierrez-Rosales of Bakersfield, CA;



 SPC Zachary R. Clouser of Dover, PA;



 SPC Richard Gilmore the Third of Jasper, AL;



 SPC Daniel E. Gomez of Warner Robbins, GA;



 CPL Rhett A. Butler of Fort Worth, TX;



 PFC Brandon M. Craig of Earleville, MD;



 SGT Ronald L. Coffelt of Fair Oaks, CA;



 PFC James J. Harrelson of Dadeville, AL;



 PFC Ron J. Joshua Junior of Austin, TX;



 PFC Brandon K. Bobb of Orlando, FL;



 SGT Nathan S. Barnes of American Fork, UT;



 CPO Patrick L. Wade of Key West, FL;



 PO1 Class Jeffrey L. Chaney of Omaha, NE;



 SPC Eric M. Holke of Crestline, CA;





 LCpl Shawn V. Starkovich of Arlington, WA;



 SGT John R. Massey of Judsonia, AR;



 PFC Benjamin B. Bartlett Junior of Manchester, GA;



 SPC Robert D. Varga of Monroe City, MO;



 PFC Christopher D. Kube of Sterling Heights, MI;



 SGT Allen A. Greka of Alpena, MI;



 SGT Courtney T. Johnson of Garner, NC;



 1SG Jeffrey R. McKinney of Garland, TX;



 CAPT Maria I. Ortiz of Bayamon, Puerto Rico;



 SGT Eric A. Lill of Chicago, IL;



 MSG Randy J. Gillespie of Coaldale, CO;



 CPL Kory D. Wiens of Independence, OR;



 PFC Bruce C. Salazar Junior of Tracy, CA;



 SGT Gene L. Lamie of Homerville, GA;



 PFC Le Ron A. Wilson of Queens, NY;



 CPL Jeremy D. Allbaugh of Luther, OK;



 LCpl Steven A. Stacy of Coos Bay, OR;



 LCpl Angel R. Ramirez of Brooklyn, NY;



 COL Jon M. Lockey of Fredericksburg, VA;



 SFC Sean K. Mitchell of Monterey, CA;



 PFC Jason E. Dore of Moscow, ME;



 SPC Jeremy L. Stacey of Bismarck, AR;



 SPC Anthony M.K. Vinnedge of Okeana, OH;



 SPC Roberto J. Causor Junior, of San Jose, CA;



 SPC Michelle R. Ring, of Martin, TN;



 MAJ James M. Ahearn, CA;



 SGT Keith A. Kline of Oak Harbor, OH;



 SPC Christopher S. Honaker of Cleveland, NC;



 PFC Joseph A. Miracle of Ortonville, MI;



 SGT Thomas P. McGee of Hawthorne, CA;



 PO1 Jason Dale Lewis of Brookfield, CT;



 PO1 Robert Richard McRill of Lake Placid, FL;



 PO1 Steven Phillip Daugherty of Barstow, Ca;



 CWO Scott A.M. Oswell, WA;



 PFC Andrew T. Engstrom of Slaton, TX;



 PFC Steven A. Davis of Woodbridge, VA;



 1LT Christopher N. Rutherford of Newport, OH;



 LCpl William C. Chambers of Ringgold, GA;



 LCpl Jeremy L. Tinnel of Mechanicsville, VA;



 LCpl Juan M. Garcia Schill of Grants Pass, OR;



 SFC Raymond R. Buchan of Johnstown, PA;



 SSG Michael L. Ruoff Junior of Yosemite, CA;



 SPC Victor A. Garcia of Rialto, CA;



 PFC Jonathan M. Rossi of Safety Harbor, FL.


To date, more than 3,600 American men and women have lost their lives 
in Iraq. And more than 400 have lost their lives in Afghanistan. We 
will not forget them and the Nation will not forget their sacrifice.
