---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `3a88527d31795c1f4d6c6e8f2ee42351`
`Mr. CORNYN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I congratulate the Senator from North 
Carolina and the Senator from South Carolina for their leadership, but 
I also wish to congratulate Senator Webb, the Senator from Virginia. I 
do believe that all of these Senators, and those of us who join them, 
are operating with the best of intentions, and that is how do we 
modernize the GI bill that helped provide my father an education after 
he left the Air Force after World War II? How do we modernize the GI 
bill and provide the maximum benefit we can but also make sure it 
provides for benefits to military families by allowing for 
transferability to spouses and children under some circumstances? And, 
I would think, fundamentally to our national security, how do we 
preserve and protect the All-Volunteer military force?

I know it is not his intention, but Senator Webb's bill actually 
would encourage people not to reenlist by providing a perverse 
incentive to leave early in order to obtain the benefits they would 
receive after 3 years of service. We need to make sure we encourage 
continuation of service, retention in the military in the best 
interests of our All-Volunteer military force.

To me, it is ironic--I remember the Senator from Virginia had an 
amendment where we would restrict the amount of time a servicemember 
could be deployed and then provide for a minimum time they had to be 
back home before they could be deployed again. Again, it was a noble 
aspiration that he had but, unfortunately, because our forces were 
spread too thin because we had allowed the end force, the end strength 
of our military to degrade over time, we had to, as a matter of our 
national security and success in our current efforts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, ask these servicemembers to return to service without an 
adequate dwell time.

Perversely, I think the Senator's bill, by encouraging early exit 
from the military and hurting retention, according to the CBO, by some 
16-percent, would actually be at cross-purposes with the very proposal 
he advanced earlier about allowing our military more time at home 
because it would reduce the number of people in our All-Volunteer 
military and make it necessary that they be deployed more often and at 
greater sacrifice.

I do believe we ought to reward those who continue to serve. We ought 
to reward the families by allowing transferability of the benefit upon 
continued service to spouses and children.

I can tell my colleagues, speaking to groups in Texas this last 
weekend, that one feature was something they very much appreciated. We 
ought to do everything we can to strengthen and nurture our All-
Volunteer military force and not to cause a 16-percent decline in 
retention rates.

Mr. President, I see the Senator from Arizona on the floor. I yield 
to him for a question.