# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3a8ac9fc672473f7b88a2e83af13ec70`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, today Senator Warner and I have introduced 
an important and potentially landmark bipartisan resolution. My good 
friend and colleague from Virginia has correctly highlighted what is 
one of the most critical issues before us as we debate our continued 
occupation of Iraq: the capacity of the Iraqi Government to take 
responsibility for the security of its own country. The President said 
in November 2005 that ''as the Iraqis stand up, we will stand down.'' 
But are the Iraqis standing up? If, in the President's formulation, our 
continued military occupation of Iraq is dependent on the readiness of 
the Iraqi security forces, is it not crucial that we know what kind of 
progress those Iraqi forces are making? The Warner-Byrd resolution will 
hopefully provide the Congress with the unvarnished truth about this 
issue, instead of more of the same rhetoric and obfuscation doled out 
to the Congress since the war began. Under Warner-Byrd, within 120 days 
of passage of this Act, a designated independent private sector entity 
will report to Congress on the readiness of the ISF to assume 
responsibility for maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, 
denying terrorists a safe haven, and bringing an end to sectarian 
violence. The report will also address whether continued support by 
U.S. troops is likely to contribute to the ISF's readiness to take on 
those missions in the coming months.

We have had 4 years now of rosy reports coming from the Pentagon and 
the White House about the steady progress being made in Iraq, but 
events on the ground regularly belie those sunny assessments. Our 
soldiers have been training and equipping Iraqi troops and police 
for several years, and the White House continues to tout the ''real 
progress'' made by the Iraqi security forces. However, an article in 
the February 5 edition of the New York Times noted that the Iraqi units 
arriving in Baghdad are showing up at 55 to 60 percent of their full 
strength. Even more problematic, the Iraqi police force is itself seen 
by many in Iraq as simply an extension of the sectarian militias, 
terrorizing the population with rape, extortion, and murder.


Considering the record to date of the Iraqi troops, will any amount 
of training produce a reliable and capable national army? If this is 
what we are waiting for--if we are truly planning to ''stand down'' 
once the ISF ''stands up''--I, for one, want to know when we can expect 
that to happen. And if it is not going to happen, we should know that 
as well. How long will we continue to spend American lives and treasure 
training Iraqi troops that can't be counted on? Six months? A year? 
Five years? If this is an ultimately hopeless endeavor, we should find 
out now, and change our strategy accordingly.

The situation in Iraq has devolved into a full-blown civil war, as 
sects which have been battling for centuries continue to attack each 
other--and us--in an ever-widening bloodbath. In the words of the 
President's own National Intelligence Estimate, the term '' 'civil war' 
accurately describes key elements of the Iraqi conflict,'' which has 
become a ''self-sustaining inter-sectarian struggle between Shia and 
Sunnis.'' U.S. troops have no constructive role to play in fighting 
another country's civil war. Increasingly in Iraq, there is no clearly 
defined ''enemy'' for our soldiers to engage, only various indigenous 
groups that hate us almost as much as they hate each other. The 
President's plan calls for the Iraqi troops to assume responsibility 
for halting this death spiral, but the NIE again casts doubt on this 
strategy. It states that ''the Iraqi security forces--particularly the 
Iraqi police--will be hard-pressed in the next 12-18 months to execute 
significantly increased security responsibilities.''

I suspect that further training is not really the answer. We can 
train a soldier how to fire a weapon; we can give him communications 
equipment; we can teach him how to conduct a raid or defend a post. But 
we cannot give him a sense of national identity. We cannot provide him 
with allegiance to government and country that transcends ethnic or 
sectarian hatreds. The bottom line is that the violence in Iraq 
requires a political solution. Everyone--everyone--now acknowledges 
that. Only when the Iraqi people, through their government, are able to 
overcome the sectarian divisions that are splitting the country apart, 
will stability and peace be achieved. U.S. Central Command Commander 
Gen. John Abizaid said it himself in testimony before Congress on 
November 15, 2006: ''I believe that more American forces prevent the 
Iraqis from doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 
future.''

The Warner-Byrd resolution seeks to address that issue head-on, with 
an unbiased, nonpartisan report on the likelihood that continued U.S. 
involvement will contribute to the capacity for the Iraqis to take 
responsibility for their own future. This report will provide us with a 
clear-eyed view of what is going on in Iraq, and whether the 
President's plan has any realistic hope of success.















 amendment no. 740
