---
---

# REPUBLICAN PERSPECTIVE ON 110TH CONGRESS
## `3a8b6440db9ae4b401a5e404bce26159`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 23 January 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. I thank the gentleman.

I will close our hour by referencing some comments I have had from 
some veterans in my district. I love the fact that I have absolutely 
wonderful veterans who participate with me on these issues in our 
National Security Coalition, in our Veterans Coalition, which are 
advisory groups for me. And I have had great discussions with them and 
have sent them information about the new strategy going forward in 
Iraq, about some of the conversations that have been taking place here, 
and have sought their best judgment, men and women who have worn the 
uniform and have been there and who have fought and seeking their best 
judgment. And a couple of their comments, I think, are so incredibly 
significant.

One of them says: ''We have to continue our push forward and let our 
military make the decisions in this war. When the House and Senate 
changed, there was no doubt there would be a change of efforts. Our 
enemy knows this and will continue to strike as long as they think our 
country is not united.''

And another of the veterans said in this e-mail: ''What is important 
is that we show a unified front to the enemy and we give the new plan 
and the deployment a chance to work. If we win, if we defeat radical 
Islam, then maybe, maybe, this is all going to be worth it.''

Mr. Speaker, these men and women who have put that uniform on and 
have gone into battle know that this is the price that we pay. They 
understand that this is not going to be easy. They know, and they are 
watching the President's speech tonight, and they are watching our 
response. And I would submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that our enemy is 
watching our response. And I will submit to you that, while we all have 
different philosophies, we all come from different districts, and we 
are a very diverse body, I would commend to you and my colleagues that 
it is important that we stand with our men and women in uniform, that 
we show a unified front and show that we are committed to being certain 
that this Nation continues to stand as a great Nation and that we 
persevere.
