---
---

# None
## `3aa657ab85f860c77a0c03552b9bf960`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 21 May 2008`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, today the House is considering 
three amendments to fund the war in Iraq, enact important policies 
regarding the war in Iraq, and meet critical domestic needs. I will 
support two of these amendments.

The American people want this wrongheaded war in Iraq to come to an 
end. More than 4,000 soldiers have lost their lives and billions of 
dollars have been spent. Yet this Administration insists on staying the 
course.

I will not support the amendment that would provide nearly $163 
billion through next summer to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
While I believe that our efforts in Afghanistan are necessary and have 
not received sufficient attention or resources since the start of the 
war in Iraq, I cannot support devoting billions of dollars to a failed 
policy in Iraq, particularly when we are facing significant economic 
problems here at home.

However, I strongly support the amendment that would enact several 
necessary policies regarding the war in Iraq including the complete 
withdrawal of American troops from Iraq by December 2009, ensuring 
congressional approval of any treaties between the United States and 
Iraq, no permanent bases in Iraq, and prohibiting torture techniques 
not authorized in the Army Field Manual. I hope that the final bill 
sent to the President will include these important provisions.

Finally, I am pleased to support the amendment that will expand 
benefits for veterans, provide, food, disaster, and refugee assistance, 
help strengthen levees in Louisiana, enact contracting reforms, and 
extend unemployment benefits in all states for 13 weeks and in some 
states, an additional 13 weeks. We must continue to do all that we can 
to help those Americans who are looking for employment in these 
difficult economic times.

I want to thank Chairman Obey and Chairman Mollohan for the inclusion 
of $210 million in funding for the Census Bureau. This is a welcome 
first step in repairing the mismanagement of the 2010 Census planning 
process by the Bush Administration, and it is a responsible action by 
this Congress.

Full and fair representation is a fundamental building block of our 
democracy, and it is imperative that we guarantee every American is 
counted. While this funding is a critical first step, we must continue 
to hold this Administration accountable and restore the American 
people's confidence in our ability to fulfill this Constitutional 
mandate.

I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing additional funding for 
the war in Iraq so that we send the President the message he needs to 
hear: bring the troops home now.
