# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3aba2e6f671f676c87e69e4cb890fb55`
`Mr. HELLER of Nevada — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HELLER of Nevada. Thank you for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the issue before us, the war 
in Iraq.

In this past year, the American people clearly demanded change. I am 
new to this body, but I know Nevadans wanted me to help institute 
changes in the direction of this country.

As we debate this resolution, I really have to wonder if we have 
heard the American people. This resolution brought forth by the 
majority says two conflicting things: we are opposed to the war in 
Iraq, but we are for staying the course. These two positions are 
irreconcilable.

As I watch this debate, I have not seen any proposals for change. 
What we are debating today is the same as what has been debated in the 
past. We stand here in this body controlled by a new majority who 
campaigned on instituting change, claimed to be the party of change, 
and has control of the gavel in both Houses of Congress. Instead of 
offering a path to victory, they are playing politics.

My question is, what does this vote actually accomplish? Does it 
implement new ideas to win the war in Iraq? Will our country be safer 
because of this resolution? Does it enable our troops to fight more 
effectively by giving them the supplies that they need? The answer to 
these questions is a simple ''no.''

As a newly elected Member, I came here to find solutions to our 
country's problems. To that end, I am supporting legislation to 
institute benchmarks. I am supporting legislation that will make our 
troops and their needs fully funded. I support diplomacy and making the 
Iraqi Government more accountable.

The message that I want to send on our troop is, I am with you, and 
you can count on me.



Because, really, we are counting on them.

Mr. Speaker, why can't we be for something today, an actual 
alternative, instead of debating a nonbinding resolution that tells our 
soldiers we don't support your mission? Our enemies believe America is 
weak and their propaganda says the United States is losing the war 
against terrorism.

Osama bin Laden's deputy and terrorist network have stated that Iraq 
is the central front in their fight against American and Western 
ideals. Iraq is the central front to push their radical ideology of 
hate and intolerance. These are the real bad guys. These are the people 
we should be focusing our attention on, not tearing down our leaders, 
commanders and brave soldiers in the field. The reality is the 
terrorists are determined to kill Americans, wherever we may be. 
Therefore, we must take the fight to them.

The fact is, this resolution only strengthens our enemies and does 
nothing to solve or address any of the national security issues facing 
our country. The stakes are high in Iraq. Nothing less than our very 
safety and survival is at issue. Nothing less than the lives of the 
courageous members of our armed services are on the line. It is 
critical that we have a real debate on the issues and address these 
points.

Let's, instead, together look for a new way forward, for a path to 
victory and for the best way to support our brave men and women 
overseas who are fighting to keep us safe. Let's instead focus on what 
we need to win this vital conflict, not a meaningless resolution, which 
is what we are offered here today.

To paraphrase the late Charlie Norwood, a decorated war veteran, 
''The choice before us today is clear: either America or al Qaeda.''