---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3abd234eff57724725d8e5e640f6a91f`
`Mr. CASEY — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. I rise to speak about an amendment Senator Durbin, the 
assistant majority leader, and I have worked on, as well as getting 
support and cosponsorship by the majority leader, Senator Reid, and by 
Senator Kerry and Senator Nelson of Florida. It has three fundamental 
goals. The first is to deal with the horrific situation our troops have 
faced where we have a number of troops who have died in Iraq, not as a 
result of enemy fire or in combat but in a circumstance in which they 
should have a reasonable expectation of safety. In the case of one of 
my constituents, SSG Ryan Maseth, Ryan was from the city of Shaler, PA, 
out in western Pennsylvania. He was taking a shower in Iraq, in his 
barracks, and was killed, was electrocuted because of shoddy electrical 
work. So the first part of this amendment speaks to that fundamental 
problem we still have today. The second part of the amendment ensures 
that our brave fighting men and women serving in war zones have clean 
water. Thirdly, this amendment would establish strict standards for 
preventing and prosecuting sexual assaults on Army bases.

These are all commonsense reforms. I will focus principally in my 
remarks--I know we have limited time--on the issue of electrocution.

As I mentioned, SSG Ryan Maseth died on January 2, 2008. He was 
electrocuted in his barracks in Iraq. Unfortunately for his family, who 
have been seeking answers to why he was killed in that way, the 
nightmare has not ended, nor for a lot of other families. Families from 
Georgia, Texas, California, Nevada, Oregon, Hawaii, Minnesota, and 
Pennsylvania, all of those States, have been affected by these deaths.

It continues into last month. On September 1 of this year, Adam 
Hermanson, who grew up in San Diego and Las Vegas, served three tours 
of duty in Iraq with the Air Force and then went back to work for a 
contractor. He, too, lost his life in a horrific way, by electrocution. 
His wife Janine is waiting for answers. I spoke to her earlier today.

Fundamentally, what this amendment does as it relates to the 
electrocution problem is attempt to right a wrong by ensuring that the 
Army reviews the language of the contract at the time of formation to 
ensure it includes explicit language that clearly requires contractors 
to immediately correct deficiencies such as improperly grounded 
equipment or facilities. We are talking about basic electrical work 
here being done in a way that would protect anyone's safety in a way 
that they should have a right to expect.

So when I think of Ryan and his family and his mother Cheryl Harris 
and I think of Mr. Hermanson and his family, his wife Janine, we are 
not just thinking about some far-off concept here, we are talking about 
a real problem that is not yet corrected and still threatens our 
fighting men and women.

Let me conclude my remarks by saying, in addition to urging my 
colleagues to support this amendment, which I think is so fundamental 
it does not require a lot of explanation, our troops ought to be able 
to take a shower or engage in other activities of daily life in Iraq or 
Afghanistan or anywhere around the world with that reasonable 
expectation of safety. We can't guarantee that right now, 
unfortunately. This amendment will take a step in that direction.

Obviously, the other parts, the other two elements in the amendment 
are that our troops should have the ability to drink clean water and, 
finally, that no women serving in the military should ever fear the 
potential or the threat of sexual assault.

All of these parts of this amendment are vitally important. I don't 
understand why anyone would not support it.

I have already submitted for the Record earlier the Associated Press 
story about the death by electrocution of Adam Hermanson. I wanted to 
cite two statements, two reflections by Adam's wife and his mother. His 
wife said, when talking about their plans to move back to Pennsylvania:




 He was supposed to come back and we had a lot of plans.


After three tours of duty in Iraq as a soldier and then another tour 
as a contractor, they were looking forward to his coming back to the 
United States and, in this case, coming back to Pennsylvania. They had 
a lot of plans. Those plans were completely destroyed. His life was 
ended because of a fundamental problem in our system of how we ground 
electrical outlets, how we install showers in Iraq and threaten troops 
in the process. We have to correct it for Adam in his memory and for 
Ryan and so many others, as well as for those they left behind; in this 
case, Adam's wife Janine.

I will conclude with what his mother Patricia said, as she was 
reflecting on what happened to Adam. She said everyone in their family 
was struggling to understand how he could survive four war tours--three 
as a soldier, one as a contractor--and then die suddenly in a seemingly 
safe place.

We should make sure, by way of this amendment and anything else we 
can do, that our troops are at least safe when taking a shower or in a 
barracks or living in a situation where they are away from the 
battlefield, away from a fire fight, away from the threat of enemy 
fire. That is the least we can do as legislators. I urge my colleagues 
to support the amendment, hoping we can deal with this amendment in the 
next hour or so.

I yield the floor.