---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OF ARMY  SPECIALIST JOHN D. FLORES OF GUAM
## `3ac2c9cba746cb6efc747878942ed4eb`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 17 May 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in remembrance and 
recognition of United States Army Specialist John D. Flores of 
Barrigada, Guam. Specialist Flores died on May 3, 2007, as a result to 
injuries sustained when his unit came under attack in Baghdad, Iraq. 
SPC Flores was 21 years old. He is the tenth son of Guam to make the 
ultimate sacrifice for his country in the ongoing war on terror. The 
loss of an outstanding soldier like Specialist Flores is grave for the 
entire Nation. But the pain of John's passing is most severely felt by 
Guam and its people--his beloved home and neighbors.

SPC John Flores was a fine soldier who, like many before him from 
Guam, served the United States and our community with selfless 
dedication. He answered our country's call to duty and he made the 
ultimate sacrifice in our defense.

John was not only a dedicated soldier, but also a kind and generous 
person, a devoted husband, and a loving father. He had been married to 
his wife Charlene for just over a year. They graduated together from 
George Washington High School in 2004. John was immensely proud of, and 
loved dearly, his daughter, Chloe. His family will always remember him 
being a young man who celebrated life to its fullest and one who 
possessed maturity beyond his years. His love for his family, his 
devotion to his island, and his dedication to his country and flag will 
always serve as an outstanding role model for and inspiration to his 
family, friends, and future generations of Guam soldiers.

I was deeply saddened to learn of Specialist Flores's passing, as I 
have been for all of the servicemembers from our island and communities 
across the United States who have given their lives in service to our 
country. I join the people of Guam and all Americans in offering my 
most sincere condolences and heartfelt prayers to SPC John Flores' 
family, friends, and fellow soldiers during this difficult time. In 
particular, on behalf of a grateful country, I extend my deepest 
sympathies to John's wife, Charlene, and his daughter, Chloe. Our 
country and our island owe Specialist Flores and his loved ones an 
unpayable debt of gratitude for the sacrifice they have made on our 
behalf.

John was an admirable son of Guam, a proud American soldier. He 
proved that he was willing and prepared to defend his country and his 
home island, no matter what the price. He lost his life in the noble 
effort to rebuild a nation in freedom so that others might some day 
know the joys of liberty and justice. And for that sacrifice, we are 
eternally grateful. God Bless John Flores, and God Bless our great 
country, the United States of America.



