---
---

# JOBS, ENERGY, FAMILIES, AND DISASTER RELIEF ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `3ae63e60dbd47854994472b429f90449`
`Mr. DURBIN — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I acknowledge that. As I tried to make clear, the Senator 
from Oklahoma does this differently and more honorably than some. Some 
sneak around and don't want people to know. I have the same attitude. 
If I am going to put on a hold, I want them to know why. Maybe they 
will change or withdraw a nomination. But it is very open and clear. I 
try to do it that way.

Having said that, let me say, if you object to the Lou Gehrig 
registry, it passed through the committee you serve on, it was reported 
to calendar in December of last year with an amendment. It must have 
been debated in committee to some extent. You had a chance then to 
amend it, to vote against it, and from what I hear you say on the floor 
today, you would vote against it today. That should be your right. I 
would defend your right to do that.

But I think it reaches a different level where you say I don't have a 
right to vote for it if you are opposed to it, and that you are going 
to put a hold on it and won't let the measure come to the floor for a 
vote.

If the measure came to the floor for a vote and the Senator from 
Oklahoma had spoken against it and voted against, he would have done 
the right thing. But to deny me a chance to vote for this bill, I think 
that goes too far. I do.

Whether we go through one or the other, I can discuss each one the 
Senator brought up, but that is the underlying issue. Should I have the 
right to deny him even a chance to vote on this bill? That is the 
position he has taken on some of these bills. That, to me, is 
troubling.

I will say in terms of fiscal sanity, I do wish to make a statement 
for the Record. The current administration inherited a surplus. The 
current administration inherited a budget surplus. It was the first 
time in 30 years that the Federal Government had a surplus.

Bill Clinton, for whatever his faults might have been, put America's 
economic house in order. We started generating a surplus in the Federal 
Treasury. Why? Some taxes were raised, some spending was cut, but it 
was done in such a way that it worked. The economy grew dramatically. 
Jobs, new businesses, housing grew dramatically, and we reduced the 
deficit of this country by generating a surplus.

This President inherited that situation and brought to it his own 
George W. Bush economic philosophy. I would


not attribute it to the Senator from Oklahoma unless he wants to say 
that was his philosophy, too, but it was a philosophy that, best said, 
the best way to give this economy more is to give tax breaks to the 
wealthiest people in this country, cut taxes for the wealthiest people 
and a thousand flowers will flourish.

Unfortunately, September 11, 2001, occurred. We found ourselves 
spending a lot of money for the security of this Nation and then found 
ourselves in two wars. This President continued to call for tax cuts in 
the midst of a war. He became unique in American history. No President 
has ever done that.

The Senator from Oklahoma, the fiscal conservative that he is, must 
acknowledge it is mindless to have tax breaks in the midst of a war. 
You know the war is an add-on cost to your overall economy and budget, 
and then to cut revenue--that is what he did. As a result of that 
action by the President and his decision to initiate a war in Iraq that 
has gone unpaid for now into its sixth year, we have now piled up the 
biggest deficit in the history of the United States of America.

The Senator from Oklahoma is vigilant on bills that come that may 
cost us money in the future, but his party and his President have led 
us into the deepest deficit in our history. Having inherited a surplus, 
President Bush drove us into a fiscal mess, where we are borrowing 
money from all over the world. The last thing I will say is this, and I 
know the Senator from Oklahoma is never going to agree with me, but I 
want to make a point. If every one of these 34 measures that he and his 
side objected to today had passed, it would not add a penny to the 
deficit tomorrow, not a penny, and not next year either. We have to 
pass the spending bill. These bills give permission for a museum. These 
bills don't spend a penny for a museum, not one.

I am on the Appropriations Committee. We sit there, and they give us 
a finite pot of money and say: Take your pick. You want some new 
programs? Go ahead, fund them, but you cannot fund the old programs if 
you fund the new ones. You have a finite pot of money. Make your 
choices.

That is what happens in appropriations and on the floor of the 
Senate. That is a point which the Senator and I have debated repeatedly 
and probably will never resolve between us. But we have a genuine 
difference of opinion, and the only thing I have supporting me is a 
statement in the Record from the Office of Management and Budget saying 
I am right, he is wrong. Don't take it personally, but it was put in 
the Record.

I say to the Senator, I don't think it was right what happened today, 
that we stopped consideration of 34 bills. If he wanted to have his 
recorded vote as no on any one of those bills, it was his right to do 
it. But to stop me from trying to promote treatment of people with Lou 
Gehrig's disease and paralysis, because I think these are good bills, I 
do not think that is appropriate.

Today, we tried to get the Senate to rule the other way, and they did 
not. The Senator's side prevailed. But only three Republicans would 
join us, and now these bills are not likely to be passed.

I yield the floor.