# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `3b071f65c0c1c079b2642c62cf659f94`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank my distinguished colleague 
from Cleveland, Ohio, the chairwoman of the Ethics Committee, and as 
well the first African American woman, only African American woman on 
the Ways and Means Committee. These two distinctive positions are so 
important, one, for the health of this body, the Ethics Committee, and 
two, for the great city that she represents. And I might compete with 
her, she has the Cleveland Clinic; I have the Texas Medical Center. And 
I know that we have had the opportunity to work with each other, and I 
want to thank her for what I think is an enormously important Special 
Order.

I want to begin, as many of my colleagues have begun, and I want to 
acknowledge the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, 
Congresswoman Kilpatrick, for the importance of putting a face on the 
issue of disparities in health care.

In doing that, I'm reminded of the language in the beginning of the 
Constitution that the Founding Fathers organized to create a more 
perfect Union. But as they struck out on faith to establish this 
fledgling United States of America, only 13 colonies, feeling the 
redcoats breathing down their backs, afraid that at any moment this 
very fragile government might be toppled, they had enough courage to 
declare some words that I believe, if this Congress would use it as a 
moral compass, these issues of Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones 
would be very clear, and those are the words of the Declaration of 
Independence that said we all are created equal with certain 
inalienable rights; the right to pursue life, liberty and the pursuit 
of happiness. We are all created equal with certain inalienable rights; 
the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

Clearly, health care is intimately involved in life and the pursuit 
of happiness. And so in actuality, the Founding Fathers put down a 
marker of what kind of Nation they wanted this to be. Tragically, over 
the last years, when our good friends were involved, many of the 
serious issues of health care were diminished in terms of care and 
funding. And so it is important that we stand here tonight to be able 
to lay down the challenge and the charge that we are here to fix it up. 
We are here to make it right. We are here to correct some of the ills, 
governmental ills, budgetary ills that have caused health care to be 
diminished.

And let me cite some important statistics that represent the 
districts of individuals in this body coming from the south, coming 
from the midwest, coming from the far west, next to Texas, and parts of 
the mountain area.

The cost of the war in one district is costing $1 million. And out of 
that waste of money in the Iraq war, we would be able to provide people 
with health care: 336,000 adults and 527,000 children, plus, with 
health care.

Another district, the war is costing them $1.2 million, plus. We 
would be able to provide 420,000 people with health care if that war 
was ended, 758,000 children.

Another district, the war is costing them $1.1 million--755,000 
people would be able to have health care and 633,000 children. Another 
district, $812,000 it's costing them, and we would be able to provide 
310,000 adults with health care, and children, 502,000.

So, we can already see that we would be able to provide thousands, 
hundreds of thousands of Americans with health care and hundreds of 
thousands of children with health care if we, first of all, brought our 
troops home and ended the Iraq war.

Now, why should we be concerned with that? And the Congressional 
Black Caucus has gone on the record on questions of disparities in 
health care. And I might say that this whole issue of disparities is 
not just an issue of race; it's an issue of dealing with economics. It 
is the kind of health care that poor people are able to manage to get 
versus those who are covered, who have means. Some people have means 
where they pay outright for the care. The Texas Medical Center, for 
example, has long-time hosted international patients who outright pay 
for good care. We don't have that luxury here in the United States for 
many of those who are struggling.

And I might give you just a real-life example, Mr. Speaker, having 
left my home district and had the challenge and the desire to visit 
constituents who were ailing. They are now surviving because they 
happen to be individuals who had the care and the sophistication of 
family members who could get them to a spot that would, in fact, 
determine what was the final need of their care. Mr. Speaker, they had 
a disastrous cancerous organ that was not initially found, and they 
could have died. But because they had the means, they were able to go 
through test after test, and one expensive test that is rarely given, 
an MRI, was able to find that cancerous organ, their life has been 
saved. Another person with a severe injury or severe disease was able 
to be cared for and is in the best of care because of means. They live 
today. But that is not the case in the question of disparities on 
economics, what you make, and also on race.

I'm very glad to be part of the CBC effort and Health Task Force to 
focus on ensuring that the Ryan White CARE Act is passed with language 
that emphasizes minority HIV organizations.

I believe in fixing health care disparities on the ground. I have 
organized a series of testing activities or actions to engage the 
community in being tested. Our first effort with a church, 245 persons 
were tested. And our message is that HIV testing is not a one-shot 
deal. Just recently, a good friend, Representative Borris Miles, was 
able to get 7,000, or thousands of persons tested, possibly 7,000 
persons, for HIV. We are going to launch another effort of testing and 
a campaign that says ''HIV testing is not a one-shot deal.''


I am a strong supporter of believing in the Health Centers Renewal 
Act of 2006. For the time that I have been here, I have emphasized that 
we have not enough community-based health clinics that were privately 
owned in neighborhoods accessible to grandmothers and young mothers 
with children. And we have worked hard to ensure that more community 
health centers come to Houston, Texas.

I'm proud that in my own congressional district we've opened one in 
Fifth Ward. We've opened two that are under the auspices of the Martin 
Luther King Community Center that I worked with and kept their doors 
open with a $400,000 grant from HHS in the early years of my 
congressional career. This is a stopgap to the disparities in health 
care, allowing those in the community to have immediate access to 
health care.

Then, of course, one of the largest, if I might use the term, Mr. 
Speaker, ''elephants'' in the room, is the question of obesity in 
America. As the cochair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, we have 
worked on the issue of obesity in children. I was very proud to join 
Congressman Donald Payne for a very thoughtful, forward-thinking 
session on obesity in New Jersey, and providing remarks dealing with 
the question of obesity in our children. And it is a disparity in 
health care as it relates to Hispanic and African American children who 
are victimized, if you will, in large numbers by the lack of nutritious 
food that generates an overweight child. That turns into hypertension 
as an adult, type II diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, 
gallbladder disease, asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnea, and other 
respiratory diseases.

There are also increases in overweight among children and teens. For


children age 2 to 5, the prevalence of overweight increased from 5 
percent to 13 percent; 6 to 11 years, prevalence increased from 6.5 
percent to 18.8 percent; and for age 12 to 19 years, 5 percent to 17.4 
percent.

We're working to ensure in the agricultural reauthorization bill 
that's coming forward that school lunches and school breakfasts are 
nutritious. That has to be for those children who are poor and are 
dependent upon those meals as sometimes their only meal.

I passed legislation that involved the creation of an Office of 
Minority Populations that still stands today, and the idea is to keep 
the question of disparities in health care before Health and Human 
Services regardless of who the Secretary is. We can do better in this 
Congress.

And there are issues dealing with our veterans. I'm very pleased that 
my VISTA bill was marked up in the veterans which provides added 
resources for visually impaired veterans in order to assist them in the 
care of those who are impaired by their recent, if you will, deployment 
to Iraq and those who are veterans who have suffered injury or have 
lost their sight.

But we come now to the issue of the SCHIP, which is in the process of 
being reauthorized. And the difficulty, of course, is that we need to 
emphasize the crucialness of SCHIP in the Nation and in our States. I 
believe that the work of the Congressional Black Caucus and all of us 
in our respective States is a telling answer to health care for 
children who are at a certain economic level.

Tragically, the State of Texas, after the passage of the 1997 budget 
resolution which created SCHIP, was one of those States that turned 
back $400 million because they could not enroll the children. As we 
move forward, I want to make sure that we move forward on the package 
that will cover 6 million children. I would like to see us go up to 9 
million, but I think we need to look at process. I hope that we do not 
privatize and make this a market-based program so that people can stuff 
their pockets with money.



This should be a program that goes directly to these families. Any 
State that fails to enroll should be penalized by the State's having to 
refund their own tax dollars, not the money sent for the children. Let 
us not penalize the children, but let us cause those States to pay 
fines for their inertia and their inability to enroll these children. I 
hope that we will have that kind of reform.

Let me close by suggesting that we have an enormous road to take on 
health care. I am gratified that I hear more African Americans and 
Hispanics and others of a certain economic level who are prone to these 
disparities in health care talking about eating right, talking about an 
intake of less red meat. For those who are on the ranches, and I am 
from Texas, a good steak is a good thing to have. But to focus on 
vegetables, and some people have become vegetarians and are drinking 
water. These are elements that can encourage good health care.

For those of us who have our schedule here in Washington, D.C., a 
little walking, a little exercise would be good as well. We should 
probably look at ourselves in the mirror and try to improve our own 
health status. We have the capability and capacity if and when some 
health matter would come to our attention, that is a personal matter, 
but we must speak for the millions of Americans, 44 million, that are 
uninsured, that do not have access to health care. I do believe that it 
is time to move for universal access to health care.

So as we move in the 110th Congress and complete this session, I 
would say to all of my colleagues, be reminded of the Declaration of 
Independence; we all are created equal with certain inalienable rights 
of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Health care has to be a 
constitutional issue and a right for Americans.

Certainly for the least of those we must stand ready to provide them 
with a strong and forceful statement and action on health care in 
America. We should have the SCHIP passed without hindrance and without 
a market-based approach. We should pass universal access to health care 
so that all Americans, all Americans, can have the ability to be 
blessed with the virtues of the pursuit of happiness and have good 
health care.

Mr. Speaker, let me thank my colleague for yielding. Might I also 
suggest that we have our marching orders at this point, that we will 
not take a ''no'' on passage of the SCHIP out of this House. We want to 
see universal access to health care come to the floor.

On the disparity question, I am looking forward to the Congressional 
Black Caucus and the Tri-Caucus health disparity bill being made in 
regular order and being brought to this floor as soon as possible.

Mr. Speaker, we must save lives. We must.