---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3b08545e5e2d1f8d515d66c92b670d81`
`Mr. SERRANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. I'm in opposition to the gentleman's amendment. And the 
gentleman continues to stay with the theme that these programs can 
operate without government assistance. Yet, the gentleman, on many 
occasions, votes, as we all do, for programs where corporate America 
and other parts of our economic community, of our corporate community, 
gets help from government in order to put forth their product, in order 
to put forth their growth.

What my colleague, our freshman colleague is doing, and I compliment 
him on that, on the fact that as a freshman Member of this House, he 
already has, obviously, a sense of what his community needs. And this 
earmark, this modest earmark that he has put in this bill is one to 
take back to his community and continue to help to build the kind of 
small business education and information centers that we need.

And so I not only rise in support of it, but I commend the fact that 
already, at such a short time tenure in this House, he has that full 
understanding, willing, incidentally, to stand up and defend an 
earmark, knowing that some people will criticize him for it. But he 
knows his community better than we do.

And that's my whole point, that there seems to be a prevailing theme 
that only bureaucrats and Federal agencies, who I support, know how to 
spend taxpayers' dollars.

Well, no, this is a fine example of a new Member of the House who has 
a full understanding of his district, who is willing to stand up and 
defend what is a good earmark. And that's what we should respect, the 
fact that when we look at the global situation, these Member-driven 
items are a small amount of dollars, Mr. Chairman, compared to the 
overall budget.

I mean, I don't want to continue to harp on it, but the kind of money 
we spend in Iraq, billions, hundreds of billions, of dollars, a lot of 
that, as we know, unaccounted for, special contracts that went out that 
we never knew a thing about. Who got rich, who didn't get rich? That's 
never an issue on the House floor. That's never an issue. A couple 
hundred thousand dollars to a good community group in North Carolina, 
that's an issue. Yes, it is an issue. It's a good issue. It's a 
positive issue. It's the way dollars should be spent.

I oppose the gentleman's amendment, and I support the gentleman's 
initiative.

I yield back.