---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3b0f5d6f88b5c7ea14f9744c44d0fdb0`
`Mr. PEARCE — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Mr. Speaker, it is a very dark time for the Nation. The 
President is at an unpopularly low rating, unprecedented in our 
history. We are involved in an unpopular war. Elected officials on both 
sides are calling for us to get out of the war. I am not talking about 
this war, I am talking about the civil war, when President Lincoln had 
the courage and the vision to hold onto that concept that we must


let liberty triumph. And because of his courage, we have a Nation that 
has set the course for liberty for the entire world.

Exactly what are we involved in here? This is far broader than a war 
in Iraq. This is a war with radical Islam. It is not the first time we 
have engaged with radical Islam. The first time that comes to my 
attention was 1786.



Thomas Jefferson goes to find out about the Barbary Coast. He comes 
back and he reads the letter about why the Barbary pirates were 
fighting everyone in that region. He buys his own book of the Koran to 
understand, but that letter that he had and brought back says that it 
was founded, he is talking about Islam, it was founded on the laws of 
their prophet, that it was written in their Koran that all nations who 
should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners; that it was 
their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be 
found. That same principle is holding today. We read it on all the Web 
pages of the radical Islamists.

Now, we can wish that it weren't true. We can wish that the attacks 
on the Cole did not happen. We can wish that 9/11 did not happen. But 
they did. And now we are involved in a very difficult, unpopular war 
with the President, again, at historic low ratings.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, in opposition to this dangerously 
misguided resolution which will only embolden our enemies and 
demoralize our troops.

Our friends on the other side of the aisle claim to support our 
troops, and I do not discount that. I do not question their sincerity. 
I question their judgment.

I will tell you that the political gymnastics that are required to 
come this soon after they campaigned against stay the course, to 
present a resolution that supports our troops who are in Iraq, and yet 
says that we will not change the tactic, we will not increase, if we 
are not going to get out, if they have turned down those resolutions 
which would bring us home, and if they do not want to declare to defund 
the war, if they do not want the surge, then we are involved in a 
resolution today that is nonbinding, but says stay the course.

Do tell. Stay the course is what they had to campaign so hard against 
in the last elections.

I served in Vietnam when elected officials were on the floor of this 
House having these same conversations, and I will tell you it is 
extraordinarily distressing from the point of someone serving in harm's 
way to have the elected officials playing games.

My friends, if you don't want to support the effort in Iraq, you have 
the majority, call the troops home. It is within your capability. Have 
the courage of your convictions. Stand for what you believe. Do not put 
this resolution in front of us that simply encourages our enemies and 
distresses our troops.

There are those who claim that General Abizaid has said we can't win 
the war. President Lincoln was faced with the same thing, generals who 
listened too much to the public. He had to fire General McClellan and 
replace him with General Grant.

Many recall those words of President Lincoln saying, if you will not 
use the troops, sir, can I borrow them?

We have replaced the general who was in charge of Iraq with a new 
general. I am sorry, but he is a troop. He is a commander. He is the 
commander, he is the supreme troop in Iraq, and he says, I could use 
more troops. Please, don't leave me dangling.

And yet, this Congress, with this leadership, is going to say, we 
support the troops but we are not going to support the troops. The 
mental gymnastics, the political gymnastics are to appease the very 
shrillest of their proponents, the very shrillest of their supporters. 
But everyone knows they will not be content with this nonbinding 
resolution. Those supporters will be like the tiger at the door, eating 
their own if it does not escalate from here.

Have the courage to bring the troops home, my friends, if you are not 
going to let the generals run the war. Let the military run the war.

The greatest mistake we made in this House in Vietnam was trying to 
manage it with people who are elected rather than military leaders, and 
it was an abysmal failure.