---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `3b1d5eb7f458e6d909024f73fb326440`
`Mr. HARKIN — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, we have had a very productive 5 days of 
debate on the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill for Labor, Health 
and Human Services, Education, and related agencies. I would like to 
again thank the ranking member, Senator Arlen Specter, for his 
leadership and partnership in helping to shape this bipartisanship 
bill.

I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the subcommittee 
staff for the long hours and hard work they put into it. On the 
Democratic side, I thank Ellen Murray, Lisa Bernhardt, Teri Curtin, 
Erik Tatemi, Adrienne Hallet, and Mark Laisch. On the Republican side, 
I thank Bettilou Taylor, Sudip Parikh, and Jeff Kratz. These staff 
members set a very high standard of professionalism, excellence, and 
integrity, and we are very fortunate to have people of this caliber in 
public service.

Mr. President, we are just minutes away from the vote on final 
passage of the bill. I want to emphasize that this is an overwhelmingly 
bipartisan bill that meets the priorities of members on both sides of 
the aisle. Senator Arlen Specter and I produced a bill that passed in 
committee with the support of 14 of 15 Democrats and 12 of 14 
Republicans. This bill funds the most essential, life-supporting and 
lifesaving services for millions of people in this country. It reflects 
the values and priorities of the American people.

As I have said before, it is regrettable that, even before we brought 
this bill to the floor last week, President Bush threatened to veto it 
because it included a provision to expand embryonic stem cell research, 
and because it includes $11 billion in funding above what he requested.

We have done our very best to accommodate the President, and to 
produce a bill that he can sign. To that end, we removed the stem cell 
provision from the bill before bringing it to the floor. This is a core 
priority for me, for Senator Specter, and for many other Senators. But 
we took it out of the bill in order to meet the President halfway. I 
remain hopeful that, in turn, he will meet us halfway, and join us in 
this spirit of bipartisan compromise.

I am an optimist, and I hold out hope that, if the President examines 
the substance of this bill, he will see that the additional funding 
above his budget request goes to essential programs and services that 
have been shortchanged in recent years.

President Kennedy said that ''to govern is to choose.'' The President 
has made his choices. But, under the Constitution, Congress also gets 
to choose. And, in this bill, we have made the right choices. Let me 
cite just a few examples:

The President is requesting that we cut the National Institutes of 
Health--research into cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer's and other 
diseases--by $279


million. In this bill, we increase funding for NIH by $1 billion.


The President requests that we reduce the Head Start program by $100 
million, which would cut tens of thousands of children from the Head 
Start roles. This bill increases funding for Head Start by a modest 
$200 million.

Despite predictions of record energy prices this winter, Mr. Bush 
requests that we cut the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program for 
poor people by $379 million. In this bill, we maintain LIHEAP funding 
at last year's level.

Mr. Bush requests that we eliminate the community services block 
grant, the safety net that includes job training, housing, and 
emergency food assistance. In this bill, we increase the community 
service block grant by a modest $40 million.

In each of these program areas, the bill includes modest, reasonable 
increases in order to keep pace with inflation or to prevent 
significant cuts in essential services. This remains a bare-bones, no-
frills bill that conforms to a very conservative budget allocation.

For 5 years, Congress has appropriated countless billions of U.S. 
taxpayer dollars for schools, job programs, hospitals, and human 
services in Iraq. Democrats and Republicans on the committee agree that 
it's time to look after those same needs in this country. And that is 
exactly what we do in this bill.

As I said, we tried hard to accommodate the President's concerns. 
There has been so much division and partisanship in Washington in 
recent months. This bill offers a great opportunity for Congress and 
the President to show the American people that we can resolve our 
differences with compromise and bipartisan goodwill. We have met the 
President halfway--in my opinion, more than halfway. Now it is time for 
him to respond in kind, and to rescind his veto threat.

It is important that we send a strong, bipartisan message to the 
American people that, at a time when we are spending enormous sums on 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, we will not neglect or shortchange 
essential, lifesaving, and life-supporting programs and services here 
at home. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on this important bill. And I 
urge the President to join us in supporting this bipartisan bill.

I know Senators are eager to vote and go home. I just want to thank 
all of the Senators for their many kindnesses and their courtesies in 
bringing this bill to a close. It was 5 days, but it was 5 days of good 
debate and good amendments. We have a strong bipartisan bill. I hope we 
will pass it with a strong bipartisan vote, go to conference, and get 
it to the President's desk as soon as possible.