# IRAQ
## `3b2929ab04116636886f0ce23d13c321`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. I want to thank my colleague, the newest Member 
of the Congressional Black Caucus, who has joined us in the House, 
Congresswoman Laura Richardson, from the great State of California, who 
has joined us on the floor this evening, for her support. I also want 
to thank my staffer, Aaron Wasserman, for his work and research.

Let me close out this Special Order with a few more statistics and a 
couple of statements. Can you imagine this: The amount of money that 
we've spent on the Iraq war so far, 270,850,440 children could benefit 
from receiving health insurance for 1 year. In addition, a Census 
Bureau news release stated that 8.7 million uninsured children in 2006 
could be insured for 31 years with the amount of money that has been 
used in the Iraq war. The number of 4-year scholarships that could be 
provided, 21,927,497 scholarships could be provided to the children of 
the United States nationwide if we used the money from Iraq.

And let's talk about, for a moment, the cost to the people of Iraq. A 
recent article by the Washington Post has said that Iraq needs 10,000 
megawatts of electricity per day, but they're only producing 4,110. In 
civilian casualties, since April of 2004, the average number of Iraqis 
killed per day has grown from just over 20 to over 100. The total 
number of Iraqi casualties is estimated to be between 70,264 and 
150,000 people.

I am so pleased and honored to have an opportunity to be on the floor 
leading this Special Order on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
I personally am opposed to any permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq, 
and no control by the U.S. of Iraqi oil. I am opposed to the surge. The 
benchmarks not being met are, the GAO says three of 18 were not met, 
and I am opposed to continued funding for the surge.

There is no military solution to this war, and only political and 
diplomatic solutions will actually work. We should not arm Iraqi 
security forces when the United States leaves, and we should not leave 
behind weapons that can be used to perpetuate violence. We have a moral 
obligation to help with Iraqi national reconciliation and 
reconstruction.

I've been a Member of Congress now for 9 years, and I never thought 
when I ran for Congress that I would have the responsibility or 
obligation of attending deployments or attending funerals of my 
constituents, but as a Member of Congress I see it as my obligation. 
I'm so happy that even though I oppose this war, that I have a chance 
to go and meet with many of the Army Reservists and National Guards who 
have been deployed from my congressional district, and go to them with 
their families and say to them that I pray for their safe return, that 
when they return from their mission over in Iraq and Afghanistan, that 
they all come back.

I remember one of the deployments I took a flag that I had flown over 
the Capitol and gave it to these young men. And I said, I pray that you 
will bring my flag back. I want you to fly it every day, but when you 
come back, bring it back, but bring every member of your group back 
with you. And you know what? They brought me my flag back, and every 
one of the members of that troop came back home. It was a wonderful 
thing. But I've witnessed the death of a 19-year-old, Officer Sloan. 
I've witnessed the death of a 38-year-old. I've witnessed the death of 
so many young men and women as a result of this particular war.

And I say to the American people who are listening to our Special 
Order this evening, the Congressional Black Caucus believes and argues 
to the American people that you need to step up your protests. If you 
believe that this war is not correct and that our troops need to come 
home, you need to tell somebody. You just can't sit in your chair and 
be an armchair quarterback. You can't sit back and not say anything. 
The people, the Congress, the U.S. House of Representatives and the 
Senate needs to hear from you. The President needs to hear from you to 
let him know that we do not support his continued effort over in Iraq.

I am pleased, as I said, to be a part of this Special Order. I am 
pleased to represent the finest congressional district in the United 
States of America, the 11th Congressional District of Ohio. And I thank 
all of my constituents for writing, calling, e-mailing, faxing and 
saying to me, Congresswoman, it is your job to stand up and oppose this 
war. And ladies and gentlemen of Cleveland and northeast Ohio, that is 
what I'm doing.