# None
## `3b30c2fc2e4fd699dd9890e8f23d1115`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank the distinguished chairwoman from the Rules 
Committee, a native Kentuckyan and someone who has always stood for the 
finest traditions of this body.

In November of 2006, the American people decided to give the 
Democrats the control of the House of Representatives and the Congress. 
I was fortunate enough to be elected as one of the 43 new Democrats in 
that class.

And many people have said, in examining that election, oh, we were 
elected because of the war in Iraq. But that's not what I heard. What I 
heard when I was campaigning in 2006, and I think most of my colleagues 
in this class would say the same thing, is we want to return the 
Government to the tenets of the Constitution. We want to restore the 
checks and balances that the Founding Fathers prescribed. We want to 
make sure that this President and every President is held accountable, 
is not above the law.

So when we came here, one of the things we did was to start talking 
about article I, which established that all legislative powers herein 
granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States. We started 
wearing these buttons, article I buttons, and we offered them to 
Members of both parties, hoping that this would not be a partisan issue 
and not be an expression of partisanship but, instead, a respect for 
the integrity of this institution.

Unfortunately, most of my colleagues on the other side chose not to 
wear these buttons. They have chosen to make this a partisan issue in 
spite of the fact that during the last 6 years before we took control 
of the Congress, no subpoenas were issued against this President. No 
efforts to hold him accountable were made, in spite of the fact that in 
the prior administration a thousand subpoenas were offered by the 
Republican Congress to the Democratic President.



So, unfortunately, this has become a partisan issue when it shouldn't 
be. To me this is all about institutional integrity, about restoring 
the checks and balances.

Fundamental to our power, legislative power, is our ability to gather 
information. If we do not stand up for our right to gather information, 
then in spite of the fact that my colleagues on the other side have 
said we may lose our prerogatives if we go to court, if we don't 
challenge the President on this issue, we will have surrendered our 
prerogatives; and that is the worst fate that we could commit this body 
to.

So I would say, in closing, that many people look at polls today and 
say the standing of the Congress is at its lowest ebb ever, and they 
say maybe that's because we are not doing anything. I think it's 
because the American people recognize that we have been negligent in 
not upholding our responsibilities under the Constitution.

This is an important step in restoring the integrity of this 
institution and restoring the confidence of the American people in this 
body in its willingness to respond to the dictates of the Constitution.