---
---

# None
## `3b3145fc681e1ddec46dc258e393f80d`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 25 June 2009`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

This amendment would establish an overseas voting advisory board to 
provide guidance and oversight to the Federal Voting Assistance 
Program's efforts to increase ballot access for military and overseas 
voters.

I would like to thank the distinguished Chairman Skelton for his 
support of this amendment.

The Voting Assistance Program, which is part of the Department of 
Defense, is the government's primary entity for assisting overseas 
voters' access to the ballot, including men and women serving in the 
military and Americans living abroad, who are our unofficial 
ambassadors. With the global economy, more and more Americans will be 
living abroad, and we need to make sure that their voices and votes are 
counted.

While the State Department cannot give an exact number, there are 
estimated to be between 4 and 6 million Americans living abroad. There 
are also hundreds of thousands of brave men and women abroad from 
Afghanistan to Germany, serving our country in the Armed Forces.

In recent election cycles, the Voting Assistance Program has failed 
to bring about increased overseas voting participation, even with 
extreme and increased cost to the taxpayer.

For example, in 2004, the Integrated Voting Assistance System, 
created by the Voting Assistance Program, cost over $500,000 with only 
17 overseas voters participating. In 2006, the Voting Assistance 
Program did even worse by spending over $1.1 million on the same voting 
system, but it accounted for an increase of only eight votes placed in 
the system.

In 2008, the Voting Assistance Program Web site to help active 
members in the military to vote wasn't even put up and operative until 
July, just 4 months prior to the November election. From July 23 
through November 4, 2008, of the roughly 1.6 million servicemembers 
across the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps, only 780 
servicemembers requested ballots through the program. This really is 
disgraceful and disrespectful to the sacrifices made by our fighting 
men and women.

Mr. Honda and I have offered this amendment to address the issues to 
overseas military and civilian voting now long before the next 
election. This panel will provide oversight for the Federal program 
that has struggled in a mission to ensure greater ballot access for 
Americans overseas and our military. The program's longtime director 
resigned her post in 2008, and at that time it appeared that the next 
director would be chosen in a closed process.

Along with many Members of this body on both sides of the aisle, we 
sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates urging him to conduct a 
fair and open hiring process for the program.

I am pleased that Secretary Gates did a national search and selected 
Mr. Robert Carey to be the next program director. I know and I respect 
his experience, and I believe he will bring fresh ideas and workable 
solutions to improve ballot access for all Americans living abroad.

And while he is very capable and will certainly bring long-awaited 
and much-needed overhaul of the program, the advisory panel will add 
additional strength, expertise, and depth and support for his efforts.

By passing this amendment, which will establish an oversight board, 
we can guarantee that the best policies are being pursued to provide 
better access to the ballot by bringing greater attention and support 
for the Voting Assistance Program for Americans living abroad for our 
military.

I thank my colleagues for supporting this amendment, and I urge a 
''yes'' vote on the amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.