---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `3b35dcccc9a896f1e89a3a9b7b0e5c7e`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, I want to respond to the 
Senator from Arizona, who is my friend. But I want the Senator to 
understand that the committee did not cut THAAD nor the Aegis. To the 
contrary, the committee raised, for the very reasons the Senator from 
Arizona said--that we need more THAAD for our area commanders--we 
raised that $115 million, as well as the Aegis ballistic missile 
defense. We raised that $100 million from what was requested. So let's 
make sure we know what we are talking about.

Mr. President, what this all boils down to is the National Missile 
Defense Program is requested by the administration for $9.3 billion of 
authorization in this bill. In essence, this whole argument is that the 
committee has pared back that $9.3 billion request by $400 million.

That is what all this argument is about. It is an attempt to increase 
back that funding of a de minimis cut in a $9.3 billion program. Given 
all the other requirements we have in the U.S. Government and given all 
of the other requirements we have in the Department of Defense, should 
we have a modest decrease from the President's request of $9.3 billion 
in 1 year?

I suggest that there are so many other demands. Think about body 
armor. Think about getting the V-shaped hulls of MRAPs that are so 
resistant to the improvised explosive devices they run over on the road 
and that are saving marines' and soldiers' lives. Ask any commander in 
Iraq or Afghanistan what are their high priorities. Ask the commanders 
if THAAD, which is an intercept that can be launched from a mobile 
launcher, is an important program to them to intercept an incoming 
intermediate-range missile and you will get a quick answer from those 
military-area commanders that is what they want.

That is the philosophy we have tried to adapt in this bill and at the 
same time allow national missile defense research to continue but 
recognizing there are other priorities besides national missile 
defense. So we just took a de minimis cut out of a $9.3 billion request 
by the President. That is what all of this flap is about here: Is 
national missile defense going to have a minor cut so that we can do 
some of these other priorities for protecting our troops and satisfying 
their commanders' requests? That is what all this is about.

The Vitter amendment proposes to cut $271 million from the rest of 
the Defense Department and add it to the Missile Defense Agency. This 
is not funding that the Defense Department has requested. These are 
programs that are fully funded in our Armed Services Committee bill. 
But this amendment would give the Secretary of Defense an extraordinary 
and unwarranted power; that is, the power to cut any items in the 
defense budget that the Congress is putting in here in order to pay for 
this increase in an already flush national missile defense budget we 
have provided.

As the chairman of the Strategic Subcommittee, I can tell you that we 
have some of the Nation's most sophisticated weapons systems, many of 
which we cannot even speak about here because of their classification. 
This is not a good allocation of priorities.

I don't think we would want to give the Secretary of Defense the 
authority to ignore the will of Congress.

For example, would we want the Secretary of Defense to be able to go 
in and, in order to fund this amendment, cut body armor or would we 
want him to be able to go in and cut what the commanders in Afghanistan 
now are begging for--more of these V-hulled vehicles, which replace the 
humvees, that are saving our boys' and girls' lives called the MRAPs? 
Of course, we don't want that.

Would we want the Secretary of Defense to have the authority to go in 
and cut $271 million from the $430 million in the bill for sustaining 
the Joint Strike Fighter, its alternate engine which the Department 
supports? Of course, we wouldn't want to give the Secretary power to do 
that.

Would we want to give the Secretary the power to go in and totally 
wipe out the additional $118 million we provided


in this bill for operating a full B-52? The Department opposed that. 
Would we want to give the Secretary the ability to override the will of 
Congress to do that?

How about the F-22, the most sophisticated fighter aircraft? Would we 
want to give the Secretary of Defense the power to go in and cut half 
of the $500 million we have provided in this bill for advance 
procurement of the F-22? I don't think we would want to do that, but 
that is what we would do, is give the Secretary the power to do that if 
this amendment is adopted.

Would we want to give the Secretary the power of reducing the Army 
budget request of $512 million for the Patriot missile? Talk about 
countries and allies and force protection for our own troops of 
incoming warheads--the Patriot missile is a quick-reaction missile that 
intercepts those incoming missiles on our troops in a theater. Would we 
want to cut the increase we provided in this bill? This amendment would 
give the Secretary the power to do that.

Would we want to eliminate the proposed addition of $170 million for 
advance procurement of another amphibious ship called the LPD-17? I 
don't think that is what we want to do, but that is what this amendment 
is going to do, all under the ideology that we haven't provided enough 
for national missile defense. But we have provided almost $9 billion in 
this bill for it.

We have to set priorities and we have to allocate for programs that 
we want to make sure are there for the protection of our troops and our 
allies, and that is what we tried to do. Didn't we have a unanimous 
vote coming out of the committee for all of these priorities? We did. 
So why do we want to suddenly change the unanimous, bipartisan support 
of the Senate Armed Services Committee to adjust all of these 
priorities? Why would we want to change that? Because there are some 
people who say ideologically we want to pour more and more money into 
national missile defense. Isn't $9 billion enough for 1 year?

This Senator respectfully requests that the Senate listen to reason 
and common sense in the allocation of priorities. The committee 
recommends already--as I stated to Senator Kyl, we have added $215 
million for THAAD, which is the terminal high-altitude aerial defense 
which commanders are requesting, and we have also added that total 
amount of money, including the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense Program, 
which is launched from a ship and is very effective for incoming 
warheads.

We certainly agree there are potential threats from North Korea and 
places such as Iran, but those threats are generally in the 
neighborhood of where they are. That is why Aegis from a ship is so 
effective, and that is why THAAD from a mobile platform is so 
effective. We have plussed up those programs. They shouldn't be cut. 
But the Secretary of Defense, under this amendment, would have that 
authority.

The Vitter amendment would not make any choices about where the 
additional money to provide for this plus-up to an already rich and 
robust national missile defense budget would come from. This amendment 
would not make any choices about where that additional money would come 
from. So what it says is that this $271 million in additional funding 
for missile defense, programs that we have either fully funded at the 
level requested by the Pentagon or increased in our committee bill by 
$215 million--that program is so important that the Secretary of 
Defense could cut any other funding program in the Pentagon to pay for 
it. I don't think that is a responsible way to go.

This Senator, as the chairman of the Strategic Subcommittee, will 
oppose the amendment. It is my hope that Members on both sides of the 
aisle, members of the Armed Services Committee, will support the 
committee product.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.