---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `3b4fa935ec3dbbef848251ce755c5a72`
`Ms. COLLINS — 8 November 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President. I am pleased to join my colleagues, 
Senators McCaskill, Lieberman, and Coburn, in introducing the Inspector 
General Reform Act of 2007, a bipartisan measure that will help detect 
and prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in government operations.

This legislation is an important companion to S. 680, the 
Accountability in Government Contracting Act of 2007, which the Senate 
passed last night by unanimous consent. Indeed, many of the reforms in 
this bill were included in S. 680 in February, when I first introduced 
that legislation along with Senators Lieberman, Coleman, Carper, and 
McCaskill. At our Committee's markup of S. 680, I recommended that the 
provisions governing Inspectors General be removed from that bill so 
that we could work together to improve the effectiveness of our 
Nation's Inspectors General in a separate legislative vehicle. The 
legislation we introduce today reflects that collaboration and 
continues our Committee's strong, bipartisan efforts to improve the 
effectiveness of Government.

Inspectors General are vital partners in Congress's effort to 
identify inefficient, ineffective, and improper Government programs. By 
leveraging the expertise and independence of Inspectors General and 
their staffs, Congress has been able to identify, and take action to 
stop, wasteful spending.

Examples of the IGs' invaluable work could be cited in depressingly 
large numbers, but let me note two efforts that I found particularly 
striking. In a 6-month period following the Hurricane Katrina disaster, 
the Department of Homeland Security's IG produced 29 reports that 
included alarming discoveries, including that 63 percent of the DHS 
purchase-card transactions made during the response had no 
documentation of goods or services actually being received. The DHS IG 
investigations helped produce 243 convictions for fraud or related 
offenses and aided in recovery of millions of taxpayer dollars.

As you will recall, the impressive work of the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction led to Congress's extending SIGIR's 
work in that country. The SIGIR reported, among other things, that more 
than $9 billion in Iraqi oil revenues disbursed in 2004 could not be 
accounted for, that hundreds of contracts had problems, and that many 
projects to restore Iraq's water and electric services would not be 
completed. The SIGIR's work is estimated to yield taxpayers $25 of 
benefit for every dollar of cost.


The investigations and reports of IGs throughout the government help 
Congress shape legislation and oversight activities--improving 
Government performance, providing important transparency into programs, 
and giving Americans better value for their tax dollar.

Unfortunately, the past year has produced troubling instances in 
which the independence of Inspectors General has been challenged within 
their respective departments. We have also heard allegations of 
misconduct by some Inspectors General. These alarming examples of 
pressure and impropriety cannot be tolerated, and the legislation we 
introduce today is an important first step in clarifying congressional 
expectations concerning the independence, funding, training, and 
accountability of the Federal Government's Inspectors General.

The Inspector General Reform Act of 2007 would improve the 
independence and effectiveness of Inspectors General and contribute to 
better relations among the IGs, the agencies they serve, and the 
Congress. These improvements will also help to insulate and protect 
Inspectors General from inappropriate efforts to hinder their 
investigations.

First and foremost, the legislation provides a clear manifestation of 
how Congress believes IGs should be chosen. It amends the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 to explicitly require appointments on the basis of 
ability and integrity, not political affiliation.

Additional enhancements included in the bill are a mandatory 
requirement to notify Congress 30 days before the removal of an IG, 
helping to prevent politically motivated attempts to terminate 
effective IGs.

A separate budget line for Inspectors General that includes their 
overall budget and training needs, helping to ensure that these offices 
are properly funded to perform their important mission.

A pay increase for IGs and a prohibition on cash bonuses or awards. 
Most IGs already refuse to accept bonuses to avoid an appearance of 
conflict, with the result that many deputies earn more than the IGs. 
This provision will improve an IG's influence and independence within 
an agency while avoiding the appearance of improper influence that 
bonuses can create.

Authorization for the Government-wide IG Council on Integrity and 
Efficiency that will ensure appropriate investigations of misconduct or 
malfeasance by IGs. And finally,

Clarification that the IGs' subpoena authority extends to electronic 
documents.

The oversight experience of the Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs Committee and many reviews by the Government Accountability 
Office have confirmed the vital importance of the Inspector General 
function


in our system of Government. By addressing identified shortcomings and 
further insulating IGs from inappropriate influence, the legislation we 
introduce today will make a critical function of Government even more 
effective. I urge my colleagues to support its prompt consideration and 
passage.