---
---

# TRIBUTE TO PRIVATE JOSHUA ``JOSH'' ROY MOZINGO
## `3b58122d595e110e35000f142bc398d7`
`Mr. McINTYRE — 1 March 2007`

---


Mr. McINTYRE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Private 
Joshua ''Josh'' Roy Mozingo, who passed away after a car accident on 
Thursday, January 11, 2007. Josh's legacy and contributions to the U.S. 
military will live on in the hearts and minds of many for generations 
to come, and we are forever grateful for his service to our country.

Having grown up in both Lumberton and Fayetteville, North Carolina, 
Josh embodied the true spirit of a dedicated and determined soldier. 
When he was a youngster, I had the privilege of coaching Josh in 
Lumberton's T-ball recreation league. After graduating from high school 
in Fayetteville, Josh joined the Army and faithfully served his country 
in Iraq. During this time, he received several military honors 
including the Parachutist Badge, the National Defense Service Medal, 
the Army Service Ribbon, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and 
the Iraq Campaign Medal before he was honorably discharged.

Josh loved history, music, family dinners and trips to the beach. He 
also charmed those who knew him with his quick wit and great sense of 
humor.

Josh loved his family and is survived by his father, Jim; mother, 
Paula Ryan of Little River, S.C.; stepmother, Debra; brothers, Jeff, 
Jarad and Jordan, and Jason Miller of Wilmington; grandmother, Pauline 
Justice of Lumberton; sister-in-law, Tracy; and neice, Kayla.

President Dwight D. Eisenhower once said, ''If we make ourselves 
worthy of America's


ideals, if we do not forget that our nation was founded on the premise 
that all men are creatures of God's making, the world will come to know 
that it is free men who carry forward the true promise of human 
progress and dignity.'' Indeed, Josh's life was the embodiment of this. 
He was a man who was known by persons of all races, ages, and religions 
for both his kind deeds and his loving, unselfish heart. Madam Speaker, 
dedicated service to others has been the embodiment of Josh's life. May 
we all use his wisdom and selflessness as a beacon of direction and a 
source of true enlightenment. Indeed, may God bless to all of our 
memories the life and legacy of Private Joshua Mozingo.
