---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3b65bafa5057ada0eb173a3dea2a24d5`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Fiscal Year 
2008 Budget resolution.

I rise in support of this budget because I believe that it truly 
addresses the needs of all Americans, while restoring fiscal 
responsibility and accountability. Last year, Democrats pledged to move 
the country in a new direction and this budget is one more step in 
fulfilling that commitment. Republicans' irresponsible economic 
policies of the past six years have left a debt burden of $29,099 for a 
typical middle-income family of four in Rhode Island. This budget 
begins to reverse harmful cuts, restores critical domestic programs, 
and better reflects the priorities of all Americans by strengthening 
our national defense and investing in future generations.

This budget provides for the largest veterans' budget increase in 
American history, which will directly bolster healthcare services for 
91,160 veterans in Rhode Island. It is also critical for the 4,082 
brave Rhode Islanders, who have served their country in Afghanistan and 
Iraq since September 2001, many of whom will need VA health care 
services.

In 2004, 13,000 Rhode Island families were subject to the alternative 
minimum tax--and if nothing is done to fix the system, an estimated 
98,000 families here in Rhode Island will be subject to the AMT in 
2007. This budget supports middle-class tax cuts and protects middle-
income families from a tax increase by setting up a reserve fund for a 
long-term fix for the alternative minimum tax.

In Rhode Island, there are 100,000 small businesses that serve as the 
engine of the economy. This budget rejects the President's proposal to 
cut the Small Business Administration by 26 percent from last year's 
request and 56 percent from 2001. It also rejects the President's cuts 
that eliminate $11,429,000 in funding for job training and employment 
services in Rhode Island. These investments to a growing economy for 
America's families are needed as family income in Rhode Island has only 
increased $574 since 2000 and health care and energy prices continue to 
climb.

In Rhode Island, 20,260 of our children do not have health insurance. 
This budget helps these children by increasing funding for State 
Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)--reducing the number of 
uninsured kids across America by millions. This budget also rejects the 
Administration's proposal to cut Medicare funding by $170,154,922 for 
Rhode Island hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and home health care 
providers--because those proposals would make health care less 
accessible and less affordable for many Rhode Islanders.

The House budget provides substantially more funding for Rhode 
Island's 159,600 children enrolled in public elementary, middle and 
high schools--providing nearly $8 billion more in 2008 and 11 percent 
more over the next five years for education and training programs than 
requested by the President. This will increase resources for No Child 
Left Behind, special education and Head Start--rejecting harsh cuts and 
under funding for these critical education programs included in the 
President's budget.

Gas prices have increased by $1.11 in Rhode Island since January 
2001, an increase of approximately 73 percent. The Democratic House 
budget invests in renewable energy and energy efficiency to reduce our 
dependence on foreign oil, reduce global warming, and promote new 
technologies that can create American jobs. It will also restore 
funding for Rhode Island environmental programs cut by the President's 
budget--including $2,654,000 in Clean Water revolving loan funds that 
help Rhode Island improve wastewater treatment. Mr. Chairman, this 
budget is a critical step in a new direction. Today, for the first time 
in many years, this House will pass a budget that truly represents the 
priorities of the American people.