---
---

# VETERANS' MENTAL HEALTH AND OTHER CARE IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `3b72755f3505f236bf826cd64b52a2f1`
`Mr. AKAKA — 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to urge swift Senate passage 
of S. 2162, the proposed Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care 
Improvements Act of 2008, as amended. This is an omnibus health care 
measure, which responds to the burgeoning mental health concerns of 
veterans and their families. The bill, as it comes before the Senate, 
is a compromise agreement developed with our counterparts on the House 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs. I thank Chairman Filner and Ranking 
Member Buyer of the House committee for their cooperation in this 
endeavor. I also thank my good friend, the committee's ranking member, 
Senator Burr, for his great energy and cooperation as we have developed 
this bill.

This compromise agreement is also focused on addressing homelessness 
among veterans, increasing VA's efforts on pain management, promoting 
excellence in VA's efforts relating to epilepsy, and improving access 
to care in rural areas. It also includes a series of necessary 
programmatic authorization extensions as well as major medical facility 
construction authorizations.

The framework for this bill is my legislation, S. 2162 as originally 
introduced. This bill represents a bipartisan approach and was 
cosponsored early on by the ranking member, Senator Burr, along with 
Senators Mikulski, Ensign, Rockefeller, Smith, Bingaman, Dole, Clinton, 
Collins, Sessions, and Stevens.

Mr. President, I want to share how we began this process. The 
legislation did not stem from a lobbyist or an interest group. It came 
about because of one letter--a letter to me from the parents of Justin 
Bailey--Mary Kaye and Tony Bailey.

Justin Bailey was a war veteran who survived Iraq only to die while 
receiving care from VA for PTSD and substance use disorder. A week 
after his death last year, Justin's parents were naturally heartbroken 
by the death of their only son, but even more than that, they were 
concerned that other veterans might share his fate if VA mental health 
care did not improve.

In their own words, they asked, ''Everyone talks about the costs of 
sending troops to Iraq--what about the cost of caring for their 
injuries, both physical and psychological, when they return?''

From this first letter, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held 
various hearings on the mental health needs of veterans. The media 
carried so many stories of veterans who were suffering, and various 
studies showed how prevalent mental health difficulties are in those 
who return from duty in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We worked with experts in the mental health field and others who were 
advocating for veterans, including those at the Disabled American 
Veterans, to craft a bill that responded to the problem. This 
legislation responds to the concerns of the Baileys and many others who 
have come to the committee to tell their stories, and does so with the 
clear understanding that veterans care is a cost of war. If we neglect 
to pay these costs when the service members first return from 
deployment, we as a nation will suffer incalculable human costs that 
can never be repaid.

Provisions included in this compromise agreement are drawn from 
various bills which have all been reported favorably by the Senate 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, including S. 1233 as ordered reported 
on August 29, 2007; S. 2004, S. 2142, S. 2160, S. 2162, as ordered 
reported on November 14, 2007; and S. 2969, as ordered reported on June 
26, 2008.

I will briefly outline some of the key provisions in the compromise 
agreement.

This legislation would make comprehensive changes to VA mental health 
treatment and research. Most notably, it would ensure a minimum level 
of substance use disorder care for veterans who need such care. It 
would also require VA to improve treatment of veterans with PTSD co-
occurring with substance use disorders. Additionally, in order to 
determine if VA's residential mental health facilities are 
appropriately staffed, this bill would mandate a review of such 
facilities. It would also create a vital research program on PTSD and 
substance use disorders, in cooperation with, and building on the work 
of, the National Center for PTSD.

It is not uncommon for veterans with physical and mental wounds to 
turn to drugs and alcohol to ease their pain. Many experts believe that 
stress is the primary cause of drug abuse and of relapse to drug abuse. 
Sixty to eighty percent of Vietnam veterans who have sought PTSD 
treatment have alcohol use disorders. VA has long dealt with substance 
abuse issues, but there is much more that can be done. This legislation 
would provide a number of solutions to enhance substance use disorder 
treatment, including an innovative approach to substance use treatment 
via Internet-based programs.

Furthermore, the inclusion of families in mental health and substance 
use disorder treatment is critical. To that end, the compromise 
agreement would fully authorize VA to provide mental health services to 
families of veterans and would set up a program to proactively help 
veterans and their families to transition from deployment to civilian 
life.

Beneficiary travel reimbursements are essential to improving access 
to VA health care for veterans in rural areas. This legislation would 
increase the beneficiary travel mileage reimbursement rate from 11 
cents per mile to 28.5 cents per mile and permanently set the 
deductible to the 2007 amount of $3 each way. Senator Tester has been a 
leader on this issue, and I thank him for that.

Too often, veterans suffer from lack of care not only because they 
reside in rural areas but also because they are unaware of the services 
available to them. This legislation would enhance outreach and 
accessibility by creating a pilot program on the use of peers to help 
reach out to veterans. It would also encourage improved accessibility 
for mental health care in rural areas through coordination with 
community-based resources. Mental Health America and Iraq and 
Afghanistan Veterans of America brought to the committee the concept of 
using peers to help veterans, and I think it is a good one.

It is crucial that all veterans have access to emergency care. This 
bill would make corrections to the procedure used by VA to reimburse 
community hospitals for emergency care provided to eligible veterans to 
ensure that both veterans and community hospitals are not unduly 
burdened by emergency care costs. This provision is based on 
legislation introduced by Senator Brown in response to a situation in 
his own State of Ohio, where community hospitals were not being 
reimbursed timely from VA.

The compromise agreement also addresses homelessness among veterans, 
a far too prevalent problem. The bill would create targeted programs to 
provide assistance for low-income veteran families. It would also 
increase the total amount that VA is authorized to spend on its 
successful Grant and Per Diem Program, which assists community-based 
entities that serve homeless veterans. Finally, the bill would expand a 
program to help formerly incarcerated veterans reintegrate into life 
and ensure facilities are up to par for women veterans who are 
homeless.

Epilepsy is often associated with traumatic brain injury. This 
legislation would establish six VA epilepsy centers of excellence, 
focused on research, education, and clinical care activities in the 
diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. These centers would restore VA to 
the position of leadership it once held in epilepsy research and 
treatment. Senators Murray and Craig worked together to bring this 
critical legislation to the forefront. I also add that the Epilepsy 
Foundation of America and the American Academy of Neurology were very 
helpful to the committee on this issue.



The medical community has made impressive advances in pain care and 
management, but VA has lagged behind in implementing a standardized 
policy. S. 2162 would establish a pain care program at all VA inpatient 
facilities, to prevent long-term chronic pain disability. It also 
provides for education for VA's health care workers on pain assessment 
and treatment and would require VA to expand research on pain care. We 
relied on the Pain Care Forum and their many organizations devoted to 
the relief of pain, and I thank them for their efforts on behalf of 
veterans.

Finally, S. 2162 contains extensions of authorities for VA to provide 
some essential services to veterans, such as both institutional and 
non-institutional long-term care and caregiver assistance. It would 
also authorize a series of major medical facility construction projects 
and clinic leases in California, Texas, Puerto Rico, Florida, 
Louisiana, Colorado, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, South Carolina, 
Ohio, Arizona, Georgia, and Illinois.

Mr. President, before I close, I recognize and thank the individuals 
involved in putting together this comprehensive measure. Specifically, 
I thank Cathy Wiblemo and Dolores Dunn from the House committee and Jon 
Towers from the minority on the Senate committee. I also thank my own 
staff who assisted me in forging this bill. Kim Lipsky and Alex 
Sardegna heard the needs of veterans, sought creative solutions to some 
very complex problems, and worked tirelessly to make this bill a 
reality.

In closing, I thank Mary Kaye and Tony Bailey, who set aside their 
own grief about Justin and fought for better mental health care for all 
veterans. We all owe the Baileys a debt of gratitude for so many 
reasons.

I urge all of my colleagues to support swift passage of S. 2162, as 
amended. It would bring relief, support, and needed services to so many 
veterans and their families across the country.

I ask unanimous consent to have the Joint Explanatory Statement 
printed in the Record.