---
---

# BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY  MEETINGS
## `3b7dd87bb8c94d4487db39e1bd6b54f0`
`Mr. TANNER — 7 January 2009`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Speaker, during the period November 10-November 18, 
I led a bipartisan House delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly, 
NPA, meetings in Valencia, Spain and to additional meetings in Rome and 
Florence, Italy. The co-chair of the NPA delegation was the Hon. John 
Shimkus. The delegation also included, Representatives Jo Ann Emerson, 
Dennis Moore, John Boozman, Baron Hill, Kendrick Meek, Charles 
Melancon, Carolyn McCarthy, Melissa Bean, Jeff Miller, Mike Ross, David 
Scott and staff. The NPA delegation had a highly successful trip in 
which a wide range of political, economic and security issues on NATO's 
agenda, as well as issues involving the U.S.--Italy bi-lateral 
relationship, were examined.

The NATO Parliamentary Assembly, NPA, consists of parliamentarians 
from all 26 NATO member states. The NPA provides a unique forum for 
elected officials to analyze and debate issues that the NATO leadership 
discusses in Brussels. In addition to the 26 member parliaments, 
parliamentarians from countries such as Russia, Georgia, Croatia, and 
Afghanistan also participated in the sessions as associate states or 
observers and engaged in the discussions and debates. Through these 
sessions, delegates have the opportunity to learn first-hand the views 
and concerns that other countries have over the key security issues of 
the day. An invaluable aspect of the meetings is the chance to meet and 
come to know members of parliaments who play important roles in their 
own countries in shaping the security agenda that their governments 
pursues at NATO. These contacts can endure through a career, and can 
provide an invaluable private avenue for insights into each ally's 
particular views on an issue.

As NATO approaches its 60th anniversary summit in April 2009, the key 
issues on the agenda of the Alliance include the broader issue of the 
future of NATO and more specific issues including relations with 
Russia, energy security, missile defense, the conflict in Afghanistan, 
and emerging threats, such as piracy. Each of these issues was on 
vigorous display at the NPA meetings. The conflict between Russia and 
Georgia that played out this past August was the one issue that 
dominated the Valencia sessions. Many members of the Alliance expressed 
concern that Russia has begun to implement an increasingly assertive 
security policy including efforts to intimidate neighboring states, 
through the threat of force. There was also continued concern that 
Russia would use its energy supplies as a political lever to influence 
European policy. It was clear from our meetings that not only the 
United States and NATO, but the European Union as well, are concerned 
about Moscow's posture on a wide range of issues. There were, however, 
differences of opinion over how to structure future relations between 
NATO and Russia as well as the NPA and the Russian delegates to the 
Assembly. While the consensus among the delegates was that dialogue 
between NATO and the NPA and Russia was important and should continue, 
there were calls for the NPA to take some action against the Russian 
delegation as a show of displeasure over Russia's conduct in Georgia. 
As a result, the Assembly, at large, adopted a series of measures 
limiting, for now, the participation of the Russian delegation. These 
measures included, among others, the downsizing of the Russian 
delegation and the suspension of Russian participation in Committee and 
Sub-committee visits and the Transatlantic Forum.

In addition to these issues, many of the NPA delegates were extremely 
interested in the outcome of the U.S. Presidential elections and how 
the incoming administration would conduct relations with Europe in 
general and with NATO in particular. Questions over the incoming 
Administration's views on Afghanistan, Iran and missile defense were on 
everyone's agenda. A highlight of the session was a letter that 
President-elect Obama had written to outgoing NPA President Jose Lello 
of Portugal pledging to work with NATO and the NPA during the Obama 
administration.

Before the opening sessions of the Assembly's plenary the U.S. 
delegation received a detailed briefing from Ambassador Kurt Volker, 
the U.S. representative to NATO. He very ably prepared us for the 
nuances involved in some of the issues that would be debated during the 
NPA sessions, particularly regarding Russia and whether NATO should 
offer a Membership Action Plan to Georgia. In addition to the briefing 
by Ambassador Volker, various members of our delegation held private 
meetings with NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, who gave an 
overview of member state perspectives on the most controversial issues 
confronting the alliance; he later addressed the NPA's plenary session. 
The Foreign Minister of Spain, who also addressed the plenary, briefed 
several of our Members. And, we met with General Bantz John Craddock, 
Supreme Allied Commander for Europe who covered a wide range of issues, 
including the situation in Afghanistan. I also had the opportunity to 
attend a private meeting with Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia 
who recounted the August conflict between his country and Russia and 
what Georgia faces today with respect to reconstruction of the country.

Over two days of the NPA session, intense meetings of the NPA 
committees took place. There are five NPA committees. In each, 
parliamentarians presented reports on issues before the alliance. The 
reports were debated by all members of the committee who often made 
counter-arguments or suggestions for amending a report. Members of our 
delegation were present in each committee meeting.

I chaired the Economics and Security Committee, which heard reports 
on reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan, on Russia's economy, and on 
economic developments in India. Representative Boozman was the co-
rapporteur of this last report, which he very ably presented, and which 
generated an interesting discussion. The Committee also heard an 
interesting presentation by Rodrigo Rato, former managing director of 
the International Monetary Fund who spoke on the impact of the current 
global financial crisis. The Committee also heard from Lt. Gen. Karl 
Eikenberry, former head of the military command in Afghanistan who 
spoke on the nexus between security and development in Afghanistan.

The Political Committee heard several reports that touched off 
sometimes animated debates. Most notable were the reports on NATO's 
future political agenda and NATO's partnerships that included a lengthy 
discussion on the recent Russia-Georgia conflict and the future of 
Georgia's membership in NATO. There were significant differences of 
opinion on who actually was responsible for starting the war in Georgia 
and whether to grant Georgia a Membership Action Plan for eventual 
membership in NATO. U.S. Representative Mike Ross was a rapporteur for 
a report on a possible NATO political engagement with Iran. When Mr. 
Ross was unable to present his paper to the Committee, Representative 
Carolyn McCarthy stepped in and made the presentation. The report was 
well received. Representative Ben Chandler serves as a vice-chairman on 
this Committee and during the session, Representative Carolyn McCarthy 
was elected to serve as a Subcommittee vice-chairperson.

The Defense and Security Committee heard two reports on NATO's 
ongoing operations, including the ISAF mission in Afghanistan and on 
the contributions non-NATO states were making to NATO operations. The 
Committee also received a report on NATO's future capability 
requirements. During the session, the Committee received presentations 
from the Minister of Defense of Spain, and the Defense Minister of 
Georgia. Representative Tauscher is a vice-chair of one of the 
Committee's subcommittees.


The Science and Technology Committee heard reports on energy 
security, reducing global nuclear threats, and on missile defense.


Representative David Scott was very engaged on the issue of energy 
security and was successful in offering three amendments to the 
resolution proposed on energy and security.

The Committee on the Civil Dimension of Security also heard a report 
on energy security and the protection of energy infrastructure, along 
with reports on Kosovo and the future stability in the Balkans, and 
democracy and security in Central Asia. The Committee also heard 
presentations on the Balkans and Central Asia.

On Tuesday, the final day of the plenary, the general assembly 
debated and approved a resolution on relations with Russia. The 
consensus view was that NATO and Russia should resume their dialogue 
and continue to find ways to cooperate with each other on critical 
issues. Also on Tuesday, the Assembly elected new officers to serve 
during 2009. I had the honor of being elected President of the Assembly 
and look forward to an interesting and productive year.

Prior to arriving in Valencia for the NPA Plenary, the delegation 
traveled to Italy on November 10-13 for bi-lateral meetings in Rome and 
Florence. In Rome, the delegation received a briefing by U.S. Charge d' 
Affairs, Barbara Leaf and Embassy staff on current relations between 
Italy and the United States, that continues to be strong. After the 
briefing, the delegation, in honor of Veterans Day, traveled to the 
Sicily-Rome Cemetery in the town of Nettuno, just outside the city of 
Anzio.

During the Second World War, the critical Italian campaign was 
launched in Sicily and proceeded up the coast of Italy. The delegation 
visited the resting place of almost 8,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, and 
airman who died in the liberation of Sicily and in the landings at 
Salerno and Anzio. The beautiful cemetery is managed by the U.S. 
American Battle Monuments Commission. Together, the members of the 
delegation laid a wreath at the cemetery's central monument, ''Brothers 
in Arms.'' Members of the delegation also visited individual graves of 
fallen soldiers from their states to place a rose in memory of those 
servicemen. This was perhaps the most memorable and poignant moment of 
the delegation's trip. We were deeply honored to visit the cemetery and 
want to thank Ron Grosso of the Commission and Joseph Bevilacqua, 
Cemetery Superintendent, for their hospitality and the fine job they do 
preserving the memory of those U.S. servicemen who gave their lives in 
Italy.

Upon our return to Rome, the delegation visited the NATO Defense 
College for a tour and briefing by the College Commandant, Lt. Gen. 
Wolf-Dieter Loeser. The College was created in 1951 at the suggestion 
of General Dwight Eisenhower who argued that military officers from the 
newly created NATO Alliance ''needed an establishment where they could 
meet and learn to operate together.'' The Commandant briefed us on the 
work taking place at the College and the issues currently under 
discussion in the Fall curriculum. We also had the opportunity to meet 
several U.S. military personnel attending the Senior Course.

Following the visit to the Defense College, the delegation visited 
the Italian Ministry of Defense. We were briefed by the Deputy Minister 
of Defense Crosetto and the head of the Italian General Staff, General 
Camporini who gave us an overview of the numerous operations that the 
Italian military were currently engaged in. Italy has approximately 
8,000 troops stationed abroad, including 2,200 in the ISAF mission in 
Afghanistan, 2,500 in Lebanon, and 83 engaged in training the Iraqi 
National Police. This meeting provided a precise, focused discussion of 
how Italy is contributing to the global security mission.

Also in Rome, the delegation was hosted at a working lunch by Senator 
Sergio Di Gregorio, President of the Italian delegation to the NATO 
Parliamentary Assembly. We had a very animated discussion on issues 
ranging from the U.S. presidential elections, to Afghanistan, to Russia 
and energy security. At the time of our visit, the Italian Senate was 
in the middle of a debate on their defense budget. With the global 
economic crisis affecting everyone, Senator Di Gregorio told us that 
the defense budget for next year would be less than 1 percent of the 
Italian GDP. As a result, we were told it was unlikely that Italy could 
do much more in Afghanistan. Following our meeting at the Senate, the 
delegation met with Mr. Gianni Letta, Under Secretary of the Council of 
Ministers and close advisor to Prime Minister Berlusconi. Mr. Letta 
covered a range of issues but spent some time addressing the impact of 
the global financial crisis on Italy.

On November 13, the delegation traveled to Florence. We were met by 
U.S. Consul General Mary Ellen Countryman who briefed the delegation on 
the work the Consulate does in Tuscany and the surrounding region. 
Tuscany is home to several thousand U.S. citizens, retired, employed, 
or students studying abroad. While in Florence we also visited the 
European University Institute which operates a campus comprising 
doctoral students from all over Europe. We were warmly welcomed by EUI 
President Yves Menv, faculty and students. A lively discussion followed 
on the U.S. elections and its impact on transatlantic relations, the 
differences between the European and U.S. views of the world, and the 
future role of NATO, relations with Russia, and the conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

Our visit to Italy concluded that evening at a dinner hosted by New 
York University which operates a campus outside Florence for American 
students studying in Italy. Our dinner was hosted by Ms. Ellyn Toscano, 
Director of the Campus. Ellyn is no stranger to the House of 
Representatives where she served for several years as the chief of 
staff to our colleague, Jose Serrano.

Madam Speaker, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly provides a unique 
opportunity for Members of Congress to engage in serious discussions on 
critical issues with our colleagues from other NATO member states. I 
believe our delegation, and thus this Congress, benefits greatly from 
the information we exchange and the personalities we meet during these 
meetings. I look forward to a very productive Assembly during 2009.

In conclusion, I would like to acknowledge the hard work and 
dedication of our Embassy staff in Rome and Madrid, our Consular 
services in Florence and our entire military escort group from the 
United States Air Force, including the pilots who took us to Europe and 
back for the NPA sessions. Our diplomatic corps and military personnel 
provide a quiet but invaluable service in ensuring safety and an 
efficient schedule for U.S. congressional delegations, and this group 
of diplomats, servicemen and women was no exception. I thank them for 
their hard work and their dedication to duty.
