---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `3b8378837ce703e8739b0963b14761eb`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Thank you for the time, Jerry, I really 
appreciate it.

I have talked about this before with my colleagues over there. Al 
Qaeda is the enemy. They are the ones that attacked us on 9/11, 
attacked the USS Cole, our embassies in Africa, and they have said they 
want to destroy us.

The military leader of the terrorist group in Iraq today is the al 
Qaeda leader. They want to drive us out of Iraq and defeat us. They 
want us to turn tail and run so they can continue their attacks on the 
free world, especially the United States of America.

I just don't understand this. You say you want to redeploy. That 
means withdraw. You say that you want a fair end to this war. You say 
that you want a timetable for withdraw.

We didn't do that in World War II. It was a world war against 
terrorism. Adolph Hitler killed 6 million Jews in the ovens. This is a 
world war. They have told us in no uncertain terms what they want to 
do. They are the enemy, and we are going to withdraw?

I just don't understand it. I don't understand my colleagues. We 
cannot do that. They aren't going to go away. They will blow themselves 
up holding a baby in their arms. They will do anything to defeat us.

Al Qaeda, remember? This President said this war may go on for a long 
time because they want to destroy us. He didn't put a timetable on it; 
nor should we.

Al Qaeda, they blew up the World Trade Center; remember? They killed 
over 3,000 people and flew into the Pentagon; remember? They want to 
destroy us; remember? They are in charge of the military operation over 
in Iraq now; remember?

And you want to withdraw? If you don't fight them there, where are 
you going to fight them? Are you going to fight them in New York? Are 
you going to fight them in L.A.? Are you going to wait until they blow 
up Indianapolis? Where? If not now, when?