# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF A NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY  PROJECT WEEK
## `3b8653814670e0413d37b61a844b7bcc`
`Mr. PORTER â€” 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 770, 
which recognizes the goals and ideals of National Veterans History 
Project Week.


This resolution will help highlight the ongoing efforts of the American 
Folklife Center in the Library of Congress to collect and to document 
the personal histories of our Nation's greatest heroes, our Nation's 
veterans. I can't imagine a better way to recognize these heroes. They 
are amongst us. They are in our families. They are in our 
neighborhoods. They need some encouragement, but I can't think of a 
better way.

National Veterans History Project Week will focus the Nation's 
attention on the importance of veterans' history. The goal is to honor 
veterans and to ensure that their stories are available for future 
generations. We owe every freedom we have to the service and, of 
course, the sacrifice of America's veterans and their families. Their 
experience teaches us about the power of the human spirit and the 
realities of war. It is incumbent upon us to ensure that their history 
is honored and preserved.

This resolution calls upon the people of the U.S. to interview at 
least one veteran from their families or their communities, following 
the guidelines set forth by the Veterans History Project, encourages 
local, State and national organizations, along with the Federal, State 
and local government institutions to document, to preserve and honor 
the service of American wartime veterans.

I only wish my father, who passed away in 1995 and was a World War II 
veteran, had the opportunity to share his history and the past 
experiences that he had. As a matter of fact, my father was very 
cautious in even talking about his experiences in the war until the 
final weeks of his life. I truly only wish that he had had this 
opportunity to share with his grandchildren.

The Veterans History Project relies on the efforts of volunteer 
interviewers from the veterans service organizations, libraries, 
historical societies, museums, retirement communities, professional 
associations, governmental agencies, universities, high school 
students, boy scouts, girl scouts, and families to contribute to its 
collection which currently has more than 50,000 individuals.

Yes, veterans need some encouragement. They want to be asked. I and a 
number of individuals that we have interviewed and we have placed their 
history into the Congressional Record, many of them served our Nation's 
wars from World War II, Jack Mates, Martin Schlesinger, and Jack 
Watson. From the Korean War, Johnnie Phillips, from Vietnam, Johnny 
Kinder, Chuck Baker, and Stephen Long. From the Cold War, Al O'Donnell 
from Las Vegas. And from Iraq and Afghanistan, Henry Lujan.

I am proud to be an original sponsor of this bipartisan resolution. 
While this issue is not and shall not be forgotten, we need to continue 
reminding our veterans that we need and we appreciate who they are and 
what they have done. I believe that preserving the histories of our 
Nation's veterans is of the utmost importance for us as Americans. This 
is an appropriate way to honor our veterans and the volunteers to seek 
and collect those wonderful stories of heroism.

I would also like to thank my friend and colleague, Mr. Kind from 
Wisconsin, for his strong support.