---
---

# ARMY SPC DANIEL AGAMI POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `3b8b84ba1b4fd504ffe530772c5dcc95`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker, as Chair of the House subcommittee with oversight 
authority for the United States Postal Service, I stand in support of 
H.R. 6338, which renames a postal facility in Coconut Creek, Florida, 
in honor of Specialist Daniel Agami.

H.R. 6338 enjoys the support of the entire House delegation from 
Florida


and was introduced by my colleague, Representative Ron Klein, on June 
20, 2008. The measure was taken up by the Oversight Committee on July 
16, 2008, where it was passed by voice vote.

H.R. 6338 calls for honoring Specialist Daniel Agami for his 
unwavering commitment, service and sacrifice to America. Army 
Specialist Daniel Agami died on June 21, 2007, in Baghdad from injuries 
he suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. He was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, 
2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division, Schweinfurt, Germany.

While in college in 2005, he enlisted in the Army and was deployed to 
serve in Iraq the following year. Army Specialist Agami not only served 
as a combat soldier, but he was also a mentor for orphaned children in 
Iraq. Described as having a sunny personality, he was loved by the 
children he worked with and is certainly missed.

Daniel's parents were presented with his Purple Heart and Bronze Star 
at his funeral. Agami was also posthumously honored with the Good 
Conduct Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Iraqi 
Campaign Medal and the Combat Infantryman's Badge.

In honor of his tremendous service to this country, I urge my 
colleagues to join me in passing H.R. 6338 and renaming the postal 
facility on West Hillsboro Avenue in Coconut Creek, Florida, after 
Specialist Daniel Agami.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.