---
---

# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `3ba96c5c18b0a972662df30e461d12a9`
`Mr. ELLISON — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. I thank the gentlewoman from California for allowing me 
to participate in the Out of Iraq Caucus. I do formally request 
membership in such caucus at this moment and anxiously await being a 
full-fledged member of the Out of Iraq Caucus.

Mr. Speaker and Members, I rise today really in the mindset of this 
coming weekend, which is Martin Luther King's birthday celebration. 
Martin Luther King, we all know, was a valiant defender of civil and 
human rights, also stood up strongly for the poor, but in this day and 
time must be recognized as one of the clearest voices for peace that 
this country has ever known.

As I stand before you asking this country to join this Out of Iraq 
Caucus of the Congress, the whole United States should rise up, one and 
all, and join the caucus. And I just want to mention that it is 
important now to remember that those voices of peace, of which Martin 
Luther King was a key voice, need to be listened to, need our 
attention.

Today, it is important to point out, as we walk toward the Martin 
Luther King holiday, that it was he who spoke up for peace, and he 
didn't do it in a way that was easy. Martin Luther King was arrested 
over 30 times as he was talking about peace. In 1967, and it is 
important to remember this, in 1967 he gave a speech in which he said 
that silence could continue no more. And then on April 4 of 1967, 1 
year before his death, he said that we have got to get out of Vietnam.

And he didn't just say that Vietnam was the issue. He said Vietnam 
was critical, and Vietnam was what he was talking about at that time, 
but he actually projected a greater vision than


just Vietnam. He talked about a worldwide fellowship that lifts 
neighborly concern beyond one's tribe, race, class, and nation. In 
fact, what he talked about was a generosity of spirit, a politics of 
spirit in which we all could live in peace with each other.

We need to say, no escalation, get out of Iraq now, but America needs 
to adopt as its guiding principle, America needs to say the thing that 
guides us the most is peace. It is not living in superiority to the 
nations of the world, but living in brotherhood and sisterhood with the 
nations of the world. We need to talk about a peace of generosity, a 
peace of inclusion, and a peace that will allow us to look our 
constituents in the face and say we will not send your brothers, your 
sisters, your children, your parents into a war zone to be one of 
20,000 more targets.

We are going to stand up with courage, just like Martin Luther King 
did. We will withstand the criticism of those detractors who just don't 
get it. We will stand with the people who need peace, which is our 
constituents, and with the soldiers. Today, my colleagues, we are 
actually protecting our soldiers, as they protect us, by calling for no 
escalation. Withdraw from Iraq. Peace now.