---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3bba107496f8d06cba95a8eb3e753bd3`
`Ms. COLLINS — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the amendment 
that is being offered by Senator Levin and Senator McCain that will add 
to this legislation the wounded warriors bill that we worked so hard on 
in the Armed Services Committee.

I also wish to acknowledge the great leadership of the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, Senator Larry Craig and Senator Daniel Akaka.

This is an unusual case where two Senate committees worked together 
in a bipartisan way to produce legislation that will help improve the 
care of our veterans, our wounded warriors, and their families.

All of us were outraged by the reports of substandard conditions at 
Walter Reed Hospital. But our investigation of those conditions 
revealed other problems with the system--disparities in the award of 
disability ratings, poor treatment of our soldiers and marines after 
they had left the military hospitals, a lack of a smooth transition 
into the VA medical system. These are just some of the problems that 
were uncovered. I believe this legislation contains the reforms that 
are going to make a real difference in ensuring high quality, 
consistent medical care for those who have given so much.

I have become particularly concerned about the treatment of those who 
are suffering from traumatic brain injury. Traumatic brain injury, or 
TBI, has emerged as the signature injury of the Iraq war. Bomb blasts 
are the most common cause of injury and death in Iraq. While 
improvements in body armor and protective gear have enabled our troops 
to survive attacks that once would have proven deadly, they still do 
not fully protect against damage from blasts from roadside explosives 
or suicide bombers.

As many as 28 percent of the 1.4 million troops who have served in 
Iraq and Afghanistan have been exposed to bomb blasts and may have 
suffered at least some form of traumatic brain injury. Mr. President, 
60 percent of the blast victims treated at Walter Reed have been 
diagnosed with mild, moderate, or severe traumatic brain injury.

I visited one such soldier recently at Walter Reed, a 19-year-old 
soldier from Maine who is faced with making an agonizing medical 
decision while he is suffering the effects of a mild case of TBI. I 
thought: How terribly difficult it was for this brave young man to be 
faced with making a decision about whether to amputate his foot while 
his judgment is impaired by a traumatic brain injury, an injury that 
was not initially diagnosed. And that is one of the problems.

I have worked very closely with the Senator from New York, Mrs. 
Clinton, to come up with a better system for screening soldiers for TBI 
because while the evidence of brain injury may be dramatically clear in 
some cases, in others there may be no outward or visible sign of the 
trauma. It can take days, weeks, or even months before the symptoms of 
TBI are readily apparent. As a consequence, as with this soldier, a 
mild case of TBI may go misdiagnosed or untreated, particularly if the 
servicemember has sustained more obvious injuries.

Soldiers with TBI often have symptoms affecting several areas of 
brain function. Headaches, sleep disorders, and sensitivity to light 
and noise are common. Attention, memory, language, and problem-solving 
abilities can be affected. Some of the more troubling symptoms can be 
behavioral: mood changes, depression, anxiety, emotional symptoms. 
Moreover, sometimes the symptoms of TBI overlap with post-traumatic 
stress disorder, making it difficult to distinguish between the two.

Sadly, failure to accurately diagnose or treat TBI can result in 
frustration, inadequate medical treatment, and a series--an endless 
series--of hardships for our returning veterans and their families.


So I am very pleased the wounded warriors bill includes an expansion 
of research into TBI and, perhaps most important, provisions authored 
by Senator Clinton and myself that will address problems resulting from 
the misdiagnosis, or the failure to diagnose at all, cases of TBI. The 
bill will improve the screening process that our troops go through 
before deployment to improve TBI diagnoses after deployment.

While many wounded servicemembers receive cognitive evaluations upon 
their return, if there is no baseline test conducted prior to the 
injury, it can be very difficult to assess the injury, and it can lead 
to questions about the validity of postdeployment assessment. So our 
amendment requires a baseline assessment to be done prior to the 
deployment.

I end by saying that the idea for this predeployment assessment came 
to me from a neurologist in Maine who treated a soldier back from Iraq 
who had a traumatic brain injury that had been missed. It was severely 
interfering with his recovery. Fortunately, this neurologist was able 
to make the correct diagnosis and see that this brave soldier who had 
sacrificed so much got the care and treatment he needed.

I believe the provisions in the wounded warriors bill, the amendment 
before us, will greatly reduce the chances of misdiagnosis in the 
future. There are many other provisions in this bill that are going to 
improve the treatment and care for those who have served their country 
so well and sacrificed so much, but I did want to highlight these 
provisions of special interest to me.

Again, I salute the leaders of the Armed Services Committee and the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee for their dedication and hard work. All of 
us have learned so much, and each and every one of us is committed to 
ensuring the highest quality of care for those who have sacrificed so 
much.