---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `3bc072722543721d6f532c31d36c0f27`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Madam Chairman, General Walter Boomer, the 
commander of the Marines in the first gulf war, once said, a soldier's 
best friend, next to his rifle, is the postman.

This amendment, which is a scaled down version of H.R. 1439, the 
Supply Our Soldiers Act of 2007, sponsored by the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Fossella) and myself, will help our soldiers, our sailors, 
our airmen and marines fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan receive letters 
and packages more regularly from their loved ones.

We're not able to be with our heroes fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but we're able to send a little piece of home overseas to 
them. Whether it's mailing the basic essentials or a videotape and a 
letter, tangible items from loved ones are always appreciated.



Holding a son or daughter's art project or biting into a homemade 
cookie reminds them that they support what they are doing and the 
sacrifices they are making for our country.

The cost of sending letters and packages overseas to Iraq and 
Afghanistan can be a burden for a family already making great 
sacrifices. I think that regular communication between soldiers and 
their families should not be inhibited by the cost of postage, and some 
things just can't be e-mailed. This amendment will help soldiers 
receive the necessary supplies and words of encouragement from loved 
ones more frequently, keeping morale raised while in the combat zone.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.