---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `3bcfa0cb94904729fbead1d4ab144480`
`Mr. FILNER — 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. FILNER. I yield myself 4 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, when I became chairman of the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs 3 years ago, the VA was strained to the breaking point by years 
of chronic underfunding. We were a country at war; yet, the Department 
of Veterans Affairs remained unprepared to care for the hundreds of 
thousands of new veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

It is simply our duty as a Nation, no matter where we stand on the 
war, to put our men and women in harm's way under the care of our 
Nation when they return. Under the Democratic leadership, Congress has 
provided almost a 60 percent increase for VA medical care funding over 
the last 3 years, adding over $20 billion to the VA budget baseline.

S. 1963 demonstrates America's commitment to the dedicated 
servicemembers who have served in uniform and puts front and center the 
health care needs of veterans and their families. It is our pledge to 
them that we have not forgotten the sacrifices they have made in 
defense of this country. So in this bill, we help caregivers of injured 
veterans, women veterans, rural veterans, homeless veterans, and 
veterans with mental health issues.

S. 1963 provides immediate support to the mothers, fathers, husbands, 
and wives caring for warriors from the current conflicts as well as 
from previous conflicts. Today we have the opportunity to recognize 
their tremendous sacrifice and share their heavy burden.

The bill also expands and improves VA services for the 1.8 million 
women veterans currently receiving VA health care and goes a step 
further by anticipating the expected increase of women warriors over 
the next 5 years. This bill seeks to build a VA health care system 
respectful of the unique medical needs of women veterans.

S. 1963 also advances America's commitment to end veterans' 
homelessness. Hundreds of thousands of veterans are at risk of 
homelessness because of poverty and the lack of support from family and 
friends. An increasing number of veterans of operations in Afghanistan 
and Iraq are falling into this category, and we must be vigilant in 
providing support to this population.

We expand the number of places where homeless vets may receive 
supportive services; and for our veterans struggling without a roof 
over their heads, this small change in the law will make a big 
difference in their lives.

The bill also includes key provisions to improve health care provided 
to our rural veterans by authorizing stronger partnerships with 
community providers and the Department of Health and Human Services. 
These collaborations will allow VA to offer health care options to 
servicemembers living far from the nearest medical facility.

In addition, we address the troubling reality of posttraumatic stress 
disorder and troubling incidents of suicide amongst the veterans' 
population. The bill requires a much-needed and long-awaited study on 
veteran suicide and requires the VA to provide counseling referrals for 
former members of the Armed Forces who are not otherwise eligible for 
readjustment counseling.

S. 1963 provides higher priority status for Medal of Honor 
recipients, establishes a director of physician assistant services, and 
creates a committee on care of veterans with traumatic brain injury. It 
requires the VA to provide health care for herbicide-exposed Vietnam 
veterans and veterans of the Persian Gulf War who have insufficient 
medical evidence to establish a service-connected disability, and it 
prohibits the VA from collecting copayments from veterans who are 
catastrophically disabled.

This bill, Mr. Speaker, demands our immediate attention. We owe our 
veterans a great debt of gratitude, and this bill represents an 
understanding that the sacrifices of our veterans are shared amongst 
all Americans.

I urge all of my colleagues to support passage of S. 1963, as 
amended, and reserve the balance of my time.

 Explanatory Statement Submitted by Mr. Filner, Chairman of the House 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Regarding the Amendment of the House of 











 Representatives to S. 1963




Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010




 S. 1963, as amended, the ''Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus 


 Health Services Act of 2010,'' reflects the Compromise 


 Agreement between the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 


 Senate and the House of Representatives (the Committees) on 


 health care and related provisions for veterans and their 


 caregivers. The provisions in the Compromise Agreement are 


 derived from a number of bills that were introduced and 


 considered by the House and Senate during the 111th Congress. 


 These bills include S. 1963, a bill to provide assistance to 


 caregivers of veterans, to improve the provision of health 


 care to veterans, and for other purposes, which passed the 


 Senate on November 19, 2009 (Senate bill); and H.R. 3155, a 


 bill to provide certain caregivers of veterans with training, 


 support, and medical care, and for other purposes, which 


 passed the House on July 27, 2009 (House bill).



 In addition, the Compromise Agreement includes provisions 


 derived from the following bills which were passed by the 


 House: H.R. 402, a bill to designate the Department of 


 Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Knoxville, Tennessee, 


 as the ''William C. Tallent Department of Veterans Affairs 


 Outpatient Clinic,'' passed by the House on July 14, 2009; 


 H.R. 1211, a bill to expand and improve health care services 


 available to women veterans, especially those serving in 


 Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, from 


 the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, 


 passed by the House on June 23, 2009; H.R. 1293, a bill to 


 provide for an increase in the amount payable by the 


 Secretary of Veterans Affairs to veterans for improvements 


 and structural alterations furnished as part of home health 


 services, passed by the House on July 28, 2009; H.R. 2770, a 


 bill to modify and update provisions of law relating to 


 nonprofit research and education corporations, and for other 


 purposes, passed by the House on July 27, 2009; H.R. 3157, a 


 bill to name the Department of Veterans Affairs outpatient 


 clinic in Alexandria, Minnesota, as the ''Max J. Beilke 


 Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic,'' passed by 


 the House on November 3, 2009; H.R. 3219, a bill to make 


 certain improvements in the laws administered by the 


 Secretary of Veterans Affairs relating to insurance and 


 health care, and for other purposes, passed by the House on 


 July 27, 2009; and H.R. 3949, a bill to make certain 


 improvements in the laws relating to benefits administered by 


 the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, 


 passed by the House on November 3, 2009.



 The Compromise Agreement also includes provisions derived 


 from the following House bills, which were introduced and 


 referred to the Subcommittee on Health of the House Committee 


 on Veterans' Affairs: H.R. 919, to enhance the capacity of 


 the Department of Veterans Affairs to recruit and retain 


 nurses and other critical health care professionals, and for 


 other purposes, which was introduced on February 9, 2009; 


 H.R. 3796, to improve per




 diem grant payments for organizations assisting homeless 


 veterans, which was introduced on October 13, 2009; and H.R. 


 4166, to make certain improvements in the laws administered 


 by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs relating to educational 


 assistance for health professionals, and for other purposes, 


 which was introduced on December 1, 2009, and was 


 concurrently referred to the Committee on Energy and 


 Commerce.



 The House and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs have 


 prepared the following explanation of the Compromise 


 Agreement. Differences between the provisions contained in 


 the Compromise Agreement and the related provisions in the 


 bills listed above are noted in this document, except for 


 clerical corrections and conforming changes, and minor 


 drafting, technical, and clarifying changes.













 Title I--Caregiver Support



 Assistance and Support Services for Family Caregivers 




 (section 101)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 102) that 


 would create a new program to help caregivers of eligible 


 veterans who, together with the veteran, submit a joint 


 application requesting services under the new program. 


 Eligible veterans are defined as those who have a serious 


 injury, including traumatic brain injury, psychological 


 trauma, or other mental disorder, incurred or aggravated 


 while on active duty on or after September 11, 2001. Within 


 two years of program implementation, the Department of 


 Veterans Affairs (VA) would be required to submit a report on 


 the feasibility and advisability of extending the program to 


 veterans of earlier periods of service. Severely injured 


 veterans are defined as those who need personal care services 


 because they are unable to perform one or more independent 


 activities of daily living, require supervision as a result 


 of neurological or other impairments, or need personal care 


 services because of other matters specified by the VA. For 


 accepted caregiver applicants, VA would be required to 


 provide respite care as well as pay for travel, lodging and 


 per-diem expenses while the caregiver of an eligible veteran 


 is undergoing necessary training and education to provide 


 personal care services. Once a caregiver completes training 


 and is designated as the primary personal care attendant, 


 this individual would receive ongoing assistance including 


 direct technical support, counseling and mental health 


 services, respite care of no less than 30 days annually, 


 health care through the Civilian Health and Medical Program 


 of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA), and a 


 monthly financial stipend. The provision in the Senate bill 


 would require VA to carry out oversight of the caregiver by 


 utilizing the services of home health agencies. A home health 


 agency would be required to visit the home of a veteran not 


 less often than once every six months and report its findings 


 to VA. Based on the findings, VA would have the final 


 authority to revoke a caregiver's designation as a primary 


 personal care attendant. The provision also would require an 


 implementation and evaluation report, and provide for an 


 effective date 270 days after the date of the enactment of 


 this Act.



 The House bill contains comparable provisions (section 2 


 and section 4) with some key differences. The provisions in 


 the House bill would provide educational sessions, access to 


 a list of comprehensive caregiver support services available 


 at the county level, information and outreach, respite care, 


 and counseling and mental health services to family and non-


 family caregivers of veterans of any era. For family 


 caregivers of eligible veterans who served in Operation 


 Enduring Freedom (OEF) or Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF), 


 the House bill would require VA to provide a monthly 


 financial stipend, health care service through CHAMPVA, 


 and lodging and subsistence to the caregiver when the 


 caregiver accompanies the veteran on medical care visits. 


 Eligible OEF or OIF veterans are defined as those who have 


 a service-connected disability or illness that is severe; 


 in need of caregiver services without which the veteran 


 would be hospitalized, or placed in nursing home care or 


 other residential institutional care; and are unable to 


 carry out activities (including instrumental activities) 


 of daily living.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision 


 modified to no longer require VA to enter into relationships 


 with home health agencies to make home visits every six 


 months. In addition, the Compromise Agreement follows the 


 House bill in creating a separate program of general family 


 caregiver support services for family and non-family 


 caregivers of veterans of any era. Such support services 


 would include training and education, counseling and mental 


 health services, respite care, and information on the support 


 services available to caregivers through other public, 


 private, and nonprofit agencies. In the event that sufficient 


 funding is not available to provide training and education 


 services, the Secretary would be given the authority to 


 suspend the provision of such services. The Secretary would 


 be required to certify to the Committees that there is 


 insufficient funding 180 days before suspending the provision 


 of these services. This certification and the resulting 


 suspension of services would expire at the end of the fiscal 


 year concerned.



 The overall caregiver support program for caregivers of 


 eligible OEF or OIF veterans would authorize VA to provide 


 training and supportive services to family members and 


 certain others who wish to care for a disabled veteran in the 


 home and to allow veterans to receive the most appropriate 


 level of care. The newly authorized supportive services would 


 include training and certification, a living stipend, and 


 health care--including mental health counseling, 


 transportation benefits, and respite.



 The Compromise Agreement also includes an authorization for 


 appropriations that is below the estimate furnished by the 


 Congressional Budget Office. The lower authorization level is 


 based on information contained in a publication (Economic 


 Impact on Caregivers of the Seriously Wounded, Ill, and 


 Injured, April 2009) of the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA). 


 This study estimated that, annually, 720 post-September 11, 


 2001 veterans require comprehensive caregiver services. The 


 Compromise Agreement limits the caregiver program only to 


 ''seriously injured or very seriously injured'' veterans who 


 were injured or aggravated an injury in the line of duty on 


 or after September 11, 2001. CNA found that the average 


 requirement for such caregiver services is 18 months, and 


 that only 43 percent of veterans require caregiver services 


 over the long-term. CNA also found that, on average, veterans 


 need only 21 hours of caregiver services per week. Only 233 


 family caregivers were referred by VA for training and 


 certification through existing home health agencies in FY 


 2008. This represented five percent of all home care 


 referrals. In FY 2009, only 168 family caregivers were 


 referred to home care agencies for training and 


 certification.


 Medical Care for Family Caregivers (section 102)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 102) that 


 would provide health care through the CHAMPVA program for 


 individuals designated as the primary care attendant for 


 eligible OEF or OIF veterans and who have no other insurance 


 coverage.



 The House bill contains a comparable provision (section 5), 


 with a difference in the target population. Under the House 


 bill, the target population would include all family 


 caregivers of eligible OEF or OIF veterans, defined as those 


 who have a service-connected disability or illness that is 


 severe; are in need of caregiver services without which 


 hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential 


 institutional care would be required; and, are unable to 


 carry out activities (including instrumental activities) of 


 daily living.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Counseling and Mental Health Services for Family Caregivers 




 (section 103)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 102) that 


 would provide counseling and mental health services for 


 family caregivers of OEF or OIF veterans.



 The House bill contains a comparable provision (section 3), 


 except that counseling and mental health services would be 


 available to caregivers of veterans of any era.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Lodging and Subsistence for Attendants (section 104)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 103) that 


 would allow VA to pay for the lodging and subsistence costs 


 incurred by any attendant who accompanies an eligible OEF or 


 OIF veteran seeking VA health care.



 The House bill contains a comparable provision (section 6), 


 with a difference in the target population. Under the House 


 bill, the target population would include all family 


 caregivers of eligible OEF or OIF veterans, defined as those 


 who have a service-connected disability or illness that is 


 severe; are in need of caregiver services without which 


 hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential 


 institutional care would be required; and, are unable to 


 carry out activities (including instrumental activities) of 


 daily living.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.









Title II--Women Veterans Health Care Matters



 Study of Barriers for Women Veterans to Health Care from the 




 Department of Veterans Affairs (section 201)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 201) that 


 would require VA to report, by June 1, 2010, on barriers 


 facing women veterans who seek health care at VA, especially 


 women veterans of OEF or OIF.



 H.R. 1211 contains a comparable provision (section 101) 


 that would require a similar study of health care barriers 


 for women veterans. The House provision also would define the 


 parameters of the research study sample; direct VA to build 


 on the work of an existing study entitled ''National Survey 


 of Women Veterans in Fiscal Year 2007-2008;'' mandate VA to 


 share the barriers study data with the Center for Women 


 Veterans and the Advisory Committee on Women Veterans; and 


 authorize appropriations of $4 million to conduct the study. 


 VA would be required to submit to Congress a report on the 


 implementation of this section within six months of the 


 publication of the ''National Survey of Women Veterans in 


 Fiscal Year 2007-2008'', and the final report within 30 


 months of publication.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Training and Certification for Mental Health Care Providers 




 of the Department of Veterans Affairs on Care for 




 Veterans Suffering from Sexual Trauma and Post-Traumatic 




 Stress Disorder (section 202)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 204) that 


 would require VA to implement a program for education, 


 training, certification, and continuing medical education




 for mental health professionals, which would include 


 principles of evidence-based treatment and care for sexual 


 trauma. VA would also be required to submit an annual report 


 on the counseling, care, and services provided to veterans 


 suffering from sexual trauma, and to establish education, 


 training, certification, and staffing standards for personnel 


 providing treatment for veterans with sexual trauma.



 H.R. 1211 contains a similar provision (section 202), 


 except it included no provision requiring VA to establish 


 education, training, certification, and staffing standards 


 for the mental health professionals caring for veterans with 


 sexual trauma.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Pilot Program on Counseling in Retreat Settings for Women 




 Veterans Newly Separated from Service in the Armed Forces 




 (section 203)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 205) that 


 would require VA to establish, at a minimum of five 


 locations, a two-year pilot program in which women veterans 


 newly separated from the Armed Forces would receive 


 reintegration and readjustment services in a group retreat 


 setting. The provision also would require a report detailing 


 the pilot program findings and providing recommendations on 


 whether VA should continue or expand the pilot program.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision but 


 specifies that the program be carried out at a minimum of 


 three, not five, locations.


 Service on Certain Advisory Committees of Women Recently 




 Separated from Service in the Armed Forces (section 204)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 207) that 


 would amend the membership of the Advisory Committee on Women 


 Veterans and the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans to 


 require that such committees include women recently separated 


 from the Armed Forces and women who are minority group 


 members and are recently separated from the Armed Forces, 


 respectively.



 H.R. 1211 contains a similar provision (section 204) except 


 that it would allow either men or women who are members of a 


 minority group to serve on the Advisory Committee on Minority 


 Veterans.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Pilot Program on Subsidies for Child Care for Certain 




 Veterans Receiving Health Care (section 205)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 208) that 


 would require VA to establish a pilot program through which 


 child care subsidies would be provided to women veterans 


 receiving regular and intensive mental health care and 


 intensive health care services. The pilot program would be 


 carried out in no fewer than three Veterans Integrated 


 Service Networks (VISNs) for a duration of two years and, at 


 its conclusion, there would be a requirement for a report to 


 be submitted within six months detailing findings related to 


 the program and recommendations on its continuation or 


 extension. The provision also would direct VA, to the extent 


 practicable, to model the pilot program after an existing VA 


 Child Care Subsidy Program.



 H.R. 1211 contains a comparable provision (section 203), 


 but it does not stipulate that the child care program shall 


 be executed through stipends. Rather, stipends are one option 


 among several listed, including partnership with private 


 agencies, collaboration with facilities or program of other 


 Federal departments or agencies, and the arrangement of 


 after-school care.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, 


 with a modification to clarify that the child care subsidy 


 payments shall cover the full cost of child care services. In 


 addition, the provision expands the definition of veterans 


 who qualify for the child care subsidy to women veterans who 


 are in need of regular or intensive mental health care 


 services but who do not seek such care due to lack of child 


 care services. Finally, the Compromise Agreement follows the 


 House provision by allowing for other forms of child care 


 assistance. In addition to stipends, child care services may 


 be provided through the direct provision of child care at an 


 on-site VA facility, payments to private child care 


 agencies, collaboration with facilities or programs of 


 other Federal departments or agencies, and other forms as 


 deemed appropriate by the Secretary.


 Care for Newborn Children of Women Veterans Receiving 




 Maternity Care (section 206)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 209) that 


 would authorize VA to provide post-delivery health care 


 services to a newborn child of a woman veteran receiving 


 maternity care from VA if the child was delivered in a VA 


 facility or a non-VA facility pursuant to a VA contract for 


 delivery. Such care would be authorized for up to seven days.



 H.R. 1211 contains a comparable provision (section 201), 


 but would allow VA to provide care for a set seven-day period 


 for newborn children of women veterans receiving maternity 


 care.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.











Title III--Rural Health Improvements



 Improvements to the Education Debt Reduction Program (section 




 301)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 301) that 


 would eliminate the cap in current law on the total amount of 


 education debt reduction payments that can be made over five 


 years so as to permit payments equal to the total amount of 


 principal and interest owed on eligible loans.



 H.R. 4166 contains a provision (section 3), that would 


 expand the purpose of the Education Debt Reduction Program 


 (EDRP), set forth in subchapter VII of chapter 76 of title 


 38, United States Code, to include retention in addition to 


 recruitment, as well as to modify and expand the eligibility 


 requirements for participation in the program. In addition, 


 the provision would increase the total education debt 


 reduction payments made by VA from $44,000 to $60,000 and 


 raise the cap on payments to be made during the fourth and 


 fifth years of the program from $10,000 to $12,000. The 


 provision would also provide VA with the flexibility to waive 


 the limitations of the EDRP and pay the full principal and 


 interest owed by participants who fill hard-to-recruit 


 positions at VA.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professionals 




 Education Assistance Program (section 302)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 302) that 


 would require VA to establish a scholarship program for 


 students accepted or enrolled in a program of study leading 


 to certification or a degree in the areas of visual 


 impairment or orientation and mobility. The student would be 


 required to agree to maintain an acceptable level of academic 


 standing as well as join VA as a full-time employee for three 


 years following their completion of the program. VA would be 


 required to disseminate information on the scholarship 


 program throughout educational institutions, with a special 


 emphasis on those with a high number of Hispanic students and 


 Historically Black Colleges and Universities.



 H.R. 3949 contains the same provision (section 302).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Demonstration Projects on Alternatives for Expanding Care for 




 Veterans in Rural Areas (section 303)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 305) that 


 would authorize VA to carry out demonstration projects to 


 expand care to veterans in rural areas through the 


 Department's Office of Rural Health. Projects could include 


 VA establishing a partnership with the Centers for Medicare 


 and Medicaid Services to coordinate care for veterans in 


 rural areas at critical access hospitals, developing a 


 partnership with the Department of Health and Human Services 


 to coordinate care for veterans in rural areas at community 


 health centers, and the expanding coordination with the 


 Indian Health Service to enhance care for Native American 


 veterans.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Program on Readjustment and Mental Health Care Services for 




 Veterans who Served in Operation Enduring Freedom and 




 Operation Iraqi Freedom (section 304)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 306) that 


 would require VA to establish a program providing OEF and OIF 


 veterans with mental health services, readjustment counseling 


 and services, and peer outreach and support. The program 


 would also provide the immediate families of these veterans 


 with education, support, counseling, and mental health 


 services. In areas not adequately served by VA facilities, VA 


 would be authorized to contract with community mental health 


 centers and other qualified entities for the provision of 


 such services, as well as provide training to clinicians and 


 contract with a national non-profit mental health 


 organization to train veterans participating in the peer 


 outreach and support program. The provision would require an 


 initial implementation report within 45 days after enactment 


 of the legislation. Additionally, the Secretary would be 


 required to submit a status report within one year of 


 enactment of the legislation detailing the number of veterans 


 participating in the program as well as an evaluation of the 


 services being provided under the program.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, but 


 does not include the reporting requirement and authorizes 


 rather than requires VA to contract with community mental 


 health centers and other qualified entities in areas not 


 adequately served by VA facilities.


 Travel Reimbursement for Veterans Receiving Treatment at 




 Facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs (section 




 305)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 308) that 


 would authorize VA to increase the mileage reimbursement rate 


 under section 111 of title 38, United States Code, to 41.5 


 cents per mile, and, a year after the enactment of this 


 legislation, allow the Secretary to adjust the newly 


 specified mileage rate to be equal to the rate paid to 


 Government employees who use privately owned vehicles on 


 official business. If such an adjustment would result in a 


 lower mileage rate, the Secretary would be required to submit 


 to Congress a justification for the lowered rate. The 


 provision also would allow the Secretary to reimburse 


 veterans for the reasonable cost of airfare when that is the 


 only practical way to reach a VA facility.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.




 Pilot Program on Incentives for Physicians Who Assume 




 Inpatient Responsibilities at Community Hospitals in 




 Health Professional Shortage Areas (section 306)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 313) that 


 would require VA to establish a pilot program under which VA 


 physicians caring for veterans admitted to community 


 hospitals would receive financial incentives, of an amount 


 deemed appropriate by the Secretary, if they maintain 


 inpatient privileges at community hospitals in health 


 professional shortage areas. Participation in the pilot 


 program would be voluntary. VA would be required to carry out 


 the pilot program for three years, in not less than five 


 community hospitals in each of not fewer than two VISNs. In 


 addition, VA would be authorized to collect third party 


 payments for care provided by VA physicians to nonveterans 


 while carrying out their responsibilities at the community 


 hospital where they are privileged.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Grants for Veterans Service Organizations for Transportation 




 of Highly Rural Veterans (section 307)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 315) that 


 would require VA to establish a grant program to provide 


 innovative transportation options to veterans in highly rural 


 areas. Eligible grant recipients would include state veterans 


 service agencies and veterans service organizations, and 


 grant awards would not exceed $50,000.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Modifications of Eligibility for Participation in Pilot 




 Program of Enhanced Contract Care Authority for Health 




 Care Needs of Certain Veterans (section 308)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 316) that 


 would clarify the definition of eligible veterans who are 


 covered under a pilot program of enhanced contract care 


 authority for rural veterans, created by section 403(b) of 


 the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act 


 of 2008 (P.L. 110-387, 122 Stat. 4110). Eligible veterans 


 would be defined to include those living more than 60 minutes 


 driving distance from the nearest VA facility providing 


 primary care services, living more than 120 minutes driving 


 distance from the nearest VA facility providing acute 


 hospital care, and living more than 240 minutes driving 


 distance from the nearest VA facility providing tertiary 


 care.



 H.R. 3219 contains the same provision (section 206).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.











Title IV--Mental Health Care Matters



 Eligibility of Members of the Armed Forces Who Served in 




 Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom for 




 Counseling and Services Through Readjustment Counseling 




 Services (section 401)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 401) that 


 would allow any member of the Armed Forces, including members 


 of the National Guard or Reserve, who served in OEF or OIF to 


 be eligible for readjustment counseling services at VA 


 Readjustment Counseling Centers, also known as Vet Centers. 


 The provision of such services would be limited by the 


 availability of appropriations so that this new provision 


 would not adversely affect services provided to the veterans 


 that Vet Centers are currently serving.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Restoration of Authority of Readjustment Counseling Service 




 to Provide Referral and Other Assistance upon Request to 




 Former Members of the Armed Forces Not Authorized 




 Counseling (section 402)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 402) that 


 would require VA to help former members of the Armed Forces 


 who have been discharged or released from active duty, but 


 who are not otherwise eligible for readjustment 


 counseling. VA would be authorized to help these 


 individuals by providing them with referrals to obtain 


 counseling and services from sources outside of VA, or by 


 advising such individuals of their right to apply for a 


 review of their release or discharge through the 


 appropriate military branch of service.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Study on Suicides among Veterans (section 403)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 403) that 


 would require VA to conduct a study to determine the number 


 of veterans who committed suicide between January 1, 1999 and 


 the enactment of the legislation. To conduct this study, VA 


 would be required to coordinate with the Secretary of 


 Defense, veterans' service organizations, the Centers for 


 Disease Control and Prevention, and state public health 


 offices and veterans agencies.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.











 Title V--Other Health Care Matters



 Repeal of Certain Annual Reporting Requirements (section 501)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 501) that 


 would eliminate the reporting requirements, set forth in 


 sections 7451 and 8107 of title 38, United States Code, on 


 pay adjustments for registered nurses. These reporting 


 requirements date to a time when VA facility directors had 


 the discretion to offer annual General Schedule (GS) 


 comparability increases to nurses. Current law requires VA to 


 provide GS comparability increases to nurses so that that pay 


 adjustment report is no longer necessary. The provision would 


 also eliminate the reporting requirement on VA's long-range 


 health care planning which included the operations and 


 construction plans for medical facilities. The information 


 contained in this report is already submitted in other 


 reports and plans, in particular the Department's annual 


 budget request.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Submittal Date of Annual Report on Gulf War Research (section 




 502)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 502) that 


 would amend the due date of the Annual Gulf War Research 


 Report from March 1 to July 1 of each of the five years with 


 the first report due in 2010.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Payment for Care Furnished to CHAMPVA Beneficiaries (section 




 503)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 503) that 


 would clarify that payments made by VA to providers who 


 provide medical care to a beneficiary covered under CHAMPVA 


 shall constitute payment in full, thereby removing any 


 liability on the part of the beneficiary.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Disclosure of Patient Treatment Information from Medical 




 Records of Patients Lacking Decision-making Capacity 




 (section 504)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 504) that 


 would authorize VA health care practitioners to disclose 


 relevant portions of VA medical records to surrogate 


 decision-makers who are authorized to make decisions on 


 behalf of patients lacking decision-making capacity. The 


 provision would only allow such disclosures where the 


 information is clinically relevant to the decision that the 


 surrogate is being asked to make.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Enhancement of Quality Management (section 505)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 506) that 


 would create a National Quality Management Officer to act as 


 the principal officer responsible for the Veteran Health 


 Administration's quality assurance program. The 


 provision would require each VISN and medical facility to 


 appoint a quality management officer, as well as require VA 


 to carry out a review of policies and procedures for 


 maintaining health care quality and patient safety.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Pilot Program on Use of Community-Based Organizations and 




 Local and State Government Entities To Ensure That 




 Veterans Receive Care and Benefits for Which They are 




 Eligible (section 506)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 508) that 


 would require VA to create a pilot program to study the use 


 of community organizations and local and State government 


 entities in providing care and benefits to veterans. The 


 grantees would be selected for their ability to increase 


 outreach, enhance the coordination of community, local, 


 state, and Federal providers of health care, and expand the 


 availability of care and services to transitioning 


 servicemembers and their families. The two-year pilot program 


 would be required to be implemented in five locations and, in 


 making the site selections, the Secretary would be required 


 to give special consideration to rural areas, areas with high 


 proportions of minority groups, areas with high proportions 


 of individuals who have limited access to health care, and 


 areas that are not in close proximity to an active duty 


 military station.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, but 


 would give VA 180 days to implement the pilot program.


 Specialized Residential Care and Rehabilitation for Certain 




 Veterans (section 507)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 509) that 


 would authorize VA to contract for specialized residential 


 care and rehabilitation services for certain veterans. 


 Eligible veterans would be those who served in OEF or OIF, 


 suffer from a traumatic brain injury (TBI), and possess an 


 accumulation of deficits in activities of daily living and 


 instrumental activities of daily living that would otherwise 


 require admission to a nursing home.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Expanded Study on the Health Impact of Project Shipboard 




 Hazard and Defense (section 508)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 510) that 


 would require VA to contract with the Institute of Medicine 


 (IOM) to study the health impact of veterans' participation 


 in Project Shipboard Hazard and Defense (SHAD). The study 


 would be intended




 to cover, to the extent practicable, all veterans who 


 participated in Project SHAD and may utilize results from the 


 study included in IOM's report on ''Long-Term Health Effects 


 of Participation in Project SHAD.''



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Use of Non-Department Facilities for Rehabilitation of 




 Individuals with Traumatic Brain Injury (section 509)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 511) that 


 would clarify when non-VA facilities may be utilized to 


 provide treatment and rehabilitative services for veterans 


 and members of the Armed Forces with TBI. Specifically, the 


 provision would allow non-VA facilities to be used when VA 


 cannot provide treatment or services at the frequency or 


 duration required by the individual plan of the veteran or 


 servicemember with TBI. The provision also would allow the 


 use of non-VA facilities if VA determines that it is optimal 


 for the recovery and rehabilitation of the veteran or 


 servicemember. Such non-VA facility would be required to 


 maintain standards that have been established by an 


 independent, peer-reviewed organization that accredits 


 specialized rehabilitation programs for adults with TBI.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Pilot Program on Provision of Dental Insurance Plans to 




 Veterans and Survivors and Dependents of Veterans 




 (section 510)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 513) that 


 would require VA to carry out a three-year pilot program to 


 provide specified dental services through a contract with a 


 dental insurer. Additionally, the provision would provide 


 that the pilot program should take place in at least two but 


 no more than four VISNs and that enrollment would be 


 voluntary. The program would provide diagnostic services, 


 preventive services, endodontic and other restorative 


 services, surgical services, emergency services, and such 


 other services as VA considers appropriate.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, 


 modified to provide that the pilot program may take place in 


 any number of VISNs the Secretary deems appropriate. The 


 purpose of providing the Secretary with this authority is to 


 ensure the capability, should it be required, to maximize the 


 number of voluntary enrollees insured under the dental 


 program so as to reduce premium expenditures.


 Prohibition on Collection of Copayments from Veterans who are 




 Catastrophically Disabled (section 511)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 515) that 


 would add a new section 1730A in title 38, United States 


 Code, to prohibit VA from collecting copayments from 


 catastrophically disabled veterans for medical services 


 rendered, including prescription drug and nursing home care 


 copayments.



 H.R. 3219 contains the same provision (section 203).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Higher Priority Status for Certain Veterans who are Medal of 




 Honor Recipients (section 512)



 H.R. 3519 contains a provision (section 201) that would 


 amend section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, to place 


 Medal of Honor recipients in priority group 3 for the 


 purposes of receiving health care through VA. This would 


 situate Medal of Honor recipients in a priority group with 


 former prisoners of war and Purple Heart recipients.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Hospital Care, Medical Services, and Nursing Home Care for 




 Certain Vietnam-Era Veterans Exposed to Herbicide and 




 Veterans of the Persian Gulf War (section 513)



 H.R. 3219 contains a provision (section 202) that would 


 amend section 1710 of title 38, United States Code, to 


 provide permanent authorization for the special treatment 


 authority of Vietnam-era veterans exposed to an herbicide and 


 Gulf-War era veterans who have insufficient medical evidence 


 to establish a service-connected disability.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Establishment of Director of Physician Assistant Services in 




 Veterans Health Administration (section 514)



 H.R. 3219 contains a provision (section 204) that would 


 create the position of Director of Physician Assistant 


 Services in VA central office who would report directly to 


 the Under Secretary for Health on all matters related to 


 education, training, employment, and proper utilization of 


 physician assistants.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision, 


 modified to require the Director of Physician Assistant 


 Services to report directly to the Chief of the Office of 


 Patient Services instead of to the Under Secretary for 


 Health.


 Committee on Care of Veterans with Traumatic Brain Injury 




 (section 515)



 H.R. 3219 contains a provision (section 205) that would 


 require VA to establish a Committee on Care of Veterans with 


 Traumatic Brain Injury. This Committee would be required to 


 evaluate VA's capacity to meet the treatment and 


 rehabilitative needs of veterans with TBI, as well as make 


 recommendations and advise the Under Secretary for Health on 


 matters relating to this condition. Additionally, VA would be 


 required to submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of 


 the Senate and the House of Representatives an annual report 


 on the Committee's findings and recommendations and the 


 Department's response.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Increase in Amount Available to Disabled Veterans for 




 Improvements and Structural Alterations Furnished as Part 




 of Home Health Services (section 516)



 H.R. 1293 contains a provision that would increase, from 


 $4,100 to $6,800, the amount authorized to be paid to 


 veterans who have service-connected disabilities rated 50 


 percent or more disabling for home improvements and 


 structural alterations. The provision would also increase 


 from $1,200 to $2,000, the amount authorized to be paid to 


 veterans with service-connected disabilities rated less than 


 50 percent disabling.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.


 Extension of Statutorily Defined Copayments for Certain 




 Veterans for Hospital Care and Nursing Home Care (section 




 517)



 Under current law, VA has the authority to provide hospital 


 and nursing home care on a space available basis to veterans 


 who do not otherwise qualify for such care. VA is authorized 


 to collect from such a veteran an amount equal to $10 for 


 every day that a veteran receives hospital care, and $5 for 


 every day a veteran receives nursing home care. This 


 authority expires on September 30, 2010.



 Neither the House nor Senate bills contain a provision to 


 extend this authority.



 The Compromise Agreement contains a provision which would 


 extend the statutorily defined copayments for certain 


 veterans for hospital care and nursing home care to September 


 30, 2012.


 Extension of Authority to Recover Cost of Certain Care and 




 Services from Disabled Veterans with Health-Plan 




 Contracts (section 518)



 Under current law, VA is authorized to recover the costs 


 associated with medical care provided to a veteran for a non-


 service-connected disability if, among other eligibility 


 criteria, the veteran receives such care before October 1, 


 2010, the veteran has a service-connected disability, and the 


 veteran is entitled to benefits for health care under a 


 health-plan contract.



 Neither the House nor Senate bills contain a provision to 


 extend this authority.



 The Compromise Agreement contains a provision which would 


 extend the authority to recover the cost of such care and 


 services from disabled veterans with health-plan contracts to 


 October 1, 2012.










 Title VI--Department Personnel Matters



 Enhancement of Authorities for Retention of Medical 




 Professionals (section 601)



 The Senate bill contains provisions (section 601) intended 


 to improve VA's ability to recruit and retain health 


 professionals. First, VA would be given the authority to 


 apply the title 38 hybrid employment system to additional 


 health care occupations to meet the recruitment and retention 


 needs of VA. Next, the probationary period for full-time and 


 part-time registered nurses would be set at two years; part-


 time registered nurses who served previously on a full-time 


 basis would not be subject to a probationary period. In 


 addition, VA would be authorized to waive the salary offset 


 where the salary of an employee rehired after retirement from 


 the Veterans Health Administration is reduced according to 


 the amount of their annuity under a federal government 


 retirement system.



 Section 601 also would provide for a number of new or 


 expanded pay authorities, including setting the pay for all 


 senior executives in the Office of the Under Secretary for 


 Health at Level II or Level III of the Executive Schedule; 


 authorizing recruitment and retention special incentive pay 


 for pharmacist executives of up to $40,000; amending the pay 


 provisions of physicians and dentists by clarifying the 


 determination of the non-foreign cost of living adjustment, 


 exempting physicians and dentists in executive leadership 


 positions from compensation panels, and allowing for a 


 reduction in market pay for changes in board certification or 


 a reduction of privileges; modifying the pay cap for 


 registered nurses and other covered positions to Level IV of 


 the Executive Schedule; allowing the pay for certified 


 registered nurse anesthetists to exceed the pay caps for 


 registered nurses; increasing the limitation on special pay 


 for nurse executives from $25,000 to $100,000; adding 


 licensed practical nurses, licensed vocational nurses, and 


 nursing positions covered by title 5 to the list of 


 occupations that are exempt from the limitations on increases 


 in rates of basic pay; and expanding the eligibility for 


 additional premium pay to part-time nurses. Finally, section 


 601 would improve VA's locality pay system by requiring VA to 


 provide education, training, and support to the directors of 


 VA health care facilities on the use of locality pay system 


 surveys.



 H.R. 919 contains a comparable provision (section 2) which 


 would not, in contrast to




 the Senate bill, restrict VA from applying hybrid title 38 


 status to positions that are administrative, clerical or 


 physical plant maintenance and protective services, would 


 otherwise be included under the authority of section 5332 of 


 title 5, United States Code; do not provide direct patient 


 care services, or would otherwise be available to provide 


 medical care and treatment for veterans. The House provision 


 also would not place restrictions on the categories of part-


 time nurses for whom the probationary period would be waived. 


 The House section contains an additional provision which 


 would provide comparability pay up to $100,000 per year to 


 all individuals appointed by the Under Secretary for Health 


 under the authority of section 7306 of title 38, United 


 States Code, who are not physicians or dentists and who would 


 be compensated at a higher rate in the private sector.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, 


 modified to eliminate the provision of the Senate bill that 


 would provide VA with the authority to waive salary offsets 


 for retirees who are reemployed in the Veterans Health 


 Administration.


 Limitations on Overtime Duty, Weekend Duty, and Alternative 




 Work Schedules for Nurses (section 602)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 602) that 


 would prohibit VA from requiring nurses to work more than 40 


 hours in an administrative work week or more than 8 hours 


 consecutively, except under unanticipated emergency 


 conditions in which the nurses' skills are necessary and good 


 faith efforts to find voluntary replacements have failed. The 


 provision also would strike subsection 7456(c) of title 38, 


 United States Code, which provides that nurses on approved 


 sick or annual leave during a 12-hour work shift shall be 


 charged at a rate of five hours of leave per three hours of 


 absence. Finally, for recruitment and retention purposes, VA 


 would be authorized to consider a nurse who has worked 6 


 regularly scheduled 12-hour work shifts within a 14-day 


 period to have worked a full eighty-hour pay period.



 H.R. 919 contains the same provision (section 3).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Reauthorization of Health Professionals Educational 




 Assistance Scholarship Program (section 603)



 H.R. 919 contains a provision (section 4) that would 


 reinstate the Health Professionals Educational Assistance 


 Scholarship Program. Section 2 of H.R. 4166 contains a 


 similar provision which would also direct VA to fully employ 


 program graduates as soon as possible following their 


 graduation, require graduates to perform clinical rotations 


 in assignments or locations determined by VA, and assign a 


 mentor to graduates in the same facility in which they are 


 serving.



 The Senate bill contains a similar provision but did not 


 include the requirement to fully employ graduates as soon as 


 possible.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the provision from 


 section 2 of H.R. 4166.


 Loan Repayment Program for Clinical Researchers from 




 Disadvantaged Backgrounds (section 604)



 H.R. 919 (section 4) and H.R. 4166 (section 4) contain 


 identical provisions that would allow VA to utilize the 


 authorities available in the Public Health Service Act for 


 the repayment of the principal and interest of educational 


 loans of health professionals from disadvantaged 


 backgrounds in order to employ such professionals in the 


 Veterans Health Administration to conduct clinical 


 research.



 The Senate bill contains the same provision (section 603).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.











Title VII--Homeless Veterans Matters



 Per Diem Grant Payments (section 701)



 H.R. 3796 contains a provision that would authorize VA to 


 make per diem payments to organizations assisting homeless 


 veterans in an amount equal to the greater of the daily cost 


 of care or $60 per bed, per day. The provision would also 


 require VA to ensure that 25 percent of the funds available 


 for per diem payments are distributed to organizations that 


 meet some but not all of the criteria for the receipt of per 


 diem payments. These would include (in order of priority) 


 organizations that meet each of the transitional and 


 supportive services criteria and serve a population that is 


 less than 75 percent veterans; organizations that meet at 


 least one but not all of the transitional and supportive 


 services criteria, but have a population that is at least 75 


 percent veterans; or organizations that meet at least one but 


 not all of the transitional and supportive services criteria 


 and serve a population that is less than 75 percent veterans.



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision, but 


 does not require the minimum amount of $60 per bed, per day 


 for the Grant and Per Diem program. In addition, VA would be 


 authorized but not required to award the per diem grants to 


 non-profit organizations meeting some but not all of the 


 criteria for the receipt of such payments.





 Title VIII--Nonprofit Research and Education Corporations



 General Authorities on Establishment of Corporations (section 




 801)



 H.R. 2770 contains a provision (section 2) that would 


 authorize Nonprofit Research and Education Corporations 


 (NPCs) to merge, thereby creating multi-medical center 


 research corporations.



 The Senate bill contains the same provision (section 801).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Clarification of Purposes of Corporations (section 802)



 H.R. 2770 contains a provision (section 3) that would 


 clarify the purpose of NPCs to include specific reference to 


 their role as funding mechanisms for approved research and 


 education, in addition to their role in facilitating research 


 and education.



 The Senate bill contains the same provision (section 802).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Modification of Requirements for Boards of Directors of 




 Corporations (section 803)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 803) that 


 would require that a minimum of two members of the Board of 


 Directors of an NPC be other-than-federal employees. 


 Additionally, the provision would allow for the appointment 


 of individuals with expertise in legal, financial, or 


 business matters. The provision also would conform the law 


 relating to NPCs to other federal conflict of interest 


 regulations by removing the requirement that members of the 


 NPC boards have no financial relationship with any entity 


 that is a source of funding for research or education by VA.



 H.R. 2770 contains a comparable provision (section 4), but 


 provides that the executive director of the corporation may 


 be a VA employee.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision, with 


 a modification which removes the provision allowing VA 


 employees to serve as executive directors.


 Clarification of Powers of Corporations (section 804)



 H.R. 2770 contains a provision (section 5) that would 


 clarify the NPCs' authority to accept, administer, and 


 transfer funds for various purposes. NPCs would be allowed to 


 enter into contracts and set fees for the education and 


 training facilitated through the corporation.



 The Senate bill contains the same provision (section 804).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Redesignation of Section 7364A of Title 38, United States 




 Code (section 805)



 H.R. 2770 contains a provision (section 6) that would 


 provide clerical amendments associated with implementing this 


 legislation concerning Nonprofit Research and Education 


 Corporations.



 The Senate bill contains the same provision (section 805).



 The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.


 Improved Accountability and Oversight of Corporations 




 (section 806)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 806) that 


 would strengthen VA's oversight of NPCs by requiring those 


 NPCs with revenues of over $10,000 to obtain an independent 


 audit once every three years, or with revenues of over 


 $300,000 to obtain such an audit each year, and to submit 


 certain Internal Revenue Service forms.



 H.R. 2770 contains a comparable provision (section 7), but 


 would instead raise to $100,000 the threshold for requiring 


 three-year audits and to $500,000 the revenue threshold that 


 would require yearly audits. The provision also would revise 


 conflict of interest policies to apply to the policies 


 adopted by the corporation.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.









 Title IX--Construction and Naming Matters



 Authorization of Medical Facility Projects (section 901)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 901) that 


 would authorize funds for the following major medical 


 facility projects in FY 2010: Livermore, California; Walla 


 Walla, Washington; Louisville, Kentucky; Dallas, Texas; St. 


 Louis, Missouri; Denver, Colorado and Bay Pines, Florida.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision, but 


 strikes the authorization for the construction project in 


 Walla Walla, Washington, since authorization for this 


 construction project was provided in Public Law 111-98, 


 enacted on November 11, 2009.


 Designation of Merril Lundman Department of Veterans Affairs 




 Outpatient Clinic, Havre, Montana (section 902)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 903) that 


 would name VA outpatient clinic in Havre, Montana, as the 


 ''Merril Lundman Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient 


 Clinic.''



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Designation of William C. Tallent Department of Veterans 




 Affairs Outpatient Clinic, Knoxville, Tennessee (section 




 903)



 In the House, H.R. 402 contains a provision that would name 


 the VA outpatient clinic in Knoxville, Tennessee as the 


 ''William C. Tallent Department of Veterans Affairs 


 Outpatient Clinic.''



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.




 Designation of Max J. Beilke Department of Veterans Affairs 




 Outpatient Clinic, Alexandria, Minnesota (section 904)



 In the House, H.R. 3157 contains a provision that would 


 name the VA outpatient clinic in Alexandria, Minnesota as the 


 ''Max J. Beilke Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient 


 Clinic.''



 The Senate bill contains no comparable provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.














 Title X--Other Matters



 Expansion of Authority for Department of Veterans Affairs 




 Police Officers (section 1001)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 1001) that 


 would provide additional authorities to VA uniformed police 


 officers, including the authority to carry a VA-issued weapon 


 in an official capacity when off VA property and in official 


 travel status, the authority to conduct investigations on and 


 off VA property of offenses that may have been committed on 


 VA property, expanded authority to enforce local and State 


 traffic regulations when such authority has been granted by 


 local or State law, and to make arrests based upon an arrest 


 warrant issued by any competent judicial authority.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Uniform Allowance for Department of Veterans Affairs Police 




 Officers (section 1002)



 The Senate bill contains a provision (section 1002) that 


 would modify VA's authority to pay an allowance to VA police 


 officers for purchasing uniforms. The provision would provide 


 a uniform allowance in an amount which is the lesser of the 


 amount prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management or 


 the actual or estimated cost as determined by periodic 


 surveys conducted by VA.



 There was no comparable House provision.



 The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.


 Submission of Reports to Congress by Secretary of Veterans 




 Affairs in Electronic Form (section 1003)



 Under current law, there is no requirement for VA to submit 


 Congressionally mandated reports in an electronic form.



 Neither the House nor Senate bills contained a provision to 


 change this procedure.



 The Compromise Agreement contains a provision which would 


 create a new section 118 in title 38, United States Code, 


 which would require VA to submit reports to Congress, or any 


 Committee thereof, in electronic format. Reports would be 


 defined to include any certification, notification, or other 


 communication in writing.


 Determination of Budgetary Effects for Purposes of Compliance 




 with Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010 (section 1004)



 Neither the Senate nor House bills contain a provision 


 relating to compliance with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act 


 of 2010, Title I of P.L. 111-139, 124 Stat. 8.



 The Compromise Agreement contains a procedural provision to 


 require the determination of the budgetary effects of 


 provisions contained in the Compromise Agreement to be based 


 upon the statement entered into the Congressional Record by 


 the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 


 Representatives.
