# ADDRESSING HIGH GAS PRICES
## `3bdd529dcf2ccf71692e852a04f5759a`
`Mr. DODD — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I thank my colleague from New Mexico, who 
is a wonderful friend. I appreciate his kindness and generosity.

I wish to speak, if I may, about the so-called Merida Initiative. 
This is a proposal which was made by President Bush, along with 
President Calderon of Mexico, to deal with the raging drug violence 
that is occurring along the Mexican border, particularly in Mexico 
itself. However, I also wish to briefly address, if I may, the issue of 
energy production.

We had this debate earlier this week on energy issues. I know one of 
the arguments being raised is, of course, that we are denying the oil 
and gas industry the opportunity to drill for more of these products 
off our own shores, and if we did more of that, then we would be 
reducing our problems and bringing down costs.

Let me announce to my colleagues that I intend to propose legislation 
directly addressing this issue of oil production and development. I 
commend the Members of the other body--Congressman Markey, Congressman 
Hinchey, Congressman Rahall, and Congressman Emanuel. They proposed a 
bill over there, which I will offer here, which addresses this issue.

We hear this argument that if we allow production in the Arctic 
National Wildlife Refuge and some of the coastal regions, we will be in 
great shape. But, Mr. President, there are 44 million offshore acres 
that have been leased by the oil companies, but these companies have 
put only 10.5 million of those acres into production. Of the 47.5 
million onshore acres under lease for oil and gas production, only 13 
million are in production. Combined, oil and gas companies hold leases 
to 68 million acres of Federal land and waters on which they are not 
producing any oil and gas, despite the fact they have the leases and 
could be drilling there. Compare that with just 1.5 million acres of 
ANWR that proponents of drilling say they want us to open. The vast 
majority of oil and natural gas resources on Federal lands are already 
open for drilling, and they are not being tapped.

I hear complaints about the 1.5 million acres closed off in ANWR, and 
yet we are sitting on roughly 68 million acres under lease but not in 
production--why don't they talk about that?

So our bill is basically a ''use it or lose it'' lease idea. If you 
are going to sit on these leases and do nothing with them, then you 
ought to be paying a higher fee. In our proposal, this fee would be $5 
per acre per year for the first three years. We would then raise the 
fee, if the property remains unused, to $25 per acre in the fourth year 
and to $50 per acre in the fifth year and beyond. This will be an 
incentive to companies to put these millions of acres where leases have 
already been granted for oil and gas production to actually use this 
land they control. This is our answer to the great complaint: Let us 
drill in ANWR. Why not use the leases you have already been given?

I will offer that legislation.

By the way, the revenue that would come in from those production 
incentive fees would be devoted to the development of wind, solar, 
other alternative energy ideas, weatherization programs, and, of 
course, low-income energy assistance, to help with what is sure to be a 
staggering cost for moderate and lower income families come next 
winter.

This is an idea that I think will debunk this notion that if we can 
only produce more by drilling in new areas, we will solve our energy 
problems. Well, why aren't you drilling on the millions of acres you 
have leases on already instead of complaining about 1.5 million acres 
or a few more offshore when there are literally millions of acres 
already under lease that oil companies are doing nothing with? If they 
are not going to drill on it, they are going to pay more.















 Merida Initiative


Madam President, I wish to address the Merida Initiative. As all of 
my colleagues are aware, this bilateral initiative, the Merida 
Initiative, is a proposal between the United States and Mexico designed 
to combat the shocking increase in drug-related violence in Mexico over 
the past year.

Last weekend, I spent the weekend at an interparliamentary meeting in 
Monterey, Mexico, with our colleague from Tennessee, Senator Corker, at 
their annual meeting. This is the 47th gathering of the bilateral 
Members of Congress of the United States and Mexico to meet and talk 
about bilateral issues. I am pleased that this was my 20th or 21st year 
in which I participated in these bilateral meetings with our neighbors 
to the south. But the issue of the drug cartels and the violence they 
are causing in that country, not to mention our problems on the border, 
was the dominant theme of this past weekend's gathering. Much of the 
discussion, as I say, focused around this initiative, in large part 
because of the grotesque increase in drug-related violence in Mexico 
within recent months.

While in Mexico, I expressed my condolences to the Mexican people on 
behalf of our colleagues here and the American people for what they 
have gone through. Some 4,000 people, police officers, military 
personnel, have lost their lives to the drug cartels in recent months, 
including the assassination of the chief of police of the country, 
Millan Gomez, who was gunned down inside his home. Cartel members 
waited inside his house to assassinate him. This would be tantamount to 
the Director of the FBI being gunned down in his home in the United 
States. That is how violent these cartels are. That is how unafraid 
they are of any retribution. So I think the notion of cooperation 
between our two countries is absolutely critical.

Mexico, as I said, has been under siege, and they need and deserve a 
combined effort. Though it is the Mexican people who bear the brunt of 
so many of these problems they are facing, there are, indeed, common 
security challenges affecting both of our people. So let me say 
unequivocally that the United States is committed--I believe all of us 
are--to helping and working with our colleagues, our neighbor to the 
south, Mexico, to end such violence.

President Calderon of Mexico made a very sincere gesture in reaching 
out to the United States for cooperation in this battle. Combating drug 
trafficking and related violence and organized crime through 
intelligence sharing, law enforcement, and institution building is 
critically important.

But it was unfortunate that the proposal that was made to the Mexican 
Government by the Bush administration lacked any input or consultation 
with the respective two legislative bodies. That was not just a 
violation of good manners. Rather, if you are going to propose these 
kinds of initiatives, it is critically important that you invite the 
Members of Congress who will have


to appropriate the money and be responsible for the oversight of these 
programs. So at the outset you need to involve Democrats and 
Republicans in both Chambers, not because you fear they are going to 
object to the proposal, but because you are going to need their ongoing 
support.

In the case of the Merida Initiative, while all the good intentions 
are there, when you announce these proposals and do not invite input, 
you invariably end up with a train wreck that caused the problems that 
I had to listen to all weekend long in Mexico about whether we are 
putting conditions on these proposals, in some way limiting them or 
certifying this kind of financial assistance to Mexico, which was met 
with incredible hostility by every political party in the country--
political parties that rarely agree on anything, by the way, but on the 
response to the Merida Initiative, there was unanimity among the 
political parties in Mexico despite what I think is a clear desire to 
see the kind of cooperation we absolutely need if we are going to have 
any success at all in taking on these cartels.

There also needs to be more accountability on both sides of the 
border. My primary concern is that Merida, as presented to both 
Congresses, focuses too much on the short-term fixes, which are of 
course needed, and very little on the longer term problems which we 
must address. I do not and would not object to this program on that 
basis alone, but I think it is important that we acknowledge this 
shortcoming.

No one denies that we need well-trained and well-equipped police 
forces to confront the most violent criminals, and no one doubts that 
Mexico urgently needs assistance fighting these violent criminals. They 
are tremendously well financed, and they are incredibly well armed. 
They have equipment and armaments that would compete with almost any 
military in the world, let alone a police force.

But what is equally needed is well-trained and well-equipped civilian 
judicial authorities and institutions to enforce and uphold the rule of 
law. We must work to combat corruption and do a better job of sharing 
intelligence.

These are all commonly held goals. We must tackle the larger, 
systemic problems which only exacerbate the drug trafficking and 
violence we witnessed over the last number of months.

Only by creating robust economic alternatives to the drug trade can 
the United States and Mexico together build the kind of future that 
reduces the number of people who enter into the drug trade either by 
force or by choice. That is why I am very supportive of an approach 
that more broadly promotes regional trade and political engagement, an 
approach that fosters sustainable growth through private investment, 
increased foreign aid, and supports regional institutions, such as the 
Inter-American Development Bank. Given our shared border of thousands 
of miles, the United States and Mexico must also deepen their bilateral 
partnership in ways that are mutually beneficial, such as more closely 
coordinating border security to ensure our goods and services can move 
through more effectively and efficiently. We should promote more 
business and cultural ties and more direct investment across the border 
as well. The United States must also support Mexico's integration with 
its southern neighbors as well and the role they play in both of our 
economies.

While a bilateral approach will be necessary, given the interrelated 
nature of our economies, a regional approach will be required to ensure 
effective and sustainable economic growth over the long term.

In addition to fostering sustainable economic development, we must 
also cooperate on financial intelligence and counter money-laundering 
programs and combat the black-market peso exchange which undermines the 
very economic alternatives we are trying to create on a bilateral 
basis.

In addition, of course, our own country must take responsibility for 
our contributions to the growing insecurity and to the violence that 
occurs in Mexico. Though we often fail to admit it or take action to 
address it, one of the biggest markets for illegal drugs, and by far 
the largest supplier of weapons to some of the most violent cartels in 
Central South America and Mexico, is, of course, our own country. Any 
sustainable effort to reduce trafficking and violence in Mexico must 
seriously address problems on both sides of the border, and here, I 
think, Merida, while it is a very good proposal and idea, falls a 
little bit short.


Despite all this, Merida is a very good first start, and I support 
it. Despite the failure of this administration to work with and consult 
Democrats and Republicans in both Houses, which should happen if we are 
going to succeed with this initiative, and despite the fact Merida is 
focused too much, in my view, on short-term fixes, and despite the fact 
Congress will most likely not be able to fully fund Merida as much as 
we would like--given problems in other places around the world, 
including Burma and Darfur, U.N. peacekeeping and food aid--this is a 
good beginning and it is deserving of our support--identifying the 
common concerns we share with our neighbor to the south.

While in Monterrey, I heard many concerns voiced by our Mexican 
counterparts about some of the language in the Merida Initiative, 
particularly language which many of our friends to the south are 
calling conditions in the legislation. Let me be clear, at least for my 
own part. The intent of the Senate language is not to condition our aid 
but rather to insist--as Mexicans ought to as well--on accountability 
from both our administration and from the Government of Mexico.

I, for one, am not going to sign off on a blank check that does not 
demand accountability from this administration. Of all the terrible 
lessons we learned from Iraq and Afghanistan, surely one is that more 
accountability can only be a positive thing, not only to guarantee 
taxpayer money is being well spent but also to sustain these programs 
over the longer term. That said, I understand Mexico's sensitivity to 
the idea of conditions, and I agree with those sensitivities.

Many in this Chamber will remember the arduous and contentious 
certification process we used to use to determine whether Mexico was 
cooperating in counternarcotics programs. My friend and colleague, 
Senator Pat Leahy, has been a hero on these issues, to me and many 
others, over many years. His concern about human rights and 
accountability of dollars is long-standing and never focused on any 
country, or one specific issue. He is concerned, as he should and all 
of us should be, to make sure we abolish the certification process.

He was not only cooperative but also understood better than most when 
the debate raged in this Chamber about a certification bill, because 
rather then ensuring cooperation on counternarcotics operations, all 
certification ensured was that the United States and Mexico would 
simply feud day in and day out over what qualified--a development that 
benefitted no one but the drug traffickers.

So as a joint effort, we were able to change that certification 
process. And cooperation improved dramatically as a result, I might 
add. So I support the work Senator Leahy is engaged in. I explained to 
our Mexican counterparts what his intentions were in regard to the 
Merida Initiative, and because of the negotiations we have had over the 
last number of days, I believe the Merida Initiative, as constructed, 
is going to work well and be received well.

The people of Mexico, indeed, Latin Americans in general, have no 
greater friend than Patrick Leahy, a Senator who champions human rights 
and has worked throughout his career to foster closer ties and change 
in our hemisphere.

The United States--including myself, Senator Leahy, and others--is 
committed to addressing many of the concerns voiced by Mexico and to 
reaching a compromise acceptable to everyone, a compromise that will, 
in the words of Senator Leahy, ''provide support for the Merida 
Initiative in a manner that addresses our shared interests and 
concerns.''

So rather than characterize these ongoing talks with our friends in 
Mexico, as some have in the United States, as ''rejecting Merida'' or 
''abandoning Mexico'' or an ''infringement on sovereignty,'' I believe 
we have an obligation--both countries do--to share responsibilities 
with our executive branch, to tone down the rhetoric, to lower the 
temperature, and to work together to craft an effective broad-based


strategy that combats drug trafficking, takes on these cartels, and 
lets them know they are never going to prevail in the efforts they are 
using today to advance their narcotics trafficking.

It is important that the cartels understand this debate about the 
Merida Initiative in no way should be construed as a retreat from our 
common goals to see that the cartels are soundly defeated; that they 
are wiped out as cartels trying to do what they do every day.

Secondly, the audiences in our respective countries should understand 
that we will work cooperatively, that we will work together to advance 
this cause. I believe that is a sentiment that we all share in this 
Chamber, and that people across this country share too.

So working together, I think we will get Merida right. I am confident 
that, in the end, we will produce an agreement that will be acceptable 
to both the Mexicans and Americans so we can join together in building 
a safer, more productive future and successfully combat those engaged 
in the violence within Mexico and along our border area. That is our 
shared goal. That is the kind of lasting change I think we all want. 
And through this process, this is what I believe we can produce 
together.

I yield the floor for my colleague from Pennsylvania, who is here and 
ready to speak.