# IRAN COUNTER-PROLIFERATION ACT OF 2007
## `3be10f4d6ebbf4d668089c87892a1153`
`Mr. PENCE — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. I also thank the 
ranking member and the distinguished chairman of this committee for 
their extraordinary and visionary work in bringing H.R. 1400 to the 
floor of this Congress to enhance United States diplomatic efforts with 
respect to Iran by imposing additional economic sanctions against Iran.

As the ranking member and my other senior colleagues have described, 
this legislation would continue an expanding effort to confront Iran's 
rhetoric and reality in a manner both diplomatic and economic. And the 
reasons to do so are legion. Iran, for instance, denies the Holocaust 
and hosted a Holocaust-denying conference which aired on Arab 
television across the region.

President Ahmadinejad, as I will describe in a moment, has repeatedly 
advocated ''wiping Israel off the map.'' Their headlong and reckless 
pursuit of a nuclear weapons program ominously would enable them to do 
that in a matter of minutes when combined with their missile 
technology.

Iran supplies and trains insurgents fighting U.S. forces and Iraqi 
forces in Iraq, as General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker and the 
physical evidence and the incarceration of Iranian intelligence 
personnel now in Baghdad attest. Iran supports Hezbollah, Hamas, and 
other terrorist organizations.

But I want to speak specifically, Mr. Speaker, to yesterday and 
today's events involving the Iranian President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, 
who arrived yesterday for a forum in Columbia University and an address 
at the United Nations today. Let me be clear: If my colleagues have no 
other reason to support H.R. 1400, we can look to the rhetoric and the 
statements in the past 48 hours of President Ahmadinejad. He is a 
destabilizing force leading a threatening country and gave evidence of 
that repeatedly in statements on American television, Columbia 
University, and I expect at the U.N. today.

Ahmadinejad veers regularly between the deadly and the bizarre. He is 
perhaps best known for the menacing statements about advocating the 
elimination of the State of Israel. But at last year's address to the 
U.N. General Assembly, President Ahmadinejad told an Iranian cleric 
that he had felt the hand of God entrancing world leaders as he 
addressed that body. All of these various threats and outrages are 
delivered with a trademark eery grin, which would be easy to dismiss as 
the rantings of a madman were he not vested with the power of a head of 
state. Yet his musings are as clear and as threatening as those musings 
written in a prison cell in the 1930s entitled ''Mein Kampf.''

This is a man who is on a misguided mission; he is a dangerous and 
deluded leader. We ignore his intents at our peril. While his speech at 
Columbia University yesterday was described as a rambling speech by the 
New York Times that meandered from science to religion to the creation 
of human beings, it was his claim that he was a ''peaceful'' man, that 
Iran possessed, as he made some reference to, a thriving Jewish 
community, and his claim that Iran was a country where no homosexuals 
lived. For me, I cannot decide which of those statements was more 
Orwellian or more offensive to reality or to western respect for 
individual liberty. But they do give us a window into the mindset of a 
leader.

And, Mr. Speaker, I believe no terrorist despot deserves an Ivy 
League forum, and have said so. On ''60 Minutes'' Sunday night, 
Ahmadinejad refused to address what we all know to be true: his forces 
and weaponry, as I said before, are directly implicated in the deaths 
of American forces in Iraq, and that would have been reason enough to 
deny him a podium.

Now, we are occasionally told, and maybe some will hesitate to 
support this legislation today because Ahmadinejad is not in charge, 
that some believe a relatively moderate group of clerics are the real 
power in Iran. But in a military parade just Saturday, the Supreme 
Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, allegedly a moderate in some versions, had a 
banner displayed alongside him that read: ''The Iranian Nation is ready 
to bring any oppressive power to its knees.'' Clearly, this threatening 
posture is deep-seated; it is not focused on one man.

But I think as we argue today for H.R. 1400 to bring additional 
economic sanctions against Iran, we should look at the man who is the 
leader of the country. H.R. 1400, sponsored by our distinguished 
chairman and ranking minority member, does the reasonable step of 
imposing additional economic sanctions against Iran.

But let me say I believe it is imperative that we must continue to 
use every tool in our power to pressure and isolate this dangerous and 
threatening regime. And the people of the United States of America, the 
U.N. Security Council, our neighbors and allies in the region also need 
to be prepared to keep all options on the table as we confront this 
regime. It is my hope H.R. 1400, with its diplomatic and economic 
initiative, will prevail and bring Iran back from the nuclear brink, 
and that would be my prayer. But we must remain committed to the notion 
that this nation and this leader in Iran must not be permitted to come 
into possession of a usable nuclear weapon.

