# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3be4cbd124b4aa4c280f86355eaf2b22`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

I offer a simple amendment that bars the executive branch from being 
used to fund the office that does not exist in the executive branch, 
the Office of the Vice President.

Last week, we all received a tutorial in U.S. Government history from 
the Vice President's office. Apparently his office is not an entity 
within the executive branch.

There have been 46 Vice Presidents in U.S. history, and not one of 
them knew this or ever claimed this position. Perhaps the Vice 
President thought he occupied an undisclosed fourth branch of 
government.

His claim flies in the face of the Constitution and was offered in an 
attempt to avoid following the rules governing the treatment of 
classified information and documents. This claim was particularly 
ironic this week, given the four-part series the Washington Post ran 
about the Vice President's role in this administration. And rather than 
claim that he wasn't part of the executive branch, it sounds like, from 
reading those stories, he is the executive branch.

Yesterday, the Vice President was forced to admit what even an eighth 
grade student knew, there is no ''Cheney branch'' of government.

While the Vice President's excuses may change, his desire to ignore 
the rule remains just as strong as ever. The Vice President is 
unwilling to risk that the documents detailing the flawed intelligence 
and faulty assumptions that led us into the war in Iraq. He has been 
held unaccountable for 6 years, and now he wants to be unaccountable in 
the historical record.

Whatever his reasons, this penchant for secrecy is not new. Shortly 
taking office, the Vice President, in meeting with oil and gas 
executives and not wanting to turn over that information, claimed he 
was part of the executive branch.

After the Vice President excluded himself from the executive branch, 
my amendment follows up on the Vice President's assertion and restricts 
the executive branch funding for the Vice President's office. It leaves 
intact his Senate presidency office. It delivers two messages. If the 
Vice President is not in the executive branch, then there is no 
executive branch office to fund. And perhaps more importantly, it 
underscores that the Vice President is not above the law and cannot 
ignore the rules. The law should follow him, whatever branch of 
government he chooses to hang his hat in.

Mr. Chairman, we have a duty to ensure that no individual in our 
government, no matter how powerful, is allowed to ignore the rules. And 
when the Vice President is avoiding accountability, it is the Congress' 
responsibility to demand that accountability.

The Vice President must know that no matter what branch of government 
he may consider himself part of on any given day or week, he is not 
above the law.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.