---
---

# NATIONAL GUARD EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2010
## `3be42a16d8b17ca7ff4c26c475ac887a`
`Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado — 22 March 2010`

---


Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado. I thank the gentleman from Florida.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to stand before you today in strong support 
of H.R. 1879, the National Guard Employment Protection Act. I created 
this legislation in order to extend the same reemployment rights for 
all of our National Guard personnel regardless of whether they are 
assigned to a homeland security mission or deployed overseas to Iraq or 
Afghanistan. Under current law, the members of the National Guard who 
are called up for active duty in support of homeland security missions 
inside the United States are not provided the same reemployment rights 
to their civilian occupations that other members of the National Guard 
and Reserve have when they are called to active duty for overseas 
military assignments.

There is no doubt that the soldiers and the airmen serving in the 
National Guard must have the same reemployment rights irrespective of 
where they are ordered to serve. The bill recognizes that those who are 
called up for homeland security missions can face the same hardships 
and challenges in trying to return to their civilian employment as 
someone who has been away from their civilian occupation due to an 
overseas military assignment.

With the passage of H.R. 1879, National Guard members will no longer 
have to worry about being put into a position where they are forced to 
choose between retaining their civilian employment or serving our 
Nation in a critical homeland security mission.