---
---

# None
## `3bf0bf81e8396eb453e1ea120c8b6620`
`Mr. FILNER — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 521, a 
measure to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 2633 11th Street in Rock Island, Illinois, as the ''Lane 
Evans Post Office Building.'' Indeed, I wholeheartedly support 
Congressman Phil Hare in his efforts to bring this measure to the floor 
today and I appreciate his quick actions on this matter. As many know, 
Mr. Hare was the District Director of Congressman Evans for many years 
and now represents the 17th district of Illinois himself, the district 
that Lane Evans represented for 24 years.

Mr. Speaker, Lane Evans served with distinction in the U.S. House of 
Representatives since 1982; he was elected 12 times in a row by the 
good people of the 17th district of Illinois. Indeed, they proudly sent 
their best from the heartland America to serve America.

Lane has always been a champion for working families, students, 
servicemembers, veterans and military families. He went to college and 
law school on the GI Bill and returned to Illinois to be a legal aid 
lawyer, representing the less fortunate among us.

A Marine Corps veteran of the Vietnam era and a senior member of both 
the House Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs Committees, Lane Evans's 
advocacy and record in the Congress on behalf of the military and 
veterans is admirable and unquestioned.

There is no federal program for veterans which does not bear his mark 
of oversight and improvement. Simply put, veterans enjoy increased 
education benefits, improved health care access and services, a 
strengthened home loan program, judicial review of their benefits 
claims, additional opportunities for veteran-owned small businesses and 
a host of other improved and expanded benefits. No doubt such 
improvements are in no small measure due to Lane Evans's insistence 
that veterans be given the fair shake they earned in service to their 
country.

Lane Evans made his mark on Congress and in the House Veterans' 
Affairs Committee


right from the start by elevating concern for and promoting action on 
the issues affecting Vietnam veterans; specifically working to 
highlight post-traumatic stress disorder, the effects of Agent Orange 
and other herbicide exposure. He was also an outspoken advocate to 
address the problem of homelessness and substance abuse among veterans 
from the Vietnam era.

Congressman Evans led the effort in Congress to increase education 
benefits in order to keep pace with the rising costs of higher 
education and restore purchasing power to the Montgomery GI Bill. He 
also worked to revise, update and improve veterans' employment 
counseling and job-search assistance systems, and has helped ensure 
adequate resources to provide dignified final resting places for the 
Nation's veterans.

Perhaps what best sums up Lane Evans's character, drive and his 
service here in Congress, are his own words: Speaking on the Floor of 
the House of Representatives, he said: ''Our veterans--those returning 
from Iraq, those who scaled the cliffs above the beaches of Normandy, 
those who walked point in the jungles of Vietnam, those who survived 
the brutality of Korea and other battlefields, all who honorably served 
or who are now serving, have earned the assurance that VA--their 
system--will be there when they need it . . . just as we practice on 
the battlefield that we leave no one behind, we should not slam the 
door on any veteran who needs the VA system.''

Mr. Speaker, I could not agree more. The House of Representatives, 
the VA Committee and the veterans community will surely miss Lane 
Evans. We should honor Lane Evans by continuing his work here in 
Congress to ensure that servicemembers, veterans and military families 
are treated with respect and receive the benefits they have earned.

I urge all members to support H.R. 521.