---
---

# TAX RELIEF, UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REAUTHORIZATION, AND JOB CREATION  ACT OF 2010
## `3c07d15d6016c37d4bd79feee51844ac`
`Mr. WOLF — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chair, I support extending the 2001 and 2003 income tax 
cuts for all taxpayers, reducing or even eliminating the estate tax, 
and limiting the impact of the alternative minimum tax. If those were 
the only issues before us today, I would vote for that package to 
reduce the tax burden on Americans.

But this package is a bridge too far and I will vote no. With this 
package we are saying ''charge it.'' We aren't even making an attempt 
to pay for it. We are voting to add over $857 billion to our Nation's 
already massive, nearly $14 trillion debt. This is less than two weeks 
after the president's debt commission issued its a report called ''A 
Moment of Truth,'' which outlined the looming financial crisis that 
threatens the future of our country.

We're accumulating a trillion dollar deficit every year. This year, 
we are paying $202 billion a year in interest on our debt. That's 
nearly $4 billion a week.

By 2021, we will pay nearly $1 trillion a year solely to service the 
debt. One trillion.

That's nearly $19 billion a week or $2.7 billion a day. Two point 
seven billion dollars a day just to pay the interest. That is utterly 
unsustainable.

And money that goes to paying off the interest, let alone the 
principle, on the debt is money that will not be invested in road 
construction, or cancer research, or homeland security, or math and 
science education.

Over four years ago I came to the House floor to propose an 
independent bipartisan commission to address unsustainable federal 
spending. It would put everything on the table--entitlements, all other 
spending and tax policy. The SAFE Commission--short for Securing 
America's Future Economy--would operate in an authentic and transparent 
way, holding a series of public meetings across the country to hear 
from the American people. The commission would send its recommendations 
for a way forward to a sustainable economy to Congress, which would be 
required to vote up or down.

Senator George Voinovich, who is retiring this year and who has been 
a champion of fiscal integrity throughout his career in public service, 
was my partner in the Senate as sponsor of the SAFE bill. Congressman 
Jim Cooper and I also teamed in the 110th and this Congress to push the 
SAFE bill, garnering 118 cosponsors. Joining the effort in the Senate 
with Senator Voinovich were Senators Lieberman, Conrad and Gregg.

Senators Conrad and Gregg introduced a similar bill calling for a 
deficit commission that became the blueprint for the President's 
National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and on which 
both senators served. On December 3, a bipartisan majority of 11 of the 
18 commission members voted to recommend a bold plan to Congress that


would address our Nation's fiscal imbalance by cutting $4 trillion from 
the federal budget over the next decade. I commend Senators Coburn, 
Conrad, Crapo, Durbin, Gregg, and Representative Spratt for voting to 
advance the proposal. They recognize the seriousness of our fiscal 
situation and that the Congress needs to develop a plan for action.

The leaders of the bipartisan fiscal commission, Erskine Bowles and 
former Senator Alan Simpson, wrote to the president and leaders of 
Congress:

''Our growing national debt poses a dire threat to this Nation's 
future. Ever since the economic downturn, Americans have had to make 
tough choices about how to make ends meet. Now it's time for leaders in 
Washington to do the same.''

Yet today, we see that once again, Washington is punting. Less than 
80 hours after the commission's 11 to 7 bipartisan vote, ''this 
compromise'' was unveiled at a cost of nearly $1 trillion in borrowed 
money. The commission's chairmen told us that ''the era of debt denial 
is over.'' Yet the legislation before us today clearly demonstrates 
that that is simply not the case.

To quote Senator Coburn's floor statement of December 8:

''What we need to do, Democrats and Republicans and our Independent 
colleagues, is recognize the depth and magnitude of our problem right 
now. There needs to be a great big time out. Who cares who is in charge 
if there is no country to run that can be salvaged? It doesn't matter.

''Economists worldwide and some of the brightest people at Harvard 
and MIT, the University of Texas, Pennsylvania, they don't sleep at 
night right now. They know we are on the razor-thin edge of falling 
over a cliff.

''The fact is, both parties have laid a trap for future generations 
by our inaction, our laziness, our arrogance, and a crass desire for 
power. We are waterboarding the next generation with debt. We are 
drowning them in obligations because we don't have the courage to come 
together and address or even debate a real solution. . . . The problem 
is so big and so urgent and so necessary that we ought to have [a] 
debate. We ought to make sure the American people know the significance 
of the problems facing us.''

I couldn't agree more.

On Monday, Moody's Investment Service warned that this legislation 
jeopardizes America's coveted AAA credit rating, and could lead to a 
negative outlook in as little as two years. For the record, I am 
inserting its report.

If our credit rating is downgraded, the cost to borrow money will 
rise.

Everything, from a home loan to a car loan to tuition for college to 
a credit card bill to interest payments on the debt, will increase. We 
will be paying more to sustain, not to improve, our existing quality of 
life.

We need look no farther than Europe to see the destructive impact 
that results after a nation's financial crisis. There have been riots 
in Belgium, Spain, France, Ireland, England, Italy, and Latvia. Just 
Monday, Moody's threatened to further downgrade Spain's credit ratings. 
Will there be rioting in the streets here like we are now seeing 
abroad?

This House, and the Senate before us, is continuing on its profligate 
ways of adding billions of dollars to the nation's credit card, which 
has been issued by the banks of China and Saudi Arabia, among others.

More than 46 percent of the U.S. debt held by the public is in 
foreign hands. Saudi Arabia was home to the 9/11 terrorists. Saudi 
Arabia's Wahhabi brand of Islam is taught in some of the most radical 
mosques and madrassas around the world, including along the Pakistan/
Afghanistan border. Saudi Arabia represses women and persecutes 
Christians and Jews.

Their textbooks are filled with hateful messages about minority 
faiths. Just last month a BBC expose' reveled that Saudi textbooks used 
for weekend education programs to teach about 5,000 Muslim children in 
Britain, contained claims that ''some Jews were transformed into pigs 
and apes . . .'' Further, the books, which again are Saudi national 
curriculum, contain ''text and pictures showing the correct way to chop 
off the hands and feet of thieves.'' Is this a country we want to be 
beholden to?

Or what about communist China, our largest banker, which routinely 
violates the basic human rights and religious freedom of its own people 
where Catholic bishops, Protestant ministers and Tibetan monks are 
jailed for practicing their faith? I've seen how they plundered Tibet 
with my own eyes. China was once again in the spotlight recently when 
famed dissident Liu Xiaobo was awarded the Nobel Peace prize. China's 
response? Place Liu's wife under house arrest, stop other dissidents 
from attending the award ceremony in Oslo and place them under tight 
surveillance, and indefinitely postpone trade talks with Norway.

The U.S. intelligence community notes that China's attempts to 
penetrate U.S. agencies are the most aggressive of all foreign 
intelligence organizations. According to the FBI, Chinese intelligence 
services ''pose a significant threat both to the national security and 
to the compromise of U.S. critical national assets.'' Weapons that 
entities of the People's Republic of China supplied to Iran were 
''found to have been transferred to terrorist organizations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.'' China is a significant arms supplier and source of 
economic strength to the genocidal regime in Sudan. Do we really want 
China to be our banker?

In a February 2010 piece, Wall Street Journal columnist Gerald Seib 
wrote, ''the Federal budget deficit has long since graduated from 
nuisance to headache to pressing national concern. Now, however, it has 
become so large and persistent that it is time to start thinking of it 
as something else entirely: A national security threat.''

These foreign countries, with vastly different aims than our own, 
could end up negatively influencing U.S. foreign policy by threatening 
to dump our currency in the world market. Such actions would not be a 
historical anomaly.

Recall 1956 in the Suez Canal crisis, which some believed signaled 
the end of Britain and France as world powers. Egypt announced that it 
was going to nationalize the canal, which outraged the British and 
French, who then devised a plan to use military force to keep control. 
The U.S. wanted to avert conflict at any cost. And President Eisenhower 
threatened to sell the U.S. reserves of the British pound, which would 
essentially result in the collapse of the British currency. The British 
changed course, demonstrating the power, the impact, that economic 
manipulation can have on foreign policy.

Is it conceivable to imagine the Saudis threatening to dump our 
currency if we don't withdraw from the region? Is it conceivable to 
imagine China threatening to dump our currency if we don't stop 
pressing nuclear-armed North Korea?

Simply put, we are presently borrowing hundreds of billions of 
dollars from countries which pursue aims that are at odds with our 
national interest and values, both directly and indirectly.

The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has pointed to our nation's 
debt as a national security risk. It is expected that, as early as 
2014, our nation will spend more on interest payments than was spent on 
the 2010 defense budget. In case you missed that, we will pay more to 
borrow money than we will pay to defend our freedom.

This is a package full of numerous perks to sweeten the deal. As the 
Wall Street Journal editorial, ''The Hawkeye Handouts,'' noted on 
December 13, Republicans ''should worry that the tax bill is turning 
into a special interest spectacle. The bill revives a $1 a gallon 
biodiesel tax credit at a cost of nearly $2 billion, and there's $202 
million for 'incentives for alternative fuel,' $331 million for a 50% 
tax credit for maintaining railroad tracks, and so on. These credits 
are a form of special interest spending via the tax code, which is 
precisely the business as usual behavior that Republicans told tea 
party voters they wouldn't engage in.''

Dan Eggen of the Washington Post reported yesterday that ''. . . the 
ethanol provision . . . has cost taxpayers more than $21 billion since 
2006. The Government Accountability Office recently concluded that the 
credit has had little impact in encouraging ethanol use or production, 
especially since the government already mandates rising levels of 
ethanol in gasoline and protects the corn ethanol industry through 
tariffs.''

From farmers producing ethanol to Puerto Ricans making rum to film 
producers in Hollywood, there's something for everyone. Even worse, the 
payroll tax holiday raids, for the first time in our history, the 
Social Security trust fund, which is already going broke. No one comes 
away empty handed.

This is, as Charles Krauthammer wrote in the Washington Post on 
December 10, nothing more than a stimulus by another name--an unfunded 
stimulus that costs considerably more than the President's stimulus of 
2009 that so many on my side of the aisle opposed.

Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal 
Budget, hit the nail on the head in an October 2009 National Journal 
article when she said, ''It's like fiscal jenga, where people are 
piling on more and more debt, and finally, something's going to be the 
cause of it collapsing, but no one believes their thing is going to be 
the tipping point.''

This package could be the ''thing'' that takes us closer to the 
tipping point.

Candidly, I have never been more concerned about our country's 
future. We see a nation whose young people are lagging behind their 
peers globally. We see a Senate debating a $1.1 trillion omnibus 
spending measure containing over 6,000 earmarks representing over $8 
billion worth of spending. We see a Congress and a president embracing 
a tax package that risks our nation's highly valued AAA bond rating. 
All the while we see young


men and women in uniform, in distant places like Afghanistan and Iraq, 
modeling the sort of sacrifice that few Americans even expect from 
their elected leaders any more.

Only through shared sacrifice can we hope to walk back from the 
precipice. But instead of asking for sacrifice, the measure before us 
today provides something for everyone. Maybe not as much as everyone 
wanted, but what was truly sacrificed? The word compromise implies that 
both sides in the negotiation give up something. No one gave up 
anything. Legislation of this magnitude must be balanced by reforms.

But instead of reforms we see recklessness. This legislation walks us 
further down the path to greater and greater deficits and debt that can 
only lead to a place none of us wants to go--a bankrupt America. I 
cannot in good conscience leave that type of country to my children and 
grandchildren.

At his 1796 farewell address, George Washington admonished his fellow 
countrymen: ''We should avoid ungenerously throwing upon posterity the 
burden of which we ourselves ought to bear.''

Enough is enough. I vote ''no.''






[From Moody's Weekly Credit Outlook, Dec. 13, 2010]


US Tax Package Is Negative for US Credit, but Positive for Economic 
















 Growth




 If the tax and unemployment-benefit package agreed to on 6 


 December by President Obama and congressional Republican 


 leaders becomes law, it will boost economic growth in the 


 next two years, but adversely affect the federal government 


 budget deficit and debt level. From a credit perspective, the 


 negative effects on government finance are likely to outweigh 


 the positive effects of higher economic growth. Unless there 


 are offsetting measures, the package will be credit negative 


 for the US and increase the likelihood of a negative outlook 


 on the US government's Aaa rating during the next two years



 One motivation for the two-year extension of the current 


 personal income tax rates (put in place in 2001 and 2003 and 


 referred to as the ''Bush tax cuts'') is to prevent a setback 


 to economic and employment growth that would result from 


 higher taxes beginning on 1 January, the expiration date of 


 the earlier tax cuts. Keeping the existing tax rates would 


 not provide an impetus to growth, but raising them would have 


 a negative effect. However, the package also includes, among 


 other things, an extension of unemployment benefits for the 


 long-term unemployed through 2011 and a two-percentage-point 


 cut in the Social Security payroll tax. The latter two 


 measures will give a boost to economic and employment growth 


 in the coming two years, with some forecasters significantly 


 raising their GDP growth numbers in 2011 and 2012.



 Higher economic growth should have a positive effect on 


 government revenues and reduce payments related to 


 unemployment. However, the magnitude of this positive effect 


 will be considerably less than the foregone revenue and 


 increased benefit expenditure, resulting in substantially 


 higher budget deficits than would have otherwise been the 


 case. The Congressional Budget Office's most recent estimate 


 of the deficit for fiscal year 2011 was $1.1 trillion, or 7% 


 of GDP, assuming no expiration of the tax cuts, and $665 


 billion (4.2%) in fiscal year 2012. These deficits would 


 raise the ratio of government debt to GDP to 68.5% by the end 


 of fiscal year 2012, compared with 61.6% two years earlier.



 The net cost of the proposed package of tax-cut extensions, 


 payroll-tax reductions, unemployment benefits, and some other 


 measures may be $700-$900 billion, raising the debt ratio to 


 72%-73%, depending on the effects on nominal economic growth. 


 The government's ratio of debt to revenue, instead of 


 declining rather steeply over the two years from about 420% 


 at the end of fiscal year 2010, would decline considerably 


 less to somewhere just under 400%. This is a very high ratio 


 compared with both history and other highly rated sovereigns.



 Thus, while higher growth and lower unemployment are 


 clearly good for the economy, the package is negative for US 


 government debt metrics. In addition, there is a risk that 


 the two-year extension may be renewed at the end of 2012, 


 given that that period coincides with a presidential 


 election. A permanent extension of the tax cuts alone 


 (without other measures) could result in a considerable 


 increase in deficits and debt levels unless other measures to 


 reduce deficits are adopted. The exhibit below illustrates 


 that the fiscal balance in the coming decade would be 


 considerably higher under such a scenario, all other things 


 being equal, and this would result in a worsening of the 


 government's debt position. A package of options put forth by 


 the fiscal commission at the beginning of this month provides 


 a menu of such measures that would reverse these trends, but 


 their adoption remains uncertain.
