# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3c12eb92910c935de25df134eca29394`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. I want to thank my colleague for yielding and say to my 
colleagues that the President, on February 1, sent up a supplemental 
spending request to fund our activities for our troops and the State 
Department in Afghanistan. For 5 months, this Chamber has wallowed 
around trying to find a way to bring this bill to the floor. And look 
how we've done it.

We have a rule that provides for the consideration of the 
supplemental that self-executes a lot of wasteful spending here in 
Washington right into the rule itself. But if that isn't bad enough, 
there are four amendments made in order. If any of those amendments 
were to fail, it's as if the House has not even considered the bill. 
It's as though this debate that we're having right now had never even 
happened.

How could such a rule providing for the consideration of an important 
supplemental spending bill have in there this escape clause that if we 
don't get our way on all of these amendments, then this really didn't 
happen? This is supposed to be the greatest legislative body in the 
history of the world and we're treating it like a bunch of kids in a 
sandbox. I, frankly, think it's disgraceful.

Beyond what the rule does in terms of the consideration of the bill, 
it also deems the appropriation process to begin. And it outlines a 
number. We've tried for several months to pass a budget here in the 
House. But the budget resolution never reached the floor. There was 
never a debate and never an effort to actually come to grips with a 
fiscal crisis that's facing our country. And yet what are we going to 
do? We're going to authorize over a trillion dollars worth of new 
spending. No debate how to save money, no debate about the crisis that 
we're facing. We're just going to keep the spending spree alive.

This scheme-and-deem process that's included in this rule should be 
another reason that Members ought to think twice before they vote for 
this budget and vote for this rule. But I've got to tell you the worst 
thing that's going on here is that the Secretary of Defense has asked 
for this money prior to July 4th because our troops in Afghanistan need 
the resources in order to succeed in their mission. Not only are we 
trying to pile all of this new spending on the backs of our troops, the 
fact is that if this rule were to pass, it guarantees that this bill 
will not get to the President before July 4th. If this rule passes, 
which self-executes all of this extra spending into it, it will 
automatically have to go to the United States Senate, where how long it 
will be there, who knows. But all I can say is that the troops that are 
out there fighting for the defense of our country, trying to preserve 
the security for our country for today and tomorrow, are going to be 
left wanting because of the political chicanery that's going on here in 
this House. I think this is disgraceful. I really do.

I promised the President 2 months ago that if they brought a clean 
supplemental spending bill to the floor of the House, I and my 
Republican colleagues would be there to help the President pass it. He 
heard me loud and clear. He looked at the Senate Republican leader and 
said, Well, what do you think about this? He said, I'm with Boehner.

We promised the President we would help pass this bill. But, no, 
there was never any reaching out, never any working together to try to 
make sure that our troops had what they needed in a timely fashion. No, 
the only way we can bring this bill up was to load it up with tens of 
billions of dollars of new spending--just more stimulus spending that 
hasn't worked over the last year and a half, and this additional 
spending is just going to be thrown on the backs of our kids and 
grandkids.

Mr. Speaker, I think our colleagues tonight should do the right 
thing. I think they should stand up and say ''no'' to this rule. Let's 
say ''yes'' to a fairer process and to a process that will get our 
troops the funds that they need in a timely fashion, which is now. If 
we defeat this rule, you can bet that the supplemental spending bill, 
without all these other add-ons, will be on the floor of this house. 
And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, that I and my Republican colleagues 
will gladly vote for a clean supplemental to support our troops.