---
---

# SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING TERRITORIES OF THE UNITED STATES
## `3c1ac3baed32b5d346557c16173b992a`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 23 June 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. I thank the gentleman.

Madam Speaker, today the teaching of history to our children and 
young adults is an integral part of the learning experience and the 
American elementary and secondary education system. History is a 
formidable, important part of the curriculum and the intellectual 
development of our youth. It is through history that we learn about, 
recall, and reflect upon lessons of the past and it is through history 
that we learn to responsibly recognize and seize the opportunities of 
the future. History is an exercise of self-awareness. It helps each 
citizen understand his or her place and role in our society, and it 
helps us establish a continuity for progress.

It is through history that we learn about and come to appreciate our 
roots, our heritage, our culture, our progress as a society, and our 
relationships to one another and about how our family and our community 
relate to the broader world and to the generations that have come 
before us and those that follow us. Through history, our children learn 
about people and the faces and the stories behind the names that have 
helped shape our great democratic experiment.

The teaching of United States history is fundamental to the American 
classroom. Yet, the teaching of history can be elevated today with 
greater incorporation of facts related to the territories and our 
fellow Americans who call the territories home. Integration into the 
modern day curriculum of the accounts of relationships and the 
circumstances surrounding the entry of each of the territories into the 
American family is both appropriate and needed if our teaching of 
American history is to be complete and meaningful. Learning about the 
contributions of illustrious persons from the territories complements 
this goal and is a proven, effective means of sharing our history.

Today, American children, for example, learn about Squanto, George 
Washington, Paul Revere, Lewis and Clark, Buffalo Bill Cody, Susan B. 
Anthony, Francis Scott Key, Orville and Wilbur Wright, Rosa Parks, and 
many, many other notable Americans. But, Madam Speaker, the names and 
the stories of historic figures in the territories are not known, and 
we have many historic leaders, as my colleague pointed out from her own 
territory of the Virgin Islands.

Today, our school children learn the capital cities of Jefferson 
City, Boise, Concord, Tallahassee, and many others. But San Juan, Pago 
Pago, and Hagatna, for example, they are unfamiliar to their ear and 
rarely can be pinpointed on the map. Our territorial flags, seals, 
trees, flowers, birds, et cetera, they are all too frequently 
overlooked or a mystery, our history under appreciated.

How many young students today know that Guam was discovered by 
Magellan in 1521, and Guam was governed under Spain for 100 years. 
Today, too few Americans know and realize that the territory of Guam 
was bombarded, attacked and invaded by Imperial Japanese forces 
concurrent with the attack on Pearl Harbor. Too few Americans know and 
learn about the loyalty and courage of the people of Guam in suffering 
at the hands of a brutal enemy, while their homeland, sovereign 
American soil, was occupied. Guam is the only American community to 
have been occupied since the War of 1812.

This resolution is an exercise about learning to appreciate the 
cultures and the history of our islands, where our U.S. flag flies. 
House Concurrent Resolution 2 expresses the sense of this Congress that 
schools and educators all across these 50 United States and right here 
in our Nation's capital city should strive to teach our children about 
the territories and should in their noble profession seek to honor the 
contributions of individuals from each of these territories.

For over a century now individuals from Guam, Puerto Rico, American 
Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana 
Islands have contributed to the growth and development of our country. 
Individuals from the territories have stood shoulder to shoulder with 
their brothers and sisters in harm's way, and I am speaking about the 
war in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have worn the uniform in times of 
war, and boast some of highest enlistment rates in our military. Many 
have paid the ultimate sacrifice from World War I to the present day 
war against terrorism.

Some have gone on to distinguished military careers as officers. 
Others have made contributions in the fields of medicine, law, music 
and the arts. Some have become incredible teachers in their own rights, 
and work to preserve our history and expand the circle of awareness 
about the beautiful tapestry and the rich history of the people of the 
United States territories.

The textbooks, the classroom discussions, the maps, the globes, the 
technology, the learning games, all could stand to include more pages, 
more study questions, and more focus on the territories.

I want to thank my colleague, Congresswoman Christensen, for her 
leadership in working to incorporate the


territories into history for America's schoolchildren.

I stand here today proud of our own schoolchildren on Guam. This 
debate is on the heels of their participation last week for the first 
time in the national competition for National History Day, and my 
colleague spoke about this. His office is located right across from 
mine, and they all performed in the hallway. History students from 
George Washington High School, Untalan Middle School, Agueda Johnston 
Middle School and Guam High School all competed with students from all 
across the United States at the University of Maryland, College Park, 
in the national competition with research papers, exhibits, performance 
and documentaries. This occurred, as I said, just last week. And they 
also went on a field trip in Washington, DC.

So, Madam Speaker, I stand in full support, in strong support for the 
passage of this very important House Concurrent Resolution 2.