# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `3c1c76c97347ecb051ecab5b024c30da`
`Ms. COLLINS â€” 12 February 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, if I may respond to the Senator from 
Virginia, I remember very well General Abizaid's testimony before the 
Armed Services Committee in mid-November. And as the Senator has 
pointed out--and he presided over that hearing--it could not have been 
clearer General Abizaid said that he consulted with all the American 
commanders and that the effect of bringing in more American troops 
would be to relieve the pressure on the Iraqis to step up and take 
control of the security themselves.

Indeed, and ironically, General Petraeus, the new commander in Iraq, 
had written an article for the Military Review in January of 2006 in 
which he said that one of the lessons from his tours of duty in Iraq 
was that you should not do too much, that you should call upon the 
Iraqis to take responsibility for themselves. Indeed, my experience was 
just as the Senator's was. About a month after General Abizaid's 
testimony, I was in Iraq. I talked with the commanders on the ground, 
and I would like to share with the senior Senator what one American 
commander told me.

He said that a jobs program for Iraqis would do more good to quell 
the sectarian violence than the addition of more American troops. He 
told me that some Iraqi men are so desperate for money because they 
have been unemployed for so long that they are joining the Shiite 
militias. They are planting roadside bombs simply for the money because 
they are desperate.

I thought that was such a telling comment, I say to my distinguished 
colleague, because this was from a very experienced commander who had 
been in Iraq for a long time. At that moment he was not calling for 
more troops. None of the American commanders with whom I talked in 
Baghdad called for more troops. The only place where we heard a request 
for more troops was in Anbar Province, and as I have explained, the 
situation


in Anbar is totally different. It is not sectarian violence. The 
violence is with al-Qaida, the foreign jihadists, mainly Sunni versus 
Sunni, and it requires a different strategy.


So my experience, when added to the distinguished Senator's, shows a 
consistent pattern. Whether it was the distinguished Senator's trip in 
October or the testimony of General Abizaid in November or my journey 
in December, we heard exactly the same themes, exactly the same answers 
to the questions of whether we needed more troops.

Finally, let me say I went to Iraq with a completely open mind on 
this issue, and I came back convinced that sending more troops to 
Baghdad would be a colossal error.