---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS LENDING IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `3c25c66f0859a5fedd0e0f3792326451`
`Mr. McCRERY — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. McCRERY. Madam Speaker, the motion to recommit that I am offering 
makes an important point about how we treat small businesses, the 
engine that drives much of our economy and creates many of our jobs in 
this country.

The underlying bill makes permanent the Community Express Program, 
which provides loans up to $250,000 to businesses which are owned by 
certain favored groups such as women, minorities, veterans, or socially 
or economically disadvantaged individuals. The measure does not define 
what it means for a business owner to be ''economically 
disadvantaged.''

This would require that the Small Business Administration would 
consider as economically disadvantaged those business owners that can 
demonstrate that they have been adversely impacted by an increase in 
the Federal minimum wage.

The importance of this motion is clear in the face of the failure of 
this House and the conferees on the supplemental appropriations bill 
that will be considered later tonight to adequately provide tax relief 
to those small businesses most impacted by an increase in the minimum 
wage.

The agreement reached by the majority and inserted into the 
supplemental does provide a larger dollar figure for relief than was 
passed by the House earlier this year, but almost none of the added tax 
revenues will provide relief to the small businesses most in need of 
assistance because of the increase in the minimum wage.

For example, more than 53 percent of the tax relief is in the form of 
a 44-month extension of the work opportunity tax credit. While 
extending the work opportunity tax credit may be good policy, and I 
happen to like that credit, more than 90 percent of the credits are 
claimed by firms with gross receipts over $50 million, hardly small 
businesses.

Other provisions, while well intentioned, will have little or no 
impact on small businesses. The S-Corp reforms, which costs almost $1 
billion, have no direct relation to firms impacted by the minimum wage.

I support the changes in the package to the low income housing tax 
credit, but that $237 million in tax relief, again, does nothing 
towards satisfying the stated purpose of helping small businesses cope 
with the increase in the minimum wage.

While the work opportunity tax credit was expanded and was given a 
longer extension than in the House-passed package, provisions to help 
small businesses by increasing expensing were not given similar 
treatment. Other depreciation changes included in the Senate-passed 
bill that could have helped small businesses were completely left out 
of the conference agreement. In fact, barely $1 billion of the total 
almost $5 billion package provides relief to small businesses; and 
almost half of that, $457 million of it, exists solely to protect 
restaurant owners from the tax increase they would otherwise face from 
a minimum wage increase. Thus, only about one-eighth of the new 
benefits are targeted at small businesses.

That minimal relief for small businesses looks even smaller when 
compared against the Congressional Budget Office's estimate that the 
increase in the minimum wage will impose more than $16 billion in costs 
on the private sector over the next 5 years.

It should come as no surprise to anyone to learn that the National 
Federation of Independent Business, a small business association, 
released a statement today criticizing Congress for failing to deliver 
meaningful tax relief to the American small business community in the 
face of a mandated Federal minimum wage hike.

I submit for printing in the Record the entire statement of NFIB.

Tax Package Tied to Minimum Wage Hike Fails To Deliver Relief for Small 
















Business


 NFIB disappointed in diminished small-business tax relief in the 









 federal supplemental spending bill




 Washington, D.C., April 25, 2007--Dan Danner, executive 


 vice president of the National Federation of Independent 


 Business, today made the following statement in reaction to 


 the reduced small-business tax-relief package contained in 


 the federal minimum wage increase legislation, now attached 


 to the Iraq spending bill.



 It's truly disheartening that during National Small 


 Business Week Congress has decided to renege on their promise 


 to deliver meaningful tax relief to the American small-


 business community in the face of a mandated federal minimum 


 wage hike.



 While small businesses appreciate the increased and 


 extended expensing limit, the tax package as a whole simply 


 does not offer enough growth-oriented tax relief to allow 


 small businesses to invest and stay competitive. NFIB is 


 disappointed to see that the reduced tax package falls short 


 of truly offsetting the costs small businesses will be forced 


 to absorb as a result of a minimum wage increase.



 Small-business owners have always opposed mandated wage 


 levels because it leaves them with fewer choices in how they 


 compensate their employees. But in the face of an inevitable 


 wage hike, the small-business community was pleased to hear 


 that Congress was planning to offer a tax package aimed at 


 helping small businesses cope with additional labor costs.



 From the beginning of this debate, the accompanying tax 


 package was supposed to be about helping the country's small 


 businesses. Instead, Congress has spent more time catering to 


 big business demands than providing real tax relief to those 


 who need it most--American small-business owners.



 As this debate continues, NFIB will continue its efforts to 


 educate members of Congress about why small businesses need 


 and deserve meaningful tax relief.


Last week my friend, the distinguished chairman of the Ways and Means 
Committee, indicated that the tax package on the supplemental was the 
final deal. I suppose he meant the final deal on taxes associated with 
the minimum wage increase. And I guess he meant that, even if the 
supplemental is vetoed, that we don't go back to square one, that there 
will still be no renegotiation of the tax package. That is unfortunate, 
and that is what brings us here today.

The majority has said it is unwilling to reconsider ways to ensure 
that we provide tax relief to the businesses most in need and to 
examine the shortcomings of the tax package. Thus, we must find other 
ways to help small businesses continue to be the engines of job 
creation in our economy. By making small businesses adversely affected 
by a minimum wage increase eligible for the community express program, 
Madam Speaker, we are offering the House an opportunity, a chance, to 
make good on the promise to help those businesses impacted by an 
increase of the minimum wage.

Madam Speaker, I urge passage of the motion.



Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

