---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3c2e2172cb8bcef625465d42a727896f`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, ''So they go on in strange paradox, decided 
only to be undecided, resolved to be irresolute, adamant for drift, 
solid for fluidity, all-powerful to be impotent.'' The words of Winston 
Churchill on the eve of World War II ring true today as clearly as they 
did decades ago describing our state of affairs.

I am disappointed with my colleagues in the majority. They spent the 
time and effort solidifying their caucus against the war in Iraq. They 
devised a number of plans to withdraw our troops. They made Iraq the 
focus of their agenda in November and not staying the course their 
slogan. However, they stand today, as Churchill said, resolved to be 
irresolute in their position on Iraq.

The resolution we debate in the House today is based on flawed logic. 
The resolution states that Congress supports the efforts of our troops 
in mind but not in body. The fact is, this resolution is framed upon 
the idea that the current state of affairs in Iraq is beyond recovery 
and should be abandoned.

Instead of offering any real alternatives, the Democrats have drafted 
a nonbinding resolution that rejects the President's plan to reinforce 
our troops and give the Iraqi Security Forces the assistance they need. 
This resolution does not bring us one step closer to victory. This 
resolution does nothing more than reinforce the status quo.

This resolution does show the American people that yet again, the 
Democrats, for all of their rhetoric, have no plan, no alternative to 
fight the threat of Islamic jihad. They instead have chosen, amazingly, 
to simply stay the course.

I will be the first to admit that, despite the outstanding jobs that 
our troops on the ground have done, progress in the war is slow and 
frustrating. We overthrew a violent despot, only to see a new and 
dangerous threat emerge. But we can not be fooled into thinking that by 
leaving Iraq this threat will melt away.

By the very admission of the Islamic fundamentalists we fight, this 
war is


only part of a larger power play to consolidate power and form a 
jihadist Islamic state in the center of the Middle East.

In a speech released this month, Ahman Zawahiri praised al Qaeda's 
master plan for Iraq. He asked Allah to consolidate Iraq so that it 
unites all our Muslim brothers in Iraq and sets up an Islamic state 
which will proceed to liberate Jerusalem and take steps towards 
reestablishment of the Caliphate.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is a grave mistake for us to not take our 
enemy at their word. The jihadists do not want peace. They want 
capitulation. We ignored their threats in the 1980s and they bombed our 
Marine barracks in Beirut. We ignored their rhetoric in the nineties 
and they bombed the World Trade Center and our embassies in Africa. We 
ignored their threats in the days leading up to September 11, and our 
world was changed forever.

Democratic Presidential Candidate John Edwards described this 
resolution best when he compared it to a child standing in a corner, 
stomping his feet. This resolution may draw headlines, but it will not 
change a thing.

We have one Commander in Chief, not 435 separate executives. What the 
Congress does have is the power of the purse and the ability to cut off 
the funding for the war. Let's be honest. This resolution is the first 
step in that direction.

If cutting off funding is the Democrats' plan, and I believe it is, 
then let them state it openly. They are no longer the voice of the 
opposition in Congress. They are the majority, and they have an 
obligation to govern. It is time for them to create a plan, a real 
course of success. The American people are waiting.