---
---

# None
## `3c38a329bdc2fdc325211f64b0a43812`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor and privilege to stand 
before you today in support of H. Con. Res. 297, a measure that 
recognizes the 60th anniversary of the integration of the United States 
Armed Services.

 On July 26, 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed Executive Order 
9981, declaring that all members of the military are equal regardless 
of race, color, religion, or national origin. These long-overdue words 
marked the beginning of the end of institutionalized discrimination in 
the U.S. Armed Services, and instilled into the military the democratic 
principle of equality.

 Prior to this executive order, minority soldiers not only fought 
against our enemies, but also struggled against prejudice at home and 
in the military. In spite of these unjust circumstances, many 
segregated units were universally renowned for their courage and valor, 
such as the 54th Massachusetts Regiment during the American Civil War, 
the Harlem Hellfighters (369th Infantry Regiment) in World War I, and 
the Tuskegee Airmen and the 100th Battalion and the 442nd Combat 
Infantry group in World War II. We should never forget the sacrifices 
they made to preserve the ideals of freedom and democracy.

 It has been 60 years since President Truman courageously and justly 
integrated the U.S. Armed Services. Our military was strong then, but 
it is stronger now, in no small part because all service men and women 
serve together as equals. Indeed, this year America may elect its first 
African-American Commander in Chief.

 Indiana's First Congressional District enjoys a rich diversity that 
has helped produce some of the most capable units in the armed 
services. Servicemembers from Northwest Indiana have fought in 
integrated units during every military engagement since World War II. 
Right now, Indiana has the fourth-largest National Guard in the United 
States, with more troops deployed in Iraq than any other State in the 
union. I am extremely proud of the patriotic men and women from Indiana 
who have served and are serving in uniform, and thank them for their 
service to our country. The successes of Indiana's men and women in 
uniform of all races, colors, religions, and countries of origin, and 
across all generations, have been echoed throughout the Nation.

 Mr. Speaker, at this time I ask that you and my other distinguished 
colleagues join me in honoring the 60th anniversary of the integration 
of the United States Armed Services. Such integration has enriched our 
military with the same democratic equality that they have fought so 
valiantly to protect.
