# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE  VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `3c39161d94e2a46763d626c482a197f5`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me first of all add my appreciation to 
Congressman Tom Davis; maybe the constitutional teachers at the 
University of Virginia law school are owed a debt of gratitude as well; 
and, of course, the gentlelady who has persisted throughout her, I 
think, legal and legislative career, the Honorable Congresswoman 
Eleanor Holmes Norton.

This is a historic moment and an historic day. I think the crucial-
ness of this debate should not be lost on the American people. I rise 
to support this rule, this structured rule, that allows an amendment by 
Mr. Waxman and Mr. Conyers, and I would like to give comfort to those 
on the other side of the aisle to read their Constitution and explore 
even some of the Supreme Court cases that document that the District of 
Columbia under Supreme Court law has been held as a State in certain 
purposes.

Now, what is lost in this debate is that this is not a singular 
legislative act that excludes a balance. Out of this provision comes a 
seat for the State of Utah, which has requested a seat for many, many 
years. Just recently, we added a seat for North Carolina so that 
citizens of the United States could vote. So it is being defined by my 
opponents on the other side, this rule that it is unconstitutional 
because they are not giving you the whole story. This, because of 
population concerns, adds a seat to Utah. But, more importantly, this 
is a constitutional approach. They are right. Article I, section 2 
indicates that the House of Representatives shall be composed of 
Members from every State. But then there is an enunciation of the 
powers of Congress that goes under section 8, clause 17, that ''the 
Congress has the power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases 
whatever over such district that has been established as the capital of 
the United States.'' The Congress has all power.

Now, let me say this. We are not all powerful. We represent the 
people of the United States. But would you ask the question as we are 
debating soon the crisis in Iraq, where the policies of this Nation 
have been to export democracy, create an opportunity for those citizens 
of Iraq to vest in their country, to vote for their leadership, does it 
make any sense for individuals paying taxes, who are on the front lines 
of Iraq, Afghanistan, World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, the 
Korean conflict, and any conflict around the world, to be denied the 
right to vote if the Constitution gives us the authority to do so?

I commend the Constitution to my colleagues. I might say that we 
welcome the distinguished gentleman from Iowa's amendment to work with 
Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton to get Senate provisions, if he 
desires to do so. It seems like he was concerned that the other body 
was not represented. But when we debate this question as we will soon, 
let us have the facts. You cannot quote one part, as one would say in 
the church, of the Bible and exclude the other part. You can't quote 
one part of the Constitution and ignore the powers of this Congress 
that has a right to exercise authority over the District of Columbia.

I think the other question that should be asked and answered, who 
will it harm? Who will be hurt by recognizing the voting rights of 
people that are here in the United States paying taxes and shedding 
their blood? Who would argue against the place that thousands and 
millions of Americans come as their capital that they love, and they 
leave behind those who care for and take care of this capital, the 
residents of the District of Columbia, and they leave them with no 
right to vote.

So I believe that this rule is the right rule. I have disagreed with 
rules, both Republican and, frankly, Democratic rules. Later today I 
will disagree with the rule that will be put forward. But frankly I 
think this rule that is structured makes a great deal of difference and 
it is important that we make sure that we abide by this book and we 
read it consistently with its language and that is to say that Congress 
has the power to move forward.

I would ask my colleagues to be reminded that there are citizens in 
this country that cannot vote, and I hope that you will view the work 
of the Congress as it is constitutional and right to give those 
citizens the right to vote, for they too are Americans.

I ask my colleagues to support the rule.