# None
## `3c4480447e14edbc7cfdbf12b7cd182a`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 26 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my friends, 
Chairman Norman Dicks and Mike Simpson, for nearing the completion of 
their work on the Interior appropriations report as we speak. I look 
forward to discussing their work in greater detail over the next couple 
of days.

With regard to the motion to instruct, I would like to remind Members 
how important it is to you if this vote happens to reflect your 
constituency concerns--those constituents who have farms, ranches, 
livestock, et cetera in their districts. Without your support, the EPA 
will place an extraordinary and expensive burden on your constituents 
by regulating the emissions from cow, pig and chicken manure.

Now, I do know how intently my chairman, over the years, has opposed 
any kind of minor exemption in a process like this, but the language 
that we are considering, which was presented by Mr. Latham in the 
committee, was adopted with bipartisan support by the full committee, 
and it passed the House with overwhelming support. As Mr. Simpson 
pointed out, no one even tried to remove this during the House 
proceedings.

However, today, as we discuss this commonsense motion to instruct, I 
can't help but wonder about the greater plan to finish our 
appropriations work. I remind Members that the clock is ticking. We are 
now 1 month into the 2010 fiscal year, and we still have a great deal 
of work to do if we plan to complete our appropriations business this 
year.

By my account, the House and Senate have now sent to the President 4 
of the 12 appropriations conference reports. Presuming it gets there 
soon, the Interior conference report will be the fifth. That means that 
there are 7 spending bills left to complete before the end of the year.

For weeks and months now, the House has had very little substantive 
work to do. Week after week, the legislative calendar is fashioned to 
appear that the House is busy with the Nation's business, but Members 
and those portions of the public who watch carefully know better. 
Members on both sides of the aisle are frustrated with the House 
leadership for loading up the calendar with suspension bills, which are 
relatively insignificant, as the rest of our spending bills languish.

For example, the Defense spending bill has now cleared both the House 
and the Senate, and there aren't any obstacles to prevent this 
conference report from moving forward.

I care a great deal about our public lands and environment, but 
moving the Interior bill before the Defense bill makes no sense. In 
fact, it borders on the irresponsible. Rather than moving the Defense 
bill, one of the most important spending bills, that bill is lying on 
the shelf while our men and women are defending our freedom in places 
like Afghanistan and Iraq. It is unfortunate that Democrat leaders have 
prevented the Defense bill from moving forward while we have troops 
deployed overseas.

Even more disconcerting is the fact that Democrat leaders are talking 
about using the troop funding bill as a mechanism for increasing the 
debt limit to the tune of over $13 trillion. There is no way, 
certainly, that that can be a reflection of our desire to honor the 
commitment of our military that is fighting overseas.

In addition, the Transportation-Housing spending bill cleared the 
House and Senate months ago, and that conference agreement should also 
be completed in short order. Instead, many of the best and brightest 
staffers on the Hill are left sitting on their hands, with nothing to 
do, while they await direction on how this year's work will be wrapped 
up.

The way we are proceeding, one would presume we are headed for yet 
another massive take-it-or-leave-it omnibus package. It is my 
understanding that the Interior bill will also carry the next 
continuing resolution, which could last until the week of Christmas or 
maybe even until the end of the year.

For all of the bluster about passing appropriations bills by the 
August break, albeit by changing the rules to avoid tough amendment 
votes, the majority has very little to show for it now. So far, the 
only bill completed on time is that which contains the budget for the 
Congress, itself. We certainly wouldn't want to have our being 
unemployed while the people out there are struggling to pay their bills 
and their taxes and while the men and women who are fighting for us 
overseas are left languishing, awaiting this Defense appropriations 
bill.