# None
## `3c4d896cd3b770dbc5ba0aeabf936823`
`Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
Sergeant First Class Ronnie Thompson, Jr., a remarkable soldier and 
citizen from Rineyville, Kentucky. SFC Thompson's recovery from a grave 
injury sustained while serving in Iraq has made him a source of 
inspiration among his fellow soldiers and throughout the extended Fort 
Knox community.

SFC Thompson joined the United States Army in 1991 and was assigned 
to the First Infantry Division. During his early tenure, he completed a 
deployment to Bosnia and two additional deployments to Kosovo. He was 
subsequently deployed to Iraq where he served as a Scout Platoon 
Sergeant with the Air Assault Quick Reaction Force.

On December 11, 2004, SFC Thompson was severely wounded by an 
improvised explosive device while participating in Coalition efforts in 
Iraq. He was air evacuated back to the United States and placed in 
emergency care at the Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, DC. In 
the months and years that have followed, SFC Thompson has defied 
doctor's expectations, emerging from a coma and enduring countless 
hours of grueling physical therapy.

In his long convalescence, SFC Thompson continues to demonstrate the 
unique courage and keen sense of duty that made him such an exemplary 
soldier. In addition to the daily rigors of rehabilitation therapy, he 
has found time to serve his fellow soldiers as a volunteer at the Fort 
Knox Veteran Service Office. On the battlefield and off, SFC Thompson 
has answered the call of his country in a profound way, making deep 
personal sacrifices to serve others and preserve our freedom and way of 
life.

It is my great privilege to recognize Sergeant First Class Ronnie 
Thompson, Jr. today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives 
for his service to our country, support of our soldiers, and lifelong 
example of leadership and service. His unique achievements make him an 
outstanding American worthy of our honor and respect.
