---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL RUSSEL L. HONORE
## `3c782b1febf51ee52ff896ac39a6ab75`
`Mr. BISHOP of Utah — 25 February 2008`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 944, which honors the 
distinguished career of Army Lieutenant General Russel Honore, who is 
retiring, as has been said, after 37 years of service to this great 
Nation.

The United States Army is known for its tradition, strength, and 
valor, and Lieutenant General Honore exemplifies what it means to be a 
soldier. The general has had a career that young soldiers dream about. 
He saw action in both Iraq and Kuwait during the first Gulf War. He has 
earned 15 awards and decorations and has served overseas in both 
Germany and Korea. But perhaps


his most significant contribution to the Nation was as commander to the 
Joint Task Force Katrina following the devastation of the gulf coast in 
2005.

The general commanded troops from all branches of our military in one 
of the worst natural disasters that our country has ever experienced. 
He was working not only to help repair his native State of Louisiana, 
but he was working to repair his country, and he did so in exemplary 
fashion.

I wish to honor Lieutenant General Honore and his family, Beverly, 
Stephanie, Kimberly, Stephen, and Michael, the best in what comes next 
for them, and I thank them for their commitment to this country as a 
family. I congratulate the general on his magnificent career, and I 
urge all Members to support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.