---
---

# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `3c78cfa5fc12bcf6db579e46516aaed1`
`Mr. PAUL — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. PAUL. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

First off, I would like to address the subject about hostilities. It 
is true that there are no armies facing each other and shooting and 
killing each other, no tanks, no conventional type of hostilities. We 
don't live in a conventional era and we don't fight conventional wars, 
but there is a lot of hostile action going on.

In looking and checking to find out if anybody has been killed, in 
the reports that I found, anywhere from 1,000 to 2,500 Pakistanis have 
been killed. Now, that sounds like it's rather hostile. And that comes 
not from our invasion in troop, but we've invaded them with our 
predators, with our drone missiles, and we drop bombs and we aim at 
targets, always at the bad people. But to the best of my knowledge from 
the information I get is that 14 al Qaeda leaders have been killed, and 
the rest have been civilians. And who knows exactly what their 
sentiments would be. Maybe a lot of them were defending their own 
country. Maybe they don't like foreign occupiers. But there is a lot of 
hostile action going on and a lot of people are dying.

The gentleman from Ohio is quite correct. If you check with the 
people of Pakistan, they don't want us there. They don't want bombs 
dropped on them. How would we react in this country if all of a sudden 
there was a drone missile that landed on one of our cities and even one 
or two or three Americans were killed? We would be outraged and we 
would want to know about it. And here we do it constantly.

I complain that we don't know enough about it and we give up our 
prerogatives. We allow the Presidents to do what they want and then we 
just capitulate and give them the money and do whatever. But I argue we 
don't know enough. We don't assume our responsibility. The American 
people don't know about it until we get deep into these quagmires and 
into these messes.



But what about in Pakistan? There is a lot of conniving going on 
there because I am sure their leaders are quite satisfied with us going 
in there because we bribe them. The Congress just recently passed a 
bill that promises them $7.5 billion. That's how they stay in power, 
and it's also how they can help the Taliban who's fighting us.

The whole thing is such a mess, but the people, if you ask the people 
of Pakistan, they're not going to support this. And the argument is 
that we have to support this because our generals want us to, because 
this is our mission. Well, what is our mission? Our mission ought to be 
to defend this country, preserve liberty, and show people what a free 
society looks like. We shouldn't be trying to tell other people how to 
live with bombs and threats. We give them two options: We tell them do 
it our way, and if they do, we give them a lot of money. If they don't 
do it our way, we start bombing them. But we don't achieve anything. 
That's my contention. We just go on and on.

My big beef is with the overall policy. I know we're talking about 
the technicalities and we're talking about Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
but we don't solve any of these technical problems until we deal with 
the subject of what kind of a foreign policy we endorse. Are we 
supposed to be the policemen of the world? Are we supposed to be in 
nation building? Are we supposed to bankrupt our people? Are we 
supposed to support the infrastructure of others, building all around 
the world and neglect all of ours? It's coming to an end because this 
country is bankrupt, and we're going to have to change our policy 
whether we like it or not.