---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3c829afab51de523d8fc6670ba39c129`
`Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I want the American 
men and women serving in Iraq to come home. I want this war to end. I 
want the violence to stop, the injuries to stop, the deaths to stop, 
and I also want terrorism to stop.

Over the last few weeks, many of my constituents told me these same 
feelings, their strong feelings in support of or against this 
resolution.

I hear your concerns. No one can doubt your love of your country. 
Like you, I am deeply concerned about the direction of this war. Like 
you, armed with the knowledge of the present, the strategies of the 
past were too often incomplete. The intelligence was misinterpreted or 
inadequate.

The comments made here today on this resolution will be listened to 
by Iraqis and al Qaeda and the soldiers in the field right now, the 
marines on the high seas headed that way, and the thousands who already 
are on the offensive. Here is my message to them: Arab countries have 
told us that if we left now the results would be catastrophic. I want 
those Arab countries to impress upon the Sunnis and the Shias the 
absolute need to work for peace now. I want the United States to 
actively engage in diplomatic efforts with all Arab nations. There is 
no more time for delay. I want the Iraqi military to step up and take 
over combat operations, to be the tip of the spear, and for our troops 
to shift our mission to training and support. I want to see the Iraqi 
Government stand strong where every group feels respected and protected 
and all feel they have a future of hope.



There is no time for delay.

I also want Republicans and Democrats to sit down together and 
discuss how to make these things come to fruition. I want us to review 
the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, to talk about 
which recommendations are worthy of implementation. I want us to 
thoughtfully, carefully and responsibly discuss not only what action we 
should take in Iraq, but to weigh the full consequences of any action 
and to offer real ideas, real strategies and real solutions.

I want this Congress to support our soldiers, every one of them; to 
tell them we value them and pray for them and their families and will 
give them what they need to do their job. I want all of them to know 
that we will stand with them until the last one returns home. And I 
want them to know that policy comes before politics, and that no poll, 
no political plan, no political threat should ever undermine our 
allegiance to doing what is right for our soldiers and our Nation. I 
want them to know that their work, their risks, their fighting, has 
meaning and purpose, and must be immune to the politics of Washington.

I want the soldiers and airmen from the 171st, the 99th and the 911th 
in Pittsburgh, and all our National Guard and Reservists and active 
duty to come home. I want their families to be able to embrace them, 
their children to be tucked in at night by them and our towns to be 
able to show the affection of a grateful Nation. But while they are 
there, while they stand sentry with eyes on the horizon, ride in their 
convoys or walk on patrol, I want their minds on the critical task of 
that moment.

I spoke this week to the mother of a soldier who was just killed in 
Iraq, Russell Kurtz. A finer and a braver man you will not find. I 
asked her what she thought about this discussion of sending more troops 
to Iraq, and she said, ''I would rather have more troops there helping 
my son.''

Dom DeFranco, the Pennsylvania Commander of the VFW, wrote this 
letter to the editor of the Almanac Newspaper. I will submit the whole 
letter, but let me read this. He said, ''Even with their pride, honor 
and dedication motivating them patrol after patrol, bad morale can 
bring down even the toughest warrior. As a Vietnam veteran, trust me, 
it cuts deep. Regardless of where you stand on the current war on 
terror, troops get the message that they are wasting their time when 
politicians and citizens make headlines criticizing military action.''

Madam Speaker, I include the entire letter for the Record.




 To the Editor: Men and women are risking their lives in the 


 Middle East trying to restore peace to an oppressed 


 population. Their military gear and encampment offer some 


 protection, but the threat of life-changing physical and 


 mental wounds is constant. So is the challenge to always be 


 mission-ready, prepared to make life and death decisions in a 


 split second. A grueling situation for sure.



 However, even with their pride, honor and dedication 


 motivating them patrol after patrol, bad morale--especially 


 when fueled back home by demonstrations and political 


 grandstanding--can bring down even the toughest warrior. As a 


 Vietnam veteran, trust me--it cuts deep.



 Regardless of where you stand on the current War on Terror 


 (The Veterans of Foreign Wars does not take sides in debates 


 about military action), troops get the message that they are 


 wasting their time when politicians and citizens make 


 headlines criticizing military action.



 As the debate about the War on Terror continues, I urge 


 citizens and politicians to stay focused on providing our 


 troops with all of the combat equipment, supplies, and 


 personnel they need to be the most effective fighting force 


 possible. Democracy affords politicians and citizens 


 effective ways to debate policies without sending morale 


 busting messages from the home front. Life on the front lines 


 is tough enough without taking incoming salvos of negativity 


 from back home. They also need our emotional support.



 Like you, I want our troops home as soon as possible. But 


 as long as they are in harm's way, we should back them with 


 the full resources of our nation--in material, personnel and 


 supportive messages. Anything less will have a negative 


 impact on their morale and possible their safety.


Madam Speaker, listen to this comment from the American Legion 
regarding their unanimous support for the current action in Iraq and 
the increase in troops and their caution or political rhetoric. They 
said, ''Veterans of the Vietnam were remember what it was like to fight 
without the support of the people back home. You couldn't separate the 
war from the warrior then, any more than we can today.''

While our soldiers are there, I will support them with everything 
they need in terms of armor and ammunition, bullets and bread, weapons 
and words.

I will continue to work for all of these things, but for this point 
in time, while our soldiers are on the battlefield, I want to be able 
to look them in the eye and say at your moment of need, I backed you up 
on the battlefield.