# None
## `3c88de3b482178e509b0772d19dfe40f`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 3 August 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, a number of comments have been made 
about Ms. Elena Kagan's actions at Harvard in barring the military from 
utilizing or having access to the Career Services Office and asking the 
veterans


group--that was not able, as they said--to somehow fill that role.

I will take a few minutes, as we have a few minutes left, to deal 
with one of the arguments I have heard my colleagues repeat; that, 
well, she did not reduce recruiting, therefore, no harm, no foul. I do 
not agree. There was a foul and there was a harm. But even if there had 
not been a harm, there was a foul.

It was very wrong to blame the U.S. military for the don't ask, don't 
tell policy, and very, very, very wrong to blame some young officer who 
was there to recruit people to serve in the JAG Corps of the U.S. 
military, perhaps having just returned from combat duty in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, and to be told: You can't come in the front door of the 
building. You can't use the recruiting services because we don't like 
your policy.

But it was not the military's policy; it was the Congress's policy. 
It was President Clinton's policy. He signed the bill. I do not believe 
that Ms. Kagan complained to President Clinton when she was on his 
staff for 5 years and he signed the bill. Was there any protest to him? 
No. Her protest was lodged, and the discrimination was directed against 
the men and women in uniform who defend our country, who had nothing to 
do with the policy.

That is a fact, and I do not think it is a matter that should be 
lightly dismissed. ''Oh, the recruiting didn't go down,'' they say. 
Well, let's just talk about that. They said she merely reinstated 
Harvard Law's pre-2002 policy, which forced the military to work 
through this veterans association, and recruiting did not suffer. But 
that is not true.

Harvard's pre-2002 policy--before she became dean--had obstructed 
military recruiting. As an internal memorandum authored by the 
recruiting chief of the Air Force JAG Corps in 2002 states--this is 
what the chief of recruiting for the Air Force JAG said:




 Career Services Offices are the epicenter for all employer 


 hiring activities at a law school. . . . Without the support 


 of the Career Services Office, we are relegated to wandering 


 the halls in hopes that someone will stop and talk to us. . . 


 . [D]enying access to the Career Services Office is 


 tantamount to chaining and locking the front door of the law 


 school--as it has the same impact on our recruiting efforts.


The military's ''after action reports'' from pre-2002 recruiting 
efforts organized through the veterans association on campus show mixed 
results, but recruiting clearly improved after her predecessor, Dean 
Clark, granted the military equal access through the Career Services 
Office. This is what the Air Force said:




 Since Harvard's policy change, the Air Force has . . . had 


 very positive responses from a number of students. . . . [I]n 


 the 16 months since Harvard's change in policy, we have 


 attracted at least four Harvard students, when in the prior 


 twelve years, we recruited a total of only nine.


That is while the discrimination was in effect.




 The statistics reveal that our recruiting efforts have 


 greatly improved since the change in policy by Harvard to 


 comply with the Solomon Amendment. We only assessed 2 Harvard 


 Law students in the 1990s.


This is not accurate, what we have been hearing. Then she reversed 
that policy and went back to the policy of discrimination. The reports 
show it obstructed their recruiting efforts. The chief of recruiting 
for the Air Force JAG Corps was repeatedly blocked from participating 
in Harvard's spring 2005 recruiting season, after Ms. Kagan changed the 
policy, saying this:




 Harvard is playing games and won't give us an OCI [On-


 Campus Interviewing] date; their official window for employer 


 registration has closed. Their recruiting manager told me 


 today that she's still ''waiting to hear'' whether they'll 


 allow us.


The chief of Air Force JAG recruiting also recounted a conversation 
with Harvard's dean of career services after the close of the 
recruiting season, when you are supposed to be recruiting--they missed 
the whole season--this is what he says, talking about the dean.