---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `3c9d9c8174b99b38dd5d69b6a66d58cd`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 24 June 2009`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. I thank the gentlewoman for the time.

I rise today to support my colleague, Chairman Barney Frank. I am 
equally or even more disappointed than he is that his amendment on the 
F-22 funding was not made in order for the defense authorization 
debate.

There is absolutely no need for additional funding for this flawed 
program. The Cold War is over. The existing 187 F-22 planes have 
already cost the United States a total of $65.1 billion; and while this 
bill only includes $369 million for advanced procurement, the total 
amount for 12 additional F-22s will run $2 billion.

Think of what we could do with $2 billion in the United States of 
America. We have schools that are in need. We have a health care system 
that's broken. We have to move on with our global warming program. Mr. 
Speaker, $2 billion would help any one of those issues. The F-22 has 
never been used in Iraq or Afghanistan. It is absolutely not necessary 
or useful in counterinsurgency operations. The existing 187 that we 
have right now are actually adequate for any single contingency that 
could happen in the United States of America. Both civilian and 
military leadership of the Pentagon support ending production at 187, 
including the President of the United States. The idea that this House 
will not have a chance to have a full debate on Chairman Frank's 
amendment is unacceptable, and this rule is truly flawed.