# NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION  REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `3ca3eee18349082dc9037e8bdc607416`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Well, I will take back my time to say the 
gentleman has just stood up and said, look, I don't understand this 
language; I just borrowed it from you. Well, don't borrow things if you 
don't know how to use them. I mean, don't lend your car to someone who 
can't drive.

The fact is that the gentleman apparently didn't understand the 
implications of what he borrowed because the way this goes now, PAYGO 
in general has broader application. In this particular case, what it 
says is within this act. So if you want to spend more money on Indian 
housing, you have to in the same act, under this act, find offsets 
elsewhere. This is an example of how he misunderstands the process.

I would also say by the way there's a selectively to this because we 
don't get this amendment on every spending bill. Maybe it was offered 
on some of the other bills, the Ag bill, the space authorization. I 
don't see it all the time. I didn't see it on the Defense bill. Are we 
going to get this on the Iraq supplemental? I mean, I don't know how 
much we're going to spend here, but whatever we spend here, we spend in 
about, what, a week in the Iraq supplemental. I don't see it coming 
there. Somehow this becomes particularly important when we are trying 
to help people in dire straits; but even there, it's not logical.

Nothing in here will break PAYGO. PAYGO applies in an overall basis 
at the appropriations process.

If the gentleman wants me to yield, I'll be glad to yield.

