# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3cb0be144133a6c0a09189ab6077539e`
`Mr. SERRANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I was beginning to feel left out. We were moving along with this 
bill, and I had not seen the usual cast of very intelligent and proper 
folks come to the floor to attack the bill and to try to cut it. And I 
have to tell you, I'm a very sensitive guy, I was beginning to feel 
left out. But now I realize you care. Except that you care to an 
extreme. You want to cut this bill by 8.9 percent. And I noticed that 
you didn't say what you usually say, which is, that this is a small cut 
because you know that this is a devastating cut.

It is part of a mantra that's been taking place every day, where a 
group of you come and say that these bills are way over budget and they 
have to be cut. Now, I've been on the Appropriations Committee many 
years now. And during the 12, 14 years that the Republican Party was in 
control, just about every single year that I can remember every 
appropriations bill went up by a certain amount. And it was easy to see 
Republicans would have President Bush come in with a certain amount, 
and they would add more to it. And that's before it got to the 
Republican Senate. I'm not allowed to talk about the Senate, but you 
know what happens over there. But now, all of a sudden, these bills are 
way over budget, and you folks are so concerned.

Still, not a single one of you will vote for the real budget breaker, 
or against it, which is the war in Iraq. Yes, we have a deficit. But 
you know the truth, whether you like to admit it or not, when President 
Clinton left office, we had a surplus. That's not my comment, that's a 
fact. We had a surplus. We squandered that surplus. How? By going into 
a war built on lies and bad information, and now we're caught up to 
here in that war in many ways. The tragedy of lost life. But we're 
paying half a trillion dollars for it. No one on that side gets up to 
say that budget has to be cut. The budget that has to be cut is for the 
employees at the Treasury Department. It's for the FCC. It's for the 
Small Business Administration. It's for the agencies that help people 
in this country.

Now, interestingly enough, I thought that you were going to spare me, 
and I don't want to contradict myself that I felt left out, but that 
you were going to spare me because we came in below the President's 
request. Let's make that clear. Your President, my President, but your 
party's President, came in at $243 million above what we have in this 
bill. In other words, had I done exactly what President Bush wanted, 
this bill would be $243 million more. I came in at $243 million below, 
and you still want to cut it.

But you're not cutting it half a percent as some will do, or 1 
percent, which is bad enough, but 8.9 percent. So what is this? Most of 
the funding in this bill, more than 80 percent, is for the 
administrative operations of about 25 Federal agencies. A cut of this 
magnitude called for in this amendment would devastate the Treasury 
Department, the judicial branch, and the Small Business Administration. 
Yes, the judicial branch. Our courts would be hurt.



We are in a war against terror. Part of what the Treasury Department 
does is to follow the money to see where terrorists could be moving 
money around in this country and overseas, money that could hurt us.

You are trying to cut this by 8.9 percent. Then what you will do is 
you will say, well, this is one cut. But then if you add all the 
amendments on cuts today, it will be close to 15 percent if we were to 
approve all of them. Just like if you add all the cuts on all the 
bills, we would just have to close up the government and go home. That 
may be a good idea for some of you. But right now, the Yankees are not 
winning as much as I want them to, so I may not want to go home for a 
while.

But understand something. I may at times make light of some of this. 
It is not a desire to say that this is not important. It is a full 
understanding that what you are doing is just to score political 
points. Because you can't, on one hand, vote to continue to approve 
half a trillion for the war in Iraq and at the same time say that you 
want to cut money from the Treasury Department, the Small Business 
Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Consumer Product 
Safety Commission.

On the other hand, you can't continue to support tax cuts that went 
to the richest people in the country and at the same time say that you 
want to cut this. It doesn't make any sense. Just the same way that you 
support tax cuts for the rich, but resisted until we had to drag you, 
kicking and screaming, to approve a minimum wage increase of a couple 
of bucks for people who haven't had one in 40 years.

So let's be honest. Let's be honest. You want to be serious? Let's be 
serious. Come to the floor and present some things that are serious in 
nature. You are devastating this bill. We are not going to stand for 
it. That is why we urge everyone to reject this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.











Announcement by the Acting Chairman
