---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `3cb2201216a126290c85b88ef21d4492`
`Mr. WARNER — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, subject to my leadership, I will certainly 
recommend that be done.

Mr. President, very simply, two of America's finest sons are before 
this body with the very important responsibility entrusted by the 
Founding Fathers as they wrote the Constitution of the United States; 
namely, that the Senate shall give advice and consent. I have had the 
privilege through my lifetime to be associated with many senior 
officers of all branches of our military. I say unreservedly, these are 
two of the most extraordinary that I have been privileged to know and 
work with in my long career.

On many trips to Afghanistan and to Iraq with the distinguished 
chairman of the committee--we so often travel together--on a number of 
those occasions we worked directly with General Petraeus and General 
Odierno. Therefore, they both have my strongest endorsement, and I 
congratulate them individually and I also congratulate their families. 
These are two fine officers, and their families have participated in 
their careers and backed them. If you look at the length of service 
that each has had in four deployed regions, most specifically Iraq, it 
has been a very extensive period of time, and the consequences on the 
family are often difficult to bear. But the families have stood by 
these fine officers through these long deployments.

Both nominees have had extraordinary experience, and therefore I 
anticipate we will have a very positive confirmation by the Senate. 
They are highly experienced, indeed specifically trained. I sort of 
edited that word into my remarks because they have served a number of 
times in Iraq and moved up to higher responsibilities--in the case of 
General Odierno, and in General Petraeus, he takes on responsibility 
for the entire region. But he is magnificently trained to do so.

Further, as we approach, again, our constitutional system by which we 
change Presidents, there is a continuity that these two officers offer 
by virtue of serving in these positions, if it is the will of the next 
President. That is invaluable in this region. That is because, as the 
distinguished occupant of the chair and many others know, the cultural 
situation in this part of the world is a very challenging one to fully 
understand and appreciate; to see that our Armed Forces act with them, 
work with them in such a way as to achieve the goals but at the same 
time protect our Armed Forces.

I say ''with'' because the nations of Iraq and Afghanistan are now 
sovereign nations. As such, we are there by consent of that sovereignty 
to work with their forces.

I also add that I don't know that I have ever experienced a dimension 
in contemporary times where the professional officers have had to work 
so very closely with other members of the executive branch, notably the 
National Security Council and the Department of State, working hand in 
hand.

The current Ambassador in Iraq, Ambassador Crocker, is well known in 
the Senate, and I believe extremely admired and respected for the 
services he has rendered. He has been a partner with General Petraeus 
in working through their individual responsibilities, coming before the 
Congress jointly to make their reports. They know the region, they know 
the background, and they are fully qualified to undertake these 
responsibilities.

At this point, I would like to yield the floor to my other 
colleagues. I may have a few closing remarks.

I see the distinguished Senator from Georgia, a member of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee.