---
---

# TRIBUTE TO WESLEY AUTREY
## `3cd020b833d750c176eafee53f3dc959`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 24 January 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss a resolution I 
submitted on January 8 in recognition of the uncommon valor and 
tremendous bravery demonstrated by New York City resident Wesley 
Autrey.

On January 2, 2007, Mr. Autrey and others stood on a platform in the 
137th Street subway station in Harlem, and watched as a young man 
suffering from a seizure fell onto the train tracks. Terrified by what 
he saw, Mr. Autrey heroically dove down onto the tracks, putting his 
own life in grave danger to save that of a stranger. Mr. Autrey covered 
the young man in the trough between the tracks as the incoming train 
screamed to a halt just inches above his head.

Later, when asked about the courageous rescue, Mr. Autrey responded 
humbly, saying, ''I'm not looking at this like I'm the hero, cause the 
real heroes are the young men and women that are fighting in Iraq now. 
What I did is something that any New Yorker should do . . . if you see 
somebody in distress, do the right thing.''

We could all learn from Wesley Autrey's example. A proud member of 
the Construction and General Building Laborers' Local 79, a veteran of 
the United States Navy, and a father of two young girls, Mr. Autrey--in 
both his heroic actions and his humble conduct in the midst of his 
newfound fame--represents values that all Americans should cherish and 
respect. His selflessness should be held up as an example to those in 
his community, his state and his country.

Indeed, this resolution is just one fitting way in which to honor the 
uncommon valor and tremendous bravery demonstrated by Wesley Autrey 
when he dove in front of an incoming train to save the life of a 
stranger on January 2. I am hopeful that my Senate colleagues from both 
sides of the aisle will join me in honoring Mr. Autrey by moving this 
legislation as expeditiously as possible.
