---
---

# None
## `3cee39c90388fc903281c9f7cb2e3759`
`Mr. POLIS — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

House Resolution 685 provides for consideration of H.R. 3326, the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2010, under a structured 
rule. I'd like to thank Chairman Obey, Ranking Member Lewis, Chairman 
Murtha and Ranking Member Young for their tireless and bipartisan work 
on this important bill to fund the defense needs of our Nation. Their 
job is not easy. The needs of this country are endless, our security 
challenges are daunting. Threats to our security are numerous and 
always changing. And the resources that we can devote to these problems 
are precious and limited, as our Nation faces a severe recession.

So each year we must prioritize, re-evaluate and invest in strategies 
that will keep our country and our people safe. We will invest in the 
equipment that will protect our troops and in programs that will care 
for the men and women who defend us, who serve our country so bravely 
and capably every day.

H.R. 3326 fulfills these responsibilities by providing first-class 
equipment for our troops that are in harm's way, by increasing fiscal 
responsibility and oversight within the Department of Defense, and by 
investing in adequate health care and increased compensation for our 
soldiers and their families.

To help protect our troops, the bill provides increased funding for 
the mine-resistant ambush protective vehicle fund and the procurement 
of new Humvees and new heavy and medium


tactical vehicles to meet the needs of our military. The bill also 
invests in weapons systems that meet our current and future needs, 
instead of plunging money into weapons systems that do not meet 
timelines, budgets or realistic threats or are based on threats that 
are antiquated that we no longer face.

We need to transform our military to make sure that we can keep the 
American people safe. We cannot fulfill our responsibilities to the 
troops, to taxpayers, or to the Nation if we can't meet our fiscal 
responsibilities.

H.R. 3326 reduces advisory and assistant service contracts by saving 
$51 million while providing $5.11 billion for Department of Defense 
personnel to perform DOD functions. The bill also provides funding for 
the Inspector General to increase oversight over the acquisition and 
contracting process to ensure the taxpayers' funds are spent wisely. By 
reducing funds for wasteful weapons and bloated contracts, we can 
provide better care and a better quality of life for the men and women 
of the Armed Forces and their families.

H.R. 3326 increases pay for all servicemembers by 3.4 percent, and 
fully funds the requested end-strength levels for active Reserve and 
selected Reserve personnel. The bill continues efforts to end the 
practice of stop-loss, so difficult for the families of our troops who 
are deployed overseas, and includes $8.33 million to pay servicemembers 
$500 for every month of involuntary service.

The bill provides $29.9 billion for top-of-the-line medical care, 
including $500 million for traumatic brain injuries and psychological 
health and increased funding for the wounded, ill and injured warrior 
programs. We can make no greater investment than in the health and 
welfare of those who have sacrificed and given so much to protect our 
freedoms.

It's also important to keep in mind that for every soldier who is 
dutifully serving on the battlefield, in Iraq or Afghanistan, sailing 
on a ship in the Pacific of the Atlantic or stationed on a military 
base in Germany, Japan or elsewhere, there is also a military family in 
our neighborhoods, in our districts, in our cities, and those families 
too are serving our country. To honor their commitment to this country, 
and to acknowledge their sacrifice, this year has been called the Year 
of the Military Family, and this bill adds substance to those words and 
that title.

H.R. 3326 includes over $472 million for family advocacy programs and 
fully funds the Family Support and Yellow Ribbon programs. The bill 
also includes $20 million for the Army National Guard Family Assistance 
Centers and Reintegration programs. I strongly believe that this bill 
is a positive step forward in the way that Congress prioritizes our 
military spending and provides for the men and women who serve our 
Nation and their families.

I support H.R. 3326 and House Resolution 685.

I reserve the balance of my time.