# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `3cee2b00b880bedd7805b2f72433df23`
`Mr. BROWN — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I would like to follow on the comments of 
my colleague from Florida, Senator Nelson, in support of the Children's 
Health Insurance Program bill.

This week, the House of Representatives passed the bill 
overwhelmingly, 265 to 159. Of my 18 Ohio House colleagues, about two-
thirds of them voted for this bill. It is clearly something we know 
works in my State.

The Children's Health Insurance Program was passed 10 years ago in 
the House of Representatives and the Senate. It was established. 
President Clinton, a Democrat, with a Republican House and a Republican 
Senate, supported that issue, and it has clearly worked.

We have some 6 million children in this country now who benefit from 
the Children's Health Insurance Program. In my State, it is around 
200,000 children. We also know this legislation will mean about 4 
million more children in the United States will benefit from this 
health care program.

These are sons and daughters of working families. These are not 
people living in the lap of luxury. They are families making $20,000, 
$30,000, and $40,000 a year. They are families where they are working 
hard, playing by the rules, but they are not making enough money to buy 
insurance. Their employers do not offer insurance. So this is what we 
need to do.

Now, the President says he plans to veto this bill for two reasons 
that I can understand. One of them, he said, is the cost. This is $35 
billion over 5 years; $7 billion a year. But just make the contrast: We 
are spending $2.5 billion a week--$2.5 billion a week--on the war in 
Iraq. Yet the President does not want to spend $7 billion a year to 
insure 4 million children. That is his first reason--the cost.

The second reason, the President says: I want private insurance to 
take care of these children. Well, so do I. So does Senator Grassley, 
who has been a major leader on this issue in the Senate on the other 
side of the aisle. We all do. But the fact is, private insurance is not 
taking care of these children. Again, they are sons and daughters of 
people with jobs paying $20,000, $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 a year, 
people without insurance and without the financial wherewithal to be 
able to take care of these children.

The President came to Cleveland a few months ago and said everybody 
has health care in this country. They can get it at the emergency room. 
I want children in this country to get preventive care in their family 
doctor's office, not acute care in the emergency room.

Before the President makes his decision, I would like him to meet 
three families in Ohio, people who really speak to this whole issue.

I want him to know about Dawn and Glenn Snyder and their son Cody, 
living in Bloomingdale, near Steubenville, near the Ohio River in 
eastern Ohio. Dawn works in a doctor's office, and Glenn works 
temporary jobs. Cody is 3 years old and has cerebral palsy. Until he 
was a year old, Cody had bleeding in his brain and seizures. Sometimes 
Glenn has insurance and sometimes he doesn't. It depends on where he is 
working. Dawn is going to lose the coverage for her family that she has 
gotten because they can no longer afford to buy it.

So even though Cody needs regular medical care from a neurologist and 
an eye doctor, as well as routine preventive care that all children 
need, he is in danger of having no access to health insurance. However, 
the Snyders will have coverage if this bill is signed into law.

If this bill passes, Cody will likely qualify for care under Ohio's 
new Children's Health Insurance Program. I would add also, on a 
bipartisan note, Governor Strickland, the new Governor of Ohio, with a 
resounding bipartisan vote out of the legislature, moved the 
eligibility to 300 percent of poverty so families making up to about 
$50,000 or $55,000 a year will have coverage.

If this bill passes, it means the Snyders will have a safety net for 
Cody's coverage and will be able to live with the security of knowing 
their son will receive the care he needs.

Then there is the story of Evan Brannon. Evan is a 1-year-old from 
Dayton in southwest Ohio. His dad Kenneth is currently not working, 
after losing his job as a repairman for a telephone company. Angela, 
Evan's mother, stays at home with him and has a baby on the way.

Evan was diagnosed with a congenital hernia of his diaphragm and is 
on a feeding tube, and he also receives medicine through a tube. He 
receives physical, occupational, and speech therapy. His parents looked 
into private coverage and learned they would never qualify for it 
because of Evan's preexisting condition. The family is faced with 
$5,000 to $6,000 a month in medical expenses. Angela can't go back to 
work. Kenneth is looking for a job but can't get a position over a 
certain income level or Evan will lose medical coverage. How is this 
family ever supposed to get ahead if they have to make sure not to make 
too much money out of fear of losing health insurance for their 
children? What kind of incentive is that to build into the system?


Passing this bill will fix that. This is just one way in which 
America's families' opportunities are limited by our


country's inability to provide the insurance the children's health 
insurance will provide.

One more story. David Kelley is a 13-year-old living in Erie County, 
right next door to where I live. He lives with his mother Heather and 
his stepfather Timothy. David has been diagnosed as bipolar, mildly 
autistic, and suffers from Asperger's syndrome. He also has a rare form 
of asthma. David was born 2 months premature. His doctors believe that 
a lack of oxygen and other complications may have caused the conditions 
he has coped with daily for 13 years, although the causes are not 
completely known.

David's health conditions require him to regularly visit a 
psychiatrist, a psychologist, and a primary care physician. His 
medications cost $2,000 each month, and Medicaid covers it. His mother 
Heather has said her greatest fear in life is of David losing his 
medical coverage. She herself has multiple sclerosis and is unable to 
work. No private insurance plan will ever cover David because of those 
preexisting conditions. Heather has made navigating the Medicaid and 
social service systems a nearly full-time job just to maintain David's 
benefits. Here is another family in need of help from the Senate.

I hope our President will not leave the Kelleys, the Brannons, or the 
Snyders behind, without the health coverage their children so 
desperately need. I hope he can have compassion for those families 
struggling so hard to make ends meet and whose greatest wish is to 
provide the most basic of needs for their children: housing, food, and 
health care. I hope the President can see what a sound investment this 
is. This isn't spending $7 billion a year; this is investing $7 billion 
a year in the future of our families, the future of our children, and 
the future of our country. Four million American children will receive 
health insurance if the President signs this bill. He must sign it into 
law. Too many people are counting on it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.