# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `3d02100ee2dcf36f5c2241e6629c2724`
`Mrs. DAHLKEMPER — 24 February 2010`

---


Mrs. DAHLKEMPER. I thank the gentleman, our new dean of the 
delegation.

I join my fellow Pennsylvania members and all of those who are here 
tonight to honor Jack Murtha. I am deeply honored and equally saddened 
to stand here in tribute to our colleague and to my friend, the late 
Jack Murtha. I am the youngest--or the newest member, I should say. I 
am not the youngest. I am the newest member of the Pennsylvania 
delegation. I've been here just 14 months.

Yet, from the first day that I stepped onto this floor, Jack Murtha 
was a friend, was a mentor. He welcomed me into the corner, the famous 
Pennsylvania corner which I had heard so much about. He welcomed me 
graciously, sharing his wisdom, sharing his intellect, his wit, his 
humor.

He would say, Hey, kid. How ya doing?

Jack and I, I think, quickly developed a very special relationship. I 
saw him sort of as my father on the floor, the person I could turn to. 
He was a mentor, always offering me that advice. Jack Murtha made sure 
that, as a new Member, I knew my constituents had to come first, that 
you represent the people who brought you here in every vote.

He was enormously helpful to all of us here. Certainly, if I had a 
question or a concern or an issue in my district, I'd first turn to 
Jack Murtha and get his advice on how I should proceed.

In November, I am so grateful that I was given the privilege to 
travel with Jack Murtha to Afghanistan over the Thanksgiving work 
period. We went to visit our troops abroad. To be with him and to see 
how he interacted with our troops was just a wonderful experience to be 
a part of. In seeing his questioning of those in charge, I learned a 
lot from him over that trip--how to do a CODEL, how to do it right and 
how to come back with the information that you need. There was no 
better person to really take that journey with than Jack Murtha.

His mere presence in Afghanistan and everywhere we went on that trip 
commanded respect from everyone we encountered, and his keen insight 
and understandings of the needs of our troops, I think, was appreciated 
by everyone. All of those whom he touched there knew that he had one 
interest, and that was to take care of those who were there serving our 
country.

Jack Murtha was a true patriot. He loved his country, and he believed 
in the value of public service. His passing is a great loss for the 
United States of America. It is a great loss for the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. It is a great loss to his district. It is a great loss to 
all of us who served with him in the House. I am grateful to have 
served with him.



God bless Jack Murtha. God bless his family--his wife, Joyce, his 
children and his grandchildren.