---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3d057508e17d3cdb7be70aa7f1141aa8`
`Mr. McCAIN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, with this vote, the Senate faces, once 
again, a simple choice: whether to build on the successes of our new 
strategy and give General Petraeus and the troops under his command the 
time and support needed to carry out their mission, or to ignore the 
realities on the ground and legislate a premature end to our efforts in 
Iraq, accepting thereby the terrible consequences that will ensue.

Many Senators wished to postpone this choice, preferring to await the 
testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. Last week these 
two career officers reported unambiguously that the new strategy is 
succeeding in Iraq. After nearly 4 years of mismanaged war, the 
situation on the ground in Iraq shows demonstrable signs of progress. 
Understanding what we now know--that our military is making progress on 
the ground, and that their commanders request from us the time and 
support necessary to succeed in Iraq--it is inconceivable that we in 
Congress would end this strategy just as it is beginning to show real 
results.

General Petraeus reported in detail on these gains during his 
testimony in both Houses and in countless interviews. The No. 2 U.S. 
commander in Iraq, LTG Ray Odierno, said yesterday that the 7-month-old 
security operation has reduced violence in Baghdad by some 50 percent, 
that car bombs and suicide attacks in Baghdad have fallen to their 
lowest level in a year, and that civilian casualties have dropped from 
a high of 32 per day to 12 per day. His comments were echoed by LTG 
Abboud Qanbar, the Iraqi commander, who said that before the surge 
began, one third of Baghdad's 507 districts were under insurgent 
control. Today, he said, ''only five to six districts can be called hot 
areas.'' Anyone who has traveled recently to Anbar, or Diyala, or 
Baghdad, can see the improvements that have taken place over the past 
months. With violence down, commerce has risen and the bottom-up 
efforts to forge counterterrorism alliances are bearing tangible fruit.

None of this is to argue that Baghdad or other regions have suddenly 
become safe, or that violence has come down to acceptable levels. As 
General Odierno pointed out, violence is still too high and there are 
many unsafe areas. Nevertheless, such positive developments illustrate 
General Petraeus's contention last week that American and Iraqi forces 
have achieved substantial progress under their new strategy.

No one can guarantee success or be certain about its prospects. We 
can be sure, however, that should the United States Congress succeed in 
terminating the strategy by legislating an abrupt withdrawal and a 
transition to a new, less effective and more dangerous course--should 
we do that, then we will fail for certain.

Let us make no mistake about the costs of such an American failure in 
Iraq. Many of my colleagues would like to believe that, should the 
amendment we are currently considering become law, it would mark the 
end of this long effort. They are wrong. Should the Congress force a 
precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it would mark a new beginning, the 
start of a new, more dangerous effort to contain the forces unleashed 
by our disengagement. If we leave, we will be back--in Iraq and 
elsewhere--in many more desperate fights to protect our security and at 
an even greater cost in American lives and treasure.

We cannot set a date for withdrawal without setting a date for 
surrender. Should we leave Iraq before there is a basic level of 
stability, we invite chaos, genocide, terrorist safehavens and regional 
war. We invite further Iranian influence at a time when Iranian 
operatives are already moving weapons, training fighters, providing 
resources, and helping plan operations to kill American soldiers and 
damage our efforts to bring stability to Iraq. If any of my colleagues 
remain unsure of Iran's intentions in the region, may I direct them to 
the recent remarks of the Iranian president, who said: ''The political 
power of the occupiers is collapsing rapidly . . . Soon, we will see a 
huge power vacuum in the region. Of course, we are prepared to fill the 
gap.'' If our notions of national security have any meaning, they 
cannot include permitting the establishment of an Iranian dominated 
Middle East that is roiled by wider regional war and riddled with 
terrorist safehavens.

The hour is indeed late in Iraq. How we have arrived at this critical 
and desperate moment has been well chronicled, and history's judgment 
about the long catalogue of mistakes in the prosecution of this war 
will be stern and unforgiving. But history will revere the honor and 
the sacrifice of those Americans, who despite the mistakes and failures 
of both civilian and military leaders, shouldered a rifle and risked 
everything--everything--so that the country they love so well might not 
suffer the many dangerous consequences of defeat.

That is what General Petraeus, and the Americans he has the honor to 
command, are trying to do--to fight smarter and better, in a way that 
addresses and doesn't strengthen the tactics of the enemy, and to give 
the Iraqis the security and opportunity to make the necessary political 
decisions to save their country from the abyss of genocide and a 
permanent and spreading war. Now is not the time for us to lose our 
resolve. We must remain steadfast in our mission, for we do not fight 
only for the interests of Iraqis, Mr. President, we fight for ours as 
well.

In this moment of serious peril for America, we must all of us 
remember to who and what we owe our first allegiance--to the security 
of the American people and to the ideals upon which we our Nation was 
founded. That responsibility is our dearest privilege and to be judged 
by history to have discharged it honorably will, in the end, matter so 
much more to all of us than any fleeting glory of popular acclaim, 
electoral advantage or office. I hope we might all have good reason to 
expect a kinder judgment of our flaws and follies because when it 
mattered most we chose to put the interests of this great and good 
Nation before our own, and helped, in our own small way, preserve for 
all humanity the magnificent and inspiring example of an assured, 
successful and ever advancing America and the ideals that make us still 
the greatest Nation on Earth.