---
---

# STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `3d15dec84ce1d517685a20d77360c358`
`Mr. McCAIN — 13 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Illinois.

Mr. President, today the Senate will pass a $789 billion bill, $1.1 
trillion with interest added in--and we do, when we calculate the costs 
of these appropriations bills, count in the interest. It is the so-
called stimulus bill, and it is under the guise of a bipartisan 
compromise.

Let me reiterate what I have so often stated during the past 2 weeks: 
The Nation needs a stimulus bill. The Nation expects the Congress and 
the President to act in a truly bipartisan manner to address this 
crisis. But, unfortunately, this measure is not bipartisan. It contains 
much that is not stimulative and is nothing short--nothing short--of 
generational theft.

At times of great challenge, history tells us our Nation will work 
collectively to remedy the problems we face. Working on this measure 
together was that opportunity. Republicans offered a good-faith 
alternative to the measure that is before us. Our alternative provided 
the American taxpayers with a stimulus bill devoid of porkbarrel 
projects and excessive spending programs that fail to create jobs.

Our bill was not simply to advocate policies we could not otherwise 
pass; our bill, in fact, was a real stimulus proposal. Instead, 
partisan legislation was pushed through.

Sadly, when we could be uniting to assist hurting Americans, we have 
exacerbated our differences and burdened our children and grandchildren 
with a debt the proportions of which have never been seen before.

Mr. President, before I go too much further, the bill is 1,071 pages. 
We got it last night, I believe, at 10:20 p.m. That was the first 
moment a copy was made available. It was not numbered correctly. At 11 
p.m. we received notification it had just become available on the House 
Web site.

Compare the process that we have been through with the Web site that 
is from the Obama campaign. The Web site of the Obama campaign stated, 
and I will quote in a second--this is a quote from the Obama Web site:




 End the practice of writing legislation behind closed 


 doors. As President, Barack Obama will restore the American 


 people's trust in their Government by making Government more 


 open and transparent. Obama will work to reform congressional 


 rules to require all legislative sessions, including 


 committee markups and conference committees, to be conducted 


 in public.


What happened in the last few days--law and sausages--it is certainly 
a long way from the Obama Web site that said:




 Reform congressional rules to require all legislative 


 sessions, including committee markups and conference 


 committees, to be conducted in public.


All day yesterday the media made different reports about the process 
that was going on, in which, by the way, there was no Republican 
leadership anywhere in the vicinity.

I recognize this will be greeted as a victory for the administration 
and the Democrats today. I recognize that, and it is a victory. But I 
am not sure it is the right kind of victory. I think words which will 
haunt us for a long period of time were uttered by the Speaker of the 
House: ''We won, we write the bill.'' ''We won, we write the bill.''

I think on both sides of the last campaign there was a commitment not 
to use those words: ''We won, we write the bill.'' That commitment was 
to sit town together in a bipartisan fashion and work together to come 
up with solutions to the enormous domestic and foreign policy and 
national security challenges we face. I understand who won. I think I 
understand it about as well as anybody in this body. I have often said 
elections have consequences. This is one of the consequences of my side 
of the aisle losing. But it was not the promise that was made to the 
American people.

I understand the other side of the aisle--and many in the media--will 
say: Well, Republicans are recalcitrant. Republicans are trying to 
block it. Republicans don't want anything.

We had a provision, we had a proposal of over $420 billion. We had a 
proposal that got 44 votes for a trigger that, once our economy begins 
to recover and is in recovery, the spending stops. One thing that 
Milton Friedman said, among many others I have always appreciated, was: 
Nothing is so permanent as a temporary Government program. There is 
nothing more permanent than a temporary Government spending program. So 
I think we had an opportunity and, hopefully, there will be 
opportunities in the future, to sit down, Republican and Democrat 
together--and at the beginning, not the end. If you are not in on the 
takeoff, then you are certainly not going to be in on the landing.

This bill took off with the Speaker of the House saying: We won, we 
write the bill. That was repeated on several occasions by the President 
of the United States.

Now, I want to say again, my side of the aisle, for 8 years, did not 
include the other side of the aisle. We were guilty. We were guilty of 
not observing the rights and privileges of the minority party. I do not 
excuse it, nor do I rationalize it. But I do believe that some Members 
did work in a bipartisan fashion and that times are different. The 
times are different. The American people spoke.

So yesterday, not the Republican leadership, not the majority of my 
colleagues sat by while the bill was finally written, and that is why 
the final legislation here will have three Republican votes, probably, 
out of all of the Republicans in the House of Representatives and the 
Senate. It may pick up a couple in the House. But to call this 
bipartisan is clearly an inaccurate and false description of the 
legislation that will pass sometime this evening.

So we passed up an opportunity. I hope we will, in the future, since 
there will be TARP III somewhere--some estimates, $500 billion; some 
estimates, $1 trillion; no one knows. The Secretary of the Treasury 
testified the day before yesterday before the Senate. He had no idea. 
He could give us no clue as to how much the next TARP was going to be. 
But I hope that will then present us with another opportunity to work 
together from the beginning, not at the end.

Again, this side of the aisle is not blameless on partisanship. But 
this was an opportunity for all of us to join together.

USA Today stated in an editorial: Republican opposition seems more 
like partisan positioning than a sincere effort to reach compromise 
with the White House at a time of severe economic distress.

I cannot speak for all of my colleagues, but I can, I know, speak for 
the majority of them. That is a false


statement. That is a false statement. Nothing could be further from the 
truth. Every Senator here wants a reasonable, workable stimulus bill 
that will help turn our economy around and put people to work. That is 
why 40 Republican Senators voted for an alternative that sought to fix 
our housing crisis--remember, it was housing first, and it is housing 
that is going to restore our economy. The stimulus package has not a 
lot of it to start with and comes out of the ''conference'' with less--
invest in our Nation's infrastructure through effective and restrained 
spending; put money immediately back in the hands of all Americans 
through a payroll tax holiday; allow businesses to keep more of their 
profits to hire new employees, invest in capital, or expand their 
businesses; finally begin to focus our attention on entitlement 
reforms; and then, most importantly, put a halt to the spending once 
our economy turns around. And the total cost of our alternative 
proposal was about half the cost of this conference report.

There are a couple of cautionary tales. One was a study by John 
Taylor of Stanford and the Hoover Institution that showed that the last 
time we gave Americans a paycheck--and that is one of the big parts of 
this stimulus package, checks of $400 to $800--it had no effect on the 
economy. It is also a cautionary tale as to what the Japanese did over 
the last decade, and I am afraid some of this stimulus package repeats 
that.

We missed an enormous opportunity to rein in excessive spending 
despite the support of 44 Senators eager to get our fiscal house in 
order when our amendment that would have required unobligated funding 
to be returned to the taxpayer upon two consecutive quarters of 
economic growth greater than 2 percent of inflation-adjusted GDP was 
defeated.

We have seen time after time stimulus packages at other times when we 
were in fiscal difficulty, financial difficulty--not to the degree of 
this one--but much of the spending has taken place after the economy 
recovered and contributed enormously to the deficit and consequently 
putting burdens on future generations of Americans. Why would we not 
agree that once the economy has recovered, we should proceed on a path 
to a balanced budget and stop some of these spending programs that are 
going to be adopted tonight in the way of stimulus? Why wouldn't we 
bring them to a stop? Could it be that some want these spending 
programs to be permanent?

I repeat, Milton Friedman said, ''There is nothing so permanent as a 
temporary Government program,'' and I am sure we will see many of these 
programs in the stimulus live a long, long life.

In a recent Washington Post op-ed entitled ''$800 billion Mistake,'' 
Martin Feldstein, an economic professor at Harvard University and 
president emeritus of the National Bureau of Economic Research, wrote: 
The fiscal package now before Congress needs to be thoroughly revised. 
In its current form, it does too little to raise national spending and 
employment. It would be better for the Senate to delay legislation for 
a month or even two if that is what it takes to produce a much better 
bill. We cannot make an $800 billion mistake.

Of course, it is a $1.1 trillion mistake. We cannot make that 
mistake. By passing this conference report, we are essentially engaging 
in an act of generational theft. How can anyone ignore the cold hard 
facts? The current national debt is $10.7 trillion. The 2009 projected 
deficit is $1.2 trillion. The cost of this stimulus is $1.124 trillion; 
that is, $789 billion plus interest. The expected omnibus spending bill 
to fund the Federal Government through September 30, 2009, is $400 
billion. The expected supplemental request for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan the Armed Forces Committee staff estimates at $80 billion. 
The appropriations bills for 2010 that we will consider this year are 
untold billions. Tarp I and II are $700 billion, and TARP III is 
possibly upwards of $1.5 trillion. These numbers are staggering. These 
numbers are staggering. We have never dealt with numbers such as this, 
not in the Great Depression, not in any other era in time of our 
country. Every dollar of spending in this conference report will be 
added to our national debt, which now stands, as I said, at $10.2 
trillion or 70 percent of GDP.

According to the Center for Data Analysis, if Congress borrows the 
funds for its economic stimulus package--which, of course, it will do--
total debt could grow to $13 trillion in fiscal year 2009 or 92 percent 
of our gross domestic product. By 2010, the total debt could grow to 
$14 trillion or 95 percent of our GDP. The center further finds that 
the stimulus package will add about $30,000 in new Federal debt per 
American household.

Remarkably, while we are on the brink of saddling our children and 
grandchildren and great grandchildren with this enormous debt load, the 
conference report before us does little to actually address the core 
issue that brought us to the point of needing a stimulus bill in the 
first place, and that is the housing crisis.

I would remind my colleagues that history shows us that if you run up 
enough debt, the answer to it is to print more money, which is the 
basis of the currency, which inevitably leads to inflation, which is 
the greatest enemy of the middle class in America.

I see my colleague from New York who is going to talk on many things, 
including the terrible tragedy that has taken place in the crash of the 
airliner in New York. But I also want to, while he is on the floor, 
strongly disagree with his comment that the American people do not care 
about little porky projects. Americans care. I can only speak for my 
constituents in Arizona, who have flooded my office with calls. They 
care about little porky projects that are to the tune of millions of 
their tax dollars.

Just yesterday, the National Association of Realtors reported the 
largest drop in home prices--12.4 percent--since the Association 
started gathering such data in 1979. Prices declined in almost 9 out of 
every 10 cities. Despite the fact that this extremely sobering 
statistic was released yesterday, this bill cuts almost half of the 
only significant housing provision in the conference report.

This provision, written by Senator Isakson, a former real estate 
agent, and approved by all Republicans and Democrats would have allowed 
any homeowner to take a nonrepayable tax credit of $15,000 or 10 
percent of the purchase price of a house used as a principal residence. 
Senator Isakson argued that such a generous tax credit would help the 
market recover swiftly. As a real estate agent during the economic 
crisis of the 1970s, he saw tax credits spur the purchase of many 
homes, which served to reduce the glut of vacant homes in the market, 
thereby allowing home values to stabilize, the housing inventory to 
drop, and the market to recover. We could have achieved a similar 
result here, I believe. But, instead, it was cut--the only housing 
provision in the report that was roundly supported by both Republicans 
and Democrats and millions of potential home buyers. Instead, they 
decided to cut the tax break to $8 thousand and limit it to only first-
time buyers. My belief is that this will not produce any real change to 
our sagging housing market.


The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the stimulus bill 
would create anywhere from 1.3 million to 3.9 million jobs. At $789 
billion, 1.3 million jobs would work out to cost $506,923 per job, and 
for 3.9 million jobs, the cost would be $202,308 per job. If you add 
the cost of interest to the price tag, it comes to $1 trillion. Every 
economic estimate I have seen lately falls within the category of 1.3 
to 3.9 million jobs. The administration says it could be 4 million or 
more.

In a new letter from CBO dated February 11 providing a year-by-year 
analysis of the economic effects of spending of the pending stimulus 
legislation, CBO finds:




 Beyond 2004 the legislation is estimated to reduce GDP by 


 between 0 and 0.2 percent. The reduction in GDP is therefore 


 estimated to be reflected in lower wages rather than lower 


 employment. The increased debt would tend to reduce the stock 


 of productive private capital. In economic parlance, the debt 


 would ''crowd out'' private investment. Workers will be less 


 productive because the capital stock is smaller. The 


 legislation's long-run impact on output also would depend on 


 whether permanently changed incentives to work are saved. The 


 legislation would not have any significant permanent effects 


 on those incentives.


I know my colleagues are going to say we are going to do other 
things.


And we need to do other things--reform entitlements. We should have, in 
this legislation, put ourselves on a path to entitlement reform by 
setting up commissions for both Social Security and Medicare reform, 
but we did not, just as we should have had a trigger to stop spending 
and put us on a path to a balanced budget once our economy recovers.

It is unfortunate that even in these difficult economic times, 
Members of Congress couldn't resist the temptation to lard up this bill 
with billions of dollars in unnecessary spending that will do nothing 
to stimulate the economy. What makes this most disturbing, in order to 
include these questionable provisions in the final measure, the 
conferees cut some of the few truly important spending provisions that 
had been included in the House and Senate bills.

For example, I don't understand how, on the one hand, the conferees 
can cut close to $3 billion from the Senate bill for Department of 
Defense and veterans hospital and medical facilities and, on the other 
hand, add funding above either House- or Senate-passed bills for State 
Department information technology upgrades, totaling $290 million. 
Information technology may be worthwhile, but I am dumbfounded as to 
the conferees' rationale for adding funding for information technology 
programs that exceeds either Chamber's recommendations and cuts defense 
and veterans. We all talk about our commitment to veterans. Certainly 
VA hospital and medical facilities are badly needed, as we found in the 
scandal of Walter Reed.

Just as egregious, the conference report provides $1 billion for 
prevention and wellness programs that were previously struck by the 
Senate and reported to be for smoking cessation programs and STD 
prevention. Why is this added back in, even though it may be worthy, at 
the expense of military members, families, and veterans whose funding 
was cut?

The conference report provides more funding for grants to provide 
high-speed Internet to Americans, $7.2 billion, than it does for 
military and veterans affairs construction--again, at the expense of 
our Nation's bravest and most worthy. The conference report falls short 
in addressing the needs of our military and veterans who have given so 
much in support of this country and our democratic values.

Again, these are not tiny, porky amendments. The American people do 
care what we are talking about. If the American people don't care, then 
on behalf of the American people, we should take out these little tiny, 
porky items that will provide questionable stimulative effects.

I have a long list, and I ask unanimous consent that it be printed in 
the Record.