---
---

# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `3d1940fbe6cc71a4fa5485285e75a6a5`
`Mr. CORNYN — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I understand why we find ourselves in this 
terrible posture today and why some people are calling this Congress 
the broken Congress, the dysfunctional Congress. If you look at the 
chart that was alluded to a moment ago about the last 31 days of the 
Senate, we have had 15 days of the last 31 days actually in session. We 
have had 10 rollcall votes. We have had 10 rollcall votes in the last 
31 days. As a matter of fact, we should be having rollcall votes now on 
the farm bill, which is the bill I thought was before the Senate. But, 
instead, our colleagues from the other side of the aisle decided to put 
on this show for the American people to try to portray themselves as 
passing legislation, although they knew it could not be done in the 
manner in which they proposed--while we should be passing the farm 
bill.

Let me talk for a moment about the opportunities that they have 
squandered by their mismanagement of the calendar over this last year. 
I asked the Senator from Illinois, Mr. Durbin, if he would agree to a 
unanimous consent request, and also the majority leader, to help fund 
our troops who are in harm's way during a time of war. They objected to 
that.

As a matter of fact, Republicans attempted to call up the Veterans 
appropriations bill before the Veterans Day holiday, and the Democrats 
objected to bringing up that bill. Just to be clear, this is the 
appropriations bill that funds veterans affairs and military 
construction and is important not only to keeping our commitments to 
our veterans but to maintaining a decent quality of life for the 
families who are left behind while their loved one is in harm's way in 
Iraq or Afghanistan and other dangerous places across the world.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle blocked that 
appropriations bill like they blocked the emergency funding for the 
troops that is needed in order to avoid the 100,000 notices to civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense that they are going to be laid 
off. They are going to get those notices before Christmas that they are 
going to be laid off by mid-February unless Congress does the job it 
should have done a long time ago. That is not even to mention--which I 
will mention--the funding necessary for the Department of Defense to 
operate in Iraq and Afghanistan to root out al-Qaida and other foreign 
fighters, Islamic extremists who are trying to kill American


soldiers and who, if given an opportunity to reorganize themselves in 
Iraq, would use that as another launching pad to carry out murderous 
attacks against Americans and our allies.

Just to be clear, the Senator from Illinois, Mr. Durbin, asked me 
about a meeting where the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State 
were present. I explained, as I have just explained here today, what 
the situation would be like if we failed to act, and as a result of 
their objection, we are not acting on a timely basis.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a letter from 
the Deputy Secretary of Defense to the Republican leader that is dated 
December 7, 2007, signed by Gordon England to the Honorable Mitch 
McConnell.