---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3d1dd8ffd89d29934ac951b51ccb4b00`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, we have been bogged down in Iraq for 
nearly 4 years, which is longer than the Korean conflict or our 
involvement in World War II. The war has cost more than 3,100 American 
lives, seven times that many wounded, and about $400 billion. We 
desperately need to change course. Shifting responsibility to the Iraqi 
political leaders to reach a political settlement is the only hope of 
ending the violence. That is why the Iraq Study Group urged less U.S. 
military involvement as they concluded:




 An open-ended commitment of American forces would not 


 provide the Iraqi government the incentive that it needs to 


 take the political actions that give Iraq the best chance of 


 quelling sectarian violence. In the absence of such an 


 incentive, the Iraqi government might continue to delay 


 taking those difficult actions.


But instead of putting pressure on Iraqi leaders to settle their 
political differences as the only hope of a successful outcome in Iraq, 
the President would get us in deeper militarily. The Iraqis didn't ask 
for more U.S. troops to occupy their neighborhoods in Baghdad. Indeed, 
they suggested we move out of Baghdad. The idea for this so-called 
surge of American troops in Baghdad was ours. It may be called a surge, 
but I believe it is a plunge, a plunge into a sectarian caldron, a 
plunge into the unknown and perhaps the unknowable.

Supporters of the surge argue that a Senate resolution disagreeing 
with the President's plan ''emboldens the enemy,'' but that is an 
extraordinarily naive view of the enemy. What emboldens the sectarian 
fighters is the inability of the Iraqi leaders to make political 
compromises so essential to finally reining in the Sunni insurgents and 
the Shia militias. The enemy cares little what Congress says. It is 
emboldened by what the Iraqi leaders don't do. The enemy isn't 
emboldened by congressional debate. It is emboldened by the open-ended 
occupation of a Muslim country by western troops. The enemy is 
emboldened by the current course which has seen a million Iraqis leave 
the country and become refugees, with thousands more leaving daily. The 
enemy is emboldened by years of blunders and bravado, false 
assumptions, wishful thinking, and ignorance of the history of the land 
being occupied. The enemy is emboldened by an administration which says 
it is changing course, which acknowledges that a political settlement 
by Iraqi leaders is essential to ending the violence but then plunges 
us more deeply militarily into a sectarian witch's brew.

The only hope of ending the violence and succeeding against the 
enemies of an Iraqi nation is if the leaders of that nation work out 
their political differences and unite against forces that would destroy 
any chance of nationhood. That takes political will. That takes 
pressure from us. Sending more U.S. troops takes the pressure off. It 
sends the false message that we can save the Iraqis from themselves. 
Sending more troops does what our CENTCOM commander, John Abizaid, 
warned about when he said:




 It's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do the work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


Does speaking out against the surge undermine our troops? The 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, GEN Peter Pace, firmly answered 
that argument just last week when he said the following:




 There's no doubt in my mind that the dialogue here in 


 Washington strengthens our democracy--period . . . From the 


 standpoint of our troops, I believe that they understand how 


 our legislature works and that they understand that there's 


 going to be this kind of debate.


Just last week, Secretary Gates answered the charge that our debate 
hurts troop morale when he said these words:




 I think that our troops do understand that everybody 


 involved in this debate is looking to do the right thing for 


 our country and for our troops, and that everybody is looking 


 for the best way to avoid an outcome that leaves Iraq in 


 chaos. And I think they're sophisticated enough to understand 


 that that's what the debate's really about. I think they 


 understand that that debate's being carried on by patriotic 


 people who care about them and who care about their mission.


We owe our troops everything: equipment, training, adequate rest, 
support of them and their family. We also owe them our honest 
assessment.