# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3d2835d753315a8a5d7182382775bbe4`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. I very much appreciate your recognizing me 
to respond to my friend, David Obey.

I am going to speak just a little bit out of order, for two of my 
colleagues on the floor, David Obey, the chairman of the committee, and 
my colleague, Mr. Murtha, the chairman of the Defense Subcommittee, 
have shared with me, I thought, over some years, the traditional order 
of this House. I've seen how the committee system works, especially in 
the Appropriations Committee, making certain that all Members, 
Democrats and Republicans, had an opportunity to provide input. And now 
to have us move so far away from that traditional order by way of this 
process today is a great disappointment to me.

I can't help but wonder if maybe there is some lack of commitment to 
regular order that I had never perceived before. For example, my 
colleague from San Diego, the chairman of the VA Subcommittee, if he 
had been given an opportunity, could have marked up and had hearings 
and otherwise on the VA portions some time ago.

This supplemental came from the President well over a year ago. We 
have had plenty of time to exercise the process in the way that 
maximizes Members' involvement, remembering that those Members are 
elected to represent their people at home.

And so the procedure we are going through today has undermined that 
representative process.

I think many of my colleagues, particularly those who serve with me 
on the Appropriations Committee, know that I have a great deal of 
respect for the senior Senator from West Virginia, the chairman of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Robert Byrd. While he and I 
may disagree on issues from time to time, it is fair to say that we 
both share a deeply held love and respect for this institution.

Senator Byrd also reveres the established traditions and precedents 
of the committee he leads. He understands that we will only truly know 
what is in the supplemental if it is exposed to the light of day 
through the regular order committee process. No one, not even the 
Senate majority leader, is going to tell Senator Byrd to abdicate his 
devotion to regular order or his responsibility as chairman of his 
beloved Appropriations Committee.

Unfortunately, the adherence to regular order has now been completely 
abandoned on the House side of the Capitol. Both Chairman Obey and 
Speaker Pelosi, the sole authors of the House supplemental before us 
today, have dismissed as ''a nonissue'' those bipartisan voices calling 
for full committee consideration of this critically important 
legislation.

In conversations with both Republicans and Democrats in the House, it 
is widely felt that the Democrat leadership has unfairly and wrongly 
circumvented the House Appropriations Committee process.

Further, the House majority has chosen to proceed under a closed 
rule, eliminating any and all amendments on the House floor, and is 
intent on bypassing a conference committee with the Senate. In effect, 
the Democrat leadership has eliminated every conceivable opportunity 
for Republicans and Democrats to represent the views of their own 
constituents.

I find this sadly ironic, for it was Nancy Pelosi in 2006 who 
outlined the new Democrat majority's governing philosophy. And I will 
quote her: ''Bills should come to the House floor under a procedure 
that allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full amendment 
process that grants the minority the right to offer its alternatives, 
including a substitute. Bills should be developed following full 
hearings and open subcommittee markups.''

As the body knows full well, we have had not an open process, let 
alone full and fair debate. Nor have we had any amendment process. Nor 
have we had any hearings whatsoever. So, I ask the Speaker, what has 
changed?

In an October 20, 2006 press release, then-minority leader Nancy 
Pelosi wrote in a letter to then-Speaker Hastert, ''The voice of every 
American has a right to be heard. No Member of Congress should be 
silenced on the floor.''

My colleagues know that I have expressed grave concerns about Speaker 
Pelosi and Chairman Obey being the sole authors of this legislation 
without any input from other Members with considerable expertise in 
these subject matters. I am not alone in expressing this concern.

Last week, my dear friend and colleague, Marcy Kaptur, voiced her 
displeasure with Chairman Obey and her own leadership. She said, 
''Leadership, by keeping the supplemental too close to the vest and not 
going through a committee markup, has failed to engage the broader 
membership. It does disenfranchise the voice of people who don't come 
from leadership locations.''

I just happen to be the ranking member on this full committee. I saw 
the text and the heart of this proposal only yesterday in the early 
part of the afternoon. They have had it for months in the works, but 
have chosen to ignore entirely the minority in this connection. My 
colleagues know that I have expressed grave concern about this process 
before.

The House majority leader, Steny Hoyer, has said that it is 
disingenuous for Republicans to speak out over the Iraq war 
supplemental bypassing the Appropriations Committee process. He 
suggested that the House Republicans, while in the majority, had 
engaged in similar practices. This argument would be convenient if it 
were, in fact, true. However, we all know that facts are stubborn 
things.

According to the April 29 edition of the Politico, ''There have been 
about three dozen emergency spending bills in the past 20 years, and a 
handful has passed without input from the Appropriations Committee, 
including billions in Hurricane Katrina aid and post-September 11 
funds. But none of the Iraq war funding bills has bypassed the 
appropriations panel in the process.''

Have there been occasions where supplemental spending bills have not 
been


considered by the full committee? Sure there have. But on those rare 
instances, such as the aftermath of September 11 and so on, there was 
bipartisan consensus on the need to act quickly. And we did so by 
working together.

In no circumstance, to my knowledge, did either the Republican 
majority or the Democrat minority that preceded it ever deny either the 
opposition party or even members of its own party a seat at the table 
in writing such critical legislation.

Yet here we stand today, debating the merits of a bill that only a 
handful of Members have even seen. Very, very few Members know what is 
in this legislation.

I ask you, anybody in this room, have any of you, besides David Obey, 
had a chance to really read this bill and know what's in it in detail? 
You're going to be asked to vote on it anyway, regardless of that lack 
of input.

Members of the House, Republicans and Democrats, deserve to have 
their voice heard. By the end of the day, not one Member will have an 
opportunity to offer an amendment or propose any alternative ideas to 
this body for a vote.

What are Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey afraid of?

This is the fifth time since January 2007 that this majority has 
brought a supplemental appropriations bill to the House floor under a 
closed rule, violating the entire tradition of the appropriations 
process.

In order for the people's voices to be heard, it is fundamental that 
the representatives' voices are heard. What is happening here is that 
we are beginning to lay a pattern to destroy the representative process 
that allows the people to be heard through the people they send here to 
represent them in the first place.

Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey have effectively said to virtually 
every Democrat and Republican serving this great body: ''Your voice is 
irrelevant, and your input is not welcome.'' Again, what are Speaker 
Pelosi and Chairman Obey afraid of?

I believe this practice of circumventing our traditional committee 
process and ignoring the voices of rank and file Members and their 
constituents is detrimental to the health of the legislative process. 
It puts in place a process wherein a handful of powerful legislators 
become ''the Great Deciders'' of what should or should not be included 
in this almost $250 billion spending bill. This is not the ''House of 
the Few Great Deciders.'' It is the ''People's House.'' It is the House 
of Representatives. We fail to recognize this at our great peril.

On May 24, 2002, my friend and my chairman, Mr. Obey, said, and I 
quote, ''What a shame, when the legislative process is corrupted to 
polarize a product that should have been used to forge national 
unity.''

These words are particularly true today as Chairman Obey and Speaker 
Pelosi put partisan interests ahead of the interests of the Members of 
the House and ahead of the people of this country. We can do better. 
And ladies and gentlemen, we must do better.



We can do better, and, ladies and gentlemen, we must do better. Vote 
''no'' on this package and send it back to where it belongs.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.