# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3d2be6363fb5750f496982207e5fa39e`
`Ms. MILLENDER-McDONALD â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. MILLENDER-McDONALD. I thank the distinguished gentleman for 
yielding the time to me.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are having this open discussion and 
this debate on Iraq, but let me first make my position very clear: I 
did not vote on this war. After 9/11, when the President urged military 
action against Osama bin Laden, I, like all other Members, was fully 
supportive of that position and voted to send our troops to 
Afghanistan. Despite the heroic efforts of our Armed Forces, Osama bin 
Laden, the mastermind of America's darkest hour, has yet to be brought 
to justice.

While the search for bin Laden has not been completely abandoned, 
President Bush turned his attention away from our most deadly adversary 
and devoted our military resources into invading Iraq. The search for 
bin Laden was neglected for a search for weapons that were never found 
and perhaps may have never existed.

One thing is very clear here, Mr. Speaker: All Members of this 
Congress support our troops. Many of us have been with families who 
have lost a loved one. Many of us have gone to visit them. And on 
Memorial Day I give special recognition to those whom I have lost in my 
district in the State of California. Also, I have a special community 
pride, where I give the names of all of those who gave the ultimate 
sacrifice. So let it be very clear that the Members of this Congress 
support our troops.

Now, while the war has hindered our search for Osama bin Laden, it is 
shocking and regrettable that Iraq is more of a breeding ground for 
terrorism than it was before we invaded in March of 2003.

So many Americans, in my district and throughout the Nation, have 
fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters who are being placed in harm's 
way by being deployed two or more times to Iraq. Transfixed and 
horrified, we watch an escalation in violence that has all the 
characteristics of a civil war. We recognize that on November 7 the 
American people asked for a new


direction. But they also asked for the truth as we know it.

We know that there is too much rhetoric surrounding this issue. But 
the truth is, first, the President's proposal for an escalation or 
resurgence is a flawed strategy that will put more than 21,500 more 
Americans in harm's way. In fact, this escalation leaves Americans and 
Iraqis in a perpetual state of war, a condition that is not sustainable 
or supportable.



Secondly, Iraq's problems are best solved by Iraqis. While a number 
of American troops will be needed to continue training operations of 
Iraqi forces, it will only be successful if those living in Iraq, the 
Sunnis, Shias and Kurds alike, fully embrace democratic principles and 
work together to make their nation secure.

Thirdly, I support the principal recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group, that we engage Iraq's neighbors such as Saudi Arabia, Jordan, 
Syria and others, in problem-solving. The President's plan should 
emphasize diplomacy. There is no Commander in Chief that I know of that 
does not, and did not, during a war engage in diplomacy. That is the 
answer, not military force. This type of position that the President is 
going, this is a brute force that will not deter the insurgency. Any 
viable solution must contain a diplomatic element.

Mr. Speaker, the House has taken 4 days to debate the war because 
clearly we need a sensible resolution to this quagmire. Democrats have 
borne much criticism for bringing this resolution to the floor, but it 
is fair to remind our Republican detractors that they also brought 
nonbinding resolutions to the floor. What it is, is to really send a 
message to the American people that we are moving in the wrong 
direction. Stay the course is not the course to take. The resolution we 
are considering today is entirely straightforward, and the premise is 
simple: Do you or do you not support the President's escalation?

The resolution before us marks the first time this Chamber will vote 
whether or not to disagree with the President's war plans. I hope that 
everyone who recognizes that this ''stay the course'' is not the issue, 
that we vote for H. Con. Res. 63. It is an important step.