---
---

# RECOGNIZING WORLD REFUGEE DAY
## `3d2d19d09c161a61c12f3a4b32153d54`
`Mr. McMAHON — 23 June 2010`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1350, 
recognizing June 20, 2010 as World Refugee Day. According to the United 
Nations, more than 40 million people worldwide have been displaced from 
their respective lands. It is important that we recognize the plight of 
those around the globe who no longer have a place to call home.

The world refugee crisis is a widespread tragedy, the result of 
political upheaval, war, genocide, and natural calamities. And, as much 
as world refugee day commends these brave individuals, it is also a 
tribute to those who devote their lives to relieve the suffering of 
refugees.

Unfortunately, the NGOs that provide much-needed services for 
refugees are working with a rapidly-growing population of refugees and 
under increasingly dangerous conditions.

Today, terrorism is one of the leading causes of families being 
uprooted from their homes. We see this phenomenon throughout Africa, 
Afghanistan and particularly in Northwest Frontier Province of 
Pakistan. Unfortunately, millions now live in fear as Al-Qaeda and the 
Taliban attempt to spread their extremism, while targeting those relief 
workers that work to feed and clothe these victims.

This year there is added significance on World Refugee Day because 
2010 is the 30th anniversary of the Refugee Act of 1980. With this 
resolution, tie United States will join over one hundred countries in 
recognizing the struggles of those who have been displaced from their 
homes and the NGO community that works to help them.

Alongside the United Nations, the U.S. Department of State is at the 
forefront of aiding nongovernmental organizations in helping refugees.

I urge the House of Representatives to keep in mind today the 40 
million refugees across the world, of which 17 million of whom are 
children.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to stand up and recognize 
World Refugee Day and to ensure that the United States continues to be 
an international leader in this regard.

