---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `3d37626c88333086cdfac9ec742ac495`
`Mr. CAPUANO — 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. CAPUANO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the resolution 
introduced by my colleague, Rep. Dennis Kucinich, with the aim of 
bringing an end to the U.S. troop commitment in Afghanistan. I am a 
cosponsor of this resolution because, while not perfect, I believe it 
initiates a debate that is long overdue in Congress: what is our 
military strategy in Afghanistan and what future mission or missions 
are planned for our troops there? How long are they to be deployed and 
what are they being asked to accomplish? Do we also have a coherent 
diplomatic strategy for South Asia, involving not just Afghanistan but 
both Pakistan and India?

For some time now, I have advocated the development of a U.S. exit 
strategy for Afghanistan. I voted to authorize use of force in 2001 
against those responsible for the September 11 attacks. President Bush 
rightly determined that the Taliban regime in Afghanistan was providing 
shelter and material support to al-Qaeda, and he sent U.S. forces to 
Afghanistan to root out the terrorists. But the terrorists have now 
been largely driven from Afghanistan, and yet, President Obama seeks to 
increase our troop deployment to over 100,000 men and women in uniform. 
Given the statement from General Jim Jones last fall that there are 
currently fewer than 100 al-Qaeda members in Afghanistan, I have to 
question why a troop build up is necessary if our goal is to pursue the 
terrorists. In fact, I think all of my colleagues should question this.

It may not be realistic to withdraw all of our troops by year's end, 
and I believe we should retain the ability to take limited military 
action in concert with the Government of Afghanistan in certain 
circumstances. However, the time to change course and start concluding 
this war is now. We must plan for the orderly redeployment of troops 
and rethink our approach to fighting terrorism globally.

I thank my colleague for introducing this resolution and encouraging 
a fresh look at U.S. military policy. I know that we will continue to 
raise this issue until it has registered at the highest levels and we 
are able to bring our men and women in uniform home.
