---
---

# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `3d41a6a526fc28272729392171d229d1`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, today I voted against H.R. 6523 as 
amended, the ke Skelton Defense Authorization Act for FY 2011, because 
we must redefine, refocus and reign in military spending.

We have the largest defense budget in the world. We cannot continue 
to spend as much on defense as the next 16 countries combined. We 
cannot continue to spend billions to protect West Germany from the 
Soviet Union when both ceased to exist 2 decades ago.

Such policies are not fair to our military or to the taxpayer.

In May, I voted for an earlier version of the Defense Authorization 
bill because it moved closer to ending the egregious Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell policy that discriminates against brave, qualified Americans who 
want to serve their country and contained positive elements that could 
serve as a platform for further improvement.

This bill no longer contains that repeal and further misses an 
opportunity to appropriately prioritize funding for our national 
defense. It leaves the door open for more spending on the unneeded 
alternative engine for the F-35 fighter, authorizes $10 billion in 
missile defense, a $1 billion, 11 percent, increase over last year, and 
it unnecessarily ties the hands of the President to deal with 
Guantanamo facilities.

While nothing is more important than providing the resources needed 
to keep our men and women in uniform safe, the bill is too rooted in 
the past and the unfortunate present operation in Afghanistan, which 
I've opposed for scaling up, when we should have been scaling down so 
that we can refine and refocus on programs that will make our country 
safer and more secure.