---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3326,  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF  HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 64, FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL  YEAR 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4314, PERMITTING CONTINUED  FINANCING OF GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS; FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE  AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2847, JOBS FOR MAIN STREET ACT, 2010
## `3d448ff921509b51c010d227dcb5ddc3`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 16 December 2009`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Madam Speaker, as my colleagues know, we have been here before. This 
is the same point of order that has been raised against almost every 
appropriations measure during this Congress, and each time it is used 
to discuss something other than its intended purpose.

I would want to respond to my good colleague from Arizona that I, 
too, share concerns about the earmarking process, and I encourage him 
to become a cosponsor on the fair elections bill. As we have in Maine, 
public financing takes away much of the scrutiny around the link 
between campaign contributions and earmarks.

But once again, this particular debate is about delaying 
consideration of this bill and ultimately stopping it altogether. I 
hope my colleagues will again vote ''yes'' so we can consider this 
important legislation on its merits and not stop it on a procedural 
motion.

This rule provides for enactment of legislation to fund our Nation's 
defense. The brave men and women who serve in the military, 
particularly those who are currently at war in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
deserve a swift enactment of this legislation.

This legislation that we will take up later today will also divert 
TARP money to programs that create and save jobs across the country. We 
do this by investing $75 billion of TARP money into highways, transit, 
school renovation, hiring teachers, police, firefighters, supporting 
our small businesses, funding job training, and affordable housing. And 
for those hardest hit by the recession, this bill also provides 
emergency relief by extending programs like unemployment benefits, 
COBRA, FMAP, our health care funding for the State, and the child care 
tax credit.

Those who oppose this measure can vote against it on final passage. 
We must consider this rule, and we must pass this critical legislation 
today.

I have the right to close, but in the end I will urge my colleagues 
to vote ''yes'' and consider the rule.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.