# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `3d479e31b6356e3b1b9508c1d8fe87cf`
`Mr. SUNUNU — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SUNUNU. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the amendment that has 
been offered by Senator Dorgan and I have a second-degree amendment, 
which I will then offer. I also wish to speak about the broader issue 
before us, the Defense authorization bill, but specifically Iraq and an 
amendment I have cosponsored with Senators Salazar and Alexander 
dealing with the Iraq Study Group recommendations.

First, I rise in support of the amendment by Senator Dorgan. I 
certainly agree with him that it is critical we focus on the threat 
posed by al-Qaida--whether it be in Afghanistan, Pakistan, or Iraq, or 
the under leadership of al-Zawahiri or Osama bin Laden. That needs to 
be a focus of our intelligence and security efforts, as well as the 
efforts our special forces, because of the threat they pose not just to 
American citizens but to our allies around the world.

We cannot forget they are committed to the death and destruction of 
innocent civilians around the world. Under no circumstances should we 
allow any secure area, hideout, or haven to be reconstituted or 
recreated in the way it was created in Afghanistan under the Taliban 
rule.

So I am pleased to support his amendment. No one should underestimate 
the complexity of the challenge of tracking down the leaders of al-
Qaida, wherever they are around the world, but the American people 
should know the greatest effort and the greatest commitment is being 
undertaken to deal with these terrorists.










Amendment No. 2184 to Amendment No. 2135


Mr. President, at this time, I would, however, like to offer a 
second-degree


amendment. In the drafting of Senator Dorgan's amendment, he speaks 
about ''the capture, or information leading to the capture,'' but I 
certainly believe most Americans would agree we should also provide 
support, assistance, and a reward if information leads to the death of 
al-Qaida's leadership.

To that end, my second-degree amendment would simply amend that line 
to ensure this amendment provides support for the capture or death or 
information leading to the capture or death of Osama bin Laden, where 
the $50 million reward is allowed.

Mr. President, at this time, I send the amendment to the desk. It is 
a second degree to the Dorgan amendment, and I ask for its 
consideration.