# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3d506f617f4e07301f495c16c9af40d5`
`Mr. DEAL of Georgia — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this resolution, 
and I


readily admit that I don't know for sure what the best policy is in 
this fight against radical Islamic groups. With all due respect, I 
don't think any other Member of this body does either. Much of what we 
have heard this week are words based on emotions, and not facts.

In the midst of such uncertainty, I do believe there are certain 
opinions that are factually sound. Number one, the greatest weapon our 
enemy has is the loss of resolve on the part of the American people. 
Two, what this Congress does significantly affects that resolve of the 
American people. Three, this resolution is a major signal that America 
has lost its resolve.

If we succumb to an attitude of defeat, then defeat is what will 
occur. I will simply ask, if we don't want to engage radical Islam in 
Iraq, then where? If we don't want to engage radical Islam now, then 
when?



If we cannot answer these questions, be assured that our enemy will 
provide us with the answers. I am not willing to vote for a resolution 
that I believe does just that. It is true that the Iraqis must truly 
step forward and want to govern themselves. President Bush has set out 
markers by which they will be measured. We should hold them to these 
reasonable standards.

Tonight I stand with our troops, and I thank them and their families 
for their service.