# None
## `3d583bd525150b1c3fad1c3966fa48d0`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 January 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much to my good friend, Mr. Meek, 
and it is so wonderful to be with my good friends in the 30-Something 
Working Group. We spent so many nights here talking about the need for 
us to move this country in a new direction, a new direction for 
America. That is what, Mr. Speaker, you and others talked about during 
the campaign. We went out and talked about making sure that we could 
increase the minimum wage for the first time in 10 years; have the 
student loan interest rate; fully implement the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations; make sure that we repeal the energy industry subsidies 
that they don't need because they are the most profitable industry in 
the entire world so that we can truly fund alternative energy 
resources; eliminate the prohibition against negotiating for lower 
prescription drug prices; and putting the stem cell research bill on 
the President's desk once again; and making sure that we can finally 
establish some accountability with this administration on the war in 
Iraq.



At last we will have the opportunity to bring them in and ask them 
the tough questions that our good friends on the other side of the 
aisle refused to ask for years.

We had an opportunity as the 30-something Working Group to point out 
and contrast what we would do in the majority if we were given that 
opportunity versus what the Republican leadership was doing for the 
last 12 years. And the American people responded and gave us that 
opportunity.

Some people might have started at the top of this hour, kind of 
scratched their head and wondered why we were talking about the 
University of Florida national championship and the Gators victory, but 
there is some analogy, all kidding aside.

The Gators showed that they came to play last night when no one 
expected them to win, when for months people didn't give them any 
chance of coming out on top and winning the national championship. I 
think that our victory on November 7 is analogous to that because 
certainly at the beginning of my first term in Congress 2 years ago, no 
one gave the Democrats a chance. No one gave us a snowball's chance of 
reaching the point that we did on November 7 and being able to elect 
enough Members to truly move this country in a new direction.

In part because of the Members that joined us on the floor each night 
and our Democratic Caucus colleagues who were so committed to get the 
message out and talking to their constituents and really appealing to 
the issues that the American people cared about, as opposed to the 
special interests and the culture of corruption and the pall that was 
cast over this Capitol for so long, now we are finally being given that 
opportunity. It is incredibly important.

One of the most amazing things for me as a woman was that last 
Thursday we were able to watch history in the making when the gavel was 
passed to Speaker
Nancy Pelosi as the first woman Speaker in United 
States history. I had my twin 7-year-olds on the floor that day, and I 
know you had your children on the floor with you that day, Mr. Meek, 
but the opportunity for our kids to see, and especially for little 
girls in America, to see that really anything is possible in America, 
for that, for us to be able to witness that was just incredible.

And today for us to be able to witness Speaker Pelosi preside over 
H.R. 1, the passage of H.R. 1, which was the first bill that we adopted 
in the 100-hours agenda that fully implements the 9/11 Commission 
agenda. The Republicans minimally implemented those recommendations, 
and that is why the 9/11 Commission co-chairmen gave them Ds and Fs, 
because they had not allocated funding on the basis of risk and 
vulnerabilities. They had not created and rehearsed State and local 
emergency response plans. They had not addressed the interoperability 
issues between intelligence agencies and first responders. There were 
at least 10 items. They have not protected privacy and civil liberties 
with an oversight function. They have not improved air passenger 
screening. They were not checking all the cargo. There was no funding 
or mechanism to check all of the cargo that came through our ports.


H.R. 1 that we adopted today implements that right now. It was a 
thrill to watch Speaker Pelosi preside over the passage of the first 
item in our 100-hours agenda.