---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3d5fccb745847810269673f594b9dd26`
`Mr. DORGAN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Missouri for his 
leadership on this issue as well.

Let me say that the Congress did help farmers in the gulf region who 
lost their crops. I understand we helped cities that were devastated 
and lost buildings and lives and so on. We also helped farmers who lost 
their crops.

My point is--and I think the point of the Senator from Missouri is--
there is


no difference between a person who loses their entire crop in Missouri 
or North Dakota or in the gulf region because of a hurricane. We do not 
name droughts. We name hurricanes. But if Hurricane Katrina took your 
entire crop away, this Government would say: We want to help you. So, 
too, should we help in the case of a drought or ice storms, as the 
Senator from Missouri just described. I certainly appreciate his help 
on these matters.

I wanted to come to the floor because yesterday there was some 
discussion by several Members of the Senate referring to the 
agriculture disaster piece as pork. Now, our farmers know about pork, 
and they know you do not legislate pork, you eat pork. There is a big 
difference.

I am just curious, why is it every time you try to do something in 
this country to help people who need help, it is called pork. Well, if 
you invest, for example, in public policy, as we have, to say build a 
road in Iraq, that is national security. If you have a provision in an 
appropriations bill that says build a road in this country, it is pork. 
If you build a health clinic in Iraq, that is national security. If you 
build it here, it is pork. If you build a water project in Iraq, that 
is national security. If you build it here, it is pork.

Why is it, to someone in this Chamber, investing in this country is 
always pork, but as long as it is investing somewhere else in this 
world, that is just fine. Mr. President, $18.1 billion went out of this 
Chamber in unbelievable ways for reconstruction in Iraq. Let me tell 
you, any time someone is sending one-hundred-dollar bills out of the 
back of a pickup truck, you don't think there is going to be graft and 
fraud and corruption? You take a look at what has happened with respect 
to the taxpayers' money and the way it was spent in Iraq. I described 
some of that on the floor of the Senate previously.

We paid a corporation $220 million to reconstruct 142 health clinics 
in Iraq. Twenty got done. The rest--122--never got done. A courageous 
Iraqi doctor went to the Iraqi Health Minister and said: Well, can I 
see these Iraqi clinics that were supposed to have been rehabilitated 
with American taxpayer dollars?

The Iraqi Health Minister says: Well, those were ''imaginary 
clinics.''

The money was not imaginary. The American taxpayer got fleeced. The 
money is gone.

But why is it when we come to this Chamber and talk about investing 
in people's lives in this country--a farmer, his wife, and two kids, 
who live out under a yard light, who planted in the spring, trying to 
make a go of it, hoping it would not rain too much, hoping it would 
rain enough, hoping it would not hail or they would have crop disease 
or insects, hoping they would raise a crop. Finally, when they get a 
crop, they hope the price is sufficient so maybe they can make a 
living. Then, along comes a storm, an unbelievably devastating storm--
perhaps an ice storm, perhaps a torrential rain--that wipes out their 
entire crop, washes it away. Or maybe it is a drought. All of a sudden, 
that farmer has nothing. Oh, they put the seeds in the ground, but 
nothing came up, or they put the seeds in the ground, and it washed 
away. The farmer ends up with nothing.

Look, the grand tradition in this Chamber has always been to provide 
some disaster aid to farmers who lose everything. Why? Because we want 
to maintain a network of family farms in this country. This is not new. 
We have been doing it for some long while. When we have devastating 
weather-related disasters hit family farmers, we help them with a 
disaster bill. It is only recently that has become controversial.

Twice I have run that disaster bill through the Appropriations 
Committee. Senator Conrad, myself, and others put together a bipartisan 
bill. As an appropriator this year, I offered it with my colleague, 
Senator Feinstein from California, and Senator Bond from Missouri--
bipartisan. We offered it a third time. It is going to come to the 
floor now. It is in this bill, and we have people complaining about 
it. This is investing in our country's strength. This is the best 
notion of our country to say to family farmers: You had some trouble. 
It wasn't your fault. We want to help you through this difficult time.


Now, we have usually done this without great controversy. The 
controversy this time is because the last two times I got this through 
the Senate, I was a conferee and I went to the conference. The 
President was threatening to veto a bill that had agriculture disaster 
help in it for family farmers. So twice we went to conference and the 
U.S. House conferees, at the request of the then-Speaker of the House, 
Mr. Hastert, blocked it on behalf of the President.

Well, it is here a third time and we will go to conference. This time 
I will be a conferee and my colleague Senator Feinstein will be a 
conferee, Senator Bond will be a conferee, and there will be bipartisan 
support on the Senate side. The difference this time is we go to the 
conference and the House conferees will come to conference having 
passed their own disaster bill for family farmers. This time we are 
going to get this to the President's desk, at long last.

Some say: Well, why just farmers? Why family farmers? There is 
something unusual about those who produce from the land in this 
country. It goes back to the homestead days in sod huts out there, 
alone, trying to raise a family, raise a crop, make a living. We could 
do, I suppose, without family farmers, but it wouldn't be the same 
country. You could have corporate agri-factory farms from California to 
Maine, but it wouldn't be the same country. Once they control food 
production, then ask yourselves: What is going to be the cost of food 
in this country?

Someone once wrote, and I have mentioned him on the floor a few 
times--Rodney Nelson, in fact, a North Dakota rancher who wrote a piece 
of prose about ranching and farming. He asked this question, and I 
think it is important for the country. He said: What is it worth for a 
kid to know how to plow a furrow, how to teach a newborn calf to suck 
milk from a pail? What is it worth for a kid to know how to weld a 
seam? What is it worth for a kid to know how to build a door, to build 
a lean-to, to grease a combine, to pour cement? What is it worth for a 
kid to learn all of those things? There is only one university in 
America where you learn all of that, and that is the family farm, 
America's family farm. It is an unbelievable asset to this country.

We are asking for something very simple that has been done routinely 
prior to this President beginning to block it, and that is when trouble 
comes, when weather disasters wipe out an entire crop, we say to 
families living out there under the yardlight, trying to raise a family 
and raise a crop: You are not alone. This country wants to help. That 
is why we brought this in this bill to the floor of the Senate. It 
won't make anybody whole, but it does say to farmers: Maybe you will 
have a chance to keep going. They live on hope. How else could you 
plant a crop and do anything other than hope that things will work out?

This country has a rich tradition of supporting family farmers, 
because it is in this country's interests. The seedbed rolls from big 
cities to small towns and enriches and nourishes this country. We have 
always known that and we have always done the right thing.

Family farmers have been hard hit in the last couple of years with 
weather-related disasters. This Congress took action with respect to 
one facet of those weather-related disasters. We said farmers in the 
Gulf of Mexico who lost their entire crops due to a hurricane named 
Katrina, you are going to get some help. The rest of you, we are sorry. 
Well, listen. I was supportive of saying to those farmers we are going 
to give you some help. It doesn't matter to me whether it is a Katrina 
or a drought that doesn't have a name or an ice storm that is not 
named, weather-related disasters that destroy farmers' crops, in my 
judgment, ought to be responded to by this Congress to say to those 
family farmers: This has destroyed your crop, but not your hope. We 
want to give you hope to be able to continue farming. That is what this 
disaster piece is all about. I am proud to stand here and support it. 
Those who believe this is some kind of pork do not understand what 
essential investment in this country's strength is all about. An 
investment in America's family farming is a good investment in this 
country's future.

My colleague from California who worked with me in the Appropriations


Committee to get this done is on the floor, so let me yield the floor 
to her and thank her for her leadership in responding to these needs as 
well.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.