---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3d6cdc5010dbd360adc271f3b4d3136b`
`Mr. KERRY — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the situation in 
Iraq, notwithstanding that the headlines and the television shows over 
the last days have been consumed by discussions about what happened 
with the Duke lacrosse team and comments made by Don Imus and other 
things.

Yesterday, I attended another funeral for a young soldier, a sergeant 
in the U.S. Army, 10th Mountain Division, Chris Wilson, at Arlington. 
That is where the real focus of our country ought to be right now, on 
the war in Iraq, about which yesterday the Senator from Arizona gave a 
speech that I thought was divisive, a speech that was more political 
than one that offered a solution, because the solution is not more of 
the same. The solution is not to characterize the war as it has been 
characterized over the course of the last 4/1/2/ years, as a do-or-die 
fight against al-Qaida over there or it is going to be over here. This 
is the most amazing scare tactic we have seen employed over the last 
years. It avoids reality, and it draws the United States deeper and 
deeper into a position of loss of credibility and loss of leverage in 
our ability to do what we need to do.

I don't know one person in the Senate who cheers for surrender or 
cheers for loss or for chaos in Iraq. To suggest that is an insult to 
the Members of the Senate. It is an insult to those of us who care as 
much about victory and as much about success and as much about the 
lives and support of our troops as anybody in public life today. The 
devastating attack in Baghdad yesterday, the lack of any real political 
progress as a result of the President's escalation, and the incredible 
toll this is taking on our Armed Forces deserves a real debate, not a 
polarized, divisive appeal to the lowest common denominator of fear in 
American politics.

It also deserves a debate about what this administration could learn 
if it listened to our generals. We are now more than 4 years into the 
war in Iraq and, tragically, it is only now that the administration 
suddenly realizes: Wow, maybe we ought to find one individual who can 
coordinate the war efforts between Afghanistan and Iraq and have the 
authority to coordinate the military efforts and civilian efforts. But 
they are doing it at a time where apparently no one wants the job, and 
no one wants the job in the most extraordinary way. It says a lot, when 
the President finally decides to appoint a war czar in order to get 
everybody on the same page, that the situation in Iraq is actually so 
bad and the administration's stubborn willingness to change course so 
persistent that they can't, at least as of now, find anybody to take 
the job.

I read yesterday's articles on the front pages of our paper in 
Washington. I was really stunned. This administration has approached 
three retired four-star generals about taking on this task. Maybe 
Senator McCain ought to stop and think about why those generals 
resisted an appeal to their patriotism, to their sense of duty, to 
their service to country after years of a career in the U.S. military. 
What did Marine GEN Jack Sheehan say? He is not an opponent of this 
administration, nor is Army GEN Jack Keane, nor retired Air Force GEN 
Joseph Ralston. All three declined. None of them are opponents of this 
administration. In fact, they all have established ties with this 
administration. Why would our top military commanders decline such a 
high-level position?



General Sheehan, a 35-year marine who once served as the top NATO 
commander, summed it up pretty well in what I thought was an 
extraordinary statement.

He said:




 The very fundamental issue is they [the administration] 


 don't know where the hell they're going.


That is a 35-year retired Marine general:





. . . they don't know where the hell they're going.


Then he said:




 So rather than go over there, develop an ulcer and 


 eventually leave, I said no thanks.


It is pretty incredible that three retired four-star generals, whose 
careers, whose service to the Nation, whose understanding of the 
military is a lifetime of experience, all said no to the Commander in 
Chief.

The President insists he listens to the generals, not the 
politicians. He ought to heed his own advice and end the disgraceful 
record of ignoring the very military administration he professes to 
believe in. Again and again this administration has turned its back on 
the best advice of the military. Each time they have done so at our 
peril. Start with General Shinseki, who we all now agree was right when 
he said we needed a lot more troops and was met with dismissal. As the 
former top operating officer at the Pentagon, a different Marine 
lieutenant general put it:




 The commitment of our forces to this fight was done with a 


 casualness and swagger that are the special province of those 


 who have never had to execute these missions--or bury the 


 results.


Instead of listening to General Shinseki, the administration decided 
to push him aside, give him the cold shoulder, and eventually 
retirement.

Last year, retired high-ranking military leaders, many of whom played 
key combat or planning roles in Afghanistan and Iraq, came forward and 
publicly called for the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald 
Rumsfeld. Across the administration, the warnings of those who wore the 
uniform of their country all their lives and who, retired or not, did 
not resign their citizenship in order to serve their country all were 
dismissed as acts of disloyalty or as threats to civilian control of 
the Armed Forces. Think about that. A retired military officer who 
isn't wearing the uniform, earned their retirement, speaks out about a 
war they were personally involved in helping to plan, saying: We have 
to change course. They are somehow called unpatriotic and disloyal, and 
somehow that threatens the civilian control of the Armed Forces. How 
does an ex-military officer who has the right to speak out threaten 
civilian control of the Armed Forces? It is the scare tactic, the usual 
approach of this administration--try to throw out a big red herring, 
put the straw man out there and debate the straw man instead of 
debating the real strategy of the war.


In the end, it took an election. The American people spoke out. That 
is what replaced Secretary Rumsfeld, not the advice of the men and 
women who had seen him nearly break the military they had served for 
decades. That was the administration's choice. But it didn't stop 
there. Ask General Casey or General Abizaid, who warned that more U.S. 
troops would not solve Iraq's security problem and could actually slow 
the process of getting Iraqi security forces to assume more 
responsibility. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, who unanimously opposed this 
escalation--what happened to listening to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and 
their recommendation? General Abizaid was replaced. General Casey was 
reassigned. The Joint Chiefs were overruled. Yesterday, we learned that 
the Pentagon is going to stretch our overextended military even further 
by extending combat tours and reducing the time between rotations to 
provide the additional troops necessary for the President's misguided 
escalation. What do our military leaders have to say about that? Robert 
Scales, a retired Army two-star general, said that to sustain this 
deployment while giving soldiers the training and the rest they need 
would require twice as many Army and Marine Corps brigades as we have 
today. Then he warned, this two-star Army general, that the Army is 
about to be ''broken.''

We are hearing our own generals talk to us again about what is 
happening to our military that is overstretched and about to be broken. 
Those are not our words; those are the words of military personnel. 
Barry McCaffrey, retired Army four-star general, who recently returned 
from another factfinding trip to Iraq, tells us that combat equipment 
for both the Active and Reserve components ''is shot.'' His conclusion 
was simple:




 There is no argument of whether the U.S. Army is rapidly 


 unravelling.


At a time when mistake after mistake is being compounded by the very 
civilian leadership that ignored expert military advice in the invasion 
and occupation of Iraq, those who understand that the price for each 
mistake is being paid by our troops must be heard. The message from the 
generals who were offered the war czar position has been crystal clear. 
If they really thought the administration had a strategy that could 
succeed in Iraq, why would they turn down the job? There is a very good 
reason for their skepticism. This administration simply refuses to 
accept the reality of how you change course or even that you must 
fundamentally change course in Iraq.

We keep hearing that the escalation is showing progress. While the 
level of Iraqi civilian casualties may have gone down in Baghdad, it 
has gone up in other parts of the country. Why? For the obvious reason 
that they have the flexibility of choosing where they will engage. 
Almost a certainty, some came to the floor and predicted: Put more 
troops into Baghdad, they will retreat into the shadows, into other 
communities. They will probe, they will find the weaknesses, and that 
is where they will reengage. That is precisely what has happened. The 
overall casualty rate in Iraq has remained essentially the same.

Just today we learned of a devastating suicide bombing in the Iraqi 
Parliament, right in the heart of the heavily fortified Green Zone. Ten 
people died, including two Iraqi lawmakers, along with any sense of 
personal security in what is supposed to be the safest part of Baghdad. 
It is a strange definition of the progress we have been hearing about. 
How are more American troops going to stop a single fanatic with 
explosives strapped to his or her chest?

One thing we do know is American troops are paying the ultimate price 
for this escalation. In the first 7 weeks, the number of U.S. troops 
who died in Baghdad doubled. On Monday alone, we learned of two more 
soldiers from Massachusetts who died in Iraq, CAPT Anthony Palermo, age 
26, of Boston, MA, and SGT Adam P. Kennedy, 25, of Norfolk, MA. The 
administration says that these men and women are giving their lives 
because the purpose of this escalation is to allow the Iraqis space to 
make the political deals that we all agree are the only hope for ending 
the civil war. But if the violence is going down in Baghdad, where is 
the political progress? We keep hearing that the Iraqis are getting 
closer to a deal on sharing oil revenues. I think we have had the 
Secretary of State in front of the Foreign Relations Committee at least 
twice that I can think of in which she has said: We are almost there, 
we are nearing a deal. The last time was a month and a half ago, maybe 
2 months ago. Where is the deal? Every time, hopes for a final deal 
turn out to be an illusion. Where is the rapidity of the Iraqi response 
to the political compromises that need to be made to resolve this?

The de-Baathification law that is a key part of the national 
reconciliation process was recently denounced by Ayatollah Sistani and 
is nowhere near completion. The Iraqis are still at square one when it 
comes to amending the Constitution and disarming the militias. Still 
the President refuses to impose any meaningful consequences on the 
Iraqis for failure to meet these benchmarks.

Now, again, I listened to the speech of the Senator from Arizona 
yesterday in which he talked about those who advocate surrender and 
those who cheer for the potential of loss. Again and again, our 
military leaders have said there is no military solution in Iraq. 
General Abizaid said it. General Casey said it. Most recently, General 
Petraeus--new on the job--reiterated there is no military solution. The 
President has said it. The Secretary of State has said it. Donald 
Rumsfeld said it.

But where is the diplomatic effort necessary within the whole Middle


East, let alone in Iraq alone, to leverage the kind of transformation 
that is necessary to end the civil war? And how dare the Senator from 
Arizona only talk about the fundamentals of al-Qaida and how if we 
don't fight them over there we will fight them over here, when the 
fight is really one between civil parties in Iraq?

Yes, al-Qaida is in Iraq. We understand that. Yes, al-Qaida has the 
ability to be able to bomb something and create trouble as a 
consequence of that. But the real violence, the fundamental divisions, 
the piece of this which is extending the stalemate and the American 
presence at the same time is the unwillingness of the Shia and Sunni 
and the politicians who are fighting for position and for the future 
spoils of Iraq itself--their unwillingness to resolve those 
differences.

The longer the U.S. military stays there saying: We are here, we are 
going to do this, we are going to go out and do the pacification, we 
will do the military backup--as long as that security blanket is there, 
those politicians know they can take as long as they want to come to 
any compromise.

I have heard some of our own diplomats in the region express their 
concern about the open-endedness and express the lack of leverage over 
the Iraqis themselves that helps us bring a resolution here.

The only way in which you can change the dynamic on the ground is 
when the administration accepts the simple reality that this Congress 
has now voted on, that the Iraqi politicians have repeatedly shown they 
only respond to a deadline, a deadline to transfer the authority. 
Remember that, back when Ambassador Bremer was there and we said: ''We 
are going to change the provisional government. We are going to 
transfer authority to Iraq,'' and they said: ''Oh, no, we're not ready. 
Don't do this.''? But we said: ''It is going to happen. It is going to 
happen on this date. Get ready.'' And it did, and we did transfer the 
authority. The same thing for the two elections and the referendum. I 
remember them saying: ''We have to push this off. We are not ready for 
the election. Can't participate.'' We said: ''No. We're going to have 
this firm date. We're going to have an election.'' And guess what. We 
had the two elections. We had the referendum. We got the Constitution, 
flawed as it is. But we pushed people to understand this was not open-
ended and interminable.

The fact is, I do not believe young Americans ought to be dying or 
maimed to provide a window of opportunity for Iraqi politicians to 
continue to procrastinate, to give them the cover they need and want to 
be able to manipulate and maneuver and position themselves for power. 
That is not what our troops went over there to do. If you go back and 
reread the resolution we voted on here, it was to deal with Saddam 
Hussein, it was to deal with the weapons of mass destruction; it was 
not to put our troops in the middle of a civil war and engage in the 
kind of struggle we are involved in today.

Mr. President, another thought about this issue. Again, there are 
those running for President on the Republican side who I guess have 
found that the orthodoxy of their primaries requires them to go out and 
suggest that Democrats want something they do not want. So maybe we 
have not learned anything about the truth in American politics. But the 
fact is, no Democrat whom I know of has suggested abandoning Iraq. No 
Democrat has suggested inviting chaos--more than the chaos that exists 
today.

In fact, we have what we believe is a plan for success, and it does 
not leave Iraq without the presence of American troops--I might add, to 
the chagrin of some people in this country who think it ought to. It 
leaves the President the discretion to finish the training of Iraqis. 
That is the principal thing we ought to be there to do. And it leaves 
the President the ability to be able to decide how many troops are 
necessary to complete the task of training the Iraqis. It also leaves 
the President the discretion to decide what the President needs in 
order to prosecute al-Qaida. It does not walk away from the battle 
against al-Qaida. It leaves those special forces and special operations 
and intelligence-gathering and other operations necessary to continue 
to prosecute al-Qaida. Finally, it leaves the President the discretion 
to be able to leave such forces as are necessary to protect American 
facilities and personnel.

Now, how much more discretion, at this point in time, after 4-plus 
years of war, when they have made every decision wrong, should we allow 
the President? People say: Don't micromanage the war. Somebody has to 
manage this war because the folks who are in there, obviously, are not 
doing it effectively. When you have your own generals coming back and 
telling you the troops still do not have the armor, they still do not 
have the level of up-armored Humvees, they are still going out on 
patrols in ways that are, in many cases, provocatively dangerous and 
invite the kinds of injuries they are getting, without the gain on the 
back end as a consequence of the risk they have taken, I think that is 
unacceptable.

Last month, Iraq's neighbors and key players from the international 
community finally got together at a conference in Baghdad. Guess what. 
Nothing tangible came out of the conference. There is no sense of 
urgency about the upcoming meeting in Egypt, which is why a deadline is 
so essential. The countries in the region need to know this dynamic is 
going to change.

To the degree they are concerned about Iran, to the degree they are 
concerned about their Sunni brothers--and they are; Saudi Arabians, 
Jordanians, Egyptians are predominantly Sunni, and they are deeply 
concerned about the Sunni minority in Iraq. But they need to translate 
that concern into a regional security plan where there is a greater 
level of assistance in order to force the kinds of compromises 
necessary between the parties. Absent that, this is just going to go 
on.


We owe it to our troops and to our country to have an honest debate 
and to try to work together to find the way forward in Iraq. I think 
the speech Senator McCain gave yesterday, in which he said Democrats 
were cheering for defeat and surrender in Iraq, does a disservice to 
the Senator from Arizona as well as to the U.S. Senate. I think he 
knows better. And he knows full well that no one here wants to see Iraq 
fall apart. But we have a different plan for how you prevent it. We 
have a different plan for how you achieve success.

It seems to me that a plan that says the President has the discretion 
to leave troops that are necessary to complete the training is not, on 
its face, an abandonment of Iraq. It is an alternative way of achieving 
the leverage necessary to be able to get the responses we have not 
gotten over the last 4 years.

So, Mr. President, we disagree on the strategy, but we do not 
disagree on the stakes. The Vice President hides behind similar 
rhetoric. He dares to claim that those who offer a new way forward are 
''undermining'' our troops. Well, I have had enough of that rhetoric. I 
have had enough. And I think most of my colleagues have.

Undermining our troops? Let's have that debate, Mr. Vice President. 
This is a Vice President who helped send them into combat without 
adequate protection, without adequate numbers of troops, without an 
adequate plan, without the guarding of the ammo dumps, without the kind 
of engagement diplomatically that helps them, without the humvees that 
were up-armored, without the armor--that's why parents in America are 
going out and buying the state-of-the-art armor for those troops. And 
this President and Vice President want to talk about undermining the 
troops?

Let's have a debate with an administration that sent them into battle 
in Iraq with serious injuries and other medical problems, including 
some whose doctors said they were too injured to even wear their body 
armor. You want to have a debate about undermining the troops? Then how 
about failing to provide them with the proper medical care when they 
come home with broken bodies and minds, with a VA budget that is 
inadequate, with a hospital situation that does not follow up and honor 
the sacrifice they have made? How about the extended tours in Iraq, 
where people have given up their jobs and their livelihoods because 
they are in the National Guard and they have been called up repeatedly, 
and they are the sole proprietor of a business? How about that?

It seems to me Congress has done what the President and this 
administration have stubbornly refused to do.


We have recognized the best way you support the troops is to change a 
failed policy. The best way you support the troops is to implement a 
strategy that works for those troops. The best way you support the 
troops is to guarantee we put in place a strategy that honors their 
sacrifice and really leverages the real interests and real stakes of 
the United States in the region.

I think we ought to honor the lives lost, not with words and not with 
divisive speeches, but we ought to honor them with lives saved. That 
starts by putting aside the hollow rhetoric and the straw men that have 
undermined a real debate for far too long and by supporting an exit 
strategy that preserves our core interests in Iraq, a strategy that 
negotiates a new security arrangement for the region; helps to leverage 
the kind of participation of other countries that have an interest in 
standing up to Iran; and regains our credibility in the region, which 
has been tattered with Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo, not to mention the 
policies in Iraq themselves.

Our own CIA has told us the current strategy is creating more 
terrorists, that it is emboldening the radical Islam extremists. What 
we are offering is a strategy that we believe better speaks to 
America's values, to America's interests, and, most of all, to our 
obligation to the troops.

I yield the floor.