---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3d6f036bfaa7bf8f9f70680d0254b182`
`Mr. REID — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this is meritorious legislation, important 
legislation. First, I thank Senator Byrd, the chairman of our 
Appropriations Committee, and his staff for working so hard to get us 
where we are. I thank Congressman Obey, chairman of the comparable 
committee in the House of Representatives.

I know that my friend, the distinguished senior Senator from 
Mississippi, does not agree with the Iraq language, but I express my 
appreciation to his staff. This bill has in it more than the Iraq 
language, and his staff has worked with us all the way to get that 
done. I extend my appreciation for his usual gentlemanly way doing 
everything he does here.

Also, because she worked so hard on a lot of things that she was 
assigned to do by Senator Byrd, Senator Patty Murray has done an 
outstanding job on this bill. She is in the Chamber, and I express my 
appreciation to her for her usual fine work but especially her fine 
work on this matter.

The individuals I have just mentioned have delivered to us a 
tremendous conference report, one we can all be proud to send to the 
President and we should send to the President. This conference report 
honors and provides for our courageous men and women in uniform. This 
conference report doesn't forget the emergencies Americans face at home 
while the war rages abroad. This conference report makes us more secure 
by charting a new, more sustainable course in Iraq so we can find a 
responsible end to the war and return our focus to the global 
challenges that lie ahead.

President Bush requested $91.5 billion for continued military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. We provided every penny of that 
request, but, Mr. President, more. Our bill matches the President 
dollar for dollar on the equipment and training he requested for the 
140,000 troops in Iraq and the 20,000 deployed in Afghanistan, 
including hundreds of troops deployed from the State of Nevada.

This conference report doesn't stop there because we recognize the 
President's request shortchanges our troops and our security in a 
number of critical areas. For example, with the roadside bombs that 
have accounted for over half of the fatalities suffered by our troops 
in Iraq, Democrats have added $1.2 billion for mine-resistant vehicles. 
This is important.

My friend--and he is my friend--the distinguished Republican leader, 
said we should live up to our end of the bargain. Our end of the 
bargain? We have done pretty well, spending over one-half trillion 
dollars in the faraway land of Iraq, having lost more than 3,300, 
through death, of our finest, 27,000 wounded, a third of them missing 
limbs, 2,000 double amputees, brain injuries as we have never seen 
before, and paralysis. We have lived up to our end of the bargain.

At a time when the health care needs of thousands of our soldiers and 
veterans are being ignored, Democrats have added--with the help of two 
courageous Republicans, who I am confident will vote with us on this 
matter--we have added $2.5 billion to ensure all of our troops receive 
the quality care they have earned--our troops--veterans. These funds 
will improve the unconscionable conditions at Walter Reed and other 
medical facilities around the country and greatly enhance the care 
provided to those who suffer from brain trauma and post-traumatic 
stress disorder.

Every Thursday, Senator Ensign and I, when we are in session, in the 
Johnson Room, have a ''Welcome to Washington'' for Nevadans. The 
Baileys were here today. They had a 27-year-old son who went to Iraq 
and came home with severe emotional problems. He was fine before he 
went. He went to a VA facility in Southern California, hundreds of 
miles away from his parents, where he was not taken care of. He died of 
a drug overdose. Not illegal drugs but drugs they gave him. What we 
have put in this bill to help veterans, those people returning from 
Iraq who have been injured, is important. It is in this bill and it 
should stay here.

At a time when our citizen soldiers have been pushed to their limit, 
and most Guard and Reserve units lack the equipment they need to 
conduct their mission, our bill would provide an additional $1 billion 
for the supplies and equipment they need. Despite the fact a majority 
of the American people disapprove of this administration's Iraq policy, 
this bill clearly takes care of the men and women who are serving us 
courageously in Iraq, as clearly as anyone who opposes this legislation 
would set back or hurt badly our efforts to support our fighting 
forces.

We provide for our troops, we do that, but we also believe we have an 
obligation to address emergencies facing Americans here at home. That 
is what emergency supplemental bills were at one time--emergencies that 
developed during the year.

President Bush has made numerous trips to the gulf region to take a 
look at the devastation created by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which 
devastated that region of the country, but he hasn't done anything 
about it, to speak of. We believe we have a responsibility to help the 
victims of this historic tragedy. We agree with the sentiment of the 
people of this country, who are determined to help their fellow 
citizens, and that is what this bill does. We provide $7 billion for 
the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, whose help is long overdue.

Thousands of family farmers and ranchers from virtually every State 
in this country are suffering the effects of extreme drought or 
damaging weather conditions. These are emergencies. We rely upon these 
American farmers and ranchers for the Nation's food supply, and we 
believe we have an obligation to help them when disaster strikes. That 
is why we provide $3.5 billion to help address some of the losses 
suffered by farmers and ranchers caused by drought, flood, fire, 
hurricanes, and pestilence.

More than 5 years after the terrible terrorist attacks of 9/11, we 
know gaps remain in this Nation's homeland security efforts. This is an 
emergency. We have tried here on the Senate floor to offer amendments 
to cover this. We have been defeated on a straight party-


line basis. This bill has that relief. That is why we provide $2 
billion for port security, mass transit security, airport security, and 
other initiatives to address the shortcomings identified by the 
bipartisan 9/11 Commission, whose recommendations came down almost 3 
years ago.

Tens of thousands of children across this country will lose their 
health care in the next several months if we don't do something in this 
conference report. This, too, is an emergency. That is why we provide 
$650 million to keep the State Children's Health Insurance Program 
running. This is health care for kids.

All of these nonmilitary investments are crucial priorities, but 
fully funding our troops and changing the course of the war in Iraq is 
this bill's primary goal. No one wants this Nation to succeed in the 
Middle East more than I do. But I know that after more than 4 years of 
mismanagement and incompetence of the war in Iraq by this 
administration, there is no magic formula or silver bullet that will 
lead us to the victory we all desire. Yet I also believe there is a way 
forward that gives us our best chance to end the war responsibly while 
protecting our strategic interests, strengthening our security, and 
better positioning us to provide the long-term assistance Iraq will 
need for years to come. This way forward is consistent with what our 
military leaders are telling us, including General Petraeus, who 
repeated again yesterday, publicly--not privately but publicly--that 
this war cannot be won militarily. That is what General Petraeus says.

I want to talk about what is in this bill as relates to Iraq.

First, we transition the U.S. mission from policing a civil war to 
training and equipping Iraqi security forces, protecting U.S. forces 
and conducting targeted counterterror operations.

Second, we begin the phased redeployment of our troops no later than 
October 1, 2007, with the goal of removing all combat forces by April 
1, 2008, except for those carrying out the limited missions I have 
mentioned.

Third, we impose tangible, measurable, and achievable benchmarks on 
the Iraqi Government so they will be held accountable for making 
progress in security, political reconciliation, and improving the lives 
of ordinary Iraqis, who have suffered so very much.

Fourth, we launch the kind of diplomatic, economic, and political 
offensive the President's strategy lacks, starting with a regional 
conference working toward a long-term framework for stability in the 
region, as recommended by the Iraq Study Group, with Saudi Arabia, 
Jordan, Egypt, Syria, and, yes, Iran must be involved.

Fifth, and finally, we build up our overburdened military to ensure 
that only battle-ready troops are sent into battle, and giving them the 
manpower and support they need to face the daunting challenges that lie 
ahead. My friend Congressman Murtha, whom I had the good fortune to 
serve with when I was in the House of Representatives, pointed out 
clearly in the debate on the House floor last night that we are 
currently paying 126,000 individuals, independent contractors, to 
supplement the work of our soldiers. These contractors are not held to 
the same standards or accountability of our troops, yet often earn tens 
of thousands of dollars more. This is unacceptable. Do the American 
taxpayers know this, that 126,000 people are being paid over there for 
various things? Doing what? Why? This is costing billions, and for 
what? And why? This supplemental funding bill was forged by listening 
to Members of Congress from both parties, to military experts, and, 
most importantly, to the American people. I have had a number of people 
from the other side who have come to me and said, we know you are doing 
the right thing but we can't help you now. There are two people on the 
other side, however, who are coming and saying they are going to vote 
on this matter. I don't know what I can say, other than to say it is 
for the American people, and they have a lot of courage.


This compromise was forged through thoughtful negotiation. It was 
forged with the firm resolve that we must do what is right for our 
troops, our Nation's security, and Iraq's future. Once we pass this 
bill, we will send it to the President's desk. We know he has 
threatened to veto this legislation. But in the same spirit of 
compromise and bipartisanship with which this bill was written, we hope 
the President will reconsider his stubbornness and his refusal to 
listen to the American people. This is a good conference report. It 
provides for the safety of our troops, it helps Americans recover from 
emergencies that have plagued us here at home, and it sets us on a new 
course, away from a civil war with no end in sight, and toward a 
responsible, phased redeployment, and it holds the Iraqis accountable. 
This is a responsible plan for redeployment, not a precipitous 
withdrawal.

Our troops in harm's way will always have the resources to do the 
mission their leaders ask of them. It directs our attention to 
eliminating al-Qaida, addresses refugee and humanitarian crises, and 
launches the diplomatic and political surges necessary to prevent 
regional instability. It also allows us to provide the longer term 
investments and the political solutions needed in Iraq. It prevents the 
jihadists from being able to claim victory over America, and it begins 
to restore America's prestige, power, and influence in the region and 
throughout the world.

Some will say there is no alternative to the President's course. They 
say the only course is to stay the course or fail; that there is no 
plan B. But our President is wrong. I say that with all due respect. 
The choice is in our hands. Today, we have the chance to support our 
troops, represent the will of the American people, and lead America to 
a path of responsibility. If the President refuses to change direction, 
America risks being bogged down in Iraq for years, not months.

This President, who took us to war under false pretenses, now needs 
the courage to admit his policies have failed and work with us to bring 
the war to a responsible end. This conference report gives him that 
path forward, and I hope he follows it.