# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3d8a1b7737453f2f7518598c920cbbc2`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 3326 the 
Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act. This bill makes important 
investments to keep the American people safe, strengthen our military, 
and support our troops.

This bill contains $636.3 billion for the Department of Defense next 
year to provide funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, enhance 
recruitment, address critical equipment needs at home, and, perhaps 
most importantly, support our troops and their families who give so 
much in defense of our nation. As a Member of the House Budget 
Committee, I am pleased that H.R. 3326 is fiscally responsible, for the 
first time including funding for ongoing needs for the war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan in the regular budgeting process. The decision to hide 
funding for our engagement abroad in ''emergency'' spending led to 
financial mismanagement, and it ends this year. The bill also calls for 
additional contracting reform and other efficiencies, while ensuring 
sufficient support for our men and women in uniform.

As a veteran of the U.S. Army, and the representative of Fort Bragg 
and Pope Air Force Base, I am proud of our troops who serve our country 
so bravely. Whether in the Army, Air Force or Navy, the Coast Guard, or 
the Marines; whether in the National Guard or in the Reserves; each 
soldier deserves our full support and respect. This bill provides our 
troops with a 3.4 percent pay raise and recognizes the hardship of 
stop-loss deployment by providing an additional $500 per month for 
involuntary extensions of active duty. It provides significant funding 
for readiness training and medical care, often overlooked aspects of 
our military support. Knowing that the mission at home for military 
families is often critical to the soldier's mission abroad, I am 
pleased that H.R. 3326 fully funds Family Support and Yellow Ribbon 
programs, as well as providing $472 million for family advocacy 
initiatives.

Madam Chair, there is no more important function for Congress than to 
protect the American people. This bill ensures our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have the funding and equipment they need, provides support 
for our troops at home, and improves the health of our entire military. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 3326.
