# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3d8de13431f298a1401b8e4fbdc9ef96`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago I was just like most other 
Americans, trying to evaluate the President's plan to invade Iraq. 
Unlike most Americans, I was writing a newspaper column and was 
expected to take a public position on such a national policy. But like 
most Americans, I was unburdened by the classified and faulty 
intelligence provided to Members of Congress.

I concluded and wrote that the claims made to justify the American 
invasion of Iraq were baseless, that there were no weapons of mass 
destruction, that Iraq posed no immediate threat to the United States, 
that Saddam Hussein was not in any way connected to the 9/11 attacks, 
and finally that Iraq was not a safe harbor for al Qaeda.

I also concluded and wrote that we were rushing into Iraq with no 
idea of what we would do after the Iraqi regime fell, and also that we 
had no plan for getting out. The point of all of this reminiscing is 
not to show that I was so smart, nor is it to say that I told you so.

Four years later, as our men and women are still dying in Iraq, the 
American people know everything there is to know about the situation 
there. We know as much if not more than the President of the United 
States. And our ideas about the conflict are just as valid.

That is why this resolution is so important and this debate so 
significant. Tomorrow we will be voting on what may be only a 
nonbinding resolution, but it is a resounding and unequivocal 
expression of the National will. This is not simply a group of 
Congressmen and women explaining their votes. It is the echo of an 
overwhelming majority of Americans who are demanding a new direction in 
Iraq.

It is the sound of scores of people like me who were sent here by 
citizens to turn the ship of state around. During this momentous 
debate, we have heard from some on the other side of the aisle that 
this resolution and the discussion we are having somehow undermine our 
national interest.

I believe they are selling this institution short. We are displaying 
for the world what a government of the people, by the people and for 
the people truly looks like. What we are doing here this week speaks 
far more clearly and loudly than our bullets and our rockets and even 
our dollars. When the United States Government so clearly and 
dramatically reflects the will of its citizens, we may not shock the 
world, but we make it watch in awe.

James Madison wrote that the role of Congress is to expand and refine 
the public view. He accurately perceived that on most issues Americans 
assume that their representatives will consider their opinions and work 
out the details. In the present situation, I believe the American 
people are shouting at us that it is time to get our men and women out 
of harm's way in Iraq.

I will cast my vote not simply to oppose the President's escalation, 
but as a statement that this Congress will no longer abdicate its 
responsibility to expand and refine the public view.

Mr. Speaker, today I am as confident about my position as I was 4 
years ago. I am confident because I have listened to those who oppose 
this resolution. I hear only disingenuous rhetoric. The other side 
accuses us of trying to micromanage the Iraqi conflict, then says we 
should have our own plan.

They say that we are dishonoring our fallen heroes, but then offer no 
strategy for honoring them other than to simply send more brave 
soldiers in their place. They continue to talk about victory and 
defeat, while virtually everyone agrees that we could never identify or 
define either.

They say this resolution is an empty political gesture, and then say 
it is tantamount to surrender. What they do not give us, and more 
importantly what the President of the United States has not given us, 
are any reasons to believe that we are succeeding in Iraq, that the 
current plans increase the odds of our success, that we are any closer 
to eliminating the threat of terrorism, or finally that the United 
States is enhancing its image around the world as the beacon of 
freedom.

We who support this resolution honor and respect our troops. We care 
deeply about the international reputation of our country. We are 
unequivocally committed to our Nation's security, and we desperately 
want America to succeed. By supporting this resolution, we undeniably 
succeed, because we honor our Nation and its citizens who have 
entrusted us with the simple, but grave, responsibility to listen to 
them.