# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3d940b9ee1ca1c9c2936031c6e17179b`
`Mr. BROWN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Madam President, 4 years ago the President of the United 
States told the Nation that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. The 
President told us that Saddam Hussein was aiding and abetting al-Qaida. 
Now he is telling us that sending more troops into Iraq will lead to 
some kind of victory in a country torn by civil war and rife with 
insurgents. The President did not make a credible case in 2002. He has 
failed to do so again.

Before the President sent our troops into battle in 2003, I asked him 
a series of questions in a letter to the President and in a House 
resolution, questions about strategy, about reconstruction, and about 
troop safety. He did not answer those questions then. He still has not 
answered them. We do not know his definition of victory. We do not know 
his plan for an exit strategy. We still do not have an answer as to 
when our troops will have all the body armor they need. We are supposed 
to take it on trust that sending more of our troops into this chaos 
will somehow produce stability. Trust needs to be earned.

In November, voters in my State of Ohio and voters in Missouri and 
across the country spoke loudly and clearly that they do not support 
more of the same when the same simply has not worked. Clearly, the 
President has not listened to them. It is up to Congress to work 
together and up to Congress to work on a new direction for Iraq. We are 
well served to remember that we stand in this room today at the will of 
the American people. We have a duty to stand up to the President now as 
we failed to do in sufficient numbers 4 years ago.

The same people who chose to start this war, who recklessly started 
this war without the necessary resources, without the necessary 
planning, without the necessary body armor--those people who ignored 
the sage advice of military experts are the same people, with their 
same tired advice, who want to escalate this war today. If we choose to 
ignore history, we will be repeating a grave mistake.

This resolution does four important things.

First, this resolution reaffirms our continuous support of our men 
and women in uniform. Any official in our Government who says anything 
other than that is playing to the crowd, is disingenuous at best. Our 
troops have done everything we have asked of them in Iraq. They have 
acted heroically. They have done their job. Some have said that if we 
do not support the President's plans, we are unpatriotic. They say we 
don't support the troops. Every Member of this body supports the brave 
men and women fighting in Iraq. Every Member of the Senate who stands 
up and speaks out in this war is demonstrating patriotism. Patriotism 
isn't a yes-man; it is love for our country. Fighting against more of 
the same in Iraq when more of the same is not working is what 
patriotism looks like.

Second, this resolution answers the demand of the American people to 
redeploy our troops out of Iraq. The President's original plan for Iraq 
has not worked, and his most current plan for escalation is neither new 
nor different. We must have a timetable for redeployment of U.S. forces 
or, at the very least, a plan for it--something the administration has 
simply failed to do.

Third, this resolution calls for a comprehensive strategy using 
diplomacy--something else the administration has failed to do.

Fourth, and perhaps most important, this resolution calls for 
oversight. The abdication of oversight and accountability in past 
Congresses is nothing short of shameful. The administration says the 
current plan for escalation will require 20,000 troops and will cost 
$5.6 billion. The Congressional Budget Office tells a different story. 
In the past, the President could put those numbers out there and nobody 
would call him on that--nobody in this body who had any ability to do 
oversight. Instead of the 20,000 troops and the $5.6 billion this 
President claims it costs, the Congressional Budget Office said the 
requirement will be 48,000 troops and the price tag will be $27 
billion. Again, more of the same is not the answer.

We have the duty to heed the call of those who sent us to Congress, 
and with this resolution we have the opportunity to heed that call. If 
the President will not listen to the voters, if the President will not 
listen to his generals, if the President will not listen to the Iraq 
Study Group, if the President


will not listen to his own National Intelligence estimate, then we must 
make him listen to us as the people's representatives.

Let us work today toward sending a clear message to the President and 
to the world that the era of congressional willful ignorance is over. 
We will hold the President accountable, and we will start today.