---
---

# AMERICAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR LOWER GAS PRICES
## `3d9f93ab0089cbf49fc045e9459b7825`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. The traditional offshore lease needs to be at least 10 
years because from start to finish--we have got some graphs here that 
we can show you the logical, businesslike progression that companies 
have to walk down. What is not mentioned so far is all the litigation 
costs that are associated with these leases, particularly in the Rocky 
Mountains. If a company is able to win a lease, they are immediately 
sued by environmentalists to prevent their exploring for it. This 
current price of gasoline and crude oil is a product of supply and 
demand.



About 86 million barrels a day of production, about 85 million 
barrels a day of usage, and that varies from day-to-day. Inventories 
start dropping. That means demand has gone beyond the current 
production supply.

The most immediate area for quick relief in this regard would be 
Iraq. The Iraqi government has recently reached out to ExxonMobil, 
Shell, BP and Chevron to ask them, ask the experts, the folks who have 
the money to be able to do it, to come into Iraq and help them increase 
the amount of production that Iraq produces from oil and gas. They are 
about half of what they were under the Shah. And their fields are on 
land and the most quickly responsive to getting new oil and gas 
supplies to the market.

Charles Schumer, a colleague on the other side of the building, 
immediately weighed in, said that is wrongheaded and said he wants to 
find out some way to prevent Iraq from developing Iraq's resources.

It is not good enough that we prevent America from developing 
America's resources, but now we want to tell the Iraqis how they should 
be able to do it as well. We are about to run out of time. That is one 
of the things I wanted to say, and I appreciate getting to weigh in on 
this.

Here is the bottom line: Post-World War II, we have developed an 
American lifestyle that was incredibly dependent on inexpensive 
gasoline, suburbs, rural


America, that requires being able to drive to and from work, to and 
from recreation. Maintaining these high prices, as our colleagues 
across the aisle are intent on doing, is, in my view, an attack on that 
way of life.

You can call it partisan or not, but if you look at where the bulk of 
the Democratic support is in the Congress, it is in big cities, where 
they have access to mass transit, trains and buses and those kinds of 
things. But in rural America, flyover America, where most Republican 
support is, we don't have access to that.

I can assure you, the folks who live at Lake LBJ, named after Lyndon 
Johnson, and work in Marble Falls and Llano and Burnet, there are no 
buses to get to and from work. They have got to drive their cars.

So as we continue to on purpose maintain these high gasoline prices, 
this is an attack on our suburban way of life, an attack on rural 
American and the rural way of life and a lifestyle that has served us 
well since post-World War II.

One final statement: When I go home, this is all my constituents talk 
about. And if I were to come up here and take the position that I am 
going to ignore what they are saying, the way our Democrats appear to 
be doing, I would get tossed out of office, because apparently they are 
not hearing the same thing that you and I are hearing when we go home. 
Apparently in Democratic districts the high gasoline prices are not 
particularly relevant, which begs the question that 71 percent of 
Americans want to drill.

So I appreciate my colleague letting me speak tonight. We can solve 
this. We can fix this. But it is going to require some modification on 
our part, some modification on our Democratic friends' part. But we 
really do need to start listening to each other and quit demagoging, 
and particularly with respect to the oil business, considering those 
folks less than human as we look at what they do for America every day.

I yield back.