# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `3daa69178d5b779ffd4a5043413684f4`
`Mr. SESTAK — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. I appreciate that from my colleague from New Hampshire.

I want to comment upon what all three of you brought out, and I 
thought brought out well. I would like to speak about it from my 
experience.

I remember being on the ground in Afghanistan 2 months after that war 
began. I had the opportunity during a very short period of time to see 
what needed to be done. I left, brought back an aircraft carrier battle 
group for that war. Then we brought that battle group into the Persian 
Gulf for what we thought would be the starting run of the Iraqi 
conflict, and thinking what a tragic misadventure this would be.

Those words were brought back to me as I thought about them 18 months 
later when I returned on the ground in Afghanistan and saw what had not 
been accomplished when I had known what had to be done. Because we 
diverted our attention and our resources, our Psychological Operations 
Forces, our Special Operations Forces, our Civil Affairs Forces and the 
attention of this Nation from Afghanistan to Iraq.

To me, Afghanistan is prey to terrorists now once again as the 
Taliban regain control in parts of the southern provinces. And as we 
look inserting more forces back into Afghanistan, it is a poster child 
for what Iraq is really about.

Iraq is a conflict, a civil war that has hurt our strategic security, 
and Afghanistan is merely a poster child for how the rest of our global 
security, as well as our homeland security, has suffered.

There is not one army unit here at home, not one, Army, Guard, Active 
Guard or Reserve, that is in a state of readiness, that is committed to 
deploy anyplace in the world, as was said earlier, to any contingency 
elsewhere, from Korea to the Western Pacific, to help our other forces. 
Nor are we engaged in this world where the true center of gravity, 
strategic gravity for the United States is over the next decade, the 
Western Pacific, nor in Southeast Asia, nor in the Middle East.

We have walked away from a strategy of engagement in this world as we 
have narrowed down to a conflict that is a civil war in one country. We 
need to step back and look at Iraq. Not as itself alone, but as a piece 
in our strategic template of how we look at the security environment 
across this world. Therefore, we need a change in this strategy.

It is not about getting out of Iraq, as you well said. It is not just 
about returning our troops home. It is about a proper redeployment of 
our forces in order to enhance the security of America.

I am not anti-war. I am pro-security. And the Democratic approach to 
this is one that recognizes and should recognize with the Republicans, 
because we need them and they need us, to define the end of what 
President Bush said on 10 January would not be an open-ended 
commitment.

We need to define that end as a certain date, a specific date, 
approximately a year, that says to everyone in that region that 
behavior now has the incentive to change, because we will no longer be 
in Iraq providing the political and military cover for this civil war 
to continue to simmer as the politicians in Iraq, failing to step up to 
the plate because they are pursuing their personal fiefdoms, their 
personal ambitions in the 32 ministries that they run, as we provide 
their security.

And of great importance is Iran. When I was there with Senator Hagel


a few months ago, everyone talked about the undue influence of Iran. 
Why not? We are in there bleeding, and that country wants us to bleed 
profusely. But if we were to set a date certain and to lead with 
confidence and engage Iran and Syria, to bring them to the table, our 
most senior political leader, U.S. political leader in Iraq said in 
response to a question, Iran does not want a failed state if we 
redeploy.

It may not want the government we want, but it does not want a failed 
state. It doesn't want the 2 million Iraqi refugees there that have not 
already overflowed Iraq's borders to continue to flow over Iran's. Nor 
does it want a proxy war between it, the Shi'as in Iran supporting the 
Shia in Iraq, and the Sunnis in Syria supporting the Sunnis in Iraq. 
Once we are out, they don't want that war to ensue.

So, what this future plan is to be about is a redeployment to enhance 
America's security by focusing where we need to in this world, 
beginning with Afghanistan, and a readiness here at home to bring it 
back up, to remain in that region on bases we already have and had 
before the conflict with troops there in Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, the 
United Arab Emirates, with a carrier battle group and amphibious ready 
group, and then deal with strength as we safely redeploy over a year's 
period, approximately. Because it took 6 months to redeploy out of 
Somalia with approximately 8,000 troops.

We have got 160,000 in Iraq and over 100,000 U.S. civilian 
contractors to safely redeploy. As we do this with a date certain and 
incentive to change the behavior of the Iraqis so they step up to the 
plate, knowing they must assume responsibilities, it brings the 
Iranians and Syrians together, with us remaining in the region, to have 
a strategy that leads to diplomacy, so that there is an accommodation 
for a non-failed state. A region we have our interests in, we will 
remain there, and a state that has brought the parties together under 
the incentive of a date certain to work towards stability.

I appreciate being able to make these comments which tonight's 
discussion I believe have really pointed us towards a strategic 
approach to a date to redeploy.