# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3db52d3e86d4cc78be1fa7c081aa855e`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I am very pleased that the Senate is now 
debating the Senate amendment to H.R. 3074. This is the Transportation, 
Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill for this coming 
fiscal year. This bill has been supported by the broadest possible 
bipartisan majorities. The Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations subcommittee has 21 members, more than one-
fifth of the Senate. It is one of the largest subcommittees in the 
Senate. Despite the diversity of views on our very large subcommittee, 
back on July 10 we voted unanimously to report the bill to the full 
Appropriations Committee, and 2 days later, each and every one of the 
29 members of that committee voted to report this bill to the Senate.

This bill has broad, bipartisan support because it addresses 
pragmatically the very real housing and transportation needs of 
American families across all regions of the Nation. Rather than endorse 
the many arbitrary and destructive cuts called for in the 
administration's budget, we worked in this bill to target our limited 
resources on getting citizens out of traffic jams and home to their 
families; keeping our low-income tenants in their homes and out of 
shelters; providing housing for the elderly and the disabled; investing 
in crumbling infrastructure, and improving safety on our runways, 
highways, and railways.

Much has been said recently about a looming battle between the White 
House and Congress over spending priorities and the funding levels in 
these appropriations bills. There is no question that the bill before 
us spends more than the level sought by the Bush administration, both 
for transportation and for housing. Yet this bill still has broad 
bipartisan support, and I believe the Senate would benefit greatly from 
a detailed explanation as to why that is the case.


More than any other reason, this bill spends more than the 
administration's budget because it rejects many of the most punitive 
and misguided cuts that were proposed by the White House. The 
President's budget that he sent us for fiscal year 2008 proposed cuts 
across the board. Those included cuts that would put low-income tenants 
and their children on the streets. It proposed cuts that would 
undermine transportation safety, especially when it comes to aviation 
and railway safety; cuts that would worsen congestion on our Nation's 
roadways and runways; and cuts that undermine the community development 
efforts of mayors and county executives and Governors across this 
country.

So this bill spends more than the President's budget, not because it 
includes vast new spending initiatives but because it simply refuses to 
acquiesce to the President's reckless cuts. These are the very same 
cuts that have been proposed in recent years by the Bush administration 
and rightly rejected by the then-Republican-led Congress. That is why 
every member of the Appropriations Committee voted to support this 
bill.

In addition to restoring funding to the cuts that were proposed in 
the President's budget, there are a limited number of selected funding 
increases in


this bill. Those increases are targeted on efforts to maintain the 
current service levels for the HUD section 8 program, so tenants do not 
lose their homes. It continues to make investments in highway 
infrastructure so we can address our crumbling bridges and highways. It 
addresses the critical housing needs of homeless veterans, including 
veterans who are struggling after returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
And it addresses the current crisis in the mortgage market by boosting 
funding to counsel subprime borrowers who are today facing default and 
foreclosure.

As appropriators, we have an obligation to ensure that with our 
limited resources we are addressing the most critical and current needs 
we face in transportation and in housing. I believe we can all agree 
the needs of our returning veterans, especially those in need of 
housing while they struggle with physical or mental illness, have to be 
paramount. I believe we can all agree that with billions of dollars of 
mortgages about to reset to higher interest rates in the next few 
quarters, we have to do everything we can to help our borrowers keep 
their homes.

I have been greatly fortunate to be joined by my ranking member, 
Senator Bond, in crafting this package. Senator Bond's long service on 
the Appropriations Committee, as well as his work on the Public Works 
and Banking Committees, has made him one of our leading experts in the 
areas of both transportation and housing. Senator Bond's leadership and 
his commitment to the mission of HUD takes a back seat to no one. I 
could not have a better or more experienced partner in this effort.

The bill that Senator Bond and I put together contains 
congressionally directed earmark spending. Consistent with the 
instructions of Senator Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran, those earmarks 
have been substantially reduced from prior years.

For the first time in a great many years, the committee has reported 
a bill that will leave dollars available to initiate national 
competitions among all eligible applicants for discretionary 
transportation programs. For the first time in several years, this bill 
requires every earmarked project to be fully eligible under the basic 
authorizing statute for the pertinent program in which it is earmarked.

Those projects must also conform to other strict criteria newly 
imposed by our subcommittee this year.

Now, as I said earlier, this bill spends more money than the 
President's request, principally because it rejects a great many of the 
cuts that were proposed in the President's budget cut, that by the way 
have been rejected year by year by Republican Congresses.

I want to take a few minutes of the Senate's time today to discuss 
those cuts in greater detail. The President proposed to cut community 
development efforts in all our States and communities across the Nation 
by slashing the CDBG Program by $735 million or 20 percent.

Now, at a time when our changing economy is imposing unprecedented 
challenges to our mayors and our governors in preserving their 
struggling cities and towns, the President wanted to slash this effort 
by almost three-quarters of a billion dollars.

I have yet, personally, to meet a mayor or governor of any political 
party who endorses that approach. So our bill restores every penny of 
that cut. The President's budget also proposed to cut housing funding 
for the disabled by $112 million, almost 50 percent. At a time when our 
social service networks are trying to give our disabled citizens the 
chance to live independently, the Bush administration wants to slash 
that program in half.

Now, if that is not bad enough, at a time when the number of senior 
citizens is growing, the President's budget for HUD seeks to cut 
housing for low-income seniors by $160 million or 22 percent. So the 
bill before you restores every penny of those cuts.

The bill also rejects the President's proposal to completely 
eliminate funding for the very successful HOPE VI Program. Senators 
Bond and Mikulski deserve a great deal of credit for the success of 
that program. We have again restored funding for it so we can demolish 
some of the most decrepit and crime-ridden housing projects with new 
mixed-income developments that are cleaner, safer, and promote stable 
community living.

The bill before us rejects several punitive cuts proposed for the 
Department of Transportation. The President's budget proposed to slash 
funding for Amtrak by almost $500 million or 40 percent in a single 
year. This subcommittee heard testimony back in late February that a 
cut of that size would cripple the railroad and push it into certain 
bankruptcy. That was not just the view of Amtrak supporters, that was 
the view of the DOT inspector general who audits Amtrak's books every 
quarter.

The bill before us also rejects the President's proposal to cut 
subsidies for the Essential Air Service Program, which would eliminate 
all flights to dozens of rural and midsized communities in about every 
State.

At a time when our commercial airlines are terminating air service to 
small- and medium-sized cities, the President's budgets worsens the 
situation by slashing subsidies to keep some of those cities on the 
national aviation map.

As anyone who has taken a flight recently can attest, the number of 
air travelers has now well exceeded the levels we experienced prior to 
September 11. Flights are packed and are too often delayed. Planes are 
landing to find there are no gates to accommodate them. Consumer 
complaints are growing. Our air traffic control infrastructure is 
increasingly showing its age, with equipment outages and near misses 
occurring with frightening frequency.

Yet, as in past years, the President's budget for the FAA proposes to 
slash over $800 million from our programs that invest in airport 
capacity, safety projects, and modernizing the air traffic control 
system.

Maybe if the President flew commercial instead of on Air Force One we 
would see a much different budget here. But thankfully, as was the case 
in past years, our bill that is before us today rejects those proposed 
cuts.

Finally, as I mentioned before, the bill before us includes some 
select but critically needed funding increases. The President's budget 
proposed an absolute freeze on the amount of money available for tenant 
housing vouchers for the coming years, completely ignoring inflationary 
costs and rising rents. This bill provides a $500 million increase for 
tenant-based rental assistance. That is the amount we estimate will be 
needed to ensure that all currently federally assisted tenants can stay 
in their homes.

Senator Bond and I joined forces to add $78 million for the HUD-VASH 
Program. That program was designed to target both housing assistance 
and support services to our homeless veterans, including our veterans 
who are returning today from Iraq and Afghanistan.

We have coordinated this increase in voucher funding with a 
comparable increase in supportive services funding in the 
appropriations bill for the VA and military construction. This is a 
program that has not received funding for several years. I am very 
proud to say that our new initiatives will provide critically needed 
funding to support at least 7,500 homeless veterans.

This bill has also included small and selected increases to address 
critical and worsening problems with transportation safety. Small 
increases above the President's budget are provided to hire more air 
safety inspectors. At present, these inspectors cannot inspect all the 
maintenance facilities they are responsible for, and we are especially 
concerned about these facilities that are overseas.

We have also provided small increases for rail safety, highway 
safety, and pipeline safety. Our subcommittee, in fact, had a special 
hearing on the rising level of highway fatalities. We have worked to 
respond to some of the needs that were cited during that hearing.

We have also provided increased funding to enable the Department of 
Transportation to investigate the growing backlog of customer service 
complaints by airline passengers.

In summary, this bill rejects reckless and misguided cuts that 
Republican-led Congresses have also rejected before, cuts that would 
harm our infrastructure, our communities, and our citizens. It also 
contains modest targeted increases on programs that are tackling 
emerging and growing problems, programs that will help our veterans,


our safety and our efforts to keep our families in their homes.

In doing all this critical work, this bill does spend more than the 
President's request. But in that sense, it is no different from the 
transportation and housing appropriations bills that were passed by the 
House and Senate when my Republican colleagues across the aisle chaired 
our committees.

This bill has broad bipartisan support because it takes a practical 
approach in addressing real needs we found in the transportation and 
housing sector. I urge all our Senators to support this bill and move 
us rapidly to final passage.















 Amendment No. 2791
