# THE NEW DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS
## `3db520d9a8b8d9035ea8d04c835bb90f`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Kentucky. And he sums it up well. One of the things that the American 
public is most frustrated with is the idea of nothing happening or 
obstructionism. And I think some know that there is a difference 
between legislation and politics. But most people in America don't want 
to deal with the political side of it. They want to see the 
effectiveness.

And I should note 8 months ago on this day a couple of major changes 
were made that we were able to make. We have three branches of 
government, but the business that happened in this House for both sides 
of the aisle can be changed with rule changes. And on that first day we 
made some major rule changes that affect the American public, to 
understand that rhetoric is not good enough, that action is what is 
demanded.

The first thing that we did is we enacted PAYGO budgeting. No more 
blank checks. No more recklessly spending our children's rightful 
inheritance to this country by putting in fiscal policies that are 
short-term, feel-good tax breaks for very few Americans. PAYGO 
budgeting is exactly what the American people live by. It is how every 
middle-class American has to get by in their own life. And this House 
of Representatives finally put that in. By doing so, we will do 
something that the American people should expect to happen: We will 
balance the Federal budget by 2012.



But that's not good enough. We have a $9 trillion deficit. The idea 
that this Congress has been able to tell people you can have something 
for nothing, you can give tax cuts to the wealthiest and underfund 
programs, what's happened is this country is using the equity in our 
own country that belongs rightfully to our children and spending it 
now. Those days are over. PAYGO is a rule of this House and it will 
continue to be so as long as the Democratic Congress stays as it is.

The other major change was one that the American people simply don't 
understand. Many of us who came here didn't understand it, and many of 
us were incredibly frustrated by it, how this sacred institution, the 
most important, deliberative legislative body, democratic institution 
the world has ever seen has an image problem when it comes to ethics. 
Every single Member who walks through this door should be very, very 
cognizant of what this means to the American people.

So the ethics changes that were taken up 8 months ago, I think the 
American public would probably be hard-pressed to even believe that it 
didn't happen. The difference between 8 months ago and today is simply 
this: Lobbyists will no longer be able to provide one penny in food, 
not one penny in gifts, and not one penny in travel to any Member of 
this body. Now, that's a far sight from golf trips to Scotland and 
special interests that we had seen before. Those who think that the 
election of last November made no difference, look no further than K 
Street to understand the changes that happened here. Ethics changes 
have been sweeping.

Now, one of the things in standing here and talking about these 
things, I think there is a sense of frustration amongst many of us, the 
game seems to be coming from the other side of the aisle, is to delay 
and slow everything down and to drive the approval rating of this 
Congress as low as it can possibly go. None of us should be happy with 
the fact that when a Presidential approval rating is as low as this 
President's is and a congressional approval rating is as low as this 
body is right now, that's nothing to be proud of. And it's nothing to 
point one finger at each side of the aisle. What we're doing is we're 
undermining the basic tenet of this great democracy. And for those who 
think that this is someplace else, it's full of your neighbors, it's 
full of the people you work with, it's full of the teachers, the 
newspapermen, the law enforcement officers that you sent here. It is 
incumbent upon this institution to get the ethics changes right.

So we have passed some of the most sweeping ethics changes. And soon, 
maybe by the end of today, we will see the President sign in more of 
that; tightening up of not only the bans on gifts, but also making sure 
that bundled contributions to campaigns are being shown, that we know 
who's giving money, that we understand who is trying to look at and who 
is trying to influence decisions that are made in this House.

Now, one of the things I would like to say is that, speaking of your 
own accomplishments, there is a saying in Minnesota, ''Act and let 
others do the speaking for you.'' I want to quote a few things that 
have come out of newspapers basically over the last 30 days of all 
things that are happening here. We have a couple of things here. 
''Democrats who control Congress headed into a summer recess having 
passed several high-profile bills, raising the minimum wage, bolstering 
U.S. security, expanding children's health care. Their top priority, 
ending the Iraq war, remains frustratingly unfulfilled. But the 
Democrats who took over in January were able to go home last month for 
a month-long break having won more support in the U.S. Senate and U.S. 
House of Representatives for bringing combat troops home by next year 
than any time before, marking a significant turnaround from last 
year.'' Reuters of August 5 of this year.

''Some non-partisan observers agree, Democrats have reason to boast. 
Democrats have had a good run legislatively over the past few weeks, 
and that does help them going into the recess,'' said Larry Sabato, 
Director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia.

''Congressional Democrat majority made major strides towards 
implementing its domestic agenda before going home. It will face 
hurdles when lawmakers return at summer's end, President Bush being the 
main one. Farm bills, lobbying reform, energy, education, children's 
health insurance, all advanced in the final 10 days, establishing House 
Speaker
Nancy Pelosi as a major legislative player.'' Wall Street 
Journal.

''Besides their success on increasing the minimum wage, ethics and 
lobbying, September 11 Commission recommendations, Democrats have moved 
forward with initiatives to expand health insurance for all of 
America's children through the SCHIP program, a shift in U.S. energy 
policy away from reliance on foreign fossil fuels. They have helped 
focus the war debate on the question of when, not if, U.S. forces will 
be pulling out.'' The Los Angeles Times.


''I have long been and continue to be an advocate of congressional 
oversight as a fundamental element of our system of government. I also 
have publicly expressed my belief that congressional debate on Iraq has 
been constructive, appropriate and necessary.'' That last one coming 
from Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates.

This Congress is making changes. This Congress is listening to the 
American public. This Congress is taking what it can control in its own 
hands, like rules, and strengthening them, making sure that ethics 
reform is a top priority, making sure that people can once again walk 
in this building, see this American flag, understand the history that's 
been written here, and trust the Members that have been here to do the 
duty of the American public. And in doing so, we have passed some of 
the most sweeping legislation.

The first one I want to talk a little bit about is veterans issues. 
Now, in serving on the Veterans' Affairs Committee, it's something 
that, of course, is very near and dear to my heart, something that I 
can't say that it's a personal sense of pride, but it's one of a 
personal sense of responsibility. The House historian notified me, 
after a week or two here in Congress, that as a retired command 
sergeant major in the Army National Guard, that I was the top ranking 
enlisted soldier to ever serve in Congress. Now, those Members familiar 
with the military understand that being an enlisted soldier brings a 
sense of responsibility of making sure troops are taken care of.

So to sit on the Veterans' Affairs Committee and watch the historic 
progress that has been made on veterans issues, I think it's 
interesting to keep a couple of facts in mind. In the 77-year history 
that we've had a Veterans Administration or the Veterans Affairs, in 
that 77-year history there has never been the infusion of resources 
given to that administration as


we've seen in the last 8 months. There is a group of veteran service 
organizations led by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled 
American Veterans, the Paralyzed American Veterans, the American 
Legion, that each and every year for the last 22 years have put 
together what they call the independent budget. And this independent 
budget does something very simple. It takes a look at the needs of all 
American veterans. It determines how many veterans are going to need 
services, whether it be veterans health care, re-employment, 
educational benefits, and the gamut of resources that we provide our 
veterans for the service they do this country. They take that number 
and then they figure out the real dollar cost of providing exactly 
those services, services that were promised, services that were 
guaranteed to our veterans when they signed up or were drafted to serve 
this Nation at times of peace and times of war. They take those two 
numbers and they put it in a budget and they send it to Congress. They 
say, you have X number of veterans at X number of cost; therefore, you 
should budget X number of dollars. And for the past 21 years, Congress 
has failed to meet that.

Congress has so blatantly understated the need that the current 
administration stated 3 years ago, when they made their budget, that 
their determination was that we would see fewer veterans and the cost 
of veterans health care would go down. Most of us will take the bet 
that the sun will not rise tomorrow before that would happen. And guess 
what? It did not happen. So we were left, 2 years ago, with a nearly $2 
billion shortfall in taking care of our veterans. And the decision came 
then, who doesn't get care? Who do we turn away? And the answer was 
simply, turn away Priority 8 veterans. We will prioritize these 
veterans.

Now, Priority 8 veterans, to the American public, that may not seem 
like too much, but a Priority 8 veteran is this. It's someone in my 
district making $27,701 or more can be thrown off as a Priority 8. That 
can be a combat veteran. That can be a veteran of our conflicts, our 
current conflicts, Vietnam, or World War II, determined mostly on the 
economic scale, not the need, the accessibility, not what was promised 
to them, not what the right thing to do was. But lo and behold, you 
knock off several million veterans, and look, we had a balanced budget. 
That's not the way this Congress is going to deal with it. That is not 
the way this Congress is going to keep their responsibilities. And in 
this budget, we increased $3.6 million in veterans funding over the 
President's request.

When we passed that piece of legislation by, I believe, and I believe 
this is correct, I may be off by one or two, 409-2 was when this 
passed, and that piece of legislation was being threatened to be vetoed 
in that appropriations by this President. One of the 12 appropriations 
bills which, by the way, for the first time in a decade, all 12 were 
done on time, all were done by the August recess. That, in addition to 
passing nine earlier this year that were not done from last year's 
work.

So for any American who listens to the rhetoric, who listens to 
people talk about nothing being done, the question would be, can they 
back that up with fact? We can back it up with fact.

We've made some major changes on dealing with the current situation 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. The signature injuries of this war is the 
traumatic brain injuries and the concussive injuries caused by 
improvised explosive devices. They have become more sophisticated over 
time in the damage that they're doing.

The care our soldiers are receiving on the battlefield is second to 
none. It is the best care that has ever been given in the history of 
warfare on this planet. One of the problems with that is we are sending 
soldiers home with horrible injuries, injuries that are going to be 
with them for a lifetime, that is going to take a lifetime of care. And 
what this Congress has done is we passed legislation introducing new 
research dollars, new research centers, five of them, to be placed 
around the country in conjunction with our VA hospitals that have our 
polytrauma centers, the ones that are dealing with these concussive 
injuries. And we're going to put the funding there, we're going to put 
the research there, and it's going to do something. It's going to 
provide care not only to the soldiers, but it's going to provide the 
necessary resources to the families that are going to have to adjust 
their entire lives to deal with the damage that has been done by these 
injuries. This is not something that these veterans and their families 
should feel lucky to have. It's not something that they should have to 
come here, even though that's exactly what happens, and lobby this 
Congress to do that. It's what is the morally right thing to do. It is 
also the best way to show future generations of our young people who 
want to serve this country, who want to defend this country, that if 
they do so, we will be there every step of the way.

What we're seeing coming out of this conflict is post-traumatic 
stress disorder and suicide prevention. We passed H.R. 327, Joshua 
Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act. That is starting to get centers 
up and running. It's starting to do more identification. We are now 
screening every single soldier who returns from this conflict for 
traumatic brain injury and for post-traumatic stress disorder.

We are changing the way that we welcome our soldiers home. We are 
changing the way that we treat them and we screen them and we bring 
they and their families into the process of making them whole again.

We have the Rural Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act. One of the 
things we have a problem with, and this is one the American people 
should be incredibly frustrated with that I, as a veteran, was, our 
veterans who have to travel to VA centers to get health care are 
reimbursed at the 1978 rate of 11 cents a mile. And I have a veteran, a 
first sergeant no less, who saw combat duty in Korea. When he brought 
this up about a year ago to an official, he was simply told to get a 
more fuel-efficient automobile. Now, this Congress has found fit to 
reimburse itself at 48/1/2/ cents a mile. At some point, the American 
public should ask where is the hypocrisy in who we're treating and who 
should receive the benefit. But those have changed.

We also introduced legislation that changed the GI Bill. We have 
soldiers, in the units that I served with, in the 34th Division who 
served the longest tour of duty in the war of Iraq of any unit in the 
U.S. military, 22 months. These are the same soldiers that, 14 months 
previously, served a tour of duty in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom, the war in Afghanistan. And the way the GI Bill is written, 
these soldiers have been gone for 4 years. Many of them signed up for a 
6-year commitment. Their commitment is coming to an end, and at the 
same time, their benefits. They would have been able to use their GI 
Bill had they not been out fighting a war to defend America, had they 
not been doing what they were asked to do, and because of that they 
were losing their benefit. Previous Congresses took no action to 
correct that. This Congress did. That's taking care of our veterans. 
That's not only standing in front of them for photo opportunities, it's 
standing behind them.

I am proud to say this new Congress puts its money where its mouth 
is. It truly supports our veterans. It understands that it's 
bipartisan. And this is a great accomplishment.

At this point, I would like to yield a little time to my colleague 
from Kentucky to talk about a few more initiatives.