---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3dbf785a936ac609ea41386fc948e334`
`Mr. JEFFERSON — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. JEFFERSON. Madam Speaker, I thank you for this opportunity to 
address an issue of grave importance to our country. I rise in support 
of the resolution that is before us. The resolution continues to 
support our troops who are presently fighting in Iraq. But it calls 
into severe question the wisdom of escalating our military involvement 
there.

I personally believe that escalating our efforts in Iraq is a 
tremendous mistake. It is time for us to recognize that there is no 
military solution to what is happening there. The only solution that 
will work in Iraq is a political solution. Even those who believe this 
surge to be an excellent strategy do so because they hope that it will 
lead to more favorable conditions for a political settlement.

The political solution depends on the Iraqi people themselves 
deciding to work together to knit their country together and to fight 
in behalf of their own nascent democracy. The rampant violence in Iraq 
is the result of a civil conflict in that country, and the Iraqi people 
must decide whether they will truly have a real representative 
democracy that includes the Sunnis, the Shiites, and other significant 
segments of their society.

If the Iraqi Government is to stand up for its own future, we must 
begin now to make it clear that we will not stay there forever and 
continue to add our troops. I personally believe that the best way to 
signal that our commitment is not open ended in this civil war is to 
start now the withdrawal of some of our troops. However, short of that, 
this resolution is an important first step toward ensuring that the 
people of our Nation know that we are changing direction in Iraq, and 
so that the people of Iraq will know that they must plan a future with 
the United


States as an important ally, but not as an enforcer of the status quo 
in their nation.

Madam Speaker, the justifications for the invasion of Iraq have long 
ago been discredited. There were no weapons of mass destruction. There 
was no nuclear threat. Every credible source and study has established 
that there was no connection between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda and 
the tragic events of 9/11. These were the reasons that were given as 
justification for our entry into the Iraqi war and that supported the 
statement that our national interest was at stake. Unfortunately, since 
the reasons were erroneous, no national interest exists.

Winning a military conflict, even if it were possible, does not 
create a national interest. Adding more troops to fight under the 
present conditions on the ground in Iraq cannot create a national 
interest where none truly exists. Such a strategy will simply add more 
human targets in a civil war that does not threaten America.

We are straining our troops and our military and financial resources 
beyond all reasonable limits. We are decimating our National Guard 
strength at a time when we have more than enough disasters here at home 
to which we must attend.

At a time when Louisiana needs the support of our National Guard, 
members of our National Guard are being called to serve in Iraq. At a 
time when the New Orleans area residents struggle to rebuild following 
the worst natural disaster in our Nation's history, and following 
deadly tornadoes just 2 days ago, we need National Guard troops here at 
home to fight crime in our streets and to keep our people safe. We need 
the billions of dollars that we are spending on war and the rebuilding 
of Iraq to wage a war on poverty and ignorance here at home. We need a 
greater commitment to rebuilding the Gulf Coast communities, including 
my beloved City of New Orleans.

Madam Speaker, let's not continue to make matters worse at home and 
abroad by pursuing a policy in Iraq that cannot work, that has not 
worked and that simply can no longer be justified.

I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution which 
supports our troops in the field and supports, at the same time, the 
commonsense objections to escalating our troop presence in Iraq. The 
people of this great country eloquently expressed their disapproval of 
the course of this war in the November elections, and on their behalf 
we should do no less.