# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3dd3a377d7ecec5596933c8c27d5cb5f`
`Mr. REED â€” 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I commend Senator Hutchison for her hard 
work and that of her staff. She has been a very positive and laudable 
member of the committee. She has vast experience, having served on the 
committee many years, and has made a major contribution to this 
legislation, and she should be acknowledged for that contribution.

Mr. President, this is a critically important piece of legislation, 
and I hope that the Senate will act on it expeditiously. Both the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and the veterans service organizations 
have urged prompt action on this bill, and the President himself has 
cited the importance of not delaying crucial funding for our Nation's 
veterans and military forces.

The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill 
funds urgently needed investments in the facilities in which our 
military forces and their families live and work and train for battle. 
It also provides funding for the benefits and medical care acutely 
needed by our Nation's veterans.

The bill before the Senate today provides a total of $109.2 billion 
in funding, including $64.7 billion in discretionary funds. In all, the 
discretionary funding is $4 billion over the President's budget 
request. As Senator Hutchison said, the President is prepared to sign 
the legislation as it is.

Funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs totals $87.5 billion, 
of which $44.5 billion is for mandatory programs and $43 billion is for 
discretionary programs, an increase in discretionary funding of $3.6 
billion over the President's budget request.

We have independently determined additional needs for military 
construction and veterans affairs, and we found a responsible way to 
meet these additional needs.

More than 70 percent of the increase--$2.6 billion--is for the 
Veterans Health Administration. This increase will allow the Department 
of Veterans Affairs to dedicate additional resources to deal with 
spiraling health care needs for veterans, including the urgent needs of 
Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. Chief among needs, in terms of 
widespread impact, is the treatment of traumatic brain injury and post-
traumatic stress disorder.

The extent of these problems among returning veterans--and the strain 
that the treatment of them is placing on the Veterans health care 
system--is only now coming to be fully understood. The Defense 
Department estimates that as many as 30 percent of returning Iraq and 
Afghanistan war veterans suffer from traumatic brain injury or post-
traumatic stress disorder--or both. This is a startling statistic and a 
looming crisis that needs to be addressed immediately.

The urgency of this problem was among the top findings cited in the 
report of the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning 
Wounded Warriors, better known as the Dole-Shalala Commission. The 
commission's report, which was released earlier this summer, spotlights 
the need to aggressively prevent and treat post-traumatic stress 
disorder and traumatic brain injury, including preparing for the long-
term consequences of these injuries.

Many of the veterans wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan will require 
years, if not a lifetime, of medical care from the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. And this new influx of veterans is occurring at a 
time when the veterans from previous wars are aging and requiring 
substantial increases in medical services as well as long-term care.

It is vital that the Department of Veterans Affairs have adequate 
resources to address these emerging and unanticipated requirements 
without draining funds from other needed and high priority programs, 
such as long-term care for aging veterans.

Unfortunately, for too long, the President's Office of Management and 
Budget has ignored the financial impact of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan on the Department of Veterans Affairs, and has continued to 
penny pinch the Department's budget.

As a result, the Department of Veterans Affairs has struggled over 
the past several years--often unsuccessfully--to keep pace with the 
rising demands for veterans health care. It has been Congress that has 
had to lead in providing the resources to bail out the Department when 
its projected health care costs fell abysmally short of the mark. And 
it has been Congress that has led the effort to provide the Department 
with more resources for mental health care programs at a time when the 
requirement for such services is soaring.

I am pleased to report that the bill before the Senate today corrects 
the deficiencies of the past and provides the necessary investment to 
guide the Department into the future.

And there is more good news for veterans in this bill. This 
legislation provides $1 billion over the President's budget request for 
minor construction and nonrecurring maintenance of veterans hospitals 
and clinics. Last February--after the President submitted his fiscal 
year 2008 budget request and after the deplorable conditions at Walter 
Reed Medical Center were revealed--the Veterans Affairs Department 
released a report identifying roughly $5 billion worth of deficiencies 
in its facilities system-wide. If we do not want to see another Walter 
Reed horror story in veterans' facilities, we need to move aggressively 
to correct these deficiencies, and the funding in this bill will allow 
the Department to do so.

The bill also includes $131 million to hire at least 500 new claims 
processors to reduce the growing backlog of veterans' disability 
claims. The Veterans Benefits Administration currently has a backlog of 
almost 400,000 pending claims, with the average claim taking almost 6 
months to process. In testimony before the Senate Veterans Affairs 
Committee in March, the GAO highlighted the need for the VA to take 
steps to reduce the existing backlog of claims and improve the accuracy 
and consistency of decisions. This bill takes dead aim at correcting 
those problems.

I know, as all my colleagues do--because we get the calls in our 
State offices from veterans who need help and have an unusually long 
time in which their claim is being processed--that sometimes the claims 
are rejected and have to be resubmitted or are pending


appeals. All of this is going to be corrected, and it is going to help 
the people who need help, veterans who need access to the veterans 
system quickly and efficiently, and we hope this bill will do that.

On the military construction side, which is the other major provision 
in our legislative agenda, the bill provides $21.2 billion. While this 
is a substantial increase over last year's funding level, it should be 
noted that more than half of the budget request was to fund the 2005 
base realignment and closure program and the President's Grow the Force 
Initiative. For military construction associated with conventional 
mission requirements, the budget request, following the trend of the 
past 5 years, was basically flatlined, but we have two major 
initiatives--the BRAC of 2005 and the new initiative of the President 
to increase principally the size of the Army--and those initiatives 
have required additional funding.

The Senate bill fully funds the President's $8.2 billion request for 
BRAC 2005 and for his Grow the Force Initiative, and it increases 
funding for the regular military construction program by nearly $400 
million over the President's request. Especially in a time of war, we 
must not skip on funding the basic infrastructure needed to support our 
men and women in uniform.

The Senate bill also provides $320 million--that is $100 million over 
the President's budget request--for the BRAC 1990 legacy program. This 
goes back to the prior BRAC in 1990.

It is important that the Government keep its commitment to the 
communities affected by prior BRAC rounds and ensure that environmental 
cleanup of closed military installations is completed as thoroughly and 
rapidly as possible. Although it has been nearly 13 years since the 
last round of closures under the previous BRAC rounds, the backlog and 
environmental cleanup remains at $3.5 billion. At the current rate, it 
will take decades to return some of that property to a safe and usable 
condition. In the meantime, affected communities cannot use much of the 
land on which these bases sit.

I am particularly pleased that this bill adds $234.6 million above 
the President's budget request for Guard and Reserve military 
construction projects. The Guard and Reserve are central components of 
our Nation's military forces. Yet the President's request for military 
construction to support these components has been steadily declining. 
The Senate bill corrects that deficit.

Because of the enhanced scrutiny of earmarks under the requirements 
of S. 1 and the guidance of Chairman Byrd and Senator Cochran, it is 
important to understand how the military construction portion of this 
bill is funded. The vast majority of military construction funding is 
project based. That means Congress cannot correct deficiencies in the 
President's budget request simply by increasing the top line of 
individual accounts. Military construction funding is allocated by 
project and by law. Each and every major construction project must be 
individually authorized and individually funded. The President's 
military construction budget request is composed primarily of earmarked 
projects, and congressional increases to the budget request must also 
be earmarked for specific projects.

The 2008 Senate bill includes 665 individual earmarks, of which 580 
were requested by the President. The staff of the Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee worked diligently to identify every 
earmark in the Senate bill. Every Senator was required to submit to the 
committee both a written request and a letter of financial interest 
before a request would be considered. Moreover, the military 
construction title of this bill is developed in close coordination with 
the Senate Armed Services Committee, and every congressionally directed 
project in the appropriations bill is authorized in the Defense 
authorization bill. The process could not be more open and aboveboard.

It has been reported that the Senate bill harbors $6.5 billion in 
undisclosed earmarks, which comprises the funding for construction 
projects in the BRAC 2005 account. This characterization reflects an 
unfortunate misunderstanding of the BRAC account which I am pleased to 
clarify for the record.

Unlike the regular military construction program, the BRAC account 
does not require line-item authorization and appropriation for 
individual projects. Instead, the account receives lump-sum funding 
from which the Defense Department develops a spending plan to implement 
the recommendations of the Base Closure and Realignment Commission. 
Neither Congress nor the Defense Department has the authority to 
deviate from the Commission's recommendations. It is the policy of this 
committee to not earmark or accelerate funding for specific projects 
within the BRAC account because of the complicated domino effect of 
closing and realigning facilities among installations. Thus, each of 
the BRAC 2005 projects identified in the committee report was 
determined by the administration, in accordance with the BRAC law. The 
account includes no congressional earmarks.

I regret that due to a lack of understanding of the BRAC process, the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill has been 
used as a poster child for undisclosed earmarks. Such an assertion is 
inaccurate on its face, but to correct any lingering misconceptions, I 
have prepared a list of the 189 BRAC 2005 projects that were published 
in the report accompanying the bill, annotated to show that each 
project, since it was funded through the President's budget request, 
was requested by the President.

I ask unanimous consent to have the list printed in the Record so 
there can be no question as to the origin of these projects.