---
---

# None
## `3de2ed07e5759d15585ac8f03c1b93f9`
`Mrs. BOXER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, it is once again clear, in the greatest 
country in the world, where debate is supposed to be free and open, 
where majority rules, we have been blocked now by our Republican 
friends for the third time from having a vote on the Levin-Reed 
amendment, which simply says it is time to change course in Iraq.

It is not cut and run. You can stand here and say anything. I could 
say anything: Black, white, pink, brown. It means nothing. This is not 
cut and run. Read the amendment. The amendment is very clear. It is 
very well thought out.

What it says is that we will start a redeployment of our troops out 
of Iraq in 120 days; that we will seek diplomatic solutions; that we 
will change the mission, get our brave,--unbelievably brave--and 
courageous troops out of the middle of a civil war and give them a 
mission that can be accomplished. And that mission, actually, is 
threefold--one is to go after al-Qaida in a counterterrorism effort, 
one is to continue to train the Iraqi forces, and one is to protect our 
troops, force protection.

You can say cut and run. It isn't cut and run. It sounds good. Create 
a straw man. But that is not what Levin-Reed does.

It is clear our Republican friends will not allow us to vote on this 
amendment, and I think I know why. I think we can win this amendment, 
for the first time. I think we can get more than 50 votes, including a 
few brave Republicans for the first time on a real amendment. And so 
instead of allowing us to vote, as we allowed them to vote on their 
amendment, the Cornyn amendment, they will not allow a vote. They are 
setting an artificial number--60. We have to meet a 60-vote threshold 
in order to get to the Levin-Reed amendment.

All we are saying is let us vote. People are dying--our people--every 
day. They are getting blown up. They are wounded. My State has lost 21 
percent of the dead, many of whom never saw their 21st birthday. We can 
do better. We can do better. We have given this President 1 year, 2 
years, 3 years, 4 years, almost 5 years, and we are in a worse 
position.

Oh, my colleague from Texas says, things are working. If you listen 
to her you would think it is just wonderful over there. Then I would 
ask, in a rhetorical fashion: Why do 60 percent of the Iraqis think it 
is OK to shoot and kill an American soldier? This is where we are going 
to keep our troops? And that is because we are the greatest country in 
the world?

The greatest country in the world doesn't keep the status quo going 
if it isn't working. The greatest country in the world steps up to the 
plate and says: It is time for a change. And it is time, Mr. President, 
for a change.

The head of Iraq said: America, you want to go? Go. We can take care 
of ourselves.

You know what is interesting is, I met with General Petraeus when I 
was in Iraq. He was at that time the head of training the Iraqis, and 
he was high on the Iraqi soldiers. He told me, and he told Senator 
Murray--he told all of us on that trip--we had Republicans and 
Democrats--don't you worry. At that time he said: We have trained 
200,000 Iraqis, and they are top notch--they are top notch--and they 
will be able to take over.

Unfortunately, the head of Iraq didn't think that was true. But 
General Petraeus, oh, he was Mr. Rosy Scenario. He said everything was 
great. And when I came back I gave a report to my constituents, and I 
said: You know, I never voted for this war--I thought it was a 
mistake--but I bear good news. The Iraqis are being trained. As they 
step up, we will step down.

I believed the President when he said that one. Not to be. Not to be. 
The money we are pouring into that country a minute, folks--$250,000 a 
minute--while we turn to our poor kids and say: Sorry, we can't renew 
the children's health insurance; and, gee, we are really sorry 2 
million kids are waiting in line for afterschool. We are really sorry. 
So we are sending good dollars after bad dollars, endlessly, open 
checkbook.

The Iraqis don't want us there. They do not want us there. The head 
of Iraq said: Go, leave, we are fine. What are we doing? Are we that 
stubborn as a nation? Well, I think the majority of this United States 
Senate might very well be ready to vote to begin the redeployment of 
the troops. I don't know that. My colleagues will not let us get there. 
Well, maybe I have convinced them, so I am going to try this again.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that amendment No. 2088 be 
withdrawn and that at 7:30 p.m. today the Senate vote on the Levin-Reed 
amendment No. 2087, with the time between now and then equally divided 
in the usual form and no second-degree amendment be in order.