---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3de38d0ea08a332980b16ed1c9fd1a57`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Madam Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Texas 
for yielding and thank him and all of you for, once again, to have an 
opportunity to come and speak on the floor on this resolution.

The resolution before us is nonbinding, but it is the first step down 
a very treacherous path, a path that, if followed, will endanger 
Americans for generations to come.

Iraq is the central front in a global war between the United States 
of America and radical Islamic terrorists, a war that began long before 
the horrific events of 9/11, a war the American people did not seek and 
did not start.

It is mind-boggling to consider how fanatically committed our enemies 
are to destroying America, even at the cost of destroying themselves in 
the process. Our enemies recruit young people, fill them with hate and 
rage, and then send them on suicide missions to kill innocent victims. 
We face an enemy that loves death more than it loves life.

As Americans, we cherish freedom and democracy. Ours is a way of 
life. Theirs is a way of death, of murder, of suicide.

The global reach of radical Islam stretches from North Africa, 
through the Middle East, to South Asia, to Indonesia and to the 
Philippines.

The other side wants Americans to believe that the war in Iraq is 
different from the war on terror. They even say that we are not 
fighting al Qaeda in Iraq, ignoring the fact that al Qaeda has made it 
the central front in their war against America.

According to the experts, and according to their own words, radical 
Islamic terrorists will never stop fighting until much of the world is 
under Islamic law.

In 2004, Osama bin Laden said the following about the conflict in 
Iraq: ''The whole world is watching this war and the two adversaries; 
the Islamic Nation . . . and the United States and its allies on the 
other. It is either victory and glory or misery and humiliation.''

And our enemies are watching this debate, and through the Arab media 
we know what they are saying.

Recently, the second-in-command of al Qaeda issued a warning to 
moderate Muslims in Iraq and Afghanistan who are working and dying to 
build peace and security, and he said this: ''These traitors in Iraq 
and Afghanistan must face their inevitable fate, and face up to the 
inescapable facts. America is about to depart and abandon them, just as 
it abandoned their like in Vietnam.''

The consequences of failure in Iraq would be catastrophic for America 
and the world.

Last month, General Petraeus spoke of the very real possibility of 
Iraq's neighbors taking sides in sectarian violence.

Failing in Iraq would jeopardize Israel and greatly benefit Iran, a 
nation governed by a fanatic and actively building nuclear weapons.

The battle we fight in Iraq is the biggest part of our global war, 
and if we leave, the fight will, in fact, follow us home. And what we 
will leave behind is chaos, the same kind of chaos we left behind in 
Vietnam, the same kind of chaos we left behind in Lebanon, and the same 
kind of chaos that we left behind in Somalia.

Who does not believe that we will not see chaos in Iraq, 
destabilizing the Middle East and jeopardizing the very safety and 
security of the American people?

As Americans, we are fortunate in so many ways. We have so many 
blessings, including a great and proud history to inspire us. Earlier 
this week, I talked about President Lincoln and the challenges he faced 
during some of America's darkest days. During the Revolution, America 
faced down what was then the most powerful empire in the world, with a 
rag-tag army. We survived a Civil War that would have permanently 
divided any other Nation.

After a crippling depression in the 1930s, we defeated Japanese 
imperialism and Hitler in Germany. We then defeated the Soviet Union 
and their communist empire in a test of wills that lasted for a 
generation.

The greatness of America is exemplified in a simple short letter 
about duty and sacrifice. The letter was written by Marine Staff 
Sergeant Daniel Clay, the husband of my former staffer, Lisa Bell Clay.

Sergeant Clay was one of 10 Marines who were killed in Fallujah a 
little over a year ago, and he left behind this letter to his family in 
case he did not come home.

In it, he said, ''What we have done in Iraq is worth any sacrifice. 
Why? Because it was our duty.'' He says, ''That sounds simple. But all 
of us have a duty. Duty is defined as a God-given task. Without duty, 
life is worthless.''

Our troops are not the only Americans who have a God-given task. If a 
noncommissioned officer can understand his duty, then certainly Members 
of Congress can understand theirs.

Congress has a duty to protect the American people now so that the 
next generation can enjoy prosperity and freedom.

Congress also has a duty to the men and women in uniform when we send 
them into harm's way, a duty to provide them with the full support and 
resources they need to accomplish their mission and return home safely.

My friends on the other side have described this nonbinding 
resolution as their first step. It is a first step. It is the first 
step in a plan to cut off funding and reinforcements for American 
troops in harm's way.

The next step is to micromanage the war through the budget process. 
To quote the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha), who said 
yesterday, ''They won't be able to continue. They won't be able to do 
the deployment. They won't have the equipment, they don't have the 
training and they won't be able to do the work.''

Mr. Speaker, at this very moment American troops are fighting radical 
Islamic terrorists thousands of miles away, and it is unthinkable that 
the United States Congress would move to discredit their mission, cut 
off their reinforcements and deny them the resources they need to 
succeed and return home safely.

The American people will not support a strategy that involves pulling 
the rug out from under American troops in the combat zone by cutting 
off their reinforcements and forcing them to face an enemy without our 
full support.

This resolution is nonbinding, but it is the first step toward a 
tragic, unthinkable goal.

Four years ago, this body agreed that fighting this war was a worthy 
cause. There have been setbacks where Members on both sides of the 
aisle are rightly dissatisfied with the results. But this is war. We 
face a sophisticated, determined enemy who wants to annihilate our way 
of life.



We have a duty to stand and fight against those who seek to destroy 
America and the freedom that defines us. Our troops are committed to 
fighting and winning this global war. We owe them our unfailing 
support.

I urge my colleagues to stand with the marines, the soldiers, the 
sailors and the airmen and vote down this resolution. I urge my 
colleagues to think about our duty, our duty to support our troops, our 
duty to protect the American people, and our duty to leave for our kids 
and their kids a safe, free, and secure America. Our soldiers are dying 
around the world to protect us, upholding their duty. Do we have the 
courage to uphold our duty?

Vote ''no'' on this resolution.