---
---

# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `3de5fc9decdbf489ae8ab164ca691a09`
`Mr. THOMAS â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, I am glad we are ready to begin again, 
after we finished up on our bill yesterday.

Finally, we will be prepared to deal with the funding for our troops 
today. It has taken a very long time but, nevertheless, I am glad the 
time has arrived.

I just wanted to say that as often is the case, I have had the 
opportunity to visit with several students from my wife's class at 
Washington Lee High School. Each year I look forward to her bringing 
her class here because it is important for young people to understand 
this is their Government as much as yours and mine. So I am delighted 
at the number of young people who come here from Wyoming and, in this 
case, from Virginia.

To learn more about this Government is so important, and these young 
people are, of course, tomorrow's responsible leaders. I am just 
delighted to have them here. We talked about the American COMPETES Act. 
These students and opportunities for them is what it is all about. That 
is what we have been talking about and thinking about.

The American COMPETES Act has a good purpose and a good role. America 
must maintain its competitiveness to be able to continue to compete. We 
need to challenge our young people and encourage them to challenge 
themselves to be prepared to move into the future and be prepared to 
take advantage of the opportunities this country provides for all of 
us.

However, I do not believe the solution to keeping America in the 
forefront of technology simply lies in throwing money there, without 
any particular reason to expect results from it.

We have gotten in the position here in the Congress that when we hear 
of a problem--and there are problems--if we can pass a bill and send 
some money, then we have accomplished our job. I am sorry, I do not 
believe that is necessarily the case. I think we have to take a look at 
where we are on these issues. For instance, how many Federal 
educational programs are there now? What kind of a job have we done in 
trying to see how effectively those dollars have been spent and are 
being spent? So just having more programs and more money is not 
necessarily the answer.

Certainly, these students and these schools need more money, and they 
need to have programs, but they really need support from dedicated 
teachers,


from parents, from family members, and friends.

Having discussed this topic on the floor before, we have to be 
careful about the number of Federal programs we continue. We talk about 
the budget over here, about deficit spending, and yet at the same time: 
Well, let's have another bill, let's have another $60 billion and go 
forward with programs of that kind.

It is important that we try to concern ourselves about adding more 
programs and not knowing necessarily where and how effectively that 
money is going to be spent. Unfortunately, most of the programs we put 
out there are institutionalized. They suddenly become part of the 
permanent process and are there forever and become permanent fixtures, 
irrespective of whether there are objectives to be met and whether they 
are meeting them. I hope, as we go forward, as we are now in the 
process of doing, with appropriations and funding for the year 2008 and 
being concerned about the deficit, about the amount of spending the 
Federal Government finds itself in and, frankly, the role of the 
Federal Government in terms of what the States should be doing, what 
local schools should be doing, these kinds of things, we will 
reevaluate what is the role of the Federal Government and how we can be 
most effective. We have a role, there is no question, but there is a 
limit to that role.

It is a little easy for us, if we see a problem, to say: Let's just 
pass another bill. Let's put some more money out there and then just 
walk away from it and say: We have done our job. That is not 
necessarily the case.

I believe the America COMPETES Act has good intentions. Perhaps it 
will do some good. But I have to say again that in retrospect, it is 
important that we look at what is the role of the Federal Government. 
What programs are we doing and how do we measure their effectiveness 
and how do we measure how long they will be there and how can we 
measure their impact. We will find out soon how that works.















 iraq supplemental


A word or two about the supplemental bill that will come before us 
today. We have talked about this a number of times. I must say that I 
am not pleased with how we have gotten to where we are. It has 
absolutely taken too long. There is no question, as my friend from the 
other side of the aisle says, that we need to talk about this issue. We 
have talked about it. We need to take positions. We have taken 
positions. That is a good thing. But the idea of simply stalling the 
money that is necessary to support our troops who are already there is 
not a good idea. Funding is not the way to deal with our feelings about 
it.

In particular, the process has taken too long. Billions in 
nonemergency spending has been added to the bill, things that may have 
merit, some of them, and some of them do not. Fortunately, some of them 
have been taken out. But the idea of adding spending that is totally 
irrelevant to funding the troops just doesn't seem to be appropriate. 
It sort of indicates the way we keep spending money around here and 
finding ways to hook it onto something else. I am disappointed in that.

The majority has attached an increase in the minimum wage to this 
bill. How does that fit the funding for the troops in Afghanistan and 
Iraq? During the conference, additional measures not in either the 
House nor Senate bill were quietly tucked in. We are using this as a 
transportation system for a lot of things, when the challenge before us 
is that we have troops there who have to be funded. There is talk 
about: Well, they don't need to be funded until July because they can 
take their money from somewhere else. Then you are taking money away 
from the various kinds of health care that is available for veterans 
and other things that are equally important.

What is most frustrating is the majority has used the parliamentary 
maneuver to deny a vote that I had intended as an amendment on the most 
egregious spending. We didn't get a chance to put that on the floor. 
Certainly, if there is anything that is appropriate, that would have 
been the way.

At any rate, we seem to have lost our focus somewhat. We had a good 
report yesterday from the commanding general in Iraq. He indicated that 
while we are not experiencing runaway success, we are beginning to see 
success in a new approach with new leadership, and they need our 
support. I am optimistic the Senate will have another opportunity to 
get through this, get it right, and get the funding to the troops. I 
will do my part to ensure that we do.

I yield the floor.