# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `3de741977965acd1e8d2a5a33d7ca9ab`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman 
for his leadership and really thoughtful conversation on what is a 
challenging time for America.

I rise to support the rule and want to express both my support and 
concerns for aspects of this legislation. But I will speak to the 
seeming overall opposition of our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, and I would hope that in their deliberation they have given a 
thoughtful assessment of the analysis of opposition.

We are dealing with some very difficult times. I opposed the war in 
Iraq and remain opposed. I do, however, want the opportunity to be able 
to stand down in order to safely have our soldiers redeploy. I want to 
see the standing up of the Iraqis and resources to allow them to 
proceed in their own


defense and to bring our soldiers home as heroes.

I also want us to make good on the promise we made to Afghanistan. 
America is good at keeping her promise. Her soldiers have never stepped 
away from promoting the ideals of democracy and liberty and freedom, 
and the Afghan people are in need. They need the collaboration of the 
NATO forces and the United States. They also need to have 
reconstruction and the empowerment of women and the protection of their 
children.

And so the part of this legislation addresses that question. It is a 
recognition that many of us opposed the Iraq war and are asking, as we 
have been asking for so long since the horrific tragedy of 9/11 when we 
found that those terrorists, horrific terrorists came from the inner 
parts of Afghanistan, and we abandoned Afghanistan. We did not pay 
attention to them. And so it is important now to ensure that we do it 
in the right way, that we don't maintain an extended force in 
Afghanistan but we help in a collaborative way for the Afghan people to 
stand up and to fight the terrorists and to reestablish institutions 
that will help them build their society, both with respect to education 
and social services. And so part of this legislation does include that 
funding.

Our eyes have been on Pakistan. There is a regional effort. Secretary 
of State Clinton and the President have worked to appoint Ambassador 
Holbrooke to be an envoy, and he has been in those camps where you have 
seen 2/1/2/ million people be displaced. We cannot abandon them now. We 
must provide the opportunity for them to return to a rebuilt region. 
These are individuals who have fought for their freedom, who left the 
Swat area because they did not want to be overtaken by insurgents, the 
Taliban, who want to undermine a system of democracy and, yes, 
terrorists.

One man fled with 13 of his children, living in a tent. He said now 
his home is occupied by Pakistan soldiers. He's willing to sacrifice 
and live homeless because he wants freedom. The resources that we now 
have will allow that to happen, and that is vital.

We also realize that there are areas like Chad, the Congo, and places 
that are near collapse that we are providing for peace-keeping dollars 
that are so very important in helping the U.N. Chad is near collapse 
because it is near Sudan, and many of those who have fled the 
persecution are there.

From the gulf coast region we have fought consistently to provide 
reimbursement for Galveston and Houston and the regions that have still 
been struck and still sacrificing and still living under the shadow of 
Hurricane Ike. We have the resources to put people in housing and to be 
able to correct the wrong of that terrible storm but yet the inability 
to move as fast as we like pursuant to the work that was not done in 
the last administration.

I think it is important that we are supporting the International 
Monetary Fund because we cannot stand by while we speak the language of 
reconstruction and rebuilding and not provide that for particular 
support. So there is a value in the hard work of our colleagues.

But I do believe it is important to revisit an issue that impacts 
many States: the sidestepping of the President's mission on stimulus 
dollars. And the State of Texas is a poster child for that. $3.2 
billion was taken from the moneys that should have been utilized for 
the education of our children. One of my school districts alone has 
lost $155 million because it has been replaced or reordered or snuck 
under or left somewhere in what we call a ''rainy day fund.'' We need 
to fix this. We have an opportunity going forward to be able to fix it, 
but I would like to fix it now.

So I hope that we will be in the midst of discussion, the 
congressional delegation of Texans who believe that our children must 
come first. And we must follow the vision of President Obama, who said, 
Save a job and create a job. And so we are saving teachers' jobs and 
helping them if we fight to get that $3.2 billion from Texas where it 
needs to be.

The underlying bill is an important bill, but the Texas children are 
important as well.