---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3e00375577e011949ff11bff5ee4b691`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today in honor of SGT 
Randy J. Matheny, 20, of McCook, NE.

Sergeant Matheny followed in the footsteps of his older siblings when 
he joined the Nebraska Army National Guard on March 28, 2005, as a 
heavy vehicle driver in Detachment 1, 1057th Transportation Company in 
Scottsbluff. His older sister, SSG Karen Matheny, is a full-time member 
of the Nebraska Army National Guard's HHD, 734th Transportation 
Battalion in Kearney. PFC Pat Matheny, his older brother, is an active-
duty soldier with the U.S. Army. Both of Sergeant Matheny's siblings 
are serving in Iraq; his sister is currently serving her second tour, 
and his brother is preparing to deploy for his first.

Sergeant Matheny graduated from my alma mater, McCook Senior High 
School, in 2004. His teachers and friends knew him as a well-known, 
soft-spoken student. In his free time, he enjoyed riding his motorcycle 
and spending time with his friends. After joining the Nebraska Army 
National Guard in 2005, he attended basic training at Fort Jackson, SC, 
and then advanced individual training at Fort Leonard Wood, MO, in 
2006.

In June 2006, he transferred as a heavy vehicle driver to the 
Nebraska Army National Guard Detachment 3, 1074th Transportation 
Company based in Sidney. Sergeant Matheny was mobilized for duty in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom on July 15, 2006. The 1074th 
Transportation Company is responsible for providing security for 
transportation missions throughout Iraq. On February 4, 2007, Sergeant 
Matheny passed away when an improvised explosive device detonated next 
to the armored security vehicle in which he was serving as a gunner. He 
was 20 years old. Then-Specialist Matheny was posthumously promoted to 
sergeant.

The Matheny family from my hometown of McCook, NE, are the paradigm 
of courage and selflessness. In addition to his brother and sister, 
Sergeant. Matheny is survived by his father Gary Matheny and mother Jan 
Collins. I offer my condolences to Sergeant Matheny's family and 
friends who inspired and supported his career. He made the ultimate and 
most valorous sacrifice so that future generations around the world 
will live free, peaceful lives. Sergeant Matheny will be forever 
remembered as a hero.














 Colonel Brian Allgood
