# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3e13650c57f41707015e49d24b24e922`
`Mr. TESTER — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I thank you.

I thank the Senator from Missouri for her comments. They were right 
on.

I rise today to call for action by the Senate on an urgent problem 
facing this country, facing the State of Montana: gas prices.

The national average now, we just found out last weekend, is $4 a 
gallon. I remember when gas was $1.46. It was not that long ago. It was 
before the Bush administration took over. That was before the war in 
Iraq, before speculators and market manipulators spiraled out of 
control, before that $17 billion Bush tax cut for our Nation's biggest 
oil companies.

These gas prices hurt. They especially hurt hard-working people in 
Montana and across rural America. In my State, nearly everybody has to 
drive to work. There are not other options. We do not have a subway 
system. We do not have other means of mass transit. Whether it is on a 
tractor or behind the wheel of a truck, a lot of folks rely on 
horsepower and the fuel to supply that horsepower to get their work 
done.

Of course, high gas prices means high prices for consumer goods. It 
means fewer jobs. Middle-class families are getting pinched hard by 
these high gas prices. For low-income folks, high gas prices are 
unbearable. They do not need to see headlines like in Newsweek this 
week to know our economy is in trouble. People are already feeling it. 
Yet we have seen no solutions from this administration.

I am not even convinced this administration considers rising gas 
prices a problem. Earlier this year, a reporter asked President Bush 
what advice he had to consumers facing $4 a gallon gas. He was visibly 
surprised and asked the reporter where he had heard that.


Well, working folks and small businesses have felt the pain for some 
time now. Our farmers all over rural America have known it for quite a 
while. Our trucking and transportation industry has felt it hard for a 
long time. The cost of diesel fuel that powers our tractors, our 
combines, and our trucks that take food to the grocery stores hit $4 
back in April. It is closing in on $5. Every working family and small 
business and farmer and trucker is taking a hit--a big hit--on these 
fuel prices.

That is why I am supporting these two packages today that go to the 
root of the problems of high gas costs. They offer some solutions.

The Consumer-First Energy Act will go after commodity speculators who 
are manipulating the market. It needs to be done. It will let the 
Justice Department go after the illegal OPEC oil cartel in court. It 
needs to be done. It will put a stop to the big tax giveaways the last 
Congress gave to big oil, which needs to be done. It will protect 
consumers from price colluders and price gougers. This needs to be 
done.

This bill will immediately put a stop to the financial gimmicks that 
have driven up the cost of oil past the laws of supply and demand. If 
you do not think speculators are playing with the markets, and they are 
having a big impact, let me remind you of the Enron collapse, the dot-
com bust, and the demise of the housing market. It is all happening in 
oil right now.

When Wall Street investment banks faced trouble a couple months ago, 
the Bush administration swiftly took action. But when American 
consumers have to tap into their savings or run up their credit card 
debt just to pay the price at the pump, the administration is nowhere 
to be seen.

The Consumer-First Energy Act is about solutions. They are solutions 
we need to invest in right now. We have the opportunity in the United 
States to drill for oil in places that make sense--eastern Montana, the 
western Dakotas, the Bakken field. And wouldn't you know, it is the 
smaller companies--not the big companies--that are going after those 
reserves. It is the smaller companies innovating, investing in the 
future, boosting domestic oil production right now, working with the 
folks in those regions, boosting rural economies.

My colleague, Senator Baucus, has again brought forward an energy tax 
package that will help extend some of the most successful and effective 
tax credits that are driving alternative energy development. He brought 
a similar package forward last year, only to have it narrowly defeated.

I hope we have a different outcome this time because our future 
energy system depends on new solutions, not old solutions. We have the 
ideas and the ambition, but we need to get on with new innovations in 
the marketplace.

It is time to resolve these energy costs and take a step toward 
solving our energy problems. We have to work together, and I am 
confident we can work together to find solutions to bring the costs 
back down.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.