---
---

# None
## `3e16de7452d4bcca813b531e51669d86`
`Mr. DODD — 1 October 2007`

---

 Mr. DODD. Madam President, I wish to explain my vote against 
ending debate on the Defense authorization bill. I voted this way for 
two simple reasons--first, this bill does not do anything to end the 
war, and second, it does not provide adequate support for the families 
of our returning wounded warriors.

A few weeks ago, I filed an amendment based on a key recommendation 
of the Dole-Shalala Wounded Warriors Commission--to expand the Family 
and Medical Leave Act to allow the families of wounded military 
personnel to take up to 6 months of unpaid leave to care for their 
loved ones. Now, because the Senate voted to shut off debate, this 
critically important amendment will not be considered. Such an 
expansion of the FMLA is of the utmost importance to our wounded 
warriors, and I will ask at the end of my statement to have a letter 
from Senator Bob Dole to Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain, 
detailing the tremendous importance of this provision, be printed in 
the Record.

On September 11, 2007, I announced that I would not support 
legislation dealing with Iraq unless it included a firm and enforceable 
deadline for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq--one linked to an 
explicit cut off of funds after a date certain. Sadly, Republican 
stalling tactics made it impossible for such a provision to receive an 
up-or-down vote under regular Senate procedures. Therefore, I could 
not, in good conscience, call for an end to debate on a bill that has 
not addressed that issue or the hardships our soldiers and their 
families face both at home and abroad, and the very security of our 
Nation.

That said, I commend Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain for 
their hard work in making sure this legislation does include many 
beneficial and important provisions, such as a 3.5-percent pay raise 
for our men and women in uniform and additional funding to purchase 
Mine Resistant Armor Protected vehicles. These are important steps in 
making sure our Armed Forces are appropriately compensated and equipped 
to defend our Nation. But as long as another year passes without an 
effective plan to end the war and support our military families, I am 
afraid that this Congress's work will be incomplete.

Madam President, I ask to have the letter to which I referred printed 
in the Record.

The letter follows.



 Hon. Carl Levin,


 Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate, 




 Washington, DC.


 Hon. John McCain,


 Ranking Member, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain, I would like 


 to thank you, once again, for your continued efforts to 


 improve the treatment of our returning combat troops, 


 exemplified by your shepherding of the Wounded Warrior 


 Assistance Act of 2007 through the Senate in July. This 


 important measure provided a good first step; but as you 


 know, much more remains to be done and I appreciate your 


 willingness to consider the recommendations made by the 


 President's Commission on Care for America's Returning 


 Wounded Warriors.



 As you know, I, along with former Secretary of Health and 


 Human Services Donna Shalala, recently released the findings 


 of the Commission. One specific finding of this report is 


 currently pending as an amendment to the National Defense 


 Authorization Act currently being debated on the Senate 


 floor. Notably, the Dodd-Clinton-Dole-Graham amendment (S. 


 Amdt #2647) increases Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) job 


 protection benefits to the families of our injured soldiers 


 from the current 12 weeks to 6 months. These families are 


 facing significant challenges to help their loved ones heal, 


 and the last thing they need to worry about is losing their 


 jobs in the process.



 There are two very critical points to be made with respect 


 to this recommendation by the Commission. First, the use of 


 already existing FMLA authority is vital to minimizing the 


 delay in implementation of this needed benefit. The FMLA has 


 existed for 14 years and has a proven track record of 


 success. It is understood by those using the benefits, those 


 charged with its oversight, and the employers working within 


 its framework. Second, the length of the benefit has been 


 carefully crafted to best balance the impact on employers on 


 one side and the average time it takes for most injured 


 personnel to regain self-sufficiency. While other pending 


 amendments have either sought to depart from the existing 


 FMLA structure by using other legislative vehicles not 


 intended to extend to families of service members such as the 


 Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act 


 (USERRA), or extended job protection benefits beyond six 


 months, neither are supported by the Commission's findings 


 and may actually hinder the efforts to implement the 


 Commission's work.





 The Administration will have a different approach, but it 


 will be some time before the Administration's comprehensive 


 proposal will be acted on.



 Thank you for your consideration of this important 


 legislation. I know that you share my belief that it is 


 essential that we supply all necessary and prudent tools to 


 our military families to deal with the hardships of helping 


 their wounded warriors regain self-sufficiency following a 


 severe injury. The Dodd-Clinton-Dole-Graham amendment passes 


 this test. If I may be of any further assistance, please feel 


 free to contact me.





 God Bless America,
























 Bob Dole.
