# PROVIDING FOR PROTECTION OF CHILD CUSTODY ARRANGEMENTS FOR CERTAIN  PARENTS
## `3e2860af533042aa75abfed3502aac40`
`Mr. FILNER — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Thank you, Mr. Buyer.

Madam Speaker, as I said, as we prepare for Memorial Day, I think all 
of us in this Congress want to assure the servicemembers who have 
served this Nation in the past and those who are deployed today.

We are fighting a war that is very divisive in this country and in 
this Congress, but we are united in saying that every young man and 
woman who comes back from that conflict is going to get all the care, 
the love, the attention, the honor, and dignity that they deserve.

They are coming back with enormous difficulties, many of them. 
Because of the advances in our medicine and the incredible expertise on 
the battlefield of those who medivac these injured out, the incredible 
medical teams in the forward base hospitals and the regional hospitals 
and in Germany, we are saving lives that in previous wars would not 
have been saved. If you survive a battlefield injury, you will have a 
95 percent chance of surviving the war. That is an incredible statistic 
when compared to any other war in history.

But that means, when these soldiers come back there is a very high 
percentage of those with brain injury, a very high percentage of those 
with psychological wounds, one of which we refer to as PTSD, 
posttraumatic stress disorder. And we have an obligation as a Nation to 
treat every single one of these with the maximum quality of health care 
that they can get in this Nation. And yet, we have had examples of 
soldiers all around the Nation who have simply not gotten the attention 
that they require.

We have had reports of soldiers showing up to medical facilities 
saying they had PTSD or suicidal thoughts, being told that there was 
nobody to meet with them for 4 or 5 weeks, and they would go home and 
commit suicide. We have had lots of reports of those who did not 
receive adequate care. At the same time, we were not getting the full 
information on the numbers of cases of PTSD, the amount of resources 
needed to deal with them, or the number of suicides that were committed 
or are being committed by our Nation's veterans.

Madam Speaker, each month we have 1,000 suicide attempts by those 
under care of our VA system. And those under care mean only about one-
fifth of all the veterans in our Nation. That is an astounding 
statistic which says that we have a job to do about mental health and 
about dealing with these, especially psychological injuries.

And we know what happens if we don't do our job right with these 
young men and women. We already had the canaries in the mine with our 
Vietnam vets. When our veterans returned from Vietnam, many of us who 
were opposed to that war made a mistake. We did not differentiate 
between the war and the warrior, and so the warriors did not get all 
the care, the love, the attention, the honor, and dignity that I talked 
about earlier. And this society has paid a heavy price for that. 
Individuals, families, neighborhoods have paid a heavy price. Half of 
the homeless on the street tonight, Madam Speaker, are Vietnam vets, 
about 200,000.

There have been more deaths by suicide of Vietnam vets than died in 
the original war by combat. And we have had the head of our mental 
health agency in this Nation say that the same will be probably true of 
Iraq; we will have more suicides than battlefield deaths.

That is not only a tragedy, but it is a preventible tragedy. We have 
to say that we are going to put the resources in to deal with these 
issues. It is part of the cost of war. As I said earlier, Madam 
Speaker, we are spending $1 billion every 2 days on the war in Iraq. 
Surely we can spend the hundreds of millions or billions that are 
required to treat the mental health needs of our older veterans and our 
newer veterans. This is absolutely required. We must do this job and do 
it right.

As George Washington said, the biggest factor in the morale of our 
fighting troops is the sense of how they are going to be treated when 
they come home. We have to do a better job of treating them when they 
come home.

Our committee, Madam Speaker, and this Congress provided in this 
fiscal year and the coming fiscal year almost $20 billion of new money 
for health care. That represents over a 40 percent increase in the 
budgets that we started off with 2 fiscal years ago. Our job is to make 
sure that the money is spent right, our oversight job. Now that they 
have the resources, are they hiring the


mental health professionals? Are they doing the diagnoses and 
treatments?

It is absolutely apparent, Madam Speaker, that tens of thousands of 
our young people are getting out of the military or the Reserve or the 
National Guard without being adequately diagnosed for brain injury or 
PTSD. Let me say that again. We have tens of thousands of our young 
people being discharged from the military or from the Reserve or 
National Guard without diagnosis for PTSD or brain injury. That means 
tens of thousands of ticking time bombs are out on the street. We need 
to do a better job.

There is a stigma against adequate evaluation and early treatment. 
The military, or at least many members of the military, seem to give 
their younger troops the sense that it is not macho, it is not marine-
like, it is not soldier-like to have mental illness. That it is a 
weakness. You have got to buck up, sergeant, and not have any mental 
illness. So we have folks who get a questionnaire about some of the 
risk factors, and they just say no. They know they are supposed to say 
no, because they want to be home, they don't want any influence on 
their future career or any possible promotion. So there is a dynamic 
within our military not to adequately diagnose.

The VA says they have mandatory screening for these illnesses, for 
these injuries when people come to the VA for treatment. Well, they may 
not come to the VA for treatment. We don't have an outreach that goes 
after every single one of them. And when they come in, they get a 
questionnaire by an intake clerk of two questions. Anybody who wants 
not to have any of the stigma of mental illness knows to say no on 
those two questions. Besides, we are told there are 15 risk factors for 
PTSD and suicide. Why don't we ask about all of them? Why don't we have 
a mandatory evaluation by competent mental health personnel before 
anybody gets discharged or leaves the National Guard or leaves the 
Reserves? This has to be done, Madam Speaker. We have to get rid of the 
stigma and do it in a way where we allow the soldiers to do it as part 
of their company, for example, so they have that comradeship and with 
their family to help both diagnosis and treatment.

So we have a big job to do as we celebrate this Memorial Day. We have 
a job to do with the 1.6 million troops who have been deployed already, 
800,000 of them have returned home. We have a great deal to do with the 
other 23 million of our veterans from previous wars.



We have to do this job right, Madam Speaker. And on this Memorial 
Day, let us recommit ourselves to doing the job right.
















 General Leave
