# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `3e2c5c2448093b5235e07474e565694b`
`Mr. SCHIFF â€” 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, the fight against terror is, at one level, a military 
struggle, but it is also, at its roots, a battle over hearts and minds.

On Sunday, we suffered a major setback in that battle when the 
President of the United States vetoed legislation that would 
unequivocally state to the world that we do not condone torture in any 
form, in any place, under any circumstance. Instead, by appearing to 
abandon the rule of law by appearing to step away from the Geneva 
Conventions, by failing to renounce the use of


torture in the clearest of terms, we are only undermining our standing 
in the world and endangering the lives of our very own men and women.

When the Attorney General of the United States recently testified 
before the Judiciary Committee, he could not tell us if and when 
waterboarding constituted torture. He even suggested that a 
determination whether something constitutes torture depends on who is 
being subjected to the technique and the desirability of the 
information that is being sought. His testimony was murky. It was 
ambiguous. It failed to establish any bright line for our personnel or 
for the rest of the world. He could only say that if it were done to 
him, well, then that would be torture.

Instead, the bright line standard, if there was one to be found in 
his testimony, and the one that he asked us to hold up to the rest of 
the world, was whether or not a harsh interrogation technique is part 
of a program authorized by an attorney in the obscure Office of Legal 
Counsel. I am deeply concerned about what this says to our own 
personnel and about what it says to the rest of the world.

This is, indeed, no intangible loss, for the effects of this failure 
of moral leadership may tragically be visited on those brave men and 
women serving in our Armed Forces.

Who among us can fail to recall the opening ways of the Iraq war when 
American troops had been captured and were paraded in front of the 
cameras? We were disgusted with their treatment, and rightfully so. If 
we hesitate, equivocate, or otherwise fail to ban the use of 
waterboarding, how can we have any confidence that when American troops 
are captured they will not be subjected to this form of torture? How 
can we make the case that other nations or other enemies must not 
torture because we don't torture? How can we win the battle for hearts 
and minds if we surrender our most powerful weapon, the power of our 
good example?



Mr. Speaker, I urge the override of the President's veto.