# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `3e349ce2a78fd19a318ef519fefe3ddd`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I would simply 
say that obviously this is yet another cynical attempt to try to avoid 
dealing with the issue that I think both Democrats and Republicans want 
to deal with, and that is whether or not we should have a timetable for 
withdrawal and redeployment from Iraq.

This is a procedural motion that, as the gentleman from Wisconsin 
pointed out, is so broad, this could justify keeping us in Iraq forever 
and ever and ever. And for the ''regional security of the Middle 
East,'' what does that mean? This is an open-ended invitation for our 
military involvement and for our permanent occupation of Iraq forever. 
This in and of itself is not particularly well thought out.

I understand what you are trying to do, and that is to avoid giving 
people the opportunity to vote on this. But essentially what you are 
doing is gutting this legislation.

I would strongly urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this motion. We 
are on our fifth year, our fifth year of this war, no accountability 
and no admission that perhaps we need to take a different course; and 
the best you can do is come before us with this motion that would, 
again, if passed, would allow us to stay and occupy Iraq indefinitely.

I think this is a bad idea. I think it is a cynical idea. I think the 
people on the other side should have the guts to vote ''no'' on the 
timetable if you don't want to withdraw our troops. If you want a 
never-ending war, then have the guts to vote for it, but this is not 
the way to do it. I urge rejection of this motion.