---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2764, THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,  FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `3e44152b1686e57f9347664679ad6862`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 498 is an open 
rule that provides for consideration of H.R. 2764, the fiscal year 2008 
appropriations for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
related programs.

Mr. Speaker, I have seen 15 State and Foreign Operations measures go 
through the House of Representatives in almost 16 years of serving in 
this body. Some bills were well-intentioned, but fell short of meeting 
America's critical needs and objectives, while others missed the target 
altogether.

Regarding today's State and Foreign Operations bill, I must commend 
Chairwoman Lowey, Ranking Member Wolf, their respective staffs and the 
rest of the committee for coming together in a bipartisan fashion to 
craft this meaningful piece of legislation. Despite critical budget 
constraints and critical concerns, the bill is fiscally responsible and 
begins to address our Nation's foreign policy initiatives as they 
relate to fulfilling our commitments abroad.

In my capacity as chairman of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe and as a senior member of the House Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, I believe I can speak to our 
country's need to restore world stability after years of following 
misguided and shortsighted foreign policy.



This bill provides $34.2 billion overall for foreign assistance and 
State Department operations, with much-needed emphasis placed on 
international AIDS programs, children's health care, basic education 
programs and targeted peacekeeping operations. By increasing funds for 
critical global health, basic education, refugee and disaster 
assistance programs, we are heightening world stability and rebuilding 
our image abroad as a nation builder, not divider.

In an effort to shift away from a Middle East foreign policy that 
focused a little too narrowly on Iraq, we are now reaching out to 
neighboring Mediterranean countries that need our attention and 
assistance. The escalating situation in Iraq has forced thousands, 
indeed millions, of refugees to flee into neighboring countries, Jordan 
being one of the most heavily affected.

During a trip to the region almost 2 weeks ago, Mr. Speaker, I 
witnessed firsthand the heart-wrenching effects of people displaced. 
What I learned in Jordan and saw in Kosovo is that there are people in 
this world being forced to live in conditions so inhumane that even our 
wildest nightmares could not comprehend. As such, I am pleased to 
support the bill's allocation of $830 million to provide refugees 
worldwide with food, water and shelter. As I spoke last evening during 
the testimony in the Rules Committee, I said to Mrs. Lowey and to Mr. 
Wolf that I am hopeful in conference that they will be able to add 
funds specifically for Jordan for reasons that I perceive are 
necessary.

While we must remain vigilant and diligent on combating the evils of 
terrorism, we must also simultaneously seize opportunities to 
establish, maintain and strengthen diplomatic ties in every region of 
the world. I am pleased also to see that the bill provides $365 million 
to enhance our public diplomacy efforts, and allocates $501 million for 
cultural, educational and professional exchange programs globally.

The underlying legislation includes critical foreign aid to our 
allies in the world, including Israel. It also restores funding in many 
of the areas which the present administration sought to cut.

As I mentioned, I serve as chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, 
and the President Emeritus of the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe's Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Speaker, I am fond 
of saying that if you can say all of that, you ought to be president of 
the assembly. I am deeply appreciative that this bill funds America's 
commitment to the OSCE and the Helsinki Commission, and I indeed thank 
the chairwoman and ranking member, especially the chairwoman, for her 
efforts toward this end.

Mr. Speaker, America has a responsibility in the world. We are, as is 
constantly reported, the last remaining Superpower. Contrary to what 
many might argue later in this debate, our power cannot and must not be 
flexed only in our military might. On the contrary, our power must be 
flexed in what we do to help repair many of the things that are broken 
in the world.

The underlying legislation is a critical component in this effort. I 
am pleased to support this open rule and the underlying legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.