---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `3e4c8eee4ce9985414cf0147f7d0a679`
`Mr. REYES — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Chairman, the revised Reyes/Murphy manager's amendment 
does several things. First, it makes clear that the intelligence 
community may enter into a contract to purchase a generally available 
fuel that is not an alternative or synthetic fuel or produced from a 
non conventional petroleum source provided that certain criteria are 
met. Some members of our committee were interested in addressing this 
issue, and we, Mr. Chairman, have done our best to handle it within the 
jurisdiction of our committee.

Second, we included an amendment offered by Mr. Welch to require an 
assessment of the feasibility of employing individuals who have worked 
for the Federal Government in Iraq or Afghanistan as translators or 
interpreters. It fits very well with the committee's other reporting 
requirements on foreign languages. I believe it will be helpful to know 
whether the intelligence community can benefit from those individuals 
who have already served our government in Iraq or Afghanistan.

And finally, Mr. Chairman, the manager's amendment makes a technical 
correction to a report on intelligence resources devoted to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This correction is designed to ensure that the report 
captures both collection and analysis resources.

So, with that, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support the 
manager's amendment, and reserve the balance of my time.

