# None
## `3e581f1d6eb0404b62bcd3b6ef8d116d`
`Mr. DENT — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. DENT. Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise today as an original cosponsor 
and strong supporter of House Resolution 754, and I would like to thank 
Congressman Tim Holden of Schuykill County for introducing this 
resolution.

The United States National Guard is the oldest component of our Armed 
Forces, dating back to pre-Revolutionary War times. Over the past 8 
years, we have witnessed thousands of Guard members answer the call as 
they are asked to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Approximately 4,000 members of the Pennsylvania Guard were deployed 
to Iraq last fall, the largest deployment of the Pennsylvania National 
Guard since the Korean war. Prior to the 56th Stryker Brigade Combat 
Team's deployment to Iraq, I, along with some of my colleagues, Tim 
Holden, Bill Shuster and Jim Gerlach, visited the Pennsylvania Stryker 
Brigade in Mississippi and Louisiana at Camp Shelby and Fort Polk as 
they prepared for their mobilization overseas.

In June 2009, I traveled to Iraq to meet with the Pennsylvania 
National Guard 56th Stryker Brigade and other Pennsylvania troops, 
accompanied by many Members who are here in the Chamber today, 
including Representative Dahlkemper.

During my visit to Iraq, I saw a significant improvement in the 
security conditions on the ground. And the fact that we were able to 
safely drive through the bustling streets of Baghdad was an encouraging 
and welcome development. I know, without a doubt, it is the sacrifice, 
perseverance and bravery of these young men and women that enabled such 
progress.

I am pleased that just 1 year later, the 56th Stryker Brigade is 
returning home. As of late September, most of the brigade has returned 
home. I am honored to be standing here today to pay tribute to these 
heroes. Our military families demonstrate tremendous bravery as they 
watch their loved ones go overseas to fight in harm's way for the 
freedoms we experience every day in this great Nation. We say ''thank 
you'' to the entire Pennsylvania National Guard for protecting the 
families and communities of our great Commonwealth and standing at the 
ready to defend our homeland.

I urge Members to support House Resolution 754.