---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `3e5ed4b79981722c36f120edb07bbb40`
`Mr. CORNYN — 2 February 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I come to the floor more with regret 
than anything else to say I oppose the nomination and confirmation of 
Eric Holder to be the next United States Attorney General. I say this 
to my colleagues because I have approached this nomination with an open 
mind and actually a predisposition to vote for his confirmation. But, 
of course, we Senators have a constitutional duty--in providing advice 
and consent to the executive branch's executive nominations like this 
one--to ask hard questions and to get the answers to those questions so 
our advice and consent may be an informed consent.

While I approached this nomination with an open mind and a 
predisposition to vote for Mr. Holder's confirmation, I ultimately 
concluded that, as a result of the reasons I will detail momentarily, I 
could not vote for his confirmation in good conscience.

Mr. Holder's experience in many ways uniquely qualifies him for this 
promotion as Attorney General, but it is that very same experience when 
he served as Deputy Attorney General that calls into question his 
independence and judgment, particularly when the President of the 
United States at the time, President Bill Clinton, basically wanted 
something out of the Department of Justice. This had to do specifically 
with two clemency petitions, one for the FALN terrorists and the other 
for the notorious Marc Rich. These two actions--where President Clinton 
commuted the sentence of 16


Puerto Rican terrorists and the recommendation to pardon the 
billionaire fugitive, Marc Rich--raised serious questions about Mr. 
Holder's independence and judgment.

When Mr. Holder came to my office, I asked him: Is there any reason 
you would resign rather than carry out the orders of a President if you 
were Attorney General?

He quickly said: Of course. If the President asked me to do something 
illegal or unethical, then I would resign rather than carry out those 
instructions.

Well, no one is suggesting that what Mr. Holder did was illegal, 
given the fact that the President of the United States solely had the 
prerogative whether to grant these commutations, but I think any 
fairminded consideration of Mr. Holder's conduct under these 
commutations raises some serious questions whether he could hold 
himself to the very same standard that he articulated in my office.

Two other aspects of Mr. Holder's record concern me. One is his 
demonstrated lack of seriousness regarding the profound threat posed by 
radical Islamic terrorism; secondly, as some Senators on my side of the 
aisle have already pointed out, his apparent hostility to the second 
amendment, the right to keep and bear arms, under our Constitution.

In the Judiciary Committee, on which I am proud to serve, Mr. Holder 
failed to answer my questions and the questions of my colleagues in a 
way that alleviated these concerns. In fact, I found many of his 
responses to be simply evasive.

As I said earlier, I have four reasons for opposing this nomination: 
one, Mr. Holder's role in the FALN and Los Macheteros commutations, his 
role in the Marc Rich pardon, his misjudgments and shifting opinions on 
the war on terrorism, and his record of hostility to the individual 
right to keep and bear arms.

I think it is important to point out the facts of the commutations 
because they really are alarming, and many of our memories may have 
been dimmed because many of these events occurred long in the past.

In August 1999, President Clinton offered clemency to 16 members of 
two Puerto Rican separatist terrorist organizations, the FALN and Los 
Macheteros. Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder made the recommendation 
that he should do so.

The FALN, in case people do not recall, was a clandestine terrorist 
group devoted to bringing about the independence of Puerto Rico through 
violent means. Its members waged open war on America, with more than 
150 bombings, arsons, kidnappings, prison escapes, and threats and 
intimidation, all of which resulted in the deaths of at least 6 people 
and injuries to many more between 1974 and 1983.

The most gruesome of these attacks occurred in 1975 at a bombing in 
Lower Manhattan. Timed to explode during lunchtime, the bomb 
decapitated 1 of the 4 people killed and injured another 60. It is hard 
for us to imagine what it would be like today if this were to occur, 
but that, in fact, is what the FALN was found guilty of.

In another attack in Puerto Rico, Los Macheteros terrorists opened 
fire on a bus full of U.S. sailors, killing two, wounding nine.

Fortunately, much of the leadership of these terrorist groups was 
captured and brought to justice in the 1970s and 1980s. But by the mid-
1980s, thankfully, the worst of their reign of terror was over.

In the early 1990s, sympathetic activists petitioned for clemency on 
behalf of members of these groups. It was an easy call for the Pardon 
Attorney. That is the title of the individual whose responsibility it 
is to screen requests for clemency. These unrepentant terrorists had 
not even bothered to petition for clemency themselves. So Pardon 
Attorney Margaret Love, who worked for then-Deputy Attorney General 
Jamie Gorelick, recommended against clemency for any of these 
prisoners, and her recommendation was transmitted to the President. But 
after Eric Holder became Deputy Attorney General, he rescinded that 
recommendation opposing clemency and he recommended that President 
Clinton grant clemency to these unrepentant terrorists.

Strangely, and really inexplicably, from my perspective, Mr. Holder 
now continues to stand by these recommendations as ''reasonable.'' But 
I do not think the reasons he gives are persuasive.

Mr. Holder, first of all, claims these individuals are not ''linked 
to violence.'' That is clearly false. These men were active members of 
terrorist groups that committed dozens of violent crimes, as I 
described a moment ago. It is true that they individually were not 
prosecuted for the worst of those crimes, but by that standard, anyone 
who conspires to commit violence and murder is not linked to violence, 
only those who actually execute the orders of the higher ups.

These commutations were, at the time, widely believed to be 
politically linked. Indeed, the Clinton White House discussed how the 
clemencies would affect then-Vice President Gore's aspirations for 
higher office, particularly among the Puerto Rican community. For this 
reason, I believe a full accounting of the individuals Mr. Holder met 
with, what they discussed, and what went into his decisions in 
recommending these commutations is in order.

But there is another reason these questions should be answered; that 
is, it is only fair and just that the victims of the violence of these 
two terrorist groups be provided answers.

I would encourage all of my colleagues before voting to review the 
testimony of Joseph Connor, whose father was killed in the bombing in 
Lower Manhattan. Mr. Connor testified that Mr. Holder did not consult 
with him, did not contact him or his family or other victims before 
recommending that the FALN terrorists go free. I cannot vote for Mr. 
Holder's nomination until I can explain my vote to Joseph Connor.

Less than 2 years after the controversial recommendation for 
commuting the sentences of these FALN terrorists and Los Macheteros 
terrorists, on the very last night of the Clinton administration, Mr. 
Holder made a very similar error in judgment when he recommended that 
President Clinton pardon the notorious fugitive Marc Rich. At the time, 
Mr. Rich was No. 6 on the FBI's Most Wanted list.

In 1983, then-U.S. attorney Rudy Giuliani got an indictment of 
international commodities trader Marc Rich and his business partner 
Pincus Green. The indictment charged 65 counts of tax evasion, 
racketeering, and trading with the enemy. Specific charges include 
illegally trading with the Ayatollah Khamenei's Iranian terrorist 
regime, in violation of U.S. energy laws and the trade embargo against 
Iran. Indeed, Mr. Rich made a fortune trading with the Ayatollah's 
regime at the same time that 52 American diplomats were being held 
hostage in Tehran. Mr. Rich profited by trading with Cuba, Libya, and 
South Africa during apartheid, all despite U.S. embargoes.

Rather than face the charges, Mr. Rich fled to Switzerland, where he 
remained a fugitive for 17 years. Law enforcement, including CIA, the 
NSA, and other Federal agencies, expended substantial resources in 
trying to apprehend Mr. Rich. These efforts included extradition 
requests and attempts by U.S. marshals to seize him abroad.

Mr. Rich refused to return to the United States despite an offer by 
prosecutors that they would actually drop the racketeering charges in 
exchange for his return. In a final effort to avoid extradition, Mr. 
Rich went so far as to renounce his U.S. citizenship. He tried to 
become a citizen of Bolivia.

It is hard for me to imagine anyone less deserving of clemency by the 
President of the United States than a fugitive from justice accused of 
trading with the enemy. Mr. Rich's own lawyer told him that he ''spit 
on the American flag'' by avoiding the jurisdiction of our courts.

On the last evening of the Clinton administration, White House 
Counsel called Mr. Holder to solicit his views on the Rich pardon. As 
Deputy Attorney General, Holder was effectively speaking for the entire 
Department during this crucial call. Strongly disregarding the views of 
the hundreds of DOJ prosecutors and FBI agents who had worked nearly 
two decades to bring Mr. Rich to justice, Holder told White House 
Counsel Beth Nolan that he was ''neutral, leaning favorable.''


With this recommendation from the Deputy Attorney General in hand, 
President Clinton granted the Rich pardon, in one of his last and most 
inexplicable actions.

Senator Specter, the distinguished ranking member from Pennsylvania, 
correctly recounted what former FBI Director Louis Freeh said about 
that pardon. He called it a ''corrupt act.'' Now, Mr. Holder has, 
during hearings, accepted fault and admitted that he made a mistake. I 
do not know how he can do any differently. But never in a full day of 
hearings and written questions did Mr. Holder offer a good reason for 
supporting the pardon in the first place. He defends himself by saying 
he was naive. He admits it was a mistake and promises he will not make 
the same mistake again. But this is difficult to square with the fact 
that 2 years earlier, Mr. Holder agreed that the FALN commutations were 
a reasonable act. It appears to be something of a trend here.

The other area I am very concerned about, as I mentioned earlier, is 
the questions I asked Mr. Holder about the war on terrorism. Of course, 
it is hard for us now to recount the horrors of 9/11 when al-Qaida 
commandeered airplanes and hit here in Washington, DC, and New York, 
killing 3,000 Americans. It was in the wake of that that, of course, 
the Congress authorized the use of military force against al-Qaida in 
Afghanistan and against the Taliban. It is in the wake of that that 
Congress passed the PATRIOT Act to provide enhanced tools to our law 
enforcement agencies and our intelligence agencies to try to make sure 
9/11 never, ever happened again.

The Department of Justice, particularly in the Office of Legal 
Counsel, was struggling with new efforts to try to figure out how to 
protect Americans from future attacks. I believe they struggled in good 
faith to try to come up with legal guidance for our President, his 
administration, and the intelligence authorities to make sure they were 
operating within the limits of the law, which, of course, prohibits 
torture. But I want to recount what Mr. Holder said in January 2002, 
which is at stark odds with what he has said now in 2008. He said in 
January 2002 that captured al-Qaida terrorists ''are not, in fact, 
people entitled to the protection of the Geneva Conventions. They are 
not prisoners of war.'' He went on to endorse indefinite detention of 
terrorists at Guantanamo Bay and argued that such prisoners should not 
be afforded Geneva Convention protections so that they could be 
interrogated and provide actionable intelligence that could prevent 
future attacks. But more recently, taking perhaps a more political or 
ideological bent, he chastised the Bush administration for policies he 
now seems to believe defy the law.

I want to quote at length from an Associated Press article entitled 
''Obama AG pick defended Guantanamo policy,'' dated November 22, 2008. 
According to this article, when asked whether terrorism suspects could 
be held forever, Holder responded:




 It seems to me you can think of these people as combatants 


 and we are in the middle of a war.


Holder said in a CNN interview in January 2002:




 And it seems to me that you could probably say, looking at 


 precedent, that you are going to detain these people until 


 the war is over, if that is ultimately what we wanted to do.


Just weeks later, this article goes on to say, Holder told CNN he did 
not believe al-Qaida suspects qualified as prisoners of war under the 
Geneva Conventions.

He said:




 One of the things we clearly want to do with these 


 prisoners is to have an ability to interrogate them and find 


 out what their future plans might be, where other cells may 


 be located. Under the Geneva Conventions, you are really 


 limited in the amount of information that you can elicit from 


 people.


Holder said it was important to treat detainees humanely, but he said 
they ''are not, in fact, people entitled to the protection of the 
Geneva Convention. They are not prisoners of war.''

In this article, he also downplayed criticism that these detainees 
were being mistreated. Now, these were essentially the same arguments 
being made by the Bush administration in the wake of 9/11. Since then, 
those arguments, as we all know, have been criticized by human rights 
groups, leading Democrats, and, surprisingly enough, Mr. Holder 
himself.

He gave a speech to the American Constitution Society in June of 2008 
where he said, ''We must close our detention center at Guantanamo 
Bay.''

He said:




 A great nation should not detain people, military or 


 civilian, in dark places beyond the reach of law. Guantanamo 


 Bay is an international embarrassment.


He added that he never thought he would see the day where ''The 
Supreme Court would have to order the President of the United States to 
treat detainees in accordance with the Geneva Convention.''

Those sharply contrasting positions from 2002 to 2008 make me wonder 
if this is the same person, the same Eric Holder. Moreover, it makes me 
wonder what it is he truly believes. In 2008, Mr. Holder, in a speech 
before the American Constitution Society, attacked many of the 
positions he once held as ''making a mockery of the rule of law.'' In 
that speech he called for ''a reckoning'' over the Bush 
administration's ''unlawful practices in the war on terror.'' He also 
accused the Bush administration of ''act[ing] in direct defiance of 
Federal law'' and railed against counterterrorism policies that he 
claimed ''violate international law and the United States 
Constitution.'' It is one thing to change your mind; it is another 
thing to change your mind and attack the very position you once held as 
one that could only be held in bad faith. It is cynical to characterize 
a position you once held later as ''making a mockery of the rule of 
law.''

The recent attacks in Mumbai have reminded Americans of the 
possibility of another attack, literally anywhere in the world by 
committed terrorists. On November 26, 2008, Mumbai was ravaged by a 
gang of terrorists. More than 170 people died as a result of bombings 
and gunfire, including 6 Americans. If an American city were targeted 
in the same manner as Mumbai, or worse--let's say these terrorists had 
a biological, chemical, or nuclear device--it is critical that our laws 
give law enforcement personnel, intelligence personnel, the President 
of the United States the very intelligence they need in order to detect 
and defeat those attacks. Our intelligence officials and those who act 
consistent with interpretations of the law from the Office of Legal 
Counsel at the Department of Justice need to know the law is not going 
to change after they act consistent with what they understand the law 
to be in order to protect American citizens from future attacks.

I worry about Mr. Holder's shifting opinions on what the law provides 
for and what it does not. I worry about the chilling effect it will 
have on future intelligence officials who may decide rather than risk 
prosecution by shifting opinions on what the law provides or does not, 
rather than risking everything I have worked a lifetime for, including 
what I have provided for my family, I am going to play it safe. From 
what we learned on 9/11, according to the 9/11 Commission, when we 
treat it safe, when we treat terrorism as a criminal act alone, we 
invite future attacks against our country.

For all these reasons, I oppose the nomination.

I ask unanimous consent that a letter from a number of hunting 
groups, anglers, landowners, and conservation groups in my State be 
printed in the Record.