---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `3e6dd88220d9b7979b5ae7c9eff1b15b`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Let me give you the type of question you are 
asking. Last year, I was chairman of this subcommittee. Last year, we 
had a request through the administration for a supplemental of $70 
billion. We asked the administration, what would you like to include in 
that $70 billion? What did you need? We didn't get an answer.

We didn't get an answer, so after repeated requests we had to go to 
the services who were fighting the war and say to them, what do you 
need? And we identified those items and we put them in that $70 billion 
supplemental, which most of us voted for. So I was responsible for and 
got credit for a $70 billion earmark. Everything is not black and white 
in this world.

And so I say to the gentleman, I appreciate his tenacity, but I would 
like to have an opportunity to debate with you the many good things 
that have been done to defend our Nation and support our troops that 
have been done created by the Congress, not requested by any 
administration.

One of the very best earmarks that I can give you an example of off 
the top of my head is the Predator, the Predator that the Iraqi 
terrorists really hate because it hunts them down and it kills them. 
The Predator was a congressional earmark. The administration, the 
Defense Department didn't ask for it, didn't give us any support. We 
said we need this capability, and we


got the capability. And it is one of the best things we have going for 
us in the war against terror.

So I hope that begins to give the gentleman a little bit of a 
response about our responsibility in providing things that our military 
needs and our national defense needs. And I thank my friend for 
yielding.