---
---

# IMPACT OF THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET ON AMERICA
## `3e818c2ed6703ccb110ed787dacf35c0`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 5 February 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Just actually if you are momentarily at a 
loss, I have the privilege of sitting on the House Appropriations 
Committee, as does Mr. Ryan, and we will have a


chance to take this document apart pretty carefully, one of the things 
that I was reviewing as we received this today was just the continuous 
example that this administration provides in representing a policy in 
one way and doing something completely different.

I mean, we have to be careful about the words we choose when we are 
on the House floor referring to the President, but I will point you to 
the section of the proposed budget that talks about how we finally are 
including at least some portion of the war budget inside the budget, 
instead of doing it all as emergency supplemental funding. So we have 
to give the President credit for at least including a portion of that 
in the budget.

However, he actually does not have any funding for the war, assumes 
no funding for the war past the end of 2008. There is no funding in his 
proposed budget for 2009. I think probably everyone in this country 
would like nothing more than for us to be completely finished in this 
war in Iraq by that point, but that is not the track that we are on and 
it is not the track that the President has suggested that we are going 
to be on.

So, there is a certain lack of clarity in terms of the distinction 
between what his budget represents and his rhetoric. They are not 
matching each other, and I think people see through that. We are 
fortunately now running this institution. So, through our 
accountability process, we can show the disparity between what the 
budget represents and what the actual policy implementation is.