---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3e88c5a59edffa61b5bac68ac7a14782`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker, you all know that I have worked over the years very, 
very


closely with Mr. Murtha and our chairman Mr. Obey. I think most would 
agree that some of us make a significant effort to reach out on both 
sides of the aisle to solve problems where that is possible.

In this case, we have a major, major disagreement. I do not presume 
others to be insincere in their disagreement, but I feel very strongly 
that we must make absolutely certain that we do nothing to undermine 
the mission of our troops by way of this debate.

There is absolutely no doubt that the message that we will be sending 
as this bill passes today, in part, will say to the terrorists of the 
world, including Iraq, that America is not willing to stay and complete 
the mission.

I rarely refer to newspaper items in addressing the House, but I 
cannot help but note that the Los Angeles Times, USA Today, the Atlanta 
Journal, et cetera, those newspapers all have expressed grave concerns 
about combining this supplemental funding for a war with huge amounts 
of pork.

As a result of that, I am going to use an item several times 
mentioned today as a part of my own close. The item is entitled: 
''Retreat and Butter. Are Democrats in the House Voting for Farm 
Subsidies or Withdrawal from Iraq?''

''Today, the House of Representatives is due to vote on a bill that 
would grant $25 million to spinach farmers in California. The 
legislation would also appropriate $75 million for peanut storage in 
Georgia and $15 million to protect Louisiana rice fields from 
saltwater. More substantially, there is $120 million for shrimp and 
menhaden fishermen, $250 million for milk subsidies, $500 million for 
wildfire suppression and $1.3 billion to build levees in New Orleans.

''Altogether the House Democratic leadership has come up with more 
than $20 billion in new spending, much of it wasteful subsidies to 
agriculture or pork barrel projects aimed at individual Members of 
Congress. At the tail of all this log rolling,'' and by the way I would 
not use this next phrase so that Mr. Obey knows that, ''log rolling and 
political bribery lies this stinger: Representatives who support the 
bill, for whatever reason, will be voting to require that all U.S. 
combat troops leave Iraq by August 2008, regardless of what happens 
during the next 17 months or whether U.S. commanders believe a pullout 
at that moment protects or endangers U.S. national security, not to 
mention the thousands of American trainers and Special Forces troops 
who would remain behind.

''The Democrats claim to have a mandate from voters to reverse the 
Bush administration's policy in Iraq. Yet the leadership is ready to 
piece together the votes necessary to force a fateful turn in the war 
by using tactics usually dedicated to highway bills or the Army Corps 
of Engineers budget. The legislation pays more heed to a handful of 
peanut farmers than to the 24 million Iraqis who are living through a 
maelstrom initiated by the United States, the outcome of which could 
shape the future of the Middle East for decades.

''Congress can and should play a major role in determining how and 
when the war ends. Political benchmarks for the Iraqi Government are 
important, provided they are not unrealistic or inflexible. Even dates 
for troop withdrawals might be helpful, if they are cast as goals 
rather than requirements, and if the timing derives from the needs of 
Iraq, not the U.S. election cycle. The Senate's version of the 
supplemental spending bill for Iraq and Afghanistan contains nonbinding 
benchmarks and a withdrawal date that is a goal; that approach is more 
likely to win broad support and avoid a White House veto.

''As it is, House Democrats are pressing a bill that has the 
endorsement of MoveOn.org but excludes the judgment of the U.S. 
commanders who would have to execute the retreat the bill mandates. It 
would heap money on unneedy dairy farmers while provoking a 
constitutional fight with the White House that could block the funding 
to equip troops in the field. Democrats who want to force a withdrawal 
should vote against war appropriations. They should not seek to use 
pork to buy a majority for an unconditional retreat that the majority 
does not support.''

At this point, I include for the Record the Statement of 
Administration Policy.

 Statement of Administration Policy, H.R. 1591--U.S. Troop Readiness, 






 Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act











 (Sponsor: Obey (D), Wisconsin)




 The Administration strongly opposes the ''U.S. Troop 


 Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' 


 The Administration seeks prompt enactment of the President's 


 request to support our armed forces and diplomatic corps as 


 they implement the new strategy to achieve America's 


 strategic objective of a democratic Iraq that can govern, 


 defend, and sustain itself and be an ally in the war on 


 terror.



 This legislation would substitute the mandates of Congress 


 for the considered judgment of our military commanders. This 


 bill assumes and forces the failure of the new strategy even 


 before American commanders in the field are able to fully 


 implement their plans. Regardless of the success our troops 


 are achieving in the field, this bill would require their 


 withdrawal. In addition, the bill could withhold resources 


 needed to enable Iraqi Security Forces to take over missions 


 currently conducted by American troops. Many policy makers 


 agree that the Iraqi Security Forces must assume 


 responsibility in defending Iraqi democracy, and it is 


 unconscionable that funds for the Iraqi Security Forces be 


 subject to conditions that may threaten our full support. 


 These Congressional mandates would place freedom and 


 democracy in Iraq at grave risk, embolden our enemies, and 


 undercut the Administration's plan to develop the Iraqi 


 Security Forces and the Iraqi economy. This bill would impose 


 inappropriate, operationally unsound, and arbitrary 


 constraints on how the Department of Defense should prepare 


 units to deploy. Prohibiting the deployment of units to 


 combat unless a Chief of Service certifies the units as fully 


 mission-capable 15 days prior to deployment is unnecessary, 


 since the Department of Defense will not send into battle 


 troops that are not fully capable of performing their 


 assigned missions. It is unwise to codify in law specific 


 deployment and dwell times, since this would artificially 


 limit the flexibility of our commanders to conduct operations 


 in the field and infringe on the President's constitutional 


 authority as Commander in Chief to manage the readiness and 


 availability of the Armed Forces. If this legislation were 


 presented to the President, he would veto the bill.



 The war supplemental should remain focused on the needs of 


 the troops and should not be used as a vehicle for added non-


 emergency spending and policy proposals, especially domestic 


 proposals, that should be fully vetted and considered on 


 their own merits, such as minimum wage, various tax 


 proposals, and changes in contracting policy. This bill adds 


 billions in unrequested spending that is largely unjustified 


 and non-emergency. Because of the excessive and extraneous 


 non-emergency spending it contains, if this legislation were 


 presented to the President, he would veto the bill.



 Congress should reject this legislation, and promptly send 


 the President a responsible bill that provides the funding 


 and flexibility our troops need, without holding funding for 


 the troops hostage to unrelated spending.



 The Administration would like to take this opportunity to 


 share additional views regarding the Committee's version of 


 the bill.











 Title I--Global war on terror




 Base Realignment and Closure. The Administration submitted 


 a budget amendment on March 9, 2007, that would fully offset 


 the $3.1 billion shortfall needed to implement the 


 recommendations of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure 


 Commission. Including this funding as an emergency request 


 without offsets is inappropriate and unnecessary. The 


 Administration urges passage of its request instead.



 Additionally, the Administration opposes any amendment to 


 the bill that would alter the approved recommendations of the 


 2005 BRAC Commission. The BRAC process, as authorized by 


 Congress, requires that both the President and Congress 


 approve or disapprove the Commission's recommendations in 


 their entirety to allow the process to remain apolitical. 


 Legislating a specific change to a BRAC Commission 


 recommendation would adversely affect the integrity of the 


 BRAC 2005 process.



 Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The Administration objects 


 to cuts of almost $1.9 billion for priority O&M activities 


 while increasing areas less critical to the war effort. Such 


 reductions (including reductions for contracting) could 


 damage the military's ability to execute wartime operations 


 and the readiness of U.S. forces as they prepare to deploy to 


 Afghanistan and Iraq. The Administration urges Congress to 


 support the President's amended request.



 In addition, the bill does not fund the President's $350 


 million request for training, equipping, transporting, and 


 sustaining our partners in the Global War on Terror. Our 


 allies are critical to our success in combating extremists 


 across the globe and providing this support reduces the 


 burden on U.S. forces. We strongly urge the House to restore 


 these funds.



 General Transfer Authority (GTA). The Administration 


 appreciates the Committee's approval of the requested $3.5 


 billion in GTA for this bill, but urges that GTA for the FY 


 2007 DOD Appropriations Act be increased from $4.5 billion to 


 $8.0 billion, as included in the March 9 revised request. 


 This increase is essential for the Department of Defense to




 reallocate funds to sustain critical operations and to 


 address the needs of our field commanders.



 International Affairs Programs. The Administration commends 


 the Committee for providing the President's request for 


 important international affairs funding for avian influenza, 


 assistance to Afghanistan and Lebanon, peacekeeping in 


 Somalia, Chad, and East Timor, and unanticipated needs to 


 help relieve human suffering, including in Sudan and other 


 parts of Africa.



 While the Administration appreciates the House's support of 


 the request for Iraq-related funding, it objects to the 


 reductions to Iraq assistance programs and Provincial 


 Reconstruction Team (PRT) expansion. The bill reduces funding 


 for democracy programs, building national capacity, 


 strengthening local governing capacity and delivery of 


 essential services, creating jobs to help stabilize the 


 country, and supporting Iraqi rule of law programs--the 


 very things that must be done for Iraq to become self-


 reliant and assume responsibilities from the United 


 States. The reduction in funding for PRT expansion will 


 also impede our ability to get civilians into PRTs to 


 support Iraqis at the local level. The Administration also 


 opposes the reductions to the request for Kosovo which 


 could inhibit our effort to support economic growth, 


 security, and political stability during and after the 


 resolution of its status. Given the reductions to Iraq and 


 Kosovo, the Administration is especially concerned that 


 the House bill provides over $600 million in unrequested 


 international programs. The House is urged to redirect 


 funds from unrequested programs to fully fund the Iraq and 


 Kosovo requests.



 The Administration also does not support section 1905 of 


 the bill, which establishes a Presidentially appointed, 


 Senate-confirmed position to oversee Iraq assistance 


 programs. This position is not necessary since the Secretary 


 of State has already appointed a coordinator for 


 reconstruction.



 The Administration also opposes the $2.5 billion in 


 unrequested emergency funding provided to the Department of 


 Homeland Security (DHS). This funding does not meet the 


 standard for emergency funding and should be considered 


 within the regular annual appropriations process.












Title II--Hurricane recovery




 Department of Homeland Security. The bill provides the 


 States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, and Texas with a 


 100-percent Federal match for FEMA public and individual 


 assistance related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma, and 


 Dennis and would eliminate the prohibition on forgiving 


 Community Disaster Loans. The bill also extends utility 


 assistance for an additional 12 months. The Administration 


 opposes a waiver of the State match requirement. The 


 Administration also notes that the Administration is funding, 


 at the President's direction, 90 percent of Gulf Coast 


 rebuilding costs for public infrastructure and that the 


 Federal Government has provided--following negotiations with 


 the State governments of Louisiana and Mississippi--


 sufficient Community Development Block Grant funding to meet 


 the Federal match requirements for Louisiana and Mississippi, 


 in essence federally funding 100 percent of such costs.



 Corps of Engineers. The Administration opposes the $1.3 


 billion in unrequested funding the bill provides to address 


 increased costs for certain ongoing levee restoration 


 projects that were provided supplemental funding in P.L. 109-


 234. These funds are unnecessary because the Administration 


 proposed FY 2007 supplemental language to allow the Corps to 


 reallocate $1.3 billion of previously appropriated emergency 


 funding to address these needs. The Administration plans to 


 consider the need for additional funding once the Corps 


 completes its revised cost estimates for all planned work 


 this summer.













Constitutional concerns




 The Administration urges the House of Representatives to 


 strike provisions of the bill that infringe upon the 


 President's constitutional authorities, interfere with the 


 President's ability to conduct diplomatic, military, and 


 intelligence activities or supervise the unitary executive 


 branch effectively, or violate the constitutional principle 


 of separation of powers, such as sections 1311, 1314(c)(1), 


 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904, 4403(c), and 5004(b) and language in 


 title I relating to committee approval under the headings in 


 chapter 7 for ''Military Construction, Army'' and ''Military 


 Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'' and in chapter 8 under 


 the heading ''Diplomatic and Consular Programs.'' The 


 Administration notes that, while the legislation includes 


 authority to waive restrictions relating to readiness and 


 deployment periods (sections 1901, 1902, and 1903), it does 


 not include authority to waive the all-or-nothing 


 restrictions relating to benchmarks for performance of the 


 Iraqi government. Moreover, several provisions of the bill 


 purport to require approval of the Committees prior to the 


 obligation of funds. These provisions should be changed to 


 require only notification of Congress, since any other 


 interpretation would contradict the Supreme Court's ruling in 


 INS v. Chadha.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.