---
---

# IRAQ
## `3e8c2561fda63c3c9323fc6b5d505ab0`
`Mr. KYL — 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise today to call the attention of the 
Senate to the most-underreported story of the year: the continuing 
success of our troops in Iraq. In particular, I would like to call my 
colleagues' attention to an article by the American Enterprise 
Institute's Fred Kagan in this week's Weekly Standard, which 
articulately speaks to the magnitude of the change in direction that 
has taken place in Iraq.

The article reports how our soldiers and marines turned an imminent 
victory for al-Qaida in Iraq into a humiliating defeat for them and 
thereby created an opportunity for further progress not only in Iraq 
but also in the global struggle against terror. In the past 5 months we 
have seen stunning results from the Petraeus strategy: terrorist 
operations in and around Baghdad have dropped by 59 percent; car bomb 
deaths are down by 81 percent; casualties from enemy attacks dropped 77 
percent; and, violence during the just-completed season of Ramadan--
traditionally a peak of terrorist attacks was the lowest in 3 years.

However, Mr. President, winning a battle is not the same as winning a 
war. Our commanders and soldiers are continuing the fight to ensure 
that al-Qaida does not recover even as they turn their attention to the 
next battle: the fight against Shia militias sponsored by Iran.

What's more, these victories are not irreversible. Al-Qaida is a 
resourceful organization. If we let up, they can still recover. That is 
why our strategy on the ground must be based on the advice and 
experience of our generals and not the political necessities of the 
majority party here in Washington. We must resist politically-motivated 
maneuvering, whether it be in the form of artificial timelines for 
withdrawal or efforts to have politicians in Congress change the 
mission that has been delivering results.

I ask unanimous consent that the attached article be printed in the 
Record.