---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF SERGEANT KENNETH R. BOOKER
## `3e8c3cf57181f50b0a3c0752d76dc52f`
`Mr. HILL — 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. HILL. Madam Speaker, on Wednesday, November 4, 2007, the town of 
Vevay, Indiana, tragically lost their first son in Iraq. SGT Kenneth R. 
Booker died from wounds sustained from an improvised explosive device 
attack while on patrol in his Stryker armored vehicle in Mukhisa, Iraq.

After graduating from Switzerland County High School in 2000, Kenneth 
enlisted in the Army. He had already served in Afghanistan and Iraq--
celebrating his 21st and 22nd birthdays respectively while serving 
overseas--before being deployed to Mukhisa, Iraq.

At one point, Sergeant Booker was assigned to military intelligence, 
but did not like being stuck behind a desk. He requested a transfer 
back to infantry duty, joining a Stryker Brigade Combat Unit. Sergeant 
Booker was well aware that his new unit was destined for Iraq.

Described by loved ones as having a tremendous sense of humor, 
constantly had fun, was good natured, and kind; Sergeant Booker was, 
simply put, a ''wonderful person.''

The day after Sergeant Booker's death, his mother, Becky Graham, sent 
a Christmas care package to her son, unknowing that he had been killed 
the previous day. In the care package she included a note to her son 
stating that if he could not be home for Christmas, Christmas would 
come to him.

Sergeant Booker's father always had faith that his son would be safe, 
but that even the best of soldiers are killed in the line of duty.

Sergeant Kenneth R. Booker was a true hero. I, with Sergeant Booker's 
family, the town of Vevay, and the State of Indiana mourn this brave 
Hoosier's premature death. His friends and loved ones are in my 
prayers.
