# None
## `3ea5dd6b54c1577a8630d4e41b3cb027`
`Mr. CALVERT — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, U.S. Army Private First Class Cameron Payne. 
Today on Flag Day, as we honor the history of ''Old Glory,'' I ask that 
the House of Representatives also honor and remember this incredible 
young man who died in service to his country.

Cameron grew up in Corona, California where his wife, children, 
mother and brother still reside. Private First Class Payne enlisted in 
the Army in 2005 and was a man with goals for his life and his family. 
Private First Class Payne completed basic training at Fort Benning, 
Georgia and was stationed at Fort Riley. He was deployed to Iraq in 
February and on Monday, June 11, 2007 Private First Class Payne was 
killed by an improvised explosive device in Baghdad, Iraq. He was 22 
years old.

In reading about Cameron's life, I was impressed by his devotion to 
family. The Press Enterprise describes a man that cared very deeply for 
his mother and brother. Private First Class Payne was also a proud and 
loving husband and parent. He dreamed of moving his new family to the 
Seattle area. He leaves behind his wife Julie and two daughters, 
Annaleese and Kylee. He also leaves behind his mother Jackson and 
brother Cody.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Cameron, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. When the Payne 
family learned of Cameron's passing, it was probably the hardest moment 
the family has ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and deepest 
gratitude for their sacrifice goes out to them. There are no words that 
can relieve their pain and what words I offer only begin to convey my 
deep respect and highest appreciation.

Private First Class Payne's wife, children and family have all given 
a part of themselves in the loss of their loved one and I hope they 
know that their husband, father, son and brother, the goodness he 
brought to this world and the sacrifice he has made, will be 
remembered.
