---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `3ea561bf3b3046f0ece5a89d4d707f09`
`Mr. COLE — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. COLE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this supplemental, and, frankly, I 
want to congratulate the majority on the legislation. I am particularly 
pleased with the military portion that was worked out in negotiations 
between Mr. Murtha and Mr. Young. The extra dollars that were provided 
beyond what the administration requests I think were wise expenditures.

I certainly don't agree with everything in the bill and have my 
differences over process, both in the committee and more profoundly, 
frankly, on this floor, where I wish we had the


amendments available that my friend, Mr. Tiahrt, mentioned. But, by and 
large, it's a great bill and, frankly, it deserves our support.

I think we ought to stop for a minute, Mr. Speaker, and recognize the 
significance of the vote that we are about to take. With the passage of 
this proposal, President Obama, in my mind at least, effectively 
becomes a war President. In his campaign, he said that Afghanistan was 
the central front in the war on terror, and he also said, if necessary, 
he would move into other countries to pursue al Qaeda. Since he has 
been elected, I think he has actually put those views into effect in 
this legislation and in other actions. He has chosen a new commander; 
he has increased the size of our forces in Afghanistan dramatically; he 
has begun a civilian surge, which alters in some ways, and I think 
appropriately, the nature of our mission; he has requested additional 
forces from European countries; and, frankly, he has made it clear that 
he is expanding activity into Pakistan.

This is a major commitment. It's not a commitment that will be over 
in a year. Frankly, I suspect President Obama will be dealing with this 
issue throughout his Presidency, whether he's a one- or two-term 
President. As long as he continues to operate in this capacity, 
frankly, I think he deserves bipartisan support. I think a war 
President deserves bipartisan support from Congress. He will certainly 
have it from me as long as he is consistent with the principles he has 
laid out and operates under the advice, although reserving the final 
decision to himself, of the commanders on the ground.

So it's a good piece of legislation and it deserves to be passed.