---
---

# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `3eaff43e8799d133728a41b4d684d791`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 14 March 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I was interested in hearing from 
Members on the other side speak about the money we needed to save and 
the debt we have, because it was the Republican administration that 
drove us into the greatest deficits in history. Indeed, they are the 
reason I am standing here today.

I am a social worker by profession, and for years I noticed things 
were getting worse and worse for the middle class. I kept saying the 
middle class is stumbling and the poor have fallen, because while the 
very wealthy were enjoying the tax breaks, thanks to this 
administration, the middle class was trying to figure out if they had 
enough money to go to the movies on Friday night and have money for 
pizza. Indeed, this is the first time we have seen this great, great 
difference in the rich and the poor since the time of the Titanic. 
Wages have been flat for several years now.

The American public understands this. This is not a Republican issue, 
it is not a Democratic issue, it is an issue about protecting the 
middle class, building the middle class, and bringing the poor so we do 
not have a permanent underclass in this country. The way to do that is 
to make sure we have a fair tax system, and we have to have 
accountability and oversight to make sure that we do.

We know that the tax breaks have gone to the top 1 percent for too 
long. So this drove me to Congress, looking at this; and the final, 
final nail in the coffin was looking at what happened after Hurricane 
Katrina because even if the administration could not find it in their 
hearts to take care of the people of Katrina, where was the homeland 
security?

When you look at Louisiana, you realize there is a port there. Gas 
and oil are there. Our food, our grains come there. Seventy percent of 
the grain passes through there. Certainly that is a vulnerable area. We 
heard that we were spending all of this money for homeland security and 
for programs to protect the American people. But when Hurricane Katrina 
hit, the American Government was missing in action with the exception 
of our military, and I give them great credit for what they did.

I know this because I went there not once, but twice. It was very 
frightening to see that the Federal Government was missing in action. 
And then the extra insult of having to listen on television while they 
were praising each other for the good job they did. They didn't bring 
the resources to the American people. They didn't have the money to 
bring the resources to the American people.

Where is the money? That is why we are here in Washington, to find 
out where is the money for the programs that the American people need, 
that we must have to protect us.

I looked at Iraq. I went there a couple of weeks ago. I looked at the 
contractors there personally. There are more than 100,000 contractors 
in Iraq for 133,000 soldiers; some more now, we had over 100,000 
contractors.

The American public knows this word so well, Halliburton. The 
American people understand what has happened to the money. Every child 
born today has a birth tax of about $29,000. Think about that. We went 
from a budget surplus to the greatest deficit in history, borrowing 
money from Communist China along the way to pay our bills, which is a 
security risk that all Americans understand, and every child born today 
owes about $29,000 before he or she draws their first breath. This is 
an outrage, and we need to turn this around.

Like the rest of my freshman class, this propelled me to run. I had 
never even run for office in elementary school or high school. I was a 
social worker. I taught politics. Yes, I got involved in politics, but 
never envisioned myself here. And it is a tremendous honor to be on the 
floor and to be able to protect and speak up for the American people.

But we have an obligation to, first of all, provide programs that 
lift the poor and the middle class, to make sure that the wealthy pay 
their fair share; and we have an obligation to be fiscally 
conservative, and we can do that by good fiscal oversight and 
accountability. That has been missing for many years.

We are having more hearings now looking at various aspects. I serve 
on the Armed Services Committee. It was a shock to me to find out that 
we did not have the equipment we need and that the soldiers were 
suffering so.

Again, we can talk about Walter Reed. We had a week last week about 
that. Who could leave a soldier in rooms that had mold? Who could leave 
soldiers unattended and untreated? If we are going to honor our 
soldiers, we need to honor our commitments to the soldiers, and it is 
not right to say if we can afford to. When we put them into battle, we 
make sure that our commitment will be to care for them. Once they say 
they are going to serve us, it is our obligation to serve them.

It is truly an honor to be here and to be able to be working for the 
people of my own State, New Hampshire, and the people of this country. 
It is an honor to be here with such wonderful colleagues who are driven 
by one motive, and that is service and patriotism.

We were campaigning over a year or 2 years. We heard the message loud 
and clear from the middle class that they needed protection. They 
needed protection from policies and this administration that protected 
the wealthy and harmed the middle class. They wanted their children to 
be able to afford college again because that changed. They wanted their 
children to have the opportunities that they had growing up.

Even rents have gotten so high and with wages so flat, adult children 
have to come home to live with their parents. This is not the American 
way. The American way is to be fiscally responsible and to make sure 
that opportunities are available for all.

I think we have a terrific class with wonderful leadership. Speaker 
Pelosi certainly understands the direction this country needs to go in. 
We will do the job that the American people sent us here to do.