---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `3eaf9c1a8d09fff4f965e7fa53e075e2`
`Mr. BYRD — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, last night in his address to the Nation, the 
President called for a ''surge'' of 20,000 additional U.S. troops to 
help secure Baghdad against the violence that has consumed it. 
Unfortunately, such a plan is not the outline of a brave new course, as 
we were told, but a tragic commitment to an already failed policy; not 
a bold new strategy but a rededication to a course that has proven to 
be a colossal blunder on every count.

The President never spoke words more true than when he said, ''The 
situation in Iraq is unacceptable to the American people.'' But the 
President, once again, failed to offer a realistic way forward. 
Instead, he gave us more of his stale and tired ''stay the course'' 
prescriptions. The President espoused a strategy of ''clear, hold, and 
build''--a doctrine of counterinsurgency that one of our top 
commanders, GEN David Petraeus, helped to formulate. Clear, hold, and 
build involves bringing to bear a large number of troops in an area, 
clearing it of insurgents, holding it secure for long enough to let 
reconstruction take place. But what the President did not say last 
night is that, according to General Petraeus and his own military 
experts, this strategy of ''clear, hold, and build'' requires a huge 
number of troops--a minimum of 20 combat troops for every 1,000 
civilians in the area. If we apply that doctrine to Baghdad's 6 million 
people, it means that at least 120,000 troops will be needed to secure 
Baghdad alone. Right now, we have about 70,000 combat troops stationed 
all throughout Iraq. Even if they were all concentrated in the city of 
Baghdad, along with the 20,000 new troops that the President is calling 
for, we would still fall well short of what is needed.

But let us assume that the brave men and women of the U.S. military 
are able to carry out this Herculean task and secure Baghdad against 
the forces that are spiraling it into violence. What is to keep those 
forces from regrouping in another town, another province, even another 
country--strengthening, festering, and waiting until the American 
soldiers leave to launch their bloody attacks again? It brings to mind 
the ancient figure of Sisyphus, who was doomed to push a boulder up a 
mountainside for all of eternity, only to have it roll back down as 
soon as he reached the top. As soon as he would accomplish his task, it 
would begin again, and this would go on endlessly. I fear that we are 
condemning our brave soldiers to a similar fate, hunting down 
insurgents in one city or one province only to watch them pop up in 
another. For how long will U.S. troops be asked to shoulder this 
burden?

Over 3,000 American soldiers have already been killed in Iraq; over 
22,000 have been wounded. Staggering. Hear me--staggering. And 
President Bush now proposes to send 20,000 more Americans into the line 
of fire beyond the 70,000 already there.

The cost of this war of choice to American taxpayers is now estimated 
to be over $400 billion. That means $400 for every minute since Jesus 
Christ was born. That is a lot of money.

Hear me now. Let me say that, again. The cost to American taxpayers 
of this war of choice is now estimated to be over $400 billion, and the 
number continues to rise. When I say number, I am talking about your 
taxpayer dollars. That ain't chicken feed. One wonders how much 
progress we could have made in improving education or resolving our 
health care crisis or strengthening our borders or reducing our 
national debt or any number of pressing issues with that amount of 
money. Man, we are talking about big dollars. And the President 
proposes spending more money, sending more money down that drain.

On every count, an escalation of 20,000 troops is a misguided, 
costly, unwise course of action. I said at the beginning we ought not 
go into Iraq. I said that, and I was very loud and clear in saying it. 
I stood with 22 other Senators. I said from the beginning we ought not 
to go into Iraq. We had no business there. That nation did not attack 
us, did it? I said from the beginning I am not going down that road and 
I didn't and I am not going to now.


This is not a solution. This is not a march toward ''victory.''

The President's own military advisers have indicated we do not have 
enough troops for this tragedy to be successful. It will put more 
Americans in harm's way than there already are. It will cost more in 
U.S. taxpayers' money--your money. You, who are looking through those 
lenses, looking at the Senate Chamber, hear what I have to say. Many 
commanders have already said that ours is an Army that is at its 
breaking point. It is a dangerous idea.

Why, then, is the President advocating it? This decision has the 
cynical smell of politics to me, suggesting that an additional 20,000 
troops will alter the balance of this war. It was a mistake to go into 
Iraq. Now we want to pour 20,000 more of your men and women, your sons 
and daughters, into this maelstrom, this sausage grinder, this drainer 
of blood and life.

We won't alter the balance of this war. It is a way for the President 
to look forceful, a way for the President to appear to be taking bold 
action. But it is only the appearance of bold action, not the reality, 
much like the image of a cocky President in a flight suit declaring 
''mission accomplished'' from the deck of a battleship. Remember that?

This is not a new course. It is a continuation of the tragically 
costly course we have been on for almost 5 years now. Too long. I said 
in the beginning, I won't go; it is wrong; we should not attack that 
country which has never invaded us or attacked us. Those persons who 
attacked this country were not Iraqis, right? Somebody says I am right.

It is simply a policy that buys the President more time, more time to 
equivocate, more time to continue to resist any suggestion that the 
President was wrong to enter our country into this war in the first 
place. This war, in this place, at this time, in this manner, and, 
importantly, calling for more troops, gives the President more time to 
hand the Iraq situation off to his successor in the White House. The 
President apparently believes he can wait this out, that he can 
continue to make small adjustments here and there to a misguided policy 
while he maintains the same trajectory until he leaves office and it 
becomes someone else's problem.

If you are driving in the wrong direction, anyone knows, as you will 
not get to your destination by going south when you should be going 
north, what do you do? What should you do? You turn around. I see the 
Presiding Officer is following me. I saw him use his arm like that. He 
did just what I did, before I did it. You turn around and get better 
directions.

This President--I speak respectfully when I speak of the President. I 
speak respectfully of the President; that is my intention--this 
President is asking us to step on the gas in Iraq full throttle while 
he has not clearly articulated where we are going. What is our goal? 
What is our end game? How much progress will we need to see from the 
Iraqi Government before our men and women come home? I should think 
that is what the fathers and mothers of our American troops would want 
to know. What is our goal? What is our end game? In the first place, 
why are we there in Iraq? Why are we asking for more troops now? How 
much progress will we need to see from the Iraqi Government before our 
men and women come home? How long will American troops be stationed in 
Iraq, to be maimed and killed in sectarian bloodshed?

The ultimate solution to the situation in Iraq is political and would 
have to come from the Iraqis themselves. The Iraqi Government will have 
to address the causes of the insurgency by creating a sustainable 
power-sharing agreement between and among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds, and 
it is far from clear that the Government has the power or the 
willingness at this point. But as long as American troops are there to 
bear the brunt of the blame and the fire, the Iraqi Government will not 
shoulder the responsibility itself. And Iraq's neighbors, especially 
Iran and Syria, won't commit to helping to stabilize the country as 
long as they see American troops bogged down and America losing 
credibility and strength. Keeping the United States Army tied up in a 
bloody, endless battle in Iraq plays perfectly into Iran's hands and it 
has little incentive to cease its assistance to the insurgency as long 
as America is there. America's presence in Iraq is inhibiting a lasting 
solution, not contributing to one.

Let me say that again. I should repeat that statement. Iraq's 
neighbors, especially Iran and Syria, won't commit to helping to 
stabilize the country as long as they see America bogged down and 
losing credibility and strength. Keeping the United States Army tied up 
in a bloody, endless battle in Iraq plays perfectly into Iran's hand 
and it has little incentive to cease its assistance to the insurgency 
as long as America is there. America's presence in Iraq is inhibiting a 
lasting solution, not contributing to a lasting solution.

The President has, once again, I say respectfully, gotten it 
backwards. What I hoped to hear from the President were specific 
benchmarks of progress that he expects from the Iraqi Government and a 
plan for the withdrawal of American troops conditioned on those 
benchmarks. Instead, we were given a vague admonition that the 
responsibility for security will rest with the Iraqi Government by 
November, with no suggestion of what that responsibility will mean or 
how to measure that Government's capacity to handle it.

The President is asking us--you, me, you, you out there, you who look 
around this Chamber today--asking us once again to trust him while he 
keeps our troops mired in Iraq. But that trust was long ago squandered. 
I weep for the waste we have already seen--lives, American lives, Iraqi 
lives, treasure, time, good will, credibility, opportunity--wasted, 
wasted. Now the President is calling for us to waste more. I say 
enough, enough. If he will not provide leadership and statesmanship, if 
he does not have the strength of vision to recognize a failed policy 
and to chart a new course, then leadership will have to come from 
somewhere else. Enough waste, enough lives lost on this misguided 
venture into Iraq.

I said it was wrongheaded in the beginning and I was right. Enough 
time and energy spent on a civil war far from our shores while the 
problems Americans face are ignored. Yes, while the problems that you, 
the people out there, face--you, the people on the plains and mountains 
and in the hollows and hills, your problems--we wallow in debt and 
mortgage our children's future to foreigners. That is what we are 
doing. We are continuing. We are asking now for more, more, more. Not: 
Give me more, more, more of your kisses but more, more of your money, 
more, more of your lives. Enough. It is time to truly change course. 
Mr. President, it is time to look at the compass, time to change course 
and start talking about how we can rebalance our foreign policy and 
bring our sons and daughters home--bring our sons and daughters home.


There are a lot of people making political calculations about the war 
in Iraq, turning this debate into an exercise of political 
grandstanding and point scoring. But this is not a political game. This 
is a game of life and death. This is asking thousands more Americans to 
make the ultimate sacrifice for a war that we now know, beyond a shadow 
of a doubt, was a mistake. We had no business going into Iraq. We had 
no business invading a country that never posed an imminent threat, a 
serious threat to our own country.

There were those of us who cautioned against the hasty rush to war in 
Iraq. And I have some credibility on that score. I cautioned against 
it, yes. And there were others in this Senate Chamber who stood against 
the hasty rush to war in Iraq. Unfortunately, our cries, like 
Cassandra's, went unheeded. Like Cassandra, our warnings and our fears 
proved to be prophetic--proved to be prophetic.

But we are not doomed to repeat our mistakes. We ought to learn from 
the past. We must understand--and understand it now, and understand it 
clearly--that more money and more troops--more American troops, more 
American lives lost in Iraq--are not the answer.

The clock--there is the clock above the Presiding Officer's chair. 
There it is. There is the clock. There is another one behind me on this 
wall. These clocks are running, running, running


on our misadventure. And I can say that with credibility because I said 
it was a misadventure in the beginning--our misadventure into Iraq.

Enough time has been wasted, Mr. President. Enough. Enough. Hear me: 
Enough. Enough time has been wasted.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.