---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `3eb448f8c57342bea2320bdb3cb52262`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I appreciate the tremendous effort that 
has been made on both sides of the aisle to try to address the 
immigration dilemma facing our country. In my view, other than the war 
in Iraq, the war on terror, there is nothing more important before us, 
and we should leave the bill on this floor for as long as it takes to 
get it right because as difficult as it is to get it right, it seems to 
me that failure is not an option. If we fail, then what we have done is 
admitted that we have just simply allowed a situation to continue where 
perhaps a million new illegal persons will come into our country each 
year. That contravenes the rule of law upon which this country is 
founded, it works against our ability to be a country that lives by the 
motto that is engraved up there on the wall, ''one from many,'' to 
assimilate into our country the number of people who are coming, and it 
is a poor example for the rest of the world when we suggest to them 
that they create governments that rely upon the rule of law. It also 
absolutely enrages the American citizens, who look at Washington and 
say that the Government has done a horrible job for the last 10, 15, 20 
years in enforcing our immigration laws. Americans have, in many cases, 
lost faith that we even have the ability to fix the mess. I used to 
feel that way myself before I came here. I haven't been here that 
long--just 4 years.

Twelve years ago, I was a candidate for President of the United 
States. I was in those debates which we watched on television last 
night, or those kinds of debates. One of my proposals was that we 
should create a new branch of the military in order to secure the 
border. In 1994, 1995, and 1996, Americans were upset about our 
inability to distinguish between legal immigration, which is the 
lifeblood of our country, and illegal immigration, which is an affront 
to the rule of law and the principles of what it means to be an 
American. So this has been going on year after year after year.

When I was home last week in Tennessee, I spent a lot of time 
listening and talking to Tennesseans. In fact, I just left a group of 
homebuilders from Tennessee in my office who were talking to me about 
the immigration bill and about some concerns they have. But of all the 
concerns that came through to me last week in my conversations with 
Tennesseans, it boils down to this: We don't really trust you guys in 
Washington, DC, to fix this problem. You don't seem to be willing to do 
it.

So I have a suggestion today that I will make, an amendment that I 
intend to offer. I won't call it up at this moment, but I want my 
colleagues to know about it and the country to know about it because I 
think if this bill were to become law, it would increase the level of 
trust the American people would have in the ability of this Government 
to enforce whatever law we pass. I am not suggesting it would solve 
everything or that we would regain trust overnight, but I am suggesting 
it would be a step forward. I will describe the legislation in just a 
moment, but it boils down to this: We would involve the Governors of 
the border States between the United States and Mexico in determining 
whether the new border control system we put in place is actually 
operational.

Right now, particularly amendment offered by my distinguished 
colleague from New Hampshire (Senator Gregg) the other day, the 
proposed bill has been strengthened in the following way: He said that 
his amendment would require the Department of Homeland Security to 
certify that it has established and demonstrated operational control 
over the entire U.S.-Mexico land border before other parts of the bill 
involving legal status could go into effect. We call this the trigger.

Senator Isakson from Georgia suggested this last year. It is a wise 
idea. It says, first we secure the border, and then, when it is secure, 
we do the other things about legalization of people already here, to 
the extent we decide to do that. But the question still remains: Who is 
going to say when the border is secure? The people out across the 
country--at least those in Tennessee--don't trust us, don't trust the 
Government in Washington, because of this poor record of 20 years. It 
doesn't matter that I just got here 4 years ago. They look up here and 
see the Government and they say: You didn't do it last year, you didn't 
do it 3 years ago, you didn't do it 10 years ago or 15 years ago, so 
how do we know you are ever going to do it, even if you pass the law?

Well, the three things I can think of that would make a difference 
are, No. 1, to pass a bill with teeth in it. For example, the Gregg 
amendment says


there will be 20,000 Border Patrol agents. That is more than we 
currently have. Today, there are 13,000. There will be four unmanned 
aerial vehicles. There will be 300 miles of vehicle barriers. 
Currently, there are about 78. There will have to be at least 370 miles 
of fencing already built. Now, there are 700 already authorized by the 
Secure Fence Act of 2006, and that hasn't changed, but 370 miles would 
have to be built. There would have to be 70 ground-based radar and 
camera towers on the southwest border. There would have to be a 
permanent end to catch and release. There would have to be an 
employment verification system that requires employers to 
electronically verify new hires within 18 months and all existing 
employees within 3 years. All of those things would have to be in 
place. The words are they would have to be ''established and 
demonstrated, that the Federal Government had operational control over 
the entire U.S.-Mexico land border.''


The amendment that is already part of the bill, the Gregg amendment, 
said the Director of Homeland Security would certify that. What I add 
with my amendment is it has to be concurred in, agreed with, signed off 
on by three of the four Governors on the United States-Mexico border. 
In other words, we pass the law with teeth--the teeth of the Gregg 
amendment and maybe more. I have suggested, and others seem to have 
agreed, what we ought to do is then fund the law. Either the President 
challenges us to pass an appropriations bill within 30 days after we 
pass the law, we do it ourselves, or we set up a trust fund--the way we 
do for highways and the way we do for Social Security, the way we do 
for anything else--and we say that money goes to secure the border, to 
fund these things. We pass a law with teeth. Then we provide the money. 
Then the Director of Homeland Security says the border is secure. That 
is the trigger. My amendment would say: The Governors of the border 
States, three out of four, have to agree.

The Governors of the border States are not in Washington, DC. They 
have not been infected with whatever is up here. They have not even 
been vaccinated. I have been up here long enough to be vaccinated with 
whatever disease is up here, and for that reason more Tennesseans trust 
the Governors than they do the Washington officials to solve this 
problem. If the Governors of California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas 
say yes, the border is secure, we agree with the certification of the 
Department of Homeland Security, I think that would be good enough for 
most Americans. That is the point of my amendment.

We need to put together a good bill that secures the border first. 
After border security, the other biggest problem is what to do about 
those already here illegally. I think that issue is less of an issue if 
most Americans believe we would pass a law that permitted the Border 
Patrol agents and the verification system to be done, that we would 
fund it and we would actually do it as certified by the Director of 
Homeland Security and the Governors on the border. Then I think they 
would be willing to accept different solutions for those already here.

But the week before last I voted for the amendment offered by Senator 
Vitter that would have sent the bill's drafters back to the drawing 
board on the question of what to do about the 12 million illegal 
persons, more or less, who are already here.

Senator Hutchison and Senator Corker have done some very important 
work on this issue, which I intend to support and to cosponsor. That 
amendment would require illegal immigrants, who want to work here, to 
return to their home countries and reenter through legal channels in 
addition to paying a fine and passing the criminal background check.

In addition to that, this bill should be about another subject about 
which we hear almost nothing, and that is the number of people who come 
here legally every year. A little more than a million people come into 
the United States each year legally. Today, if I remember the figures 
right, most are family members. Some come here as students. Some come 
here as researchers, to create jobs for us. Some come here as refugees. 
For those Americans who come here legally and who are prospective 
citizens, especially given the large number of people coming from 
overseas, we need to do everything we can to help those persons become 
Americans.

I have filed several amendments. They seek to promote learning 
English, our common language, and what it means to become an American 
through an understanding of history and civics. For example, one of 
these amendments will help these legal immigrants learn English and 
what it means to be an American, to codify the oath of allegiance, and 
to make English our national language.

Another amendment would ask the Government Accountability Office to 
provide a comprehensive report on the costs imposed on the public and 
private sector by having millions of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent 
residents who are not proficient in English. So far in this debate the 
Senate has already passed my amendment to establish a Presidential 
award to recognize companies who have taken extraordinary efforts to 
help their employees learn English and American history and civics.

Some may say that is not so important, we all agree with that. It is 
awfully important. If you take a look at Europe today and you see the 
difficulty France has helping immigrants become French, and that 
Germany has helping immigrant workers become German, and that Japan 
has--because no one has an idea of what it might mean to become 
Japanese if you are not born Japanese--you can see how fortunate we are 
in this country to have literally invented the concept of becoming 
American. We say it does not matter what your race is, it doesn't 
matter who your grandfather is, you come here, you take the oath George 
Washington gave his officers at Valley Forge and you say: I am not 
whatever I was. I pledge allegiance to America. I learned the language, 
I learned the history, and we have a few principles we agree on, and I 
am an American. I am proud of where I came from, but I am prouder to be 
an American. Race doesn't matter. Religion doesn't matter. We pride 
ourselves on that. It is a tremendous advantage we have, so we ought 
not lose sight of the importance of helping legal citizens learn 
English and what it means to be an American.

I have heard some talk that encouraging people to learn English is 
somehow divisive. I can't imagine that. In fact, it is the reverse. It 
is our unifier. It unifies us, to have a common language. It unifies us 
to know that the rule of law and equal opportunity are common 
principles.

We debate what that means, and often they collide and conflict and we 
have to work that out as legislators, but we all agree on the same 
common principles and we enjoy the fact we have a common language, so I 
can speak to the President, and I can argue with the Senator from 
Colorado or I can agree with him as we are doing on an Iraq piece of 
legislation right now. We have a common language.

So, common language, what it means to be an American, finding many 
different ways to honor these new citizens who come here legally--that 
ought to be as important a part of this bill as securing the border and 
creating a verification system in dealing with the people who already 
got here illegally.

Primarily I came to the floor this afternoon to let my colleagues 
know I have a suggestion for how to begin to regain the trust of the 
American people on this issue, and that is this bill should pass with 
strong new provisions for border security, with funding to pay for it, 
and with a trigger that says the legalization parts of the bill don't 
take effect for 2, 3, 4, maybe even 5 years, until the border is 
secure.

Then the question is how are we going to know if the border is 
secure? The bill says trust the Director of Homeland Security. I say 
ask him, pay attention to him or her, but also trust the Governors of 
the border States. Let three out of the four Governors, of California, 
Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas concur with the Director of Homeland 
Security that the border is secure before we begin the legalization 
process, and I think the American people might buy it, they might 
believe that, and we might begin to regain their trust, after 20 years 
of mismanagement, that we are willing to take seriously securing the 
border and establishing respect again so we can have a rule of law.



I yield the floor.