---
---

# SUPPORTING SPIRIT OF '45 DAY
## `3ec2773b36de29f5feec274d1bcbb226`
`Mr. BONNER — 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 226, 
supporting the observance of Spirit of '45 Day.

Madam Speaker, August 14, 2010, marks the 65th anniversary of the end 
of World War II. It was on this day in 1945 that the Japanese informed 
the United States that they had agreed to the terms of the surrender 
agreement, and after some six horrific years, the Second World War was 
over.

The Allied victory marked the culmination of an unparalleled national 
effort that defeated the Axis Powers, liberated oppressed nations, and 
ended the horrors of the Holocaust. The victory was achieved by the 
collective service and individual sacrifice of the people of the United 
States, both those who served on the front lines overseas, as well as 
those who supported them here at home.

Japan's surrender came some 3 years and 8 months after the bombings 
at Pearl Harbor, and marked the beginning of an unprecedented era of 
global rebuilding. The United States was the leader in this effort to 
not only rebuild the war-ravaged nations of our allies, but of our 
enemies as well.

Madam Speaker, during World War II, more than 400,000 Americans lost 
their lives in the ultimate act of sacrifice to our great Nation. The 
men and


women who were fortunate enough to survive and served so bravely, both 
on the home front and overseas, make up a generation that many 
Americans consider the ''Greatest Generation,'' a generation that has 
and continues to dedicate themselves to service and sacrifice to their 
communities and to our great country. This generation has promoted 
civic engagement and created numerous organizations and institutions in 
the post-war years that have truly made America and the world a better 
place.

Today, the sacrifice, courage and dedication of those who served 
during World War II still inspires those who wear the uniform and 
defend our Nation each and every day. The men and women in our Armed 
Forces who fight for our freedoms every day in Iraq, Afghanistan and 
all over the world are the children and grandchildren of those who gave 
so much in World War II. Undoubtedly, today's soldiers have been 
influenced and motivated by those who served during the great World 
War.

Madam Speaker, as we move further away from this historic 
anniversary, and with many of this generation passing away on a daily 
basis, it is so easy to forget both the sacrifices that this generation 
made during the war, and what they did after the war. America's victory 
catapulted our Nation to become the predominant world superpower, and 
allowed the children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of this 
generation to grow up in a more prosperous and safe country.

Like my colleagues and all Americans, I am truly thankful for the 
sacrifices endured by so many during the war and after August 14, 1945. 
And on the second Sunday in August, the proposed Spirit of '45 Day, I 
urge each and every American to reflect on the importance of this day 
and what it means to our country.

Madam Speaker, I strongly support this resolution and urge all 
Members to join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 226.

I reserve the balance of my time.