---
---

# FISCAL IRRESPONSIBILITY
## `3ed63a44694441f16a3225ddcb4bd87c`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. I want to thank the lady from Tennessee for her 
leadership in this and for her taking this late hour to come and be 
part of a group, the Republican Study Committee, that believes in 
fiscal conservatism, and are willing to stand up and fight, to be 
called names in this body. In fact, I think the lady and myself and 
others that have spoken here tonight have been called the fringe 
because we stand up and want to debate these issues and want to bring 
the truth to the American people. And to the lady from Tennessee, I 
just, you know, I think that we need to clarify to the people and let 
them understand what kind of position, not only us, but this whole 
House was put in today because less than 24 hours ago, at about 12:30 
this morning, this bill, over 3,500 pages was filed.



Now, I don't know about the rest of you, and I'm sure the gentlelady 
from Tennessee, but I was in the bed then, sound asleep, as I'm sure 
most people were. I got up this morning and got dressed and got on a 
plane and came to D.C., but the first time this bill was debated and 
just the rule on this bill was about 5:30 tonight.

So put yourself in this position. Your financial officer for your 
company comes in and hands you a bill like this and says could you look 
at this and let me know if this is okay to finance this company for the 
rest of the year, and I need to know by about 8 o'clock tonight. Now, I 
think it would be impossible for them to do it. I think it would be 
impossible for any of us to do that.

It's been impossible for us to take 3,500 pages, something that 
weighs over 34 pounds, and try to consolidate that into information 
that we can base a vote on. It's impossible.

Talking about $515 billion. Now, when I was in the Georgia 
legislature, our State budget for 9 million people was a little over 
$16 billion, and I thought I realized how much $1 billion was but it 
was not until a friend of mine, Naomi Morgan, sent me an e-mail today, 
in fact, and pointed out several things to me.

One billion, if 1 billion were seconds and we went back 1 billion 
seconds, we would be in 1959. 1959 is 1 billion seconds from right now. 
And when you're talking about that, we just got through


passing a $515 billion bill in less than 24 hours, that's scary, isn't 
it? And.

The other thing is 1 billion minutes, if we went back 1 billion 
minutes from now, Jesus would be walking the earth. Jesus would be 
walking the earth 1 billion minutes ago.

Sometimes we lose perspective. We've been up here too long when we 
just throw around the word ''billion,'' but we were asked today to vote 
in less than 24 hours on a 3,500 page bill, weighs over 35 pounds, and 
contained $515 billion worth of spending.

You know, that shows me that the process is broken, and when the 
process is broken, the product is flawed. This process has been broken.

Now, we were lied to or misled. I'd hate to think that they purposely 
lied, but I think they misled us and the American people, the majority 
party, on the first day when they talked about a new open process, a 
new bipartisan spirit. See, I represent about 700,000 people, as every 
Member in this body does, and those 700,000 people want to have some 
type of input into the situation, and you know, unfortunately, I've not 
had any input in this bill. There has not been any amendments to be 
allowed.

We could not look at all the 9,000 or so earmarks in this bill to see 
if they were justified, but I do want to tell the American people, 
because one of the things other than spending too much of their money 
has been illegal immigration. Now, that is a high topic, and I want the 
American people, and I think this is very important because every town 
hall meeting I have and I don't know about you, every town hall meeting 
I have, every teleconference I have, the hottest topic that we have is 
illegal immigration. Now, this should really at least let the public 
know the priorities that the majority party has.

$10 million in this bill in that 3,500-page bill over there, $10 
million of it went for emergency spending for defense attorneys for 
illegal immigrants. $10 million of that bill goes for defense attorneys 
in emergency spending for illegal immigrants; yet we did not fund our 
troops in Iraq one dime.