---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `3ed7b0858ba689c9148506401c3b7d68`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. I want to thank both Chairman Reyes and 
Ranking Member Hoekstra for their leadership and making sure we had a 
good bipartisan bill that benefits the people of this great country, 
the staff that worked so hard to make this happen on both sides of the 
aisle, and, in particular, the ranking member of my subcommittee, Mr. 
Rogers, for working together to make this a good bill.

Human intelligence, or HUMINT, is one of the most difficult but 
effective means of understanding our adversaries' plans and intentions. 
This bill adds funds improve HUMINT collection on counterterrorism and 
other critical national security challenges. It also adds HUMINT 
resources for global challenges, such as the political and humanitarian 
crisis in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The events unfolding in those 
regions demonstrate that we must always have the resources to 
understand these threats.

The information we collect, however, is only useful if analysts 
translate it into actionable intelligence for policymakers and law 
enforcement. For that reason, this bill provides resources to improve 
intelligence analysis across the entire intelligence community. It also 
authorizes additional personnel to support State and local law 
enforcement so they can better address the challenges of border 
security, counterterrorism and infrastructure protection.

And the bill also calls for fiscal restraint. As Mr. Rogers 
mentioned, since its creation in 2004, the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence has grown into a bloated bureaucracy that 
hinders, rather than facilitates, intelligence complexes and analysis. 
This bill adds an amendment that Mr. Rogers and I introduced in 
committee that prevents further growth in the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence.

Finally, Mr. Chairman, this legislation provides critical 
intelligence resources for our troops and strengthens oversight of 
intelligence support to the military. Many of us have visited our 
troops in Iraq, and we have seen firsthand that good intelligence saves 
American lives on the battlefield.

This bill will greatly improve our intelligence capabilities and 
enhance our national security. I urge all my colleagues to support it.

In closing, I too want to add my name to those who are very 
appreciative and thankful for our friends, Mr. Everett and Mr. Cramer, 
who did a great job on the committee. They were a pleasure to work for, 
they are fine Americans, and we are going to miss them.