# TRIBUTE TO ALLEN E. TACKETT WEST VIRGINIA AIR NATIONAL GUARD
## `3ee69dcfe4f46e106951939f5549ae61`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Madam Speaker, today I rise to give my congratulations 
to the West Virginia Army National Guard, under Adjutant General Allen 
E. Tackett, for being the special category winner of the Army Chief of 
Staff Army Communities of Excellence.

The ACOE Awards are presented every year to recognize excellence in 
performance for installation management. The award recognizes 
installation improvement, innovation, groundbreaking initiatives, and 
dedication to efficiency, and effectiveness. The award also 
acknowledges support to soldiers, non-military employees, veterans, and 
military families who reside on Army installations.

The West Virginia Army National Guard, which has 32 units, is 
currently supporting missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo. It has 
been rated number one in readiness for the past 11 years.

The West Virginia Army National Guard has proven itself to be an 
elite, efficient military force. I am so proud that they have won 
recognition for their outstanding performance. Among their peer 
installations they have gained notoriety for their work in defending 
the homeland, and serving the American people at home and abroad.

I want to take this opportunity to thank and honor my fellow West 
Virginians who serve in the Army National Guard as well as all branches 
of the military. Their bravery and sacrifice exemplifies the best our 
country has to offer.

I encourage them to continue their hard work and am confident that 
they will continue to impress our Nation.
