---
---

# HONORING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OMAHA  DISTRICT OF THE U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
## `3ee9f80b91327bf47db5a870c30c13b2`
`Mr. TERRY — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. TERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the establishment of 
the Omaha District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 75 years ago. 
Since that time, the Omaha District of the Corps has performed 
admirably in a wide range of duties, and today manages more than a 
billion dollars worth of civil works, military construction, and 
environmental restoration projects. Members of the Omaha District of 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers currently serve in Afghanistan and 
Iraq as part of the Global War on Terror.

When the Omaha District was established in 1934, its initial mission 
was the construction of the Fort Peck Dam in Montana. That project was 
the first of many that resulted in the construction of a total of 6 
dams along the main stem of the Missouri River that provided necessary 
jobs during the Great Depression. This was just part of the Corps' 
efforts to harness the mighty Missouri River basin through construction 
of a vast set of engineering projects


which control flooding, facilitate commerce by improving navigation, 
generate electricity, and spur agriculture. These projects evolved into 
a flood control system that has prevented over $25 billion in flood 
damages to date.

During World War II and the Cold War, the Omaha District of the U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers was involved in numerous aspects of our 
nation's defense. It constructed the assembly plant for the B-29 
Superfortress and the B-26 Marauder, and gained technical expertise in 
constructing runways which proved valuable for Army Air Force training. 
The Omaha District also was involved in the construction of the 
Northern Area Defense Command in Colorado, facilities for Space 
Command, and various missile control and launch facilities throughout 
the Midwest. Following the Cold War, the Omaha District helped lead on 
environmental remediation by removing ordnance from closed bombing 
ranges, containing below ground chemical plumes, and remediating 
landfills and wetlands.

In 1982, the Corps added environmental cleanup to its mission. Since 
that time the Corps has provided technical expertise to the 
Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund cleanup projects. In fact, 
the Corps' Omaha District became the Center of Expertise for Hazardous 
and Toxic Waste. Individuals trained at this facility have assisted in 
EPA environmental cleanup of projects in California and Pennsylvania. 
The Omaha District continues to take the lead in remediation of 
hazardous, toxic, and radioactive waste sites in current and former 
military sites.

For 75 years, the Omaha District has answered the nation's call for 
service. I commend the Omaha District Corps' continued commitment to 
military construction, improving civil works and environmental 
restoration both in Nebraska and throughout our nation under the 
current leadership of Colonel David Press. The Omaha District of the 
U.S. Corps of Engineers has earned the recognition of Congress on the 
celebration of the 75th anniversary of its founding.
