# DEMOCRATIC SMALL BUSINESS AGENDA
## `3ef35f6d06abefb31677e4d09fa525ae`
`Mrs. DAHLKEMPER â€” 16 March 2010`

---


Mrs. DAHLKEMPER. It is a great freshman class. We have leaders in the 
great freshman class who will take us to that future and to the future 
that those students are looking forward to. I want to thank you all and 
all of my freshman colleagues who have joined me.

I do want to share just a few examples of some successful small 
businesses from my district, the Third District of Pennsylvania. Ibis 
Tek is a veteran-owned small business located in Saxonburg, 
specializing in products and accessories critical to the defense 
industry. Ibis Tek designs, manufactures, and tests important equipment 
such as transparent armor solutions for tactical and security vehicles; 
radio and video communication for unmanned ground vehicles; and 
emergency rescue devices for quick vehicle access and rescue. It's one 
of the many companies in my district that are providing quality 
equipment to keep our troops safe. And for having been both in Iraq an 
Afghanistan over this past year, we certainly want to do everything we 
can to keep our troops safe. I'm just very proud that a company in my 
district is working on the latest innovation that's going to help do 
that.

Combined Systems is located in Jamestown. It's an engineering, 
manufacturing, and supply company of tactical munitions and crowd 
control devices globally that is given to law enforcement, corrections, 
and homeland security agencies. It is not only in defense that small 
businesses in western Pennsylvania are excelling. CCL Container in 
Hermitage is a leading manufacturer of recyclable aluminum products. 
They produce recyclable aerosol cans, aluminum bottles, barrier 
systems, and other specialty aluminum packaging. Since 1991, CCL 
Containers has been creating innovative solutions for product packaging 
that can be found in just about every home, from your beverages, 
cleaning products, hair products, and any number of goods that come in 
packages, using recycled aluminum, which is really great as we look to 
our future.

Just last December, a new small business came to Erie, Pennsylvania--
Donjon Shipbuilding and Repair. Donjon Marine Company chose our region 
to expand their business because of the strong manufacturing base and 
expertise that I know you have in your region in New York State also. 
They're a welcome addition to Erie's business community and to a 
revitalization of using the lake that we have in front of us.

Finally, I'd like to highlight a small business in my district that's 
been serving our community since 1876, Hodge Foundry. You're going to 
be excited about that because they're actually working in the wind 
industry producing the castings for those very large poles that go up 
to the windmills. With 130 years of expertise, they produce some of the 
world's largest engineered iron castings right in my home district in 
Mercer County.


Mr. Speaker, it's small businesses like these that build the products 
and create jobs that change people's lives and move our economy 
forward. We must act swiftly here in Congress to enact legislation that 
will help our existing small businesses grow and hire new workers. We 
must create pathways for startups and entrepreneurs to turn their ideas 
into those successful businesses that I just mentioned and my 
colleagues have mentioned tonight. Small businesses are our investment 
in our communities and our entire Nation. I urge my colleagues to 
support the robust and strategic Democratic small business agenda that 
will help our businesses gain access to capital, create jobs, and 
develop the technologies and innovations that will move America 
forward.



It's very exciting to be here at this point in our history. I think 
our freshman class is a big part of the forward movement in this great 
agenda that we have. So I thank my colleagues, and I yield the rest of 
my time.
