---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3f047d4a87f7b137be4f507a74504851`
`Mr. CASEY — 9 December 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, as we bring the 110th Congress to a close, 
our Nation confronts a daunting set of challenges. While we face the 
gravest crisis, perhaps, since the Great Depression, we must also 
remember that we are a nation at war. From Iraq to Afghanistan, from 
the Pacific to Europe and countless places in between, American service 
men and women are proudly carrying out their duties to protect our 
country and our way of life. Under stressful conditions and the 
constant threat of danger, members of our Armed Forces do what it takes 
to get the job done every day.

During this holiday season, I wish to take a moment to express my 
gratitude to our servicemembers. Their personal courage and honor 
should not be taken for granted but genuinely appreciated. I know that 
is the sentiment of the Senate on both sides of the aisle.

Today, on behalf of my family, the people of Pennsylvania, and people 
throughout the country, I thank the members of our armed services and 
their families, especially those who


gave, as Lincoln said, ''the last full measure of devotion to their 
country.'' To the families of those who have died or for those family 
members who are remembering those who are far away serving our country, 
in either instance, either by way of the loss of a loved one or because 
of distance, there is obviously a void in their lives. The words of the 
great recording artist Bruce Springsteen come to mind when I think of 
what these families are living through today. I remember the words from 
a song he wrote right after the 9/11 tragedy as he came out with a 
number of songs. One of them was ''Missing.'' Some of the lines from 
that song go as follows:



 When I shut out the lights, you're missing.


 When I close my eyes, you're missing.


 When I see the sunrise, you're missing.


I believe so many families feel that today. They know that someone 
who was in their lives, a member of their family, a son or daughter, a 
husband or wife who was among them and living and then went off to 
serve and lost their life, they feel that sense of missing a family 
member or a loved one. But even if they are just away for 6 months or a 
couple of months or even a year, they are missing, especially at this 
holiday season. So we are thinking of them today, those families who 
are living with that loss or living with that void.

So far, 190 sons and daughters of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
have sacrificed their lives during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Since the 
last time I paid tribute to those who have fallen, 21 Pennsylvania 
families have lost their loved ones. Today I would like to honor each 
of them by reading their names into the Record:



 Aviation Boatswain Mate 3rd Class Daniel Verbeke of Exton, 