# None
## `3f052a894daa759a02120204730dbeb9`
`Mr. SCHIFF — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the chairman for yielding, and I want to 
compliment him on all his hard work in bringing the bill to this point 
after a long, tough challenge for many years.

I rise in strong support, Madam Speaker, of H.R. 2701, the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

This long overdue bill is the work of a committee that has been 
diligently pursuing, for years, our national security. H.R. 2701 
addresses many vital areas and contains critical provisions that will 
assist us in combating the ever-evolving and emerging threats that our 
Nation faces, such as those emanating from the FATA in Pakistan, Yemen, 
the Horn of Africa, and Somalia.

In this bill, we've sought to provide the necessary guidance and 
authorities for the critical intelligence and intelligence-related 
activities of our U.S. military and civilian personnel in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and provide important support to address emerging issues 
in Africa, Latin America, and elsewhere.

I'm proud to say this bill also goes a long way toward bringing 
increased fiscal responsibility to the intelligence community. By 
reducing the cost overruns on our major systems acquisitions, the 
acquisitions provision of this bill will free up money to devote to our 
military and civilians combating threats and preserving our national 
security in Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and elsewhere.

This is a strong piece of legislation. It will make our country 
safer. I urge my colleagues to pass the bill and let us have an 
intelligence authorization act this Congress while we have so many men 
and women in uniform and out of uniform fighting for our safety and 
security.

I thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for your perseverance on this.

