# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL
## `3f087bc1f7b87e0471fa0f02c36c9cc5`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. President, I start by noting it has been a 
pleasure to work with Senator Lieberman, Senator Collins, Chairman 
Levin, Senator Gillibrand, and others in the effort to repeal this 
outmoded law.

I have spoken many times about the repeal of don't ask, don't tell 
and how it improves our national security, but I would like to make a 
few additional short points today before we take this important vote at 
10:30.

First, repealing this law is not about scoring political points or 
catering to a special interest group. Rather, it is about doing the 
right thing for our national security, especially during a time of two 
wars. Instead of turning away qualified interpreters, mechanics, 
infantrymen, and others, we need every able-bodied man and woman who is 
willing to fight for their country.

An exhaustive study by the Pentagon recently revealed what numerous 
reports have shown, that don't ask, don't tell can be repealed without 
harmful effects. In fact, what it shows is our national security will 
be enhanced by this repeal. That is one of the reasons our Defense 
Secretary, Robert Gates, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
Admiral Mullen, have strongly urged us to repeal the law this year, 
before we adjourn this week.

Second, the United States lags--sadly lags--behind the world's other 
top militaries which allow open service by gays and lesbians. Our 
troops fight next to servicemembers from many of these countries every 
single day. There is no evidence showing that our military operations 
in Afghanistan or Iraq are negatively affected by allowing gay 
servicemembers to serve openly alongside U.S. servicemembers.

Third, the vast majority of Americans support repealing this harmful 
law. As the Pentagon study showed, our servicemembers are complete 
professionals. They will comply with the repeal, and they will not 
allow open service to negatively affect the jobs they do.

Finally, if the Senate does not act to give the Department of Defense 
and the President the authority to end this policy, then we are leaving 
the issue in


the hands of the courts. Secretary Gates has said it makes far more 
sense to bring certainty to don't ask, don't tell through legislation 
rather than through lawsuits.

Let me end with the words of a Marine captain who wrote a courageous 
opinion piece this week that was in the Washington Post. He said:




 It is time for ''don't ask, don't tell'' to join our other 


 mistakes in the dog-eared chapters of history textbooks. We 


 all bleed red, we all love our country, we are all Marines. 


 In the end, that is all that matters.


I yield the floor.