# WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `3f19729d977d60c877e5ab9955f4a040`
`Mr. CUMMINGS â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Whistleblower 
Protection Enhancement Act of 2007, which I have cosponsored.

To say the least, this administration has not prioritized openness in 
government, and I was not surprised to learn that the President is 
opposed to the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act.

I am similarly not surprised to learn that the President and many of 
his colleagues here in the Congress have threatened that by affording 
our Federal employees whistleblower protections, we are also 
threatening national security. This administration has consistently 
used security threats to strike fear into the public's consciousness.

But let me be clear: Claims that the legislation we are considering 
here today would threaten national security are baseless. If anything, 
the opposite is true.

As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know how vitally 
important it is for Federal officials to be able to share their 
knowledge and their firsthand experience with the Congress. We now know 
that, going into the Iraq war, Federal officials at the CIA and the 
State Department were aware that the pre-war intelligence about Iraq 
purporting to show that the nation had weapons of mass destruction was 
wrong.

Thousands of Americans and Iraqi lives and billions of American 
taxpayer dollars could have been saved if these individuals had been 
able to share their knowledge with a Congress willing to listen to them 
and protect them from retribution. But, lacking whistleblower 
protections, they were afraid to do so.

Recognizing the critical need for Federal employees to communicate 
openly with the legislative branch, Congress in 1912 enacted the Lloyd-
LaFollette Act. And that act, which has never been repealed, by the 
way, affords all Federal employees, including employees at the national 
security agencies, the right to contact Members of Congress.

The statute states as follows: ''The right of employees, individually 
or collectively, to petition the Congress or a Member of Congress or to 
furnish information to either House of Congress or to a committee or 
Member thereof may not be interfered with or denied.''

The statute's language was intentionally drafted to be broad because 
Congress recognized in 1912, as we recognize today, the compelling need 
for Federal employees to exercise their rights to free speech.

But the law clearly does not go far enough. Consider the case of FBI 
Special Agent Bassem Youssef. According to a Washington Post article 
from July 18, 2006, an internal investigation conducted by the United 
States Justice Department concluded that Youssef, the FBI's highest 
ranking Arabic speaker, was blocked from a counterterrorism assignment 
in 2002 after he had met with U.S. Representative Wolf and met with FBI 
Director Mueller to discuss Youssef's complaints with regards to the 
way the war on terror was being conducted.

Mueller had approved a transfer for Youssef just days before the 
meeting, but it never occurred and Youssef was never informed of 
Mueller's decision, according to the report.

Investigators also said that the FBI has provided no rationale or 
basis for its failure to promote Youssef, although one former senior 
FBI manager said Mueller was appalled that Youssef had complained to a 
Congressman about his treatment.

Because of this retaliation, we lost 4 years of expertise for the war 
on terror from a highly qualified Arab American agent. Once the FBI's 
top Arabic translator, Youssef is now simply processing documents.

Under current law, Youssef cannot pursue legal action for the 
retaliation. The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007 would 
rectify this situation.

Congress has a mandate to oversee the functions of the executive 
branch to ensure that government runs as effectively and efficiently as 
possible, but we cannot fulfill this mandate if we cannot get reliable 
information, and we cannot get that information if people must put 
their lives and careers on the line.