---
---

# None
## `3f1b598ee38db85ad0017659e92fd8b9`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentlewoman's courtesy 
in permitting me to add my voice, expressing the appreciation to Mr. 
Loebsack and to the Iowa delegation for bringing this resolution 
forward commemorating the service of our friend and former colleague, 
Jim Leach.

The 30 years that we were privileged in this body to watch him at 
work, the words, the recitation to what Jim Leach did doesn't do him 
justice. He was dignified and principled, one of the few people who 
could navigate these Halls successfully without ever being mired in 
partisan politics, doing it his way, a way that was right for the 
country, if often difficult for him politically.

Just reciting the facts misses the quality of his service. Jim Leach 
predicted the savings and loan crisis. He was spot on in his 
observations about American diplomacy from the Middle East to North 
Dakota. I meant to say North Korea, probably North Dakota as well, as I 
think about it.

He, as an example of his principled nature, resigned from the Foreign 
Service in protest of President Nixon's firing of special prosecutor 
Archibald Cox.

In his congressional campaigns, he was one of the few people who 
refused to accept PAC contributions and out of State donations. He 
wouldn't run negative ads, and he tried to stop outside groups who were 
supporting him from, in turn, running negative ads.

In 1997, he refused to vote for Speaker Newt Gingrich because of deep 
ethics concerns. And while it was the right thing to do, as history has 
shown, it was a tough vote against a sitting Speaker in your own party. 
But it was an example of how Jim Leach operated.

He correctly predicted what was going to happen with our ill-advised 
adventure in Iraq with great clarity and force in committee and on the 
floor. And then he voted against it, again, at some difficulty for 
himself politically, particularly at that time. That wasn't the 
direction of the prevailing winds in his party or in the country.

But that's how Jim Leach was. He thought about issues. He analyzed 
them. He shared his analysis in his own thoughtful, understated way. He 
was usually right, and the congressional deliberations were better as a 
result.

I must say that I'm sorry that President Bush chose not to take the 
advice of dozens of Members in this body on both sides of the aisle who 
urged that Jim Leach be appointed as the U.S. Representative to the 
United Nations, a post for which he would be eminently well qualified.



I am confident we will see a new chapter in his distinguished career 
whether in the United Nations, perhaps in a new administration. As a 
friend, a colleague and an American, I look forward to whatever that 
next chapter is in Jim's career.