---
---

# None
## `3f2ec3d4c8eba0513c44ceaf82a0cc7c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I would tell you right now, and 
Members, I think it is important that we look at this for what it is 
worth. If I was thinking of the Iraq issue solely as a political issue, 
it would be let us go to the floor, Mr. Murphy, and as we talk, we meet 
in the 30-something Working Group, let us not talk about the politics 
of the Iraq issue. If this was about maintaining the majority as it 
relates to politics, Mr. Speaker and Members, if this was about 
capturing the White House, Mr. Speaker, we wouldn't come to the floor 
to talk about how we can work in a bipartisan way or come to the floor 
and promote leadership. And I think it is important that we promote 
leadership and move in this new direction and saying that we have to 
deal with the big issue of Iraq.

I get members of local government and State government saying, 
Congressman, I need more money in my city. You cut the COPS program. 
Your Federal commitment as it relates to dollars for health care, for 
security, for the environment, they are not there like they used to be 
there. And we put parameters on ourselves because we told the American 
people what we would do, pay-as-we-go philosophy or principles that we 
already passed, and we have this war going on and we have young men and 
young women. You have a lot of Reservists that are there that are 40, 
50 years old, that are away from their families 15 months at a pop.

We come to Washington, D.C., most of us, our families are back in the 
district and we are here and we are missing for about 4 or 5 days, but 
we get to go back home at the end of the week, unlike those men and 
women when they board that chartered flight. When they go over to 
Kuwait or fly straight into Baghdad Airport or end up in Turkey at one 
of our staging bases there, or end up somewhere else as they feed into 
Iraq, they don't get the opportunity to say, Hey, kids, I am going to 
be back in a couple of weeks. So I think it is important that we look 
at this issue and treat it with the serious attention that it needs.

So for the President to come here last night and say, give me an 
opportunity, give me an opportunity for my plan to work, well, let me 
tell you something. It is almost like looking in the refrigerator and 
seeing a carton of milk there and you take it out and open the carton 
and you say, wow, that milk is sour; let me put it back in, maybe it 
will be fresh tomorrow. That logic doesn't work. So it is important.


And I am glad to see some of our Republican colleagues and many of 
our Democratic colleagues that are questioning the President, before he 
can even leave the Chamber, about the speech, what he did not say in 
the speech, that did November 7 happen? Did you hear it?

At the press conference after the November election, he said, you 
know, I guess it did have something to do with Iraq. And some of the 
tough talk ended. And I just want to say if I can commend the 
President, he didn't come


with the chest-beating that he usually does, but he did go back to 
scaring the American people.

So I think it is important. There are issues we have to deal with. 
But I am on record, Mr. Speaker and Members, on the issue of being a 
leader, having the courage, and representing the people that have sent 
us to Washington, DC to be able to govern in this government. Give our 
men and women what they need in Iraq, but at the same time push forth 
diplomatic talks. At the same time make sure that we start not only 
discussion but redeployment of our troops more sooner than later, 
because that message would not only get to the Iraqi Government but 
also to the world community because we all play a role in this.

I see my good friend from Florida. We have served together, and she 
is the chairwoman on the Rail Subcommittee under the Transportation 
Committee. I am so glad she has joined us. Mr. Murphy has had so much 
to say on this topic, and I am so glad you are here on the floor.

I yield to Ms. Brown from Florida.