# ADDRESSING THE CONCERNS OF AMERICA
## `3f34c8fda92cd28983bb15ef00723e19`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 15 November 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I appreciate your yielding time, Judge Gohmert. 
Yes, on November 2 the American public, the American people, the 
American voters went to the polls and they voted. And it's a good thing 
that they vote, and we have the right to vote. As you mentioned, Judge 
Gohmert, the right to vote in this country is sacred. And we should 
always treat it that way to make sure that in all elections that the 
voting box and the voting ballot are sacred and only valid voting takes 
place anywhere in the United States.

I heard a lot of comments, as did many Members of Congress--probably 
all Members of Congress--during the recess before the election, and one 
of the biggest concerns was the runaway spending that the government 
seems to be addicted to. And it seems to be an addiction of spending 
somebody else's money--the taxpayers' money--people who work every day 
and go out and try to support their families.

One startling statistic, Mr. Speaker, is that for every dollar that 
the government spends on something, whether it's a good project or it's 
a worthless project, for every dollar the government spends, forty-two 
cents of that dollar is borrowed money. So we don't have the money. The 
bank is broke. And we can't print it fast enough. So we have to borrow 
the money. Forty-two cents on every dollar. Now that's kind of hard to 
understand how much that is, but that's a lot of money. Almost half of 
what we spend is borrowed money. But that forty-two cents amounts to 
approximately, every year, just on the interest payment of that forty-
two cents, $600 billion. That's with a B. Now we're talking about real 
money--$600 billion.

The war in Iraq I understand so far has cost up to $720 billion total 
for the entire Iraqi war. But yet just the interest American taxpayers 
have to pay on that forty-two cents is around $600 billion every year. 
And, of course, who does that money go to? It goes to our good friends, 
the Chinese, who own most of our debt. And there are other countries 
that we borrow money from, too. It puts us in a bad national security 
position when we have to go overseas and ask countries to lend us some 
more money. The American public, I think, is tired of those days and 
want the borrowing, the spending, and of course the taxes to all stop 
where they are. I hope Members of this body in January have heard the 
American people and that we get our house in order and we quit spending 
somebody else's money and reduce the size of government, get government 
out of our lives, and have government work for us instead of work 
against us, as so many people have said.

One of the other two things that I heard during the recess, or the 
break, before the election was the concern that people had about this 
lame-duck session, that we are now a part of the lame-duck session 
where we have come back and there's a lot of legislation that hasn't 
been addressed, and people are concerned about Members of Congress on 
both sides of the aisle who have been defeated still here to vote on 
legislation even though the public has not returned them for the next 
Congress. Maybe one thing that we need to do in future Congresses on 
election year, the Federal election year, the even year, that the 
session of Congress end on election day, therefore there is no lame-
duck session because Congress adjourns on election day and doesn't 
return until the following January. Therefore, we prevent some of the 
concerns that people all over the country have mentioned about people 
returning in both parties who have been defeated in their elections.

The third issue, of course, as you know, Judge Gohmert, in Texas, 
although the economy was the number one issue for most people in the 
United States, in our State the number one concern among voters was the 
lack of border security with our neighbors in Mexico. And we've heard 
all of the recent cases of Americans being murdered just on the other 
side of the border. And, of course, there are Mexican nationals that 
are getting murdered as well. And they're not all members of the drug 
cartel or affiliated with the drug cartel. They're just good folks 
trying to earn a living as well, but they get in the way of the drug 
cartels. And it seems to me that this is a national security issue. And 
people who say that the border is secure, I invite them to go with me 
down to the Texas-Mexico border and then you can make up your mind 
firsthand.


Of course, earlier we talked about the situation on Falcon Lake, this 
massive lake. Nobody is on the lake on either side of the border 
because it's not safe. The safest thing on Falcon Lake are the fish 
because nobody's out there fishing and those bass are probably getting 
rather large by now. And that's an unfortunate situation for not only 
Americans but Mexican nationals as well.

And we also now hear that we have the extortion racket taking place 
on the American side. There are reports that Americans of Hispanic 
descent living on or near the American border are being extorted of 
money to protect some relative they have on the other side of the 
border. And that protection racket is being run, we understand, by, of 
course, the drug cartels.

So you've got money and guns going south of the border and you've got 
people and drugs coming north of the border. And their operational 
control of the border is by the drug cartels. You see, the Mexican 
Government doesn't protect their border any better than we do because 
that's how come guns can get in. Of course, I don't know if the Mexican 
Government complains about the money coming south of the border or not. 
But either way, that money is illegally going back into Mexico by the 
drug cartels.

So what do we need to do? I think we ought to put more boots on the 
ground. The Border Patrol does as good a job as we'll let them do, but 
they need some help. It is a national security issue, and we need to 
put the National Guard on the border and allow them to do their job to 
prevent people from coming into the United States, especially the drug 
cartels, who have operational control of portions of the Texas-Mexico 
border and other portions of the border in Arizona, New Mexico, and 
California as well.

To show you how serious and how dangerous it is to be living or be in 
one of the cities in Mexico near the border, you've got in El Paso--and 
I don't know, Mr. Gohmert, if you were stationed at Fort Bliss or not--
but you have Fort Bliss in El Paso, Texas, a military base where our 
troops come and go from Fort Bliss to Iraq and Afghanistan. They go off 
to war in Iraq and Afghanistan. They come back to Fort Bliss, but they 
cannot cross the river and go into Juarez, Mexico, because it's off 
limits to people in the military. So we send our young men and women 
off to war, but they can't cross the river into our neighbor's country 
because it's too dangerous. And that's an unfortunate situation not 
just for Americans but certainly an unfortunate situation for Mexican 
nationals who just want to survive on their side of the border as well.

So it's become a national security issue. It is an issue of great 
concern to people along the border. And I hope more Americans 
understand how the border has become in places a place of really no-
man's land except for the drug cartels who shoot their way across the 
border and shoot anybody that gets in their way.

And I will yield back.

