---
---

# None
## `3f373643eb20ce8afc22d99a9b87eb3f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I think the Senator is well aware this President is not 
compelled to veto anything. As a matter of fact, the report the Senator 
refers to, which is due in September, will be coming in before this 
bill gets to the President. At least there is some hope the President 
will see what the Republican leader in the Senate saw a month ago. It 
was the Senator from Kentucky who a couple of months ago said: The 
handwriting is on the wall. There is going to be a change of course in 
September.

Now, why wait? We are losing men and women, our best and our 
brightest, our bravest, every day in Iraq. Those who return wounded 
will have a lifetime of recovery in many cases. We have record numbers 
of problems that have come up--post-traumatic stress disorder, we have 
traumatic brain injuries which are plaguing our troops who survive. 
Thank God we have great medical care on the battlefield. Why wait until 
September? The Republican leader said the handwriting is on the wall. 
There is going to be a change of course in September. There should be a 
change of course, not just in September, it should have changed a long 
time ago. But there is no way to change this course unless the leaders 
of Iraq do what only they can do, what their own Prime Minister said 
had to happen before the bloodletting of innocents ends in Iraq. They 
and they alone have it in their hands to work out the political 
settlement, which, according to their own agreement, was supposed to 
have been reached months ago.