---
---

# None
## `3f3ac8fffd3d5c9bc11918587461f43d`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I wish we had everyone sign off on every 
word in this resolution, but I think the Members ought to understand 
what this resolution does. It says to the State Department: don't go 
with a double standard. You can say publicly positive things about the 
Iraqi Government, but you can't say things that are honest that may be 
negative about them, and we are not talking about specific statements, 
but general statements as well.

Mr. Speaker, we are in a war in Iraq. Not everybody in this country 
is making a sacrifice for that war. But those who are being called to 
make a sacrifice are called to make the maximum sacrifice. They are 
giving up their lives potentially. The rest of us are paying through 
deficit spending billions and hundreds of billions of dollars.

But if we are going to ask people to give up their lives in this war, 
what we owe them is to know the truth, not propaganda, but the truth 
about what this Iraqi Government is doing that may enable them to 
accomplish the goal that we have said we wanted to accomplish in Iraq, 
and that is to reach out, to bring about reconciliation in Iraq and a 
government that has credibility for its own people.

If this Government in Iraq is so corrupt that our State Department 
won't even tell us about it, I have to wonder whether we can ask our 
brave men and women to risk and to give their lives to support that 
Iraqi Government.

I urge passage of this resolution.