---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `3f3bd11fbda4b4a9c932a608e3da23fd`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, this bill is moving along very fast, and 
I compliment the majority and minority leaders for allowing the process 
to move forward in a quick fashion, because we understand the outcome. 
The bill most likely will pass in its current form, maybe with some 
changes, but at the end of the day, it will be vetoed.

I was listening earlier in the day to Senators Hagel and Webb discuss 
an amendment they had proposed. I am not sure whether it is germane, 
but the two Senators, who do deserve the respect of everyone in this 
body because they have been in combat, they have been in harm's way, 
had an amendment talking about force structure, how you would change 
the rotations, and the concerns this war has placed on the military. 
Well, those concerns are real, and I understand what they are trying to 
achieve there.

The reason I wanted to speak before we went to final passage is I 
know why the veto is coming. There are two components to this bill that 
the President should veto the bill over: No. 1, the restrictions we are 
placing on our military, and the deadlines and the timelines and the 
benchmarks all add up to making it impossible for the new


strategy of General Petraeus to be successful, if it became law. This 
is a constitutional encroachment upon the power of the Commander in 
Chief which I believe is unprecedented. There is an honorable path for 
Congress to take; that is, just stop funding a war that you think is 
lost. But the combination of deadlines, benchmarks, timelines, and 
micromanaging troop rotations all adds up to Congress really taking 
over wartime activity in a way that was never envisioned before. I 
don't think any other commander is going to have to go through what 
General Petraeus would have to go through if we did pass this bill and 
it were not vetoed.

I have been a military lawyer for 20-some years. The combat folks in 
here have been in harm's way. As a military lawyer, I have had some 
clients who wanted to kill me, but that is about it. So my hat is off 
to the warfighters. I have been in a support role, and there are 
thousands of doctors and nurses and lawyers and other support personnel 
serving in Iraq, and they are very much needed. There is no front line 
in Iraq or Afghanistan, so my hat is off to all of them. But the 
warfighter's point of view is what we need to be thinking about.

From the commander's point of view, General Petraeus has been 
assigned to a mission. He has come up with a new doctrine. Even the 
worst critic cannot say it is not something new. It is clearly 
something new. Whether it works I can't promise, but I think it has a 
good chance and there are early signs of success. It is making up for 
past mistakes.

The President is going to veto this bill because Congress has come up 
with a constitutional construct that, if allowed to exist, I believe 
would create dangers for future Commanders in Chief and future wars 
that are just unnecessary. I know the political moment for Iraq is not 
popular. I know people are frustrated and upset and we have made tons 
of mistakes, but the biggest mistake would be to throw the 
constitutional balance we have enjoyed for 200 years out of kilter and 
try to take over this war in a way we are not built to take over as a 
Congress.

There is a way to cut off this funding. We just haven't chosen to go 
down that road, and I don't know why. If you think it is lost, then 
that is the road to go down.

The second part of the bill that has met with objection is the number 
of projects unrelated to the war--for lack of a better word, porkbarrel 
spending. And it may not be porkbarrel spending. Some of these projects 
are probably very worthy. I just don't believe this is the way to fund 
them.

The emergency supplemental appropriations process for the war is 
needed, but we shouldn't have an emergency appropriation. This war has 
been going on for 4 years, so hopefully next year we will not find 
ourselves in this spot. If we do not get the funds over to our 
commanders and into the DOD pipeline, then readiness is hurt, the 
ability to prosecute the war is compromised beginning April 15, and 
every month thereafter, it gets more difficult.

So the President is going to veto the bill for two sound reasons. The 
construct Congress has created is taking the Congress in an area we 
have never gone before that I believe would be devastating to future 
wars. It would undermine General Petraeus' ability to be successful in 
his mission. The spending practices this bill embraces is what has put 
Congress in such low standing with the American public.

Republicans lost for a reason. We didn't treat the process in a 
respectful way. Our Democratic friends, with some Republican help, are 
making the problem worse when it comes to fiscal matters. So I do hope 
that once the veto is rendered we can find a way to get the money to 
the troops who are desperately in need of it over time, and we can find 
a way to come together and give General Petraeus a decent opportunity 
to turn Iraq around.

I end on this note. What drives my thinking and what makes me 
disagree with Senator Webb and Senator Hagel--people who have 
experienced combat--is that I believe the outcome in Iraq is part of 
the overall war on terror. If we lose in Iraq--and I think this bill 
would ensure a loss if it ever became law--the ripple effect is 
catastrophic; the war gets bigger, not smaller. A failed state in Iraq 
is a huge loss in the war on terror. It compromises our national 
security for decades.

That is the way I see it, and I will take every vote in this body 
viewing Iraq as a central battlefront in the war on terror, one we 
cannot afford to lose.

I yield the floor.