---
---

# None
## `3f3cad15612cd766a36c235e6054995a`
`Mr. LEVIN — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, the colloquy which we will offer then at a 
later time refers to two changes that have been made, or will be 
offered to the amendment by the Senator from Delaware, modifying his 
own amendment, which he has a right to do.

The first suggestion I made, which he has readily accepted, is to 
make it clear the federalism that is being referred to in his language 
is the federalism in the Iraqi Constitution as it now reads or as it 
may be amended. In


the event that the Iraqis' constitutional commission makes 
recommendations on that subject, and if those recommendations are 
accepted by the people, it is their view of federalism, in the current 
Constitution or in an amended Constitution, the word he added being 
''final,'' that he is referring to. I thank him for that.


Also, I thank him for accepting language which makes it clear that 
the federalism he is referring to is a system of government that allows 
for the creation of Federal regions. The words that are now added, or 
would be added when it is modified are ''consistent with the wishes of 
the Iraqi people and their elected leaders.''

The reason I propose that is we have to be very clear that what the 
Senator from Delaware is focusing on is a Federal system which the 
Iraqi people either have adopted or will adopt. This is something 
consistent with their wishes, not ours. What we wish them to do is get 
on with their solutions, their political solutions. What the Senator 
from Delaware is so properly focusing on, and I think this Nation 
should be in his debt for it, is the potential of a Federal system as 
they designed it for addressing their problems.

We have seen the value of federalism here, but it is not our version 
of it that the Senator is talking about. It is the idea of federalism 
and how you are able to adjust powers between the central government 
and regions which has such potential for finally ending the violence in 
Iraq. He recommends it. We all, I hope, will support that as being a 
potential solution--not imposed on them but one which they have 
fashioned in their own Constitution, have adopted in their own 
Constitution, can amend in their own Constitution. That, it seems to 
me, is a very valuable contribution for which I commend the Senator.

He can offer, on our behalf, a colloquy at the appropriate time 
relative to the modification when it is offered.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.