---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `3f46e4cd9231946e6b37c2b287dfa371`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Scott).

Madam Speaker, I am proud to join my colleagues of the Blue Dog 
Coalition to demand more fiscal accountability in Iraq. You know, the 
Blue Dogs have a plan for fiscal accountability in Iraq. Our plan calls 
for four things, it calls for transparency on how the war funds are 
being spent.

Two, it creates an commission to investigate the awarding of 
contracts.

Three, it stops the use of supplemental supplementals to fund this 
war. Do you know that this is the first administration that has 
continually been using supplementals to fund a war? That is strange.

Number four, it uses American resources to improve Iraq's ability to 
police themselves.

Mr. Scott, I have been calling, on and on again, that it is important 
for us to turn the responsibilities over to the Iraqi people, let them 
be responsible for their own futures. Why should we be putting our 
soldiers lives on the line when over 60 percent of the Iraqis now claim 
that it is okay to shoot an American soldier?

But this is about accountability. This is about spending the American 
taxpayers' funds wisely. This is about the board of directors that 
America has selected and appointed to the U.S. Congress to do oversight 
on the taxpayers' funds that are being utilized to fund this war.

While the Blue Dog coalition legislation addresses the glaring lack 
of oversight and accountability in Iraq, we make sure that taxpayer 
dollars are accounted for. Government reports have documented waste, 
fraud and abuse in Iraq, time and time again.



I believe, Madam Speaker, that it is time now to stop that waste. 
Congressional oversight is desperately needed. The administration must 
be held accountable for how these reconstruction funds are being used.

And speaking about reconstruction funds, Mr. Scott, you mentioned 
just briefly about Halliburton. Well, I find it kind of strange that, 
you know, when they are needed most to help pay taxes so that we can 
actually fund this war, all of a sudden they decide to pull up stakes 
and move because they say their tax rates are too high. Well, to me, 
Mr. Scott, that is not being patriotic.

This Blue Dog bill is tangible. It is a commonsense proposal that 
ensures transparency and accountability. We have already spent $437 
billion in Iraq, according to the Congressional Research Service. We 
will spend another $100 billion in Iraq in 2007 alone. I think that we 
must start showing improvement in Iraq, and accountability leads 
directly to success.

You brought up a real point. It is almost as if someone reaches into 
your chest and jerks out your heart. I make regularly scheduled visits 
out to Walter Reed to visit our returning troops, and I meet with them 
and talk to them.

Their message is quite simple. They are there to do their job. They 
are proud to be Americans. They are proud patriotic citizens and proud 
to have served their country. And they tell me, do not let our efforts 
go in vain.

Well, I can assure you, Mr. Scott, that the Blue Dogs are committed 
to making sure that we stand by them and make sure that they have the 
equipment they need by holding this administration accountable.

It is amazing when you see our soldiers returning without arms and 
without legs and yet so strong and patriotic and talking about how 
proud they are to be Americans.

Well, Mr. Scott, it is time for the U.S. Congress to also say that 
they are patriotic and that they are proud Americans, and that they 
will stand by their soldiers. I think that Iraq must be progressing 
toward full responsibility for policing their own country. I think 
without progress it is a waste to continue U.S. investment in troops 
and financial resources. We all support our troops. We will do 
everything in our power to get them the equipment they need.

I have been in Iraq twice. The first time I was there, soldiers were 
complaining because they were out in the scrap piles looking for metal 
to build shields under the Humvees. And in many cases, those became the 
very instruments that cost their lives.