---
---

# None
## `3f50c8cf0a9d438061a35664063c64b9`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Well, here we go again. We've been here week after week 
after week and entertained amendment after amendment after amendment. I 
respect my colleagues for trying. Unfortunately, a majority of their 
caucus disagrees with them, as does a majority of Congress. These 
amendments keep coming up, and they keep getting defeated, and there's 
good reason for that, particularly with this bill.

Let me share some statistics with you, Mr. Chairman. I alluded to 
them before. Violent crime is increasing in the United States today for 
the first time in 15 years. In 2005, violent crimes increased 2.3 
percent. 2006, violent crimes increased another 1.3 percent. From 2002 
to 2005, Mr. Chairman, there were an additional 100,000 new meth users 
over the age of 12.

Now, there is a dangerous correlation, because at the same time these 
violent crimes are increasing, Federal investments in safe communities 
have been cut. From 2001 to 2006, funding for local law enforcement 
grants was cut 42 percent. This isn't just a cut in the rate of 
increase, this is a wholesale cut in Federal support for anticrime 
programs, 42 percent, from $4.4 billion to $2.5 billion. And not only 
is crime going up as a result of these Federal cuts, but local taxes, 
which in many cases are the most regressive form of taxation, are going 
up as well. Because the fact of the matter is that when you cut Federal 
law enforcement resources, the criminals don't go away. They stay on 
the streets. They keep robbing banks. They keep beating people up. They 
keep stealing. They keep conspiring. And so while the Federal 
Government has abandoned its commitment to keeping our streets safe, 
it's the local governments who are now responsible for trying to keep 
those streets safe. And so all this Federal cut is is a transfer of the 
obligation to local taxpayers. So what sounds like a cut on the Federal 
level ends up costing taxpayers even more and more to protect their 
communities.

Mr. Chairman, let's analyze some of these cuts while crime increases. 
Safe communities. This small group of Members, who disagree with every 
Republican on the Appropriations Committee who supported this bill, had 
no problem supporting a $90 billion tax shelter for the biggest 
offshore companies on Earth to protect their profits. We in this bill 
invest a fraction of that, $693 million, to add 2,800 police officers 
to our streets to protect our neighborhoods.

The State Criminal Alien Assistance Program. We can have differences 
on how to protect our borders. We all want to keep our borders safe, 
but if someone crosses our borders here illegally and then commits a 
felony, or several misdemeanors, and is arrested and incarcerated, most 
of us believe that the Federal Government ought to assume the financial 
obligation for incarcerating those people.

This small group of Members had no problem spending $14 billion on 
tax cuts for the biggest oil companies on Earth in the history of 
profit-making. We invest a fraction of that, $405 million, to reimburse 
local taxpayers for the costs of the incarceration of criminal aliens. 
What makes more sense to America?

The war on drugs. We learned in Iraq that you can't win a war when 
you underfund the troops. Well, guess what, Mr. Chairman. You can't win 
a war on drugs when you underfund cops on the streets. This small group 
had no problem spending billions and billions of dollars on Vice 
President Cheney's no-bid contracts. We invest a fraction of that, $40 
million, to fight illegal drugs with mobile enforcement teams; not 
mobile enforcement teams in Iraq, Mr. Chairman, mobile enforcement 
teams here at home.

Child exploitation. We fund 93 additional positions in U.S. 
attorneys' offices to fight child exploitation and enforce obscenity 
laws; 38 new positions in U.S. attorneys' offices to fight gang crimes. 
Gang crimes are proliferating. Gangs are a national problem. They cross 
not only State borders, they cross town lines and county lines and 
village lines. It requires a national investment to stop these gangs 
from preying on our children. We invest in stopping those gangs. This 
small group says, let's cut gang enforcement by 3 percent.

Domestic violence. We invest $430 million for the Violence Against 
Women Act for prosecutions. This small group says, we can protect the 
profits of big drug companies, we can protect the profits of 
corporations that register themselves at P.O. boxes in Bermuda, but we 
have to save the investment in protecting women from domestic violence?

Finally, Mr. Chairman, and this is the real kicker, to coin a phrase 
by my friend from Ohio several days ago, the war on terror. For the 
past 7 years, the FBI counterterrorist caseload has increased more than 
100 percent, from 1,150 to nearly 2,400. How do they make the argument, 
Mr. Chairman, that as the counterterrorist caseload is going up 100 
percent, we should shave resources by 3 percent to the FBI? I think 
most Americans understand that they can't go out and investigate 
terrorists, that that's the job of the FBI. We want the FBI to have 
those resources.

If there is money for oil companies, if there is money for offshore 
corporations, if there is money for Halliburton, how is it that we 
can't afford additional resources for the FBI in the global war on 
terror?



Mr. Chairman, I'll conclude by suggesting that this really is about 
priorities. And this is the debate we've had.


The sponsors of this bill have legitimate philosophies, and I 
understand their philosophies. Their philosophies are wrong.

They say government wants more of your money and that you should 
decide how to spend it. That's not true. They've spent the people's 
money on tax cuts for oil companies. We want to invest in COPS for 
neighborhoods. They've spent it on no-bid contracts for big companies. 
We want to spend it on investigators for the FBI. They spent it on 
protecting the profits of offshore companies. We want to invest it in 
protecting the safety of our neighborhoods.

That is why, Mr. Chairman, Republicans and Democrats, were united on 
this bill in the Appropriations Committee. Every Republican on the 
Appropriations Committee joined Democrats in passing this bill because 
it was common sense, the right investments, the right priorities. And 
that's why when this amendment is offered again on the floor for a 
vote, it will follow the same course and the same fate as every similar 
amendment before it. It will be defeated, not just by Democrats, but by 
Democrats and Republicans who understand that America would rather have 
their neighborhoods patrolled by more cops than have the offshore 
profits of companies at P.O. boxes in Bermuda protected by this small 
group of Members.

I yield back the balance of my time.