# COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `3f5da6991e76614b03cf7efc89dba02f`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 7 February 2008`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in 
strong support of the Johnson-Young amendment to expand higher 
education opportunities for the children of fallen soldiers.

Since the year 2001, more than 4,400 U.S. servicemembers have died 
during their deployment in Iraq or Afghanistan. Historically, war has 
cost America the lives of our sons and daughters. However, the soldiers 
serving today in Iraq and Afghanistan are not just single men; 40 
percent of the servicemembers in Iraq are married and 30 percent have 
children. The soldiers we have lost are not only our sons and 
daughters, but our husbands and wives and fathers and mothers.

As we reflect on the cost of this war, we must realize that many of 
these brave young men and women have left families and young children 
behind. These young men and women include Sergeant Paul Sanchez, a 
native of Irving, Texas, who was killed last January by an IED in Iraq, 
leaving behind a wife, a 12-year-old daughter and a 10-year-old son; 
and Second Lieutenant John Craver who was killed in October 2006 in 
Baghdad. A native of McKinney, Texas, he left behind a wife and three 
children. As well as Specialist Jessica Cawvey, who was killed in 
Fallujah in 2004. She was a 21-year-old single mother and left behind a 
6-year-old daughter. These are just a few of more than 2,100 children 
who have lost a parent in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The death of a parent is not only emotionally devastating for a child 
but often creates financial hardships for their family. The Johnson-
Young amendment offers financial assistance and access to higher 
education for children who lost a parent or guardian as a result of 
this war. It allows the children who have been left behind to have 
access to a maximum Pell Grant award. Through this Pell Grant award, we 
can offer a chance for a bright future for the children of those brave 
young men and women who gave their lives in the name of service for our 
country.