---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `3f65d97f2eb8e7fd3c06cb16568b029f`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. I thank the Chair of our Energy and Commerce 
Committee.

Madam Speaker, we have a health care crisis in our country. And the 
President vetoing the SCHIP bill has made bad policy based on bad 
information. We've heard it from the floor today from the minority.

The President should know we target low-income children below 200 
percent of poverty. The President should know that we focus SCHIP on 
children and phase out parents and childless adults that were allowed 
by this administration to be covered. The President should know that 
the bill covers 4 million children who are eligible for SCHIP but not 
enrolled. The President should know that we do not cover illegal alien 
children. It's frustrating, when we have a health care crisis in our 
country, that we can't cover the children.

When the White House asked Congress just recently for a special $190 
billion for the war in Iraq, over and above the hundreds of billions 
we've already spent, why can't we find much less than that for covering 
10 million


low-income children, parents who are working in this country?

We have a health care crisis, and the Republican minority and the 
President have turned their back on that crisis, especially to the 
children.

Mr. Speaker we have a health care crisis in our country. In vetoing 
our SCHIP bill, the President has invoked a bad policy based on bad 
information.

The President should know we target low-income children below 200 
percent of poverty.

The President should know we focus SCHIP on children, and phase out 
parents and childless adults that were allowed by his administration.

The President should know the bill covers 4 million children who are 
eligible for SCHIP but not enrolled.

The President should know this does not cover undocumented children. 
Under the President's proposal, 6 million of our children eligible for 
SCHIP would remain without health insurance.

And, an additional 700,000 children currently in the program would 
join them in the ranks of the uninsured.

If the President is so concerned about adults and middle income 
families in the SCHIP program, he should sign this bill which 
effectively addresses those concerns.

America's low-income children shouldn't suffer because the President 
can't get his facts straight.

More than 8 in 10 Americans support this legislation to expand SCHIP 
for children.

When the White House asks Congress for a special $190 billion for the 
war in Iraq, over and above hundreds of billions already spent why 
can't they find much less to cover 10 million low-income children.

This is the people's House, and it is our duty to override this veto 
and listen to the American people.