# None
## `3f66409f1b0535728356e4d0de509a30`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington â€” 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Act, and I thank Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member 
Wamp for their work in crafting this legislation.

As someone who represents tens of thousands of military veterans and 
their families, I believe that we have an obligation to provide them 
with the benefits and treatment they deserve for their years of 
service. This legislation accomplishes that by providing $109 billion 
for the Department of Veterans Affairs, a $14.5 billion increase over 
2009, when not factoring stimulus or supplemental funding.

It is estimated that the VA will treat more than 6.1 million patients 
in 2010, including more than 419,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
To meet this demand, the bill provides important funding for mental 
health programs, assistance to homeless veterans, and to improve access 
for veterans in rural areas.

The bill also provides vital funding to hire additional claims 
processors to support the Department's continued efforts to reduce the 
backlog of benefits claims. I believe these are two of the most 
important issues that we deal with, making sure that we deal with the 
PTSD issues which continue to be a significant problem and also to make 
sure that we have the services available to provide for the large 
number of wounded veterans who are coming back from our wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

I was also pleased to see that the committee included a provision to 
provide advanced budget authority and funding for fiscal year 2011 for 
medical-related accounts. This is a step to ensure that the VA health 
care system continues to receive a timely and predictable stream of 
funding without subjecting it to the delays that can arise due to the 
larger annual budget debates.

Again, I thank the chairman and ranking member for their work on this 
important legislation and urge my colleagues to support its passage.