# THE BUDGET
## `3f7606e87351957dfa8d2d0028f5c614`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Thank you, Mr. President. I wish to, once again, thank 
Senator Conrad and all the conferees who have worked so hard. I know 
Senator Gregg and Senator Conrad may have a different view on the 
budget, but certainly I appreciate our ranking member's professionalism 
in working across the aisle on so many issues and working to place this 
budget resolution, the final resolution, in front of us.

The chairman and the conferees are presenting the American people 
with a budget resolution that lays out the Nation's priorities and 
focuses on what we ought to be doing to improve our economy. We put 
together a budget, and as a member of the Budget Committee, I am very 
proud to have played a role in putting it together. I believe it gets 
it right. It is about our values and our priorities. It is about 
investing in our future as Americans.

Today we are saying our Nation's budget, which lays out our values 
and priorities, will focus on the economy, on jobs, and on the future 
of the country. I come from the great State of Michigan, where the 
issue of jobs is very serious and very real. People in Michigan want us 
to act in a way that is going to allow people to have a good-paying 
job, to be able to work hard, to be able to pay the bills and pay for 
the outrageous gas prices and the soaring costs of health care and the 
cost of college and food and all the other things that are squeezing 
families on all sides. They want to know they have an opportunity to 
work. We work hard in Michigan. People across this country, middle-
class families every day are working hard, and they want to know that 
our Federal priorities include creating opportunities for people to 
work, to be able to care for themselves and their families.

Let me first indicate it gets pretty old. You know, it seems the old, 
tired refrain comes from colleagues on the other side of the aisle. 
When in doubt, when you can't say anything about the economy under this 
White House and 6 of the last 8 years under colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle, when you can't say anything about soaring deficits, 
when you can't say anything about the inaction and unwillingness of the 
White House to work with us in a manner that will quickly respond to 
the housing crisis; when you can't say anything about any of those 
things, what do you say about Democrats? Well, it is the tired, old 
refrain of tax and spend.

I wish to remind my colleagues that this budget resolution is 1 
percent higher than the President's budget resolution--1 percent 
higher--and it returns to a surplus. In other words, we balance the 
budget in 2012 and in 2013. It is a 1-percent difference. What does 
that mean? This is not about tax increases on low-income or middle-
income families. This is not a budget that is focusing on adding costs 
to families. This is a budget that focuses on taking costs off families 
and valuing work and creating opportunity and investing in the future 
of our children with education, focusing on the things Americans want 
to see focused on. People in America are saying, what about us? We are 
seeing a war where we are spending $12 billion a month, unpaid for--
hundreds of millions of dollars that have gone into rebuilding roads 
and schools in Iraq, even though they have oil revenues and have not 
been contributing, as they should, to rebuilding their own country. 
People in America are saying, what about us, our roads, schools, and 
jobs in America?


That is what this budget addresses. We focus on the future and on 
making sure American families have the confidence that we are putting 
them first. Last year, Congress began fixing the fiscal mess caused by 
the administration's 6 years of neglecting the homefront. This budget 
continues that effort by focusing on what is most important to American 
families.

We have three priorities in this budget: jobs, jobs, and jobs. I am 
very proud of that.

Today, we are bringing fiscal sanity back to our budget, while at the 
same time investing in a plan that will create good-paying American 
jobs, including rebuilding our Nation's aging infrastructure, our 
roads, bridges, and other infrastructure--in other words, rebuilding 
American jobs, rebuilding America, with jobs that cannot be outsourced 
overseas--good-paying jobs, middle-class jobs--investing in America.

Promoting education and job training is so critically needed in this 
fast-paced, changing world we live in. There is also investment in the 
future of our energy economy. I am proud my green collar jobs 
initiative is a part of that. Let me speak to that for a moment. As 
part of our effort to create jobs and look to the future, I was very 
pleased that the Senate included my green collar jobs initiative, and 
that it is substantially intact as it comes out of the conference 
committee. We focused on 5 areas in the proposal that we put forward: 
energy efficiency, and conservation, jobs, weatherizing buildings, 
grants to State and local communities for energy efficiency, and 
conservation. We can immediately create thousands and thousands of jobs 
by doing the right thing on energy efficiency and conservation.

Secondly, there is advanced battery technology. When you come from my 
great State, where we are proud to make automobiles, the buzz word 
these


days is ''batteries.'' If we are going to compete and meet our mandate 
on fuel efficiency and move away from dependence on foreign oil, we 
have to be investing in advanced battery technology. Right now, China, 
Japan, and South Korea are ahead of us. When Ford Motor Company decided 
to make their first hybrid SUV--and I am proud they did that--they 
could not find a battery in America. They had to buy that from Japan. 
With all of the American ingenuity and the smart people we have, we 
have not been investing in advanced battery technology.

Last year, the President's budget had something like $22 million in 
it versus the hundreds of million around the world. Our plan that we 
passed here in the Senate had $250 million in investment in advanced 
battery technology to make sure we can do the plug-ins, and that GM can 
quickly move on this technology, and Chrysler is investing in hybrids 
and other technology, so our companies can compete globally because 
America invests in our technology.

Retooling older plants. We don't want to say come over and we will 
build you the plant. We want to keep the jobs in America.

As to biofuel production and access, we know we have spent a lot of 
energy on biofuel production.

Infrastructure and assets are very important. It is great to make the 
fuel. We want to grow it in Michigan--and we are--but if you cannot buy 
it at the pump, it doesn't do much good. This focuses on that as well.

Finally, green job training programs, to create new opportunities. 
That is what this resolution is all about--value work and looking to 
the future. This budget provides, as well, $2.5 billion more than the 
President requested for transportation accounts for rebuilding America. 
It fully funds the highway and transit programs authorized by the 
highway bill and includes funding for airport improvement--all things 
that help us and our communities create safer ways to be able to move 
around, whether it is airports or roads or whether it is commerce or 
families going on a vacation or going back and forth to work. These are 
investments in America. It is about creating good-paying jobs.

The Department of Transportation estimates that for every $1 billion 
in highway spending, you create 47,500 good-paying middle-class jobs. 
This budget recognizes that. It also creates $2 billion in economic 
activity for every $1 billion we invest in infrastructure.

I am glad to see, for the benefit of our country and our families, 
that the conferees have also invested in other important areas related 
to education and job training for the future. This is absolutely 
critical for us.

This budget resolution reflects the values and priorities of the 
American people. It makes sure we are rejecting the President's efforts 
to eliminate the COPS program. We want to keep our families safe in 
their communities, with our children being able to play in parks and on 
the streets, and know that we have community police officers available 
to help keep them safe. Then there are the Byrne grants to help our 
first responders, the firefighters and police officers.

We also, I am proud to say, keep the promise we began last year to 
fully fund veterans health care as a major priority for our country.

So there is a lot to celebrate in this budget. On top of the new 
investment and new priorities and changing the way things are done, 
these investments are paid for because we are following what is called 
the pay-go rules, which helped balance the budget back in the 1990s and 
brought us into surplus at the end of the last decade.

We cannot mortgage our children's future, as the administration has 
done, with soaring deficits and record spending that is not paid for. 
Instead, we invest in our children's future, in our families, and we 
balance the budget by 2012.

Again, I congratulate our chairman for his tenacity, his passion, and 
his commitment to doing the right thing, doing it in a fiscally 
responsible way. We have all worked so hard to lay out a vision of 
America that is about jobs, about the future, about investing in 
America. It is time we did that. The American people expect us to do no 
less.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.