# KINGWOOD CIVILIAN SERVES ALONGSIDE THE TROOPS IN IRAQ
## `3f851ed9fe7bef863a0a5620e7615a0d`
`Mr. POE — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, Linda Shafer Mehrmann, of Kingwood, Texas, 
has recently returned from Iraq not as a member of our armed forces but 
as a civilian contractor. She has spent much of her previous working 
career in fine jewelry sales. Instead of being in an air-conditioned 
building, surrounded by diamonds and jewels, two years ago she decided 
to go to a land of sand and rocks in order to support our troops.

In 2004, she was attending a job expo with her brother who was trying 
to get a job as a truck driver in Iraq. While she was waiting for him, 
a job recruiter struck up a conversation with Mehrmann and described a 
unique company position that she might be interested in because of her 
outgoing personality.

After discussing the position further and thinking about it for a 
week, she decided to become a Morale Welfare and Recreation Coordinator 
in Iraq. Even though she was a civilian, she worked alongside our 
troops in Balad, Iraq working 12 hour days 7 days a week. Her duties 
included operating a recreation center and a workout area for the 
troops.

She wanted to go to Iraq during Christmas because she felt that this 
would be a difficult time for the troops that were away from their 
families. While the troops defended our Nation's freedom in war, 
Mehrmann's job was to lift their spirits and be an inspirational force 
in their lives in Iraq.

She boosted morale by writing what she called, ''love notes'' to the 
soldiers which were small pieces of hot pink paper with inspirational 
quotes typed on them from a quote book. The notes were placed in an 
aluminum coffee can for anyone to reach in and take. At first, the 
macho soldiers were reluctant to accept the love notes from the 54-
year-old grandmother of four, but after the first person took one the 
popularity of the notes quickly took off.

Her quotes became a commodity on the base and were sought by many 
from privates up to generals. The quotes became so popular that other 
areas of the base created their own quote cans and quotes even started 
to appear on the menu board of the mess hall.

She also distributed stickers and match box cars to the troops which 
they greatly appreciated and sent to their children in the U.S. The 
small gifts made a huge impact in brightening the day of the troops and 
their children were glad to receive a gift from their faraway parent. 
Some of her other activities on the base included hosting pool 
tournaments, talent shows and Texas Hold'em tournaments at the 
recreation center.

When she returned to the U.S. after two years, Mehrmann decided to 
create a support group for those that have returned from Iraq and for 
those that have friends and family overseas. The group Combat Zone Here 
and There meets once a month in a local church in Kingwood so that 
servicemembers and their families can discuss their Iraq War 
experiences at home and abroad. When Mehrmann describes the activities 
that other civilians like her do to boost morale with the troops, she 
said it helps put the friends and family of our servicemembers at ease.

Her job as a civilian support member brought colorful life to troops 
living in a land of brown sand and rocks. She turned a gym for the 
troops into a comfortable home away from home. Mehrmann said that she 
didn't go to Iraq for political reasons, but to share random acts of 
kindness with the troops.

I salute Linda Shafer Mehrmann for her bravery and willingness to 
assist our Nation abroad during a time of war. Her courage and support 
of our troops is an inspiration to us all. And that's just the way it 
is.



