# REMEMBERING SENATOR CRAIG THOMAS
## `3f936aa1f47d3a8463559ecb1db6324f`
`Mr. BINGAMAN — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. BINGAMAN. Madam President, I appreciate the opportunity to say a 
few words about Craig Thomas. He was a friend of mine and of all of us 
in the Senate. His death is a shock to this institution and to all of 
us. I heard the news this morning on the radio, as many of us did, I 
believe, and I was genuinely shocked to hear that he had died. My last 
encounter with him was the week before we had our recess where I had 
the chance to be with him in the Energy Committee, and he was there and 
very much participating in that committee hearing. He had a great deal 
to say, as he usually did, and an interest in what was going on.

I think the first thing that comes to my mind about Craig is that he 
was an example of courage in the face of adversity. I have seen several 
interviews recently where I was very admiring of Elizabeth Edwards and 
the tremendous example she is presenting for the entire country about 
carrying on in the face of adversity after having been diagnosed, as 
she has been. I think the American people appreciate that, and 
understandably. I appreciate it, and I am sure everyone who is aware of 
her circumstance appreciates it greatly.


The same can be said about Craig Thomas. Craig was diagnosed with 
leukemia shortly before his reelection this last fall, and I think 
everybody had to know that this was not a minor illness that was easily 
overcome. Craig took it in stride. He was here working in the Senate. 
He went through the chemotherapy and he was back, regaining his 
strength, and all of us admired that. All of us admired the way he 
faced that adversity, and he did all that he could, all that was 
humanly possible, to overcome that adversity.

I had the good fortune to serve with Craig on two committees, 
including the Energy Committee, where he was chair of the National Park 
Subcommittee. He took a great interest in issues affecting not only 
national parks but our public lands generally and, of course, our 
energy issues as well. I also had the good fortune to serve with him on 
the Finance Committee. The chairman of the Finance Committee this year 
appointed a new Subcommittee on Energy and Natural Resource Tax Issues. 
I was fortunate to be named chair of that, and Craig was named as the 
ranking member. So he and I spent a lot of time together, both in the 
Energy Committee and in the Finance Committee, sitting in hearings and 
talking about the agenda of the committees and generally interacting.

I had the other great good fortune of taking a trip last year that 
Senator Warner and Senator Levin sponsored--a trip to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, in April of 2006, with Craig Thomas. Craig and I were both 
invited to be on that trip. So I spent time with him and interacted 
with him in Afghanistan and in Turkey, where we made a short stop, and 
also in London, where we met with some British defense officials.

Three things came through to me that I think are my recollection of 
Craig Thomas: First, his decency as a human being. When you are with a 
person for a substantial period of time, you get a sense of their 
decency as a human being. I have spent a lot of time with Craig Thomas 
in this Senate and on that trip to which I just alluded. I can vouch 
for his basic decency. He was always considerate, always civil, always 
concerned about the feelings of others and the reaction of others.

The second characteristic I would allude to is his ability to ask 
tough questions. Craig liked to think of himself as a conservative. I 
would characterize him, as much as anything, as sort of a skeptic. 
Whenever the experts were telling us what the solution to a problem 
was, or what their analysis of a problem was, he was one who would 
stand back and say: Wait a minute, let's question some of that expert 
advice and expert analysis that you are giving us. That is very much 
needed by people in public office. You need people who will ask the 
tough questions, and Craig Thomas asked the tough questions.

Third is the characteristic that others have spoken of here--that he 
was a straight shooter; he was straightforward in his view of the 
issues. You didn't have to guess what Craig thought about an issue. He 
would tell you, and it was a heartfelt view that he was expressing. So 
this is a very great loss to this Senate, to the people of Wyoming, and 
to the country. I consider him to have been a superb public


servant. The people of Wyoming were extremely well served by him, the 
country was well served by him, and this Senate was well served by 
having him as one of our distinguished members.

I extend my condolences to Susan and the family and, of course, to 
all of the people who are friends of his in his home State. He will be 
fondly remembered in this Senate.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.