---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `3f9dd226c990ed7d700e4719584b946c`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join the distinguished 
Senator from Hawaii, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, in 
presenting this supplemental appropriations bill to the Senate. The 
central purposes of the bill are to fund the military and diplomatic 
surge in Afghanistan, to respond to natural disasters in this country 
and in Haiti, and to address the immediate challenges we face from the 
oilspill in the Gulf of Mexico.

It has been 5 months since the President announced his strategy to 
achieve stability in Afghanistan. Central to that strategy is the 
addition of some 30,000 troops into the theater, together with a 
significant increase in aid and diplomatic resources to the region. 
Congress has the responsibility and the duty to carefully review and 
consider the President's request for these supplemental appropriations 
and approve the expenditure of the funds that are necessary for a 
successful outcome, one that serves the interests of the United States.

We must be mindful, however, that more than half of the additional 
troops called for in the President's plan have already arrived in 
Afghanistan. Spring and summer offenses are being mounted now and in 
the coming months will become critical to our chances for success. It 
is also important that we act on the President's request in a timely 
manner. We should not procrastinate or drag our feet. We should not 
force the Pentagon to juggle accounts, delay procurements, and 
otherwise take actions that will detract from our efforts in the field.

The committee has spent several months, as the distinguished chairman 
pointed out, carefully examining the supplemental request made by the 
Department of Defense and the State Department. Secretary Gates and 
Secretary Clinton have testified before the committee in support of 
these requests. The committee members and staff have met with other 
government officials and outside groups to refine the committee's 
recommendations.

While this bill includes many of the supplemental requests made by 
the President, some of his proposals were deemed premature, 
unwarranted, or inappropriate for inclusion in an emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill. The committee also heard from both 
Democratic and Republican Senators about urgent needs not addressed in 
the President's supplemental request. The chairman and I, as well as 
the various subcommittee chairmen and ranking members, have worked to 
address those needs. We have limited the total cost of the bill to the 
amount requested by the President, and we have kept the bill focused on 
its central purposes.

In some parts of the country, recent natural disasters have left 
communities in desperate need of Federal assistance, but with flood 
waters still receding and damage assessments not yet complete, it has 
been difficult to respond to all of the requests we have received. The 
chairman and I will continue to work with Senators representing those 
communities to see that the Federal response is appropriate and 
addresses the most critical needs.

For those of us who represent the gulf coast region, our States are 
dealing with a different kind of disaster. While it is not a natural 
disaster, it is a very serious event that will have very serious 
consequences for the natural environment as well as for local economies 
throughout the region. We cannot predict now and we cannot now know 
what the long-term impacts of this spill will be. While the Federal 
Government is intimately involved in the response and cleanup efforts, 
clearly the parties responsible for the spill must bear the ultimate 
cost of cleanup and associated damages. The President submitted an 
oilspill supplemental proposal 1 day prior to the committee's 
consideration of this bill. The proposal contained funding requests 
prompted by the spill but not directly tied to the Deepwater Horizon 
event. It also included broader policy proposals that would restructure 
the oilspill liability regime currently in place. The committee has had 
very little time to review these proposals. We have decided to 
recommend funding only items that are within the committee's 
jurisdiction that will address urgent needs.

We do not suggest that the committee has arrived at the perfect 
solution. There may be other proposals that should be included in this 
legislation. There may be recommendations included by the committee 
that should be reconsidered based on additional analysis. I look 
forward to working with our colleagues from the gulf coast and all 
Senators to address this unfortunate event.

During consideration of this bill in committee, several members 
identified additional funding needs or policy matters they intend to 
raise during floor debate. Members not on the committee will surely 
have amendments as well, and we look forward to working with all 
Senators to improve this bill where we can. But it is clear that adding 
additional costs to this bill will exacerbate our Nation's fiscal 
imbalance and potentially jeopardize our ability to rapidly get needed 
resources to our men and women in harm's way in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
in other parts of the world. This bill recommends $46 billion in 
discretionary appropriations and another $13 billion in mandatory 
funds. No matter how important the purposes, that is a significant 
amount of money. I expect amendments will be offered to offset some or 
all of these costs.

The disaster relief fund of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
is currently allocating funds for immediate needs only. The fund owes 
more than $1.5 billion to States for projects already approved to 
assist communities recovering from disasters. Going into hurricane 
season, the fund has less than $900 million available to respond to 
disasters. One way or the other, we must take action to capitalize the 
fund.

We also must act with a sense of urgency to provide the resources 
needed to succeed in Afghanistan and Iraq. We should consider those 
requirements carefully. But I believe we will poorly serve our men and 
women in the field if we allow internal tactical battles to unduly 
delay delivery of a bill to the President, or if we burden this bill 
with other costs or legislative matters that are unrelated and 
controversial.

I thank the distinguished Senator from Hawaii and able members of his 
staff for their work on this bill and moving it to this point through 
the committee. I hope our colleagues who have amendments will contact 
us so we can help arrange for consideration of those in a timely 
manner.

I yield the floor.