---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `3f9fc0da4ca971f711f3a865d4d3c8bc`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Will the gentleman yield for one moment, and 
don't you agree, there is such a thirst on the part of the American 
people for their confidence to be restored in this process, that was 
what was evident in last fall's election, that nobody is saying cut and 
run, nobody is saying that you will be unpatriotic if you speak to 
this. They want us to speak to this. They want us to do our job, and I 
think that is what you were pointing out in your remarks.

One of the two points I wanted to mention too that you alluded to in 
our House Resolution 97, that I would like for you to be able to expand 
upon, and that is that the American people need to know that in this 
bill we will require the inspector generals of the Defense Department, 
of the Pentagon, to come before this Congress quarterly, not once a 
year, every 90 days, quarterly, to make reports on how the money is 
being spent.

Never again, never again, will our veterans be suffering in the 
condition


that our veterans are suffering now. The American people are appalled 
at that. They want some transparency. They want some accountability.

You talked about earlier, we talked about Halliburton. We talked 
about the abuse, the contracting. In this bill, we have made sure that 
the Inspector General for the Iraqi Reconstruction Program comes before 
this Congress and gives quarterly reports on how that money is being 
spent, no more waste, no more fraud, no more war profiteering. The 
shame of the neglect of oversight is going to be rectified with this 
bill.

I yield back to the gentleman.