# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `3fa5e379a3f40daed0e87b153831b691`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, we often hear from our 
friends on the right that when the Democrats question the war or the 
strategy in Iraq, we are disheartening our troops and emboldening the 
enemy. I guess it doesn't matter that there are many Republicans who 
also ask the same questions about the war. This attempt by the right to 
use fear and shame to quiet the administration's critics is distasteful 
and, I believe, hurts America.

Those on the right who take the argument further, suggesting that 
folks who don't agree with the administration's policies and don't keep 
their views to themselves are being un-American, really saddens me. It 
saddens me because it seems like those on the right are trying to 
discourage the very actions that led to the founding of our Nation, the 
very actions that allowed the United States to continue evolving toward 
the never-ending goal of a more perfect Union.

Our country derives its strength from the diversity of views and 
ideas that come from its people. If one idea isn't working, then 
someone has the freedom to suggest another idea that is different and 
might yield different results. In my opinion, the ability of the 
American people to discuss differing ideas gives our Nation great 
strength.

Additionally, I believe that when Iraqi people see Americans 
exercising their right to freedom of speech, the Iraqi people are not 
disenchanted by their prospects, but rather they are inspired to have a 
country as free as ours. They see our freedom as a beacon of hope for 
what their nation could become some day.

Frankly, it is the freedom we enjoy here that scares the enemy over 
there so much, because they know that once the people taste freedom, 
they will demand it for eternity for themselves. So we should not 
stifle our freedom here for fear that it may be negatively impacting 
the war over there, which I seriously doubt it is.

Furthermore, if the actions of Senators of both parties and House 
Members of both parties embolden the enemy, then doesn't public opinion 
also embolden the enemy? Since polls show a large majority of Americans 
disagreeing with the administration's policy in Iraq, not the war, the 
administration's policy in Iraq, if this is the case, then why don't we 
see those on the right condemning the American people for expressing 
their views and emboldening the enemy? It is because probably 
politically they know they can't criticize the American public. It is 
because it is easier to take pot shots at politicians than at everyday 
men and women in American society.

Additionally, if the actions of the Senate and the House and American 
public embolden the enemy, then I think we need to take a look at the 
administration. I quote: ''Such statements give a morale boost to the 
terrorists,'' Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Malaki, on remarks of the 
Bush administration describing the Iraqi Government as being on 
''borrowed time.'' In essence, the Prime Minister of Iraq is accusing 
our President of emboldening the enemy by making such a statement.

I contend that the American people love America, that Democrats love 
America, that Republicans love America and that President Bush loves 
America. I contend that we all love America, and that the discussion 
everyone is having on Iraq right now is not an extension of their love 
for America, because we all want what we think is best for the country. 
We want success and we want security. If only we also wanted civility 
in Washington.

I know that once folks cross into the District of Columbia or read 
about something in Washington, it seems there is something triggered in 
their brains and our rhetoric is raised to a sensational point. We need 
to stop and ask ourselves, is this rhetoric helpful to the end goal, or 
just hurtful?

There certainly have been plenty of failures in Iraq and there is 
plenty of blame to spread. We should have sent in more troops, some 
say. We should have not disbanded the Iraqi Army. We should have kept 
better track of how our taxpayer dollars were being spent. We should 
have squashed the militias before they built a strong following, some 
say, and on and on.



I will tell you who has not failed: Our soldiers on the ground. The 
American soldiers won in Iraq. They defeated Saddam's Army, deposed a 
dictator and tore down the statue. They gave the country to the Iraqis.

Sadly, in my opinion and many others, the leaders in Washington have 
failed our soldiers because those in charge of Iraqi policy have been 
weak in dealing with the new Iraqi government, have not pushed them to 
find political solutions to the problems they face. The lack of 
political structure in Iraq falls squarely on the shoulders of the war 
planners, and I for one will not let the reputation of our fighting men 
and women be tarnished by the miscalculations of those in charge.

The question now must be, what are the next steps to bring success 
and security? That is our goal, is success and security.

The Blue Dog Coalition has drafted a resolution that can help us 
along our goals towards success and security. House Resolution 97 would 
improve our accountability in Iraq so we can make sure our taxpayer 
dollars are being spent wisely and going where they are needed to 
achieve success.

In my opinion, this resolution is the first step of many steps down 
the path to stability and success in Iraq. I, for one, stand with our 
military men and women, ready and able to walk down the path of success 
with them.

Thank you, Mr. Speaker.