---
---

# None
## `3fa81893092849ca9db638c6ee26ea64`
`Mr. FOSSELLA — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. FOSSELLA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor COL Tracey 
Nicholson, an American patriot and proud soldier in the United States 
Army, as she leaves her command at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn, New York, 
and assumes her new position as the Secretary of the Combined Joint 
Staff for the Multinational Force Iraq under General Petraeus.

Colonel Nicholson has distinguished herself as both the first African 
American female to command an installation within the continental 
United States, and as the first female commander of Fort Hamilton, the 
183-year-old historic installation located in southern Brooklyn. Her 
leadership and driving personality were crucial in the continued 
improvement of both military and community programs throughout the 
city.

During the most recent BRAC I had the opportunity to work closely 
with Colonel Nicholson in preserving Fort Hamilton when it was under 
consideration for closure and was impressed with her intelligence and 
commitment to the only active duty military installation in New York 
City. These traits will serve her well in her next duty assignment.

Madam Speaker, during her tenure Colonel Nicholson has implemented 
numerous programs that have led to upgrades in both base infrastructure 
and facilities; improved housing programs and services for those 
serving at Fort Hamilton; as well as expanding support for veterans and 
retirees throughout the entire New York City area. The energy she 
brought to her work each and every day will certainly be missed.

As much as it pains me to bid Colonel Nicholson farewell as she 
answers the continued call to service, I will sleep easy knowing that 
we have soldiers of her caliber protecting our Nation. While her 
presence in our community will be greatly missed, her efforts on the 
staff of General Petraeus will surely add immeasurably to our Nation's 
mission in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I hope our colleagues will join me in offering our 
best wishes to Colonel Nicholson as she assumes her new position as 
Secretary of the Combined Joint Staff for the Multinational Force Iraq, 
and wish her continued success in an already distinguished career.
