# SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF OPERATION IRAQI FREEDOM
## `3fa969d3ecfd9e7f86c7d4ba83a2ee67`
`Mr. INHOFE — 19 March 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, today is a very significant day. Right 
now we are actually looking at the sixth anniversary of the Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. We sometimes have forgotten about the butcher from Iraq 
and how bad that was. I had personal experience during the first Gulf 
War of being there and seeing some of the things that went on, the 
horrible torture and the things that this particular dictator had done 
to that country. When we went in 6 years ago, it was a very difficult 
time because we went in with a military that had been downgraded during 
the Clinton administration. If you take a straight line in terms of 
what the expenditures were the day he took office, that is how much we 
reduced it in force strength, in our modernization program. In fact, 
this euphoric attitude people were talking about, saying the Cold War 
is over, we no longer need a strong military, that is the environment 
we had. I think, under those circumstances, we did an incredible job.

I have never been so impressed with an all-volunteer Army. I happen 
to have been a product of the draft. I believed that offered more 
discipline. When I went there--and I honestly believe I have made more 
trips to Iraq and Afghanistan than any other Member as the second-
ranking member of the Armed Services Committee--I was privileged to be 
in places such as Fallujah during all the elections that took place and 
to see our young people, not all that well equipped, take on difficult 
odds. The marines in Fallujah were part of this, and it was incredible 
to watch. It was more than the World War II door-to-door style of 
combat.

Then I was very proud to be a part of the training of the troops over 
in Afghanistan. I say that because it was Oklahoma's 45th Division that 
was involved in training the Afghans on how to train themselves in the 
A&A. I feel that to have witnessed this, to have been over there in 
Bagdad, in Kabal, in that whole theater during this time was so 
impressive to me.

I can remember going into the various mess halls, with our troops 
there--and at that time, IEDs, at an unprecedented rate, were killing 
and maiming our soldiers--and the bravery they had. One of the 
questions they used to ask me, in the early stages of this war--6 years 
ago and 5 years ago--was: Why is it the American people do not 
understand what we are doing here? Why don't they understand if we do 
not stop the terrorism here, it is going to be back at our borders the 
way it was on 9/11? My response to them was I think they are. We are 
not getting good reporting out of the media. That started changing as 
improvements came along.

As I witnessed the opportunities that were there, our troops, all of 
a sudden, during this surge anyway, were gaining a lot more support, 
and that completely turned it around. GEN David Petraeus did a 
remarkable job. In fact, all our generals over there did.

So I think it is incumbent upon us today to remember this is the 6th 
year. This is something that was absolutely necessary for the safety 
and the freedom we enjoy here in this country. We should be applauding 
all our troops as they come back.

To me, it was a little unconscionable, just 3 or 4 days ago, when the 
White House was coming out with a program that would have impaired our 
wounded veterans coming back from Iraq and the Middle East from access 
to VA health care. Because of all the people--I am sure the phones are 
ringing off the hook at the White House--last night they backed away 
from that. But, nonetheless, we are not getting the support we should 
be getting now for our military at this time.

Keep in mind, if we went through an 8-year period of dropping down 
the support, and then we look at the budget that is in today, it is an 
inflated budget in spending in every possible area except defense. I 
think it should be our priority now, as we remember what happened 6 
years ago today.

With that, I yield the floor.