# NATIONAL ROBOTICS WEEK
## `3fb5252671d112d2da0d8ae0fed8c467`
`Mr. DOYLE — 9 March 2010`

---


Mr. DOYLE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1055, 
legislation to support the designation of National Robotics Week as an 
annual event.

I introduced this legislation because the increase in the number of 
emerging and potential applications for robotics is astounding, and


I believe Americans should know more about the important role the field 
of robotics will play in our national security and economic health in 
the coming decades.

Robotics has come a long way in the last 20 years, but most Americans 
still think of real-life robots as confined to the assembly line. 
Nothing could be further from the truth.

Recently, we've seen advanced next-generation robotics playing an 
important role in our military for our national defense. Unmanned 
aerial vehicles today provide life-saving reconnaissance support for 
our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the rocket-armed Predator UAV 
is reportedly the most effective tool we have for attacking the Al-
Qaeda and Taliban leadership and infrastructure. In addition, our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan have benefited greatly from the 
development and deployment of mobile robots that detect and disarm 
IEDs--the improvised explosive devices that have posed the greatest 
threat to our troops on the ground in those countries.

Robotics is growing in economic importance as well. Robots are now 
being used to perform surgeries, fill prescriptions, and deliver 
supplies and materials, in addition to the role they've filled for many 
years working on the assembly line. The Robotics Industry Association 
estimates that nearly 200,000 robots are now used in the United States, 
and it's estimated that more than one million robots are being used 
worldwide. Even during the current economic downturn, orders for 
robotic technology in the pharmaceutical, biomedical, and food and 
consumer goods sectors rose significantly.

The emerging market for robotics in various sectors, including health 
care, national defense, homeland security, energy, manufacturing, 
logistics, transportation, agriculture, education, and consumer goods, 
is expected to grow at an annual rate of nearly 20 percent over the 
next few years to become a $27 billion industry worldwide, and one new 
study predicts that the personal robotics market for products like the 
Aibo, the iSobot, the Looj, and the Roomba will be worth $15 billion by 
2015.

It's clear to me that robotics technology will drive much of the 
growth in the world economy in the coming decades, much as computer 
technology did over the last 30 years, and I want America to be the 
world leader in this exciting technology.

I'm proud to note that the Congressional District I have the honor of 
representing is already a world leader in researching and developing 
robotics technology. In 1999, in fact, the Wall Street Journal 
nicknamed Pittsburgh ''Roboburgh.''

Carnegie Mellon University has been leading the world in integrating 
robotic technologies into everyday life for over 30 years. Carnegie 
Mellon's Robotics Institute has nearly 350 full and part-time employees 
conducting research in a number of robotics-related fields, including 
space robotics, medical robotics, computer vision, and artificial 
intelligence, to name a few. All told, the Robotics Institute has about 
100 research projects and an annual research budget of $55 million. 
Current projects include a lunar prospector robot for NASA and two USDA 
programs applying robotic technologies to agricultural production.

Pittsburgh is home to first generation companies like Bombardier 
Transportation and McKesson; and second generation companies such as 
RedZone, Seegrid, Aethon and RE Squared.

Pittsburgh is also the long-time home of one of the giants of the 
robotics industry, Red Whitaker, distinguished professor of robotics at 
Carnegie Mellon University and the leader of the CMU team that won the 
2007 DARPA Grand Challenge, a cross-country long-distance race for 
robotic cars.

At the state-level, Pennsylvania has a total of 45 robotics companies 
with over 2,000 employees. Nationwide, the figures are even larger and 
growing dramatically. That is why the Congressional Robotics Caucus was 
established--and why we're discussing National Robotics Week here 
today.

National Robotics Week is the brainchild of a number of universities 
and companies working to promote the development and adoption of 
robotics technology. The consortium works closely with the House 
Robotics Caucus, which Representative Gingrey and I have the honor of 
co-chairing.

The Robotics Caucus focuses on key issues facing the nation's 
traditional industrial robotics industry and, perhaps even more 
importantly, those issues critical to newly forming companies, markets, 
and industries based on advances in technology that enable robots to 
perform functions beyond traditional assembly line tasks and operate in 
environments beyond the factory floor. Our goals include: Increasing 
general awareness of robotics industry challenges and issues among 
Members of Congress and policy analysts in federal government; 
educating Members of Congress and congressional staff on current and 
future research, development, and utilization initiatives regarding 
robotics; serving as a forum where robotics-related policy issues can 
be exchanged, debated, and discussed; and ensuring that our nation 
remains globally competitive as the robotics industry rapidly expands 
and begins to exert a profound effect on the way our citizens live 
their lives.

Representative Wamp and I established the Caucus in 2007. Today, the 
Caucus has over 30 members from across the country.

About a year ago, the group of universities and businesses that serve 
on the advisory committee for the Robotics Caucus completed a national 
''road map'' to promote robotics technology.

One of the steps contained in the road map was to raise public 
awareness of the potential robotics holds for our nation's growth in 
the coming years and encourage young people to pursue science, 
technology, engineering, and math educations essential for maintaining 
U.S. leadership in this important field. The road map identified the 
establishment of an annual national robotics week as a good way to help 
achieve that goal. The week of April 10th to 18th this year will be the 
first of these annual events to raise national awareness of robotics 
technology and its potential impact on the future of the Nation.

Over the course of that week, robotics companies, museums, schools, 
and universities will hold events to educate the public and get young 
people interested in pursuing careers in fields associated with 
robotics. In Pittsburgh, for example, Carnegie Mellon University and 
the Carnegie Science Center will be holding open houses and other 
events for the public, and there will be a demonstration of an unmanned 
helicopter by SkEyes Unlimited, a local robotics company.

I introduced H. Res. 1055 earlier this year to recognize the 
observation of National Robotics Week. It's my hope that this 
Congressional resolution will help give National Robotics Week--and the 
important goals it seeks to promote--a higher profile.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.