# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3fcbcfd9a22e276af34ef32e604e51dc`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I take the floor 
today not as a Democrat or a Republican, but as an Iraq war veteran who 
was a captain with the 82nd Airborne Division in Baghdad. Three years 
ago I came home, but 19 of my fellow paratroopers did not.

I rise to give a voice to the hundreds of thousands of Pennsylvanians 
and veterans across the globe who are deeply troubled by the 
President's plan to escalate the number of American troops in Iraq.

I served in Baghdad from June 2003 to January 2004. I saw firsthand 
this administration's failed policies in Iraq.

In this new Congress, there are 49 new faces. I am proud that five of 
those 49 new faces are veterans. All five of those veterans are 
Democrats.

Today, I stand with my other military veterans, Sergeant Major Tim 
Walz and Admiral Joe Sestak. We stand together to tell this 
administration that we are against the escalation and to say with one 
voice that Congress will no longer be a blank check to the President's 
failed policies.

Mr. Speaker, the time for more troops was 4 years ago, but this 
President ignored the military experts like General Shinseki and 
General Zinni, who in 2003 called for more troops, several hundred 
thousand more troops, to secure Iraq.

Now, Mr. Speaker, our President is ignoring military leaders again, 
patriots like General Colin Powell, General Abizaid and the bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group who were clear: the President's plan to send more of 
our best and bravest to die refereeing a civil war in Iraq is wrong.

Mr. Speaker, it is a time for a new direction in Iraq. From my time 
serving with the 82nd Airborne Division in Iraq, it became clear that 
in order to succeed we must make it clear to the Iraqis that we are not 
going to be there forever. Yet 3 years after I left Iraq, Americans are 
still running convoys up and down Ambush Alley and securing Iraqi 
street corners.

Today I am proud to stand with my fellow veterans and support this 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, we often hear from our colleagues on the other side that 
the only way to support the troops is to blindly support the President.

Mr. Speaker, I ask anyone to look at Admiral Joe Sestak, a man who 
was responsible for the safety and security of 15,000 sailors and 
marines, and tell him that he does not support the troops. I ask them 
to look at Sergeant Tim Walz, a man who served his country for 24 years 
in the Minnesota National Guard as a noncommissioned officer, the 
backbone of our Army, and tell him he does not support our troops.

Mr. Speaker, we are the troops, and we oppose the President's 
escalation of troops.