# None
## `3fcf496019719439f122dbc67f29a9d0`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 5 November 2007`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Madam Speaker, my state of Kansas is home to 
235,000 veterans--brave men and women who served our nation in World 
War II, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq, and everywhere else that 
duty has called. Among all of those Kansas veterans, the oldest is Mr. 
Frank Bozick, who will soon celebrate his 105th birthday. I'd like to 
take a few moments today to honor his service to our country.

Mr. Bozick was born on February 11, 1903, in the southeast Kansas 
town of Frontenac. At the age of 17, he graduated from a local 
automobile and tractor college and began a career maintaining early-
model cars. He soon settled into a comfortable life running a local gas 
station and tire business--only to find his routine disrupted on 
December 7, 1941, when the attack on Pearl Harbor launched America into 
World War II.

Like so many other Americans, Mr. Bozick interrupted his daily life 
and traveled overseas to support the war effort. He served for 3 years 
in the Army performing tank repair, and his duties carried him to 
England, Normandy, and Paris. When, at last, the war ended, Mr. Bozick 
returned home to Kansas, where he operated his gas station for 42 
years.

Over his long life, Mr. Bozick has witnessed an extraordinary span of 
history. He has seen America advance from Model Ts to hybrid cars, from 
steam engines to rocket ships, from manual typewriters to the World 
Wide Web. But through a century of enormous change, one thing has 
remained constant: America's profound gratitude to our veterans, who 
risked their lives to secure our peace.
