---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `3ff752d7609846e05a21f28fcbdfc98d`
`Mr. REID — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the only thing my friend left off regarding 
General Petraeus, he also has a Ph.D. from Princeton. He is a man we 
all have great regard for. I think no one disputes that General 
Petraeus is a good soldier. He follows orders, and that is what 
soldiers are supposed to do, even a general. This general follows the 
orders of the Commander in Chief, and that is the way it should be.

This is not the Petraeus war. It is the Bush war. I would say my 
friend from Kentucky, my dear friend, my counterpart, is talking about 
an organization that has more than 3 million members. I do not know 
what any one of them may have said at any given time. I certainly 
cannot support everything they say, that is for sure.

But understand, the amendment that was offered by my friend, Senator 
Boxer, is very clear. It says the September 10, 2007, advertisement in 
the New York Times ''was an unwarranted personal attack on General 
Petraeus.'' That is what it says. We just voted on that. I cannot 
imagine why some of my colleagues on the other side voted against this. 
That is what it says. One reason, maybe it brought up some things from 
the past, the recent past, such as yesterday.

For a party that endorsed longer troop time in Iraq for our soldiers; 
that is, our people who are serving us so valiantly in Iraq cannot stay 
home for the same amount of time they go over there--that is what this 
party voted against. They voted in favor of second and third and fourth 
tours of duty for these young men and women.

We condemn all attacks on our valiant soldiers. That is what the 
amendment we voted on said. I read what it says about the ad. We don't 
support that ad. We clearly voted accordingly.


But we also said we should remember--as I hope we remember the vote 
yesterday endorsing longer tours for our soldiers--I hope we also 
remember what happened to Max Cleland, a man who lost three limbs. 
Every day of his life, including today, he wakes up and spends 2 hours 
getting dressed. He dresses himself. He does his exercise, running on a 
mattress, with his stumps. He was decorated for heroism. But he wasn't 
patriotic enough to serve in the Senate, according to people who are in 
this Chamber. They ran ads against Max Cleland. John Kerry: Two Silver 
Stars, two Purple Hearts. Did I hear my friends complaining about these 
vicious ads against John Kerry when he was running for President? Not a 
single murmur. Some were cheering on the Swift Boat demons.

So as we say in this resolution, we do not support any unwarranted 
attack on General Petraeus or any other of our military members. But 
what we want to do here is talk about the war--the war. The policy is 
bad. We will soon be starting the sixth year of this war, costing this 
country right now about three-quarters of a trillion dollars, and we 
are fighting for pennies for children's health, pennies for doing 
things about the environment, and education. The President is 
complaining because what we want to do in our appropriations bills is 
$21 billion over this magic number he came up with, $21 billion in an 
approximately $1 trillion bill, ultimately how much it will be for 
taking care of things the Government wants. But we are going to have in 
a few days another supplemental appropriations bill for Iraq 
approaching about two hundred billion more dollars.

The American people are fed up with this. No one over here endorses 
the ad that was in that newspaper. None of us do. But we want to talk 
about the war. They want to talk about an ad in a newspaper. None of us 
in any way criticized General Petraeus. He is a soldier. He is 
following a policy set by the Commander in Chief. But that doesn't take 
away from the problems the American people feel are as a result of this 
war: death, injury to men and women. So I hope--we are on the Defense 
authorization bill--we can proceed on the Defense authorization bill, 
complete this legislation, have civil debate on Iraq policy, and we 
hope to do that. I say respectfully to my friends, focus on the policy 
of this war, not on an ad we had nothing to do with.