---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `400025b6593e2215588c02d9da985776`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 16 November 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, today we have an opportunity before us. 
With the bill we will consider, we can do what the American people have 
asked us to do. We can begin to bring the war in Iraq to a close.

More than 3,800 of our servicemembers have died. In fact, as we know, 
2007 has been the deadliest year so far in Iraq. And while we spend 
billions of dollars in Iraq, the list of safety, health, and 
infrastructure needs at home is stacking up.

Today it is time to begin redeploying our troops, rebuilding our 
military, and getting back to fighting the war on terror.

I was one of the 23 Senators who voted against the war in Iraq, and 
since then I have voted time and time again to get us out of this war. 
That is why I support the bridge funding that is being offered by 
Senator Reid this morning that we will consider.

This bill provides $50 billion to make sure our troops have what they 
need to do their job and it requires the President to begin redeploying 
troops out of Iraq within 30 days after he signs this into law. Our 
goal with this legislation is to be out of Iraq by the end of next 
year. And importantly, unlike the bill being offered by the other side, 
it is not a blank check. It requires American personnel, including the 
CIA, to follow Army Field Manual rules on torture, it requires the 
military to give our troops at least a year to rest in between tours of 
duty, and to ensure that they are battle ready before going into war. 
So this morning I urge our colleagues to seize this opportunity and put 
American lives, American security, and America's future first and begin 
to change direction in Iraq.

Earlier this year, President Bush promised us his troop surge was 
going to improve security and allow Iraqis to stabilize their own 
country, but that is not working. The Washington Post reported Thursday 
that senior military commanders in Iraq are now saying that the 
inflexibility of the Shiite government is the key threat facing the 
U.S. effort there.

We have given the Iraqi Government every chance to step up and take 
control. We have done our part. The Iraqi Government has not done its 
part. And in the meantime--while more than 150,000 of our troops are 
policing a civil war in Iraq--we have become more vulnerable overseas. 
Terrorist attacks have risen almost fivefold since 9/11.

The President has hidden in his bunker and stubbornly refused to 
pursue the strategy needed to bring stability in Iraq. It is time for 
him to face facts. It is time for the Iraqis to take control of their 
own country and for us to redeploy our troops where they are most 
needed.

Our bill will allow us to rebuild our military, which is stretched 
too thin. Generals have testified to Congress that the war in Iraq has 
weakened our military readiness, destroyed our equipment, hurt our 
ability to respond to disasters here at home, and left our troops 
stressed and without fully rounded training. We need to make sure our 
troops are trained for whatever conflict they face, and changing the 
direction in Iraq allows us to do that.

We need to fight and win the war on terror and rebuild our military. 
We also need to be there to support our servicemembers, our veterans, 
and their families. Our veterans have had to struggle to get basic care 
because this administration has put them on the back burner. We learned 
this week that, tragically, thousands of our veterans didn't get the 
help they needed and they took their own lives. CBS reported that in 
2005 alone, 6,256 veterans committed suicide--a rate twice that of 
other Americans. That is shocking.

The bill we are working on today, and that we hope we can get enough 
votes for, will ensure we are meeting our veterans' needs every step of 
the way, from the day they are recruited, while they are trained, while 
they are deployed, and as they transition back home.

Finally, while President Bush has waged war overseas, he has insisted 
on paying for it in ways that have left us tragically underfunded here 
at home. Democrats have taken the right steps to reinvest in the many 
parts of our budget that have been neglected. We have got to move 
forward. I hope we can move this legislation that has been offered on 
our side, because the war in Iraq is not making us more secure, it is 
making us less secure. It is hurting how our Nation is perceived around 
the world, it is hurting our military, it is hurting our veterans, and 
it is hurting our security at home.

Today we have an opportunity to make progress, and I urge my 
colleagues to support the bridge funding and send a message to the 
President that it is time to change course in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.