---
---

# THE ECONOMIC POTENTIAL OF A CLEAN ENERGY REVOLUTION
## `40091e525e0a1d0db24f411b744e4590`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Thank you. I appreciate the gentleman's courtesy and 
his continued focus on the opportunities we face with the energy 
legislation that is coming before us this week, and the bigger picture, 
the new Apollo project.

I wanted, if I could just elaborate on one point, because I think as 
you were talking about the compelling opportunities for new technology 
that are harnessed in the car of the future, I was thinking back to the 
situation that we faced as some of us were growing up when the United 
States Department of Defense was paying $100 for a transistor when they 
could have spent 79


cents for a vacuum tube. But that investment in technology for the 
future made possible the first Apollo project, sending a person to the 
moon, miniaturization, the electronics that harness that power. But it 
also spoke, I think, to the power of having strategic Federal 
investment and incentives.

I heard my friend from California a moment ago talking about the 
power of the market. Well, we are all interested, I think, in 
harnessing market forces wherever possible. And your response about the 
issue of nuclear energy, that despite massive subsidies, there hasn't 
been a new plant in the last 30 years because the private sector didn't 
think it penciled out.

I am interested in opportunities that we can have harnessing this new 
technology and perhaps using it in sectors like national defense where 
we can jump-start new technology and we can make a difference for our 
national security. That, as you know, has been one of the cornerstones 
of the Speaker's initiative. The first hearings we had on the Global 
Warming Committee that we both serve on were from national security 
experts that talked about how our dependence on expensive foreign oil, 
on traditional energy sources, put us at a strategic disadvantage in 
terms of oil supply, and it is also having an operational disadvantage 
for our national defense.

The current war in Iraq is the most intense, most energy-intense 
military operation in the history of the world. It is four times more 
energy intense than the first Iraq war. We are delivering gasoline to 
the front that we are heavily dependent on in great big tankers that 
might as well have bull's eyes on them at a cost of over $100 a gallon.

What you're outlining here in terms of fuel-efficient vehicles, in 
terms of new techniques for generating electricity, has the potential 
of revitalizing American defense posture to make our troops safer and 
more efficient as well as making battles in areas to secure oil supply 
less likely.

I just wanted to commend you for dealing with us today in terms of 
the big picture and what a difference that can make for the lives of 
everyday Americans in terms of where they shop, how they move, where 
they work and live, as well as the international arena as well where we 
are going to be spending $1 trillion in Iraq. This type of technology 
could be harnessed to make a big difference in terms of national 
security and technology.