---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BLINDED VETERANS ASSOCIATION
## `400ff237240a2237ec8c4e286e719764`
`Mrs. HALVORSON — 22 March 2010`

---


Mrs. HALVORSON. I thank Chairman Filner for yielding.

Madam Speaker, it was truly a privilege to introduce H.J. Res. 80, 
which recognizes and honors the Blinded Veterans Association on its 
65th anniversary. Madam Speaker, this simple resolution helps to honor 
the service and sacrifice of the more than 165,000 blind or visually 
impaired veterans.

The resolution helps us to remember that on March 28, 1945, 100 
blinded members of the Armed Forces who served in World War II formed 
the Blinded Veterans Association in order to help veterans and their 
families meet and overcome the challenges of blindness. The following 
year, in 1946, General Omar Bradley of the Veterans Administration, 
appointed the BVA as the first official representative for blinded 
veterans for the filing of claims and appeals to the Veterans 
Administration. This made the Blinded Veterans Association only the 
eighth Veterans Service Organization to receive such distinction and 
responsibility.

In 1958, Congress followed General Bradley's lead and echoed his 
recognition of the BVA by officially approving the BVA congressional 
charter. Since that time, the BVA has encouraged and assisted blinded 
veterans to take their rightful place in the community with their 
fellow men and work with them towards the creation of a peaceful world.



Their leadership continues to advocate for the war-blinded to regain 
independence, confidence and self-esteem through rehabilitation and 
training. Almost 13 percent of the evacuated wounded servicemembers in 
Iraq and Afghanistan have suffered a serious eye injury of one type or 
another. This means that the Blinded Veterans Association's services 
are just as crucial today as they were 65 years ago.

H.J. Res. 80 recognizes the extraordinary members and work of the 
BVA, and the good that they do for America's visually impaired 
veterans. I thank the members of the BVA for their service and strongly 
encourage my colleagues to do the same by voting in favor of this 
resolution.