# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `40198e105e4ece1b173260907f23a269`
`Mr. DURBIN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the amendment which we are going to vote 
on very shortly in the Senate is a historic amendment. It is an 
amendment which I think will be followed very carefully not just in the 
United States but around the world, particularly in Iraq.

Understand what this amendment does. The Cochran amendment removes 
the language which starts to bring American troops home. The Cochran 
language, instead, calls on the President to make periodic reports to 
Congress on the progress in Iraq. With all due respect to those who 
support that amendment, periodic reports will not bring this war to an 
end. Periodic messages from the White House will not turn over this war 
to the Iraqis to defend their own country.

What we have seen in Iraq is the worst foreign policy mistake in our 
time. We have paid so dearly in our Nation for this mistake. Over 3,200 
of our bravest soldiers have given their lives. Over 24,000 have come 
home injured, some with serious injuries that will haunt them for a 
lifetime. We have spent $500 billion of our treasure in Iraq that could 
have been spent in the United States for the betterment of our people. 
We have given to the Iraqi people more than any other Nation could ask 
for. We have stood behind them, we have deposed their dictator, we have 
given them free governance and a chance at a constitution and free 
elections. Now it is time for us to make it clear to the Iraqis that it 
is their country, it is their war, and it is their future.

This President recently said we need to continue to send soldiers, 
more soldiers, into Iraq. Sadly, many of them are being sent to battle 
without the equipment, the training, the rest they


need, and the time at home with their families. We are pushing these 
brave men and women to the limit. Voting for the Cochran amendment says 
it is enough that the President sends us every 60 or 90 days a report; 
that he tells us how things are going; how we are doing. Is that why we 
are in Congress, to receive reports from the President, to put them on 
a bookshelf somewhere and hope a staffer has time to read them? I think 
not.

What we are here to do is speak for the American people who want a 
new direction in Iraq. They want this Congress to stand up once and for 
all and say to this President that this policy has to change. American 
soldiers must start to come home in an orderly manner and the Iraqis 
have to stand and defend their own country. A vote for the Cochran 
amendment, sadly, will take away any type of incentive for the Iraqis 
to do the right thing for their own Nation.

Many have studied this over the last 4 years, a war that has gone on 
longer than World War II. They have come to the same conclusions--the 
Iraq Study Group and many others--it is time for the United States to 
announce a new policy. The Cochran amendment says we will stay with the 
old policy; we will receive periodic reports from the White House. That 
is not the answer.

What we need to do is to stand behind our soldiers by bringing them 
home as quickly as possible.