---
---

# None
## `401c34ed084c08052d44117ecc7aab45`
`Mr. GINGREY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my former chairman of the Rules 
Committee, the gentleman from California, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose this rule and condemn the 
underlying bill, hastily leaving Iraq without any clear exit strategy.

Mr. Speaker, the timing of this legislation should raise some serious 
questions for the American people. It comes at a critical point in the 
global war on terror, a point at which our efforts should be focused on 
defeating terrorism inflicted by Islamic jihadists, not usurping the 
power of our military commanders, as this bill clearly does.

Today's debate comes on the heels of an intelligence analysis stating 
al Qaeda has regrouped to a level not seen since 9/11 with a greater 
ability to strike inside the United States. It comes in the immediate 
aftermath of the Muslim extremist attacks in London and Glasgow. In 
sum, it comes at a time when our decisions must be based


on strategic interests and not political grandstanding.

However, Mr. Speaker, this bill is not designed to help us fight 
terrorism to secure the United States' interests. In fact, its timing 
has nothing to do with national security at all.

Today, the Democratic leaderships want us to vote on a change of 
course before we have had the opportunity to fully analyze the 
President's interim report on our strategy in Iraq, and well ahead of 
the much anticipated September report to be delivered by General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker.

So why are we debating this now? Curiously, it comes at a time when 
this Democratic Congress has an approval rating as low as 14 percent. 
That's right, Mr. Speaker, their approval is at an all-time low. Their 
base, the extremist left, is very angry. They are angry at the 
Democrats' Out of Iraq Caucus because they failed to deliver. Indeed, 
Cindy Sheehan, their poster child, has now announced her candidacy 
against Speaker Pelosi.

So what do the Democrats do? They take another shot at Old Faithful. 
When all else fails, when they can't get anything accomplished, when 
all they can deliver to the American public is the most closed Congress 
in history, they engage in another round of political theater 
engineered to do nothing but grab a few headlines and appease that 
liberal base.

Mr. Speaker, let's not waste the time of this body by debating vague 
bills with absolutely no chance of becoming law. Let's instead examine 
the upcoming September report from our top military commanders and 
then, yes, then make informed decisions on the best path forward.

My friend, the distinguished chairwoman of the Rules Committee, the 
gentlewoman from New York, stated in her opening remarks that if we 
wait until September, as I suggest, 200 more troops would be lost and 
the lives of 200 families would be changed forever.

Mr. Speaker, let me remind my colleagues that within a 20-minute 
period of time on September 11, 2001, 3,000 lives were lost, some of 
our brightest and best; and, indeed, the lives of 3,000 families were 
changed forever.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to urge my colleagues to oppose this rule 
and to oppose the irresponsible underlying bill.