---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `4027caff79f1a36e4e218dec029cda1f`
`Mr. HOYER — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank my friend for yielding.

In response to the distinguished ranking member of the committee, let 
me read a statement from the President's veto message of March 8, 2008:

''My disagreement over section 327 is not over any particular 
interrogation technique; for instance, it is not over waterboarding, 
which is not part of the current CIA program.'' He doesn't say that it 
will not be a part of the CIA program. He has very carefully worded, 
''It is not part of the current program.''

That is why I tell my friend this legislation is relevant. That is 
why, in my opinion, his Presidential candidate, although he seems to 
have changed his mind, passed his own bill, which the President, of 
course, signed and then had a signing statement that he wasn't sure 
that he had to follow it, that torture was not the policy of the United 
States of America. I agree with that. It's not. It should not be. But 
we need to make a very clear statement that it is not. Why? Because the 
rest of the world is looking at us and wondering what are the values 
that this great Nation we respect so much values?

Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, the President could have made a clear, 
unequivocal statement that this great Nation does not and will not 
torture those in our custody. He should have signed this important 
intelligence authorization conference report into law. But instead, he 
vetoed it, because it requires all American intelligence agencies to 
comply with the U.S. Army Field Manual on Interrogations.

Let us be clear: This veto was unfortunate and misguided. It 
threatens to further degrade America's moral standing as others have 
said, including Colin Powell, the former Secretary of State in this 
administration. It threatens to undermine our credibility in the 
international community and to expose our own military and intelligence 
personnel to the very same tactics and treatment.

Mr. Speaker, every Member here believes that our Nation must take 
decisive action to detect, disrupt, and, yes, eliminate terrorists who 
have no compunction about planning and participating in the mass 
killings of innocent men, women, and children in an effort to advance 
their twisted, demented aims. We can, we will, and we must prevail in 
the war on terror. However, in the pursuit of those who seek to harm 
us, we must not sacrifice the very ideals that distinguish us from 
those who preach death and destruction and say that their ends justify 
whatever means they may use.

During the current administration, we have seen the line blurred 
between legitimate, sanctioned interrogation tactics and torture. And 
there is no doubt, our international reputation has suffered and been 
stained as a result. The excesses at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo are well 
known, as well as the administration's belief that the Geneva 
Convention against torture is, and I quote, quaint. Let me repeat that 
for my colleagues. The administration's advice that it got from counsel 
was that the Geneva Conventions against torture is, quote, quaint, 
close quote. I would suggest to you it is as relevant today as it was 
when it was signed.

These incidents and others sully our great Nation's good reputation 
and allow our enemies to foment fear and stoke hatred. Requiring all 
intelligence agencies to comply with the Army Field Manual on 
interrogation is an attempt by this Congress, passed by majorities in 
both Houses, to repair the damage that has already been done. 
Furthermore, the techniques permitted by the Army Field Manual have 
been endorsed by a wide array of civilian and military officials as 
both effective and consistent with our values.

Here, in fact, is what General David Petraeus wrote to members of the 
Armed Forces in Iraq last May. I believe it has been quoted, but it 
bears repeating:

''Some may argue that we would be more effective if we sanctioned 
torture or other expedient methods to obtain information from the 
enemy. They would be wrong. Beyond the basic fact that such actions are 
illegal, history shows that they also are frequently neither useful nor 
necessary.''

General Petraeus went on to say:

''Our experience in applying interrogation standards laid out in the 
Army Field Manual . . . shows that the techniques in the manual work 
effectively and humanely in eliciting information from detainees.''

Mr. Speaker, this is not a question of whether we must combat and 
defeat terrorists. We must. However, we must never let it be said that 
when this generation of Americans was forced to confront evil that we 
succumbed to the tactics of the tyrant.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, vote to override 
this unjustified and deeply misguided veto.