---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `4038f26dc528ee14c9bf532ab7395ab9`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, the war in Iraq has severely 
overstretched and strained our military personnel and their families. 
According to many of our foremost experts, we're actually in danger of 
breaking our military.

Frequent and extended deployments are over-taxing our brave military 
men and women and their families and our support structures at home. 
It's reducing our ability to adequately train our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen and Marines.

The men and women of our military forces signed up in the belief that 
they were going to defend America, and preserve our way of life. 
Instead, they find themselves entangled in an Iraqi civil war that is 
not theirs to win or lose.

Their repeated and extended deployments breach the trust they have in 
their government. We as a Congress must do everything we can to ease 
the strain.

The Department of Defense itself has set a goal of 2 years at home 
for every year deployed, and that makes sense. It gives servicemembers 
time to be with their families, and re-establish the bonds that we all 
take for granted.

It also gives our servicemembers time to train--not just for a return 
to Iraq, but for other missions we may ask them to undertake.

Because of the President's misguided war and his so-called surge, the 
Department of Defense can no longer meet this goal.

As General Casey, Chief of Staff for the Army said last month, 
''Today's Army is out of balance. We're consumed with meeting the 
current demands and we're unable to provide ready forces as rapidly as 
we would like for other contingencies; nor are we able to provide an 
acceptable tempo of deployments to sustain our soldiers and families 
for the long haul.''

What does the General mean when he says the army is ''consumed with 
meeting current demands?''

Over 1.4 million American troops have served in Iraq or Afghanistan; 
More than 420,000 troops have deployed more than once.

The Army has a total of 44 combat brigades, and all of them except 
one--the First Brigade of the Second Infantry Division, which is 
permanently based in South Korea--have served at least one tour of duty 
in Iraq or Afghanistan, and the majority of these 43 brigades have done 
multiple tours: 17 brigades have had two tours in Iraq or Afghanistan; 
13 brigades have had three tours in Iraq or Afghanistan; and 5 brigades 
have had four tours in Iraq or Afghanistan.

Army recruiting is struggling to maintain the current force 
structure, let alone meet its goal of increasing its overall end 
strength over the next 5 years.

The Army missed its recruiting goals for both May and June by a 
combined total of more than 1,750, and it's borrowing heavily on future 
commitments to meet its goals for this year.

Spending on enlistment and recruitment bonuses tripled from $328 
million before the war in Iraq to over $1 billion last year.

The Commandant of the Marine Corps, James Conway, says his marines 
can't focus on conventional operations because training time is too 
scarce.

It's an impossible situation. Our military is strained--some would 
say already broken--and we face a crisis in recruiting.

We can't continue to sacrifice our Nation's security and the 
readiness of our forces while Iraq fights this civil war. This 
amendment will give General Conway and General Casey the time they need 
to make sure that our forces are ready and able to defend our country 
against any threat. It will also show our appreciation for the men and 
women who serve our country so well. I urge my colleagues to support 
this amendment.