---
---

# None
## `4039e1fa90cfdee9bca9221a3826bad5`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. I want to thank the gentlelady, and before I begin on 
my comments on H.R. 3, the stem cell research enhancement act, I want 
to just thank my colleagues for their important comments on Iraq and 
the direction that the Iraq war has taken and the failed policy that we 
have seen in Iraq and the strain that it has put on the families of 
soldiers, the soldiers themselves. Clearly, we need a change in 
direction in America. That is what the American people expect.

This 100 hours agenda, obviously, is an important topic. I rise in 
strong support of the 100 hours agenda. As a four-term Member of 
Congress, it has been exhilarating for me to return to Washington and 
tackle the issues of the American people which have long been ignored. 
I am so proud to be a part of this new direction and a Member of this 
Chamber.

As we prepare for the embryonic stem cell research debate which will 
take place tomorrow, I am reminded that one of the primary reasons I 
ran for Congress, which was to make a positive difference in people's 
lives. The 110th Congress is being ushered in with a tremendous sense 
of hope and optimism. In the first legislative week, we have taken 
great strides towards improving the lives of hardworking Americans by 
increasing the minimum wage and fully implementing the recommendations 
of the 9/11 Commission.

H.R. 3, the stem cell research enhancement act, is yet another 
example of this agenda of hope. This legislation will remove the 
restrictions that current administration has placed on the advancement 
of medicine and the hopes of millions.

Tomorrow, we will hear from both sides of the stem cell debate about 
whether the Federal Government should support this type of research. We 
will hear promises and stories of tremendous scientific advancement.



We will hear the limitations on these advancements, and we will also 
hear some distortions. But I come before you tonight with confidence; 
confidence in the science of stem cell research; confidence that the 
American people overwhelmingly support this legislation; confidence 
that tomorrow a great majority of my colleagues will once again vote in 
favor of the stem cell research enhancement act; and confidence that, 
one day, once all of our Nation's leaders will rally all around all 
types of stem cell research, and we will see big changes in the field 
of medicine and in the lives of so many people who are suffering today.

So tonight, I rise, I rise to help spread this message of hope and 
optimism to our constituents who are watching at home; for the 400,000 
Americans who are living with MS; the 60,000 American family whose have 
faced the fear of a loved one's Parkinson's diagnosis this year; the 
thousands of Americans who have seen family members come to Alzheimer's 
disease; the 250,000 Americans who, like me, live with the constant 
challenges of a spinal cord injury, and so many others. To all of you, 
I say: Help and hope are on the way.

I want to thank my colleagues for giving me time tonight and being 
part of this 100 hours agenda debate, particularly, again, what you 
have done for enlightening the American people on our position of the 
war on Iraq and the new direction that we need to take in this country.

Thank you very much.

