---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `4041a17b607dae24417501bf2bf1e9dc`
`Mr. HUNTER — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in great reluctance to support 
final passage of the FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations Act. I am voting in 
favor of this legislation because it rightfully supplies our men and 
women on the battlefields of Afghanistan and Iraq with the resources 
they need to continue their mission, while also supporting the Global 
War on Terror. These brave men and women deserve our support and I will 
never waiver from this responsibility.

However, despite my vote in favor of this legislation, I remain 
adamantly opposed to the underlying Omnibus legislation that 
effectively guts the Secure Fence Act passed during the 109th Congress. 
Securing the border of the United States is one of the most important 
responsibilities of the federal government. The Republican-led Congress 
last year did the right thing by passing the Secure Fence Act that 
mandated the construction of 854-mile double layered border fence along 
our Southwest border. Unfortunately, one of the few acts actually 
accomplished by this first session of the 110th Congress will be to 
remove that mandate and ensure that our southern border remains one of 
our weakest links in the effort to secure our homeland. Frankly, this 
is unacceptable.

I will be working with my colleagues during the second session of 
this Congress to address this travesty, however, I will not hold back 
the needed resources from our brave men and women in uniform because of 
this irresponsible move by this Congress. Therefore, I reluctantly 
support this Omnibus package.