# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `404a99738e37cb444b3f87a3bb9c7e47`
`Mr. CASEY — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, the Senate is once again debating future 
U.S. policy in Iraq. I, like others, have long advocated a new 
direction for our policy. I will continue to vote in a manner 
consistent with changing course in Iraq. However, today I rise not to 
speak about policy, tactics, or strategy. I will speak today only about 
our troops and their families.

First, the numbers are important. At last count, 3,609 Americans have 
lost their lives in Iraq, including 169 from Pennsylvania, the third 
highest death toll in the Nation. Over 25,000 have been wounded in 
Iraq, including more than 1,100 from Pennsylvania. Approximately 
156,000 Americans, both Active-Duty and Reserve forces, are currently 
serving in Iraq, including more than 8,000 from Pennsylvania.

Certainly, numbers don't tell the whole story, especially when we 
consider the traumatic effect this war has had on individual families. 
These fighting men and women were born into families, not divisions and 
brigades. They are sons and daughters, wives and husbands, brothers and 
sisters, and, of course, fathers and mothers. Their love for their 
families is matched only by their devotion to our Nation. This war has 
impacted these families in many different ways.

We remember today and every day with gratitude and reverence those 
more than 3,600 soldiers and marines who have died, who gave, as 
President Lincoln said, the last full measure of devotion to their 
country. Their families have loved and lost, and the sharp pain of that 
loss may, we pray, diminish over time, but certainly the ache and the 
hurt will long endure because someone they loved, someone whose strong, 
warm embrace gave them comfort, will no longer be there for them. In 
fact, that person in the family is missing.

Some families have a loved one who served in Iraq and returned home, 
thank God, but, like 25,000 others, was wounded in Iraq. These families 
have paid a terrible price for the courage and dedication of their 
family members.

Today, we remember the bravery of our fighting men and women. Their 
bravery is so inspiring to all of us. I met one of them in March who 
represents so many across this land of the brave, this country we call 
America, our America. His name is Joshua Humberger, of Grapeville, 
Westmoreland County, PA, 20 years old from a small town, like many of 
our fighting men and women from small communities across America, in 
this case southwestern Pennsylvania. Joshua is in the Army National 
Guard. He received a Purple Heart and other commendations after he was 
wounded when


the vehicle he was riding in was hit by a bomb, killing his commander, 
SFC Daniel Brozovich of Greenville, PA, way up in Mercer County near 
the Ohio border. Two others, Ryan Griffin and Robert Kaminiski, both of 
Allegheny County, were injured as well in the attack.

To say that Joshua was injured in this attack is an understatement. 
Here is what one news article said about his injuries:




 His left leg was amputated at the knee. His stomach was 


 pierced by shrapnel and surgeons had to remove part of his 


 lower bowel.


Despite all of the pain he and his wife Jessica have endured, he said 
during my visit: I want to go back. I want to go back to continue 
serving.

Where do these young men and women find the strength? We have to ask 
that. I have to say I don't know because it is hard for me to fully 
appreciate or comprehend such courage. They must be finding this 
courage from a reservoir of faith, love for and from their family, and 
an abiding allegiance to this Nation.

We know other families have loved ones who are in Iraq now or have 
had family members there for a long time. But even if a soldier returns 
home from Iraq and is not killed or wounded, even if that is the case, 
in a family, they are still missing while they are there, even if the 
Lord keeps them safe.

Today, we think of a lot of expressions of how to talk about this. 
One of them that comes to mind is from the great rock music icon Bruce 
Springsteen, who has roots in New Jersey, the Presiding Officer's 
State. I know he is proud of that. His words come to mind today. 
Written in the aftermath of 9/11, they help explain what our families 
have endured during this war. Bruce Springsteen's song ''You're 
Missing'' says in part:




 Your house is waiting. Your house is waiting for you to 


 walk in. But you're missing. You're missing when I shut out 


 the lights. You're missing when I close my eyes. You're 


 missing when I see the sun rise. You're missing. Children are 


 asking if it's alright. Will you be in our arms tonight?


We ask that question as well, Mr. President.

To pay small tribute to those who are missing from their homes and 
families because they lost their lives far away on a battlefield in 
Iraq, I wish to take a few moments to read the names and hometowns of 
the 169 Pennsylvanians killed in action:

Shawn M. Davies, Aliquippa/Hopewell; Aric J. Barr, Allegheny; Joseph 
P. Goodrich, Allegheny; Luis O. Rodriguez, Contrera-Allentown; Larry 
Parks, Jr., Altoona; Russell G. Culbertson III, Amity; Stevon Alexander 
Booker, Apollo; Joshua J. Henry, Avonmore; Todd M. Siebert, Baden; 
Allan R. Bevington, Beaver Falls; Clint Richard Matthews, Bedford; 
Russell A. Kurtz, Bethel Park; Christopher D. Coffin, Bethlehem; 
Frederick A. Carlson, Bethlehem; Brent W. Dunkleberger, Bloomfield; 
Paul D. Karpowich, Bridgeport; John H. Todd III, Bridgeport; 
Christopher E. Loudon, Brockport; Tristan Smith, Bryn Athyn; and Carl 
J. Morgain, Butler.

George A. Pugliese, Carbondale; Oliver J. Brown, Carbondale; Kimberly 
A. Voelz, Carlisle; Nicholas B. Morrison, Carlisle; Gregory A. Cox, 
Carmichaels; Aaron M. Genevie, Chambersburg; Brandon M. Hardy, 
Cochranville; John T. Bubeck, Collegeville; Nils George Thompson, 
Confluence; Shelby J. Feniello, Connellsville; Timmy R. Brown, Jr., 
Conway; Matthew C. Bowe, Coraopolis; Michael W. Franklin, Coudersport; 
Michael J. Cleary, Dallas; Joseph M. Kane, Darby; Jason A. Shaffer, 
Derry; Kenneth E. Zeigler II, Dillsburg; Colby J. Umbrell, Doylestown; 
Travis L. Manion, Doylestown; and Steven R. Tudor, Dunmore.

Corey L. Small, East Berlin; Christopher Scott Seifert, Easton; 
Joshua P. Klinger, Easton; Ashly L. Moyer, Emmaus; Ernest G. Bucklew, 
Enon Valley; Donald Samuel Oaks, Jr., Erie; Victor M. Cortes III, Erie; 
Jeremy R. Horton, Erie; Mark T. Resh, Fogelsville; Bradli N. Coleman, 
Ford City; Sean P. Huey, Fredericktown; Dylan R. Paytas, Freedom; Mark 
P. Phelan, Green Lane; Roger Alan Napper, Jr., Greenburg; Eric W. 
Slebodnik, Greenfield Township; Michael A. Marzano, Greenville; Daniel 
A. Brozovich, Greenville; William L. Evans, Hallstead; Lee A. Wiegand, 
Hallstead; and John Kulick, Harleysville.

Sean Michael Thomas, Harrisburg; Barton R. Humlhanz, Hellertown; 
Ronald E. Baum, Hollidaysburg; Brandon E. Adams, Hollidaysburg; Daniel 
R. Lightner, Jr., Hollidaysburg; Curtis J. Forshey, Hollidaysburg; 
Keith A. Bennett, Holtwood; Landon S. Giles, Indiana; Randy D. 
McCaulley, Indiana; Bradley G. Kritzer, Irvona; Robert H. Dembowski, 
Ivyland; Michael R. Cohen, Jacobus; David Michael Veverka, Jamestown; 
Dennis J. Veater, Jessup; Andrew Joseph Baddick, Jim Thorpe; Raymond R. 
Buchan, Johnstown; Christopher A. Golby, Johnstown; Aaron J. Rusin, 
Johnstown; Andrew R. Jodon, Karthaus; and Ross A. McGinnis, Knox.

Jacob Walter Beisel, Lackawaxen; Jason L. Frye, Landisburg; Jsoeph 
Basil Maglione III, Lansdale; Maurice J. Johnson, Levittown; Jae S. 
Moon, Levittown; Ryan S. Ostrom, Liberty; Stephen P. Snowberger III, 
Lopez; David E. Dietrich, Marysville; Keith A. Callahan, McClure; 
Christopher E. Cutchall, McConnellsburg; Mark Joseph Kasecky, McKees 
Rocks; Edward W. Carman, McKeesport; Micheal J. Smith, Media; Michael 
E. McLaughlin, Mercer; Jeremy M. Campbell, Middlebury; Louis E. Allen, 
Milford; Zachariah W. Long, Milton; Edward W. Shaffer, Mont Alto; 
Daniel L. Arnold, Montrose; and Nathaniel E. Detample, Morrisville.

Thor H. Ingraham, Murrysville; Travis C. Zimmerman, New Berlinville; 
Clifford L. Moxley, Jr., New Castle; Albert Pasquale Gettings, New 
Castle; Orlando E. Gonzalez, New Freedom; Jennifer M. Hartman, New 
Ringgold; Brandon J. Van Parys, New Tripoli; Timothy L. Hayslett, 
Newville; Kyle J. Grimes, Northampton; Justin W. Dreese, 
Northumberland; Brett D. Swank, Northumberland; John R. Priestner, 
Leraysville; Jonathan Roy Kephart, Oil City; Kyle J. Renehan, Oxford; 
Jeremy E. Maresh, Penn Forest Township; Brian R. Faunce, Philadelphia; 
Francis J. Straub, Jr., Philadelphia; Adam C. Conboy, Philadelphia; 
Carl W. Johnson II, Philadelphia; and Edward W. Brabazon, Philadelphia.

Joseph M. Nolan, Philadelphia; Rodney A. Jones, Philadelphia; 
Nicholas J. Zangara, Philadelphia; Brahim J. Jeffcoat, Philadelphia; 
Gennaro Pellegrini, Jr., Philadelphia; Albert M. Nelson, Philadelphia; 
Wesley J. Williams, Philadelphia; David R. Bernstein, Phoenixville; 
Douglas J. Weismantle, Pittsburgh; Rafael L. Navea, Pittsburgh; 
Nicholas A. Tomko, Pittsburgh; Robert E. Hall Jr., Pittsburgh; Patrick 
Brian Kenny, Pittsburgh; Mark W. Melcher, Pittsburgh; Jason M. West, 
Pittsburgh; Thomas E. Vandling, Jr., Pittsburgh; Steven Freund, 
Pleasant Hills; Andrew W. Brown, Pleasant Mount; Sherwood R. Baker, 
Plymouth; and Jaror C. Puello-Coronado, Pocono Summit.

Craig S. Ivory, Port Matilda; Anthony L. Sherman, Pottstown; Scott R. 
Smith, Punxsutawney; Tamarra J. Ramos, Quakertown; William V. 
Fernandez, Reading; Joseph Minucci II, Richeyville; Tony L. Knier, 
Sabinsvilie; Timothy J. Lauer, Saegertown; Robert T. Mininger, 
Sellersville; Matthew J. Sandri, Shamokin; Douglas E. Kashmer, Sharon; 
Kurt E. Krout, Spinnerstown; William R. Sturges, Jr., Spring Church; 
Tristan Neil Aitken, State College; Eric A. McIntosh, Trafford; Carl F. 
Curran, Union City; Eric R. Hull, Uniontown; Jeffrey P. Toczylowski, 
Upper Moreland; Lonny D. Wells, Vandergrift; and Neil Anthony 
Santoriello, Verona.

Steven W. Szwydek, Warfordsburg; Michael T. Gleason, Warren; Ryan J. 
Kovacicek, Washington; Dale Thomas Lloyd, Watsontown; Brent A. Adam, 
West View; William J. Maher III, Yardley; Allen J. Dunckley, Yardley; 
Martin W. Kondor, York; and, finally, Sean R. Mitchell, Youngsville.

May they rest in peace.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.