# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `40592480875f071299691e17a7f5625f`
`Mr. CLYBURN — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, every year at this time I read the 
''Letter from Birmingham Jail,'' written by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
and after these many decades, it still brings new inspiration and 
insight with every read.

As I consider the challenges we face nationally and internationally, 
I am struck by Dr. King's words, ''More and more I feel that the people 
of ill will have used time much more effectively than have the people 
of good will. We will have to repent in this generation not merely for 
the hateful words and actions of the bad people but for the appalling 
silence of the good people.''

Let us break our silence in Congress and across this country on the 
issues of poverty, education, health care, and Iraq among other things. 
The people of good will must join together to provide for the common 
good.

I would like to submit a truncated version of Dr. Martin Luther 
King's ''Letter from a Birmingham Jail'' to the Record in the hopes 
that we can all move forward with the social consciousness Dr. King 
preached of.








 Excerpts From Letter From Birmingham Jail*















 April 16, 1963




 My Dear Fellow Clergymen: While confined here in the 


 Birmingham city jail, I came across your recent statement 


 calling my present activities ''unwise and untimely.'' Seldom 


 do I pause to answer criticism of my work and ideas. If I 


 sought to answer all the criticisms that cross my desk, my 


 secretaries would have little time for anything other than 


 such correspondence in the course of the day, and I would 


 have no time for constructive work. But since I feel that you 


 are men of genuine good will and that your criticisms are 


 sincerely set forth, I want to try to answer your statements 


 in what I hope will be patient and reasonable terms . . .



 Author's Note: This response to a published statement by 


 eight fellow clergymen from Alabama (Bishop C. C. J. 


 Carpenter, Bishop Joseph A. Durick, Rabbi Hilton L. Grafman, 


 Bishop Paul Hardin, Bishop Holan B. Harmon, the Reverend 


 George M. Murray, the Reverend Edward V. Ramage and the 


 Reverend Earl Stallings) was composed under somewhat 


 constricting circumstance. Begun on the margins of the 


 newspaper in which the statement appeared while I was in 


 jail, the letter was continued on scraps of writing paper 


 supplied by a friendly Negro trusty, and concluded on a pad 


 my attorneys were eventually permitted to leave me. Although 


 the text remains in substance unaltered, I have indulged in 


 the author's prerogative of polishing it for publication.



 But more basically, I am in Birmingham because injustice is 


 here. Just as the prophets of the eighth century B.C. left 


 their villages and carried their ''thus saith the Lord'' far 


 beyond the boundaries of their home towns, and just as the 


 Apostle Paul left his village of Tarsus and carried the 


 gospel of Jesus Christ to the far corners of the Greco-Roman 


 world, so am I compelled to carry the gospel of freedom 


 beyond my own home town. Like Paul, I must constantly respond 


 to the Macedonian call for aid . . .



 Moreover, I am cognizant of the interrelatedness of all 


 communities and states. I cannot sit idly by in Atlanta and 


 not be concerned about what happens in Birmingham. Injustice 


 anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in 


 an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment 


 of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all 


 indirectly. Never again can we afford to live with the 


 narrow, provincial ''outside agitator'' idea. Anyone who 


 lives inside the United States can never be considered an 


 outsider anywhere within its bounds . . .



 You deplore the demonstrations taking place in Birmingham. 


 But your statement, I am sorry to say, fails to express a 


 similar concern for the conditions that brought about the 


 demonstrations. I am sure that none of you would want to rest 


 content with the superficial kind of social analysis that 


 deals merely with effects and does not grapple with 


 underlying causes. It is unfortunate that demonstrations are 


 taking place in Birmingham, but it is even more unfortunate 


 that the city's white power structure left the Negro 


 community with no alternative . . .



 As in so many past experiences, our hopes had been blasted, 


 and the shadow of deep disappointment settled upon us. We had 


 no alternative except to prepare for direct action, whereby 


 we would present our very bodies as a means of laying our 


 case before the conscience of the local and the national 


 community. Mindful of the difficulties involved, we decided 


 to undertake a process of self-purification. We began a 


 series of workshops on nonviolence, and we repeatedly asked 


 ourselves: ''Are you able to accept blows without 


 retaliating?'' ''Are you able to endure the ordeal of jail?'' 


 We decided to schedule our direct-action program for the 


 Easter season, realizing that except for Christmas, this is 


 the main shopping period of the year. Knowing that a strong 


 economic with with-drawl program would be the by-product of 


 direct action, we felt that this would be the best time to 


 bring pressure to bear on the merchants for the needed change 


 . . .



 We know through painful experience that freedom is never 


 voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by 


 the oppressed. Frankly, I have yet to engage in a direct-


 action campaign that was ''well timed'' in the view of those 


 who have not suffered unduly from the disease of segregation. 


 For years now I have heard the word ''Wait!'' It rings in the 


 ear of every Negro with piercing familiarity. This ''Wait'' 


 has almost always meant 'Never.' '' We must come to see, with 


 one of our distinguished jurists, that ''justice too long 


 delayed is justice denied . . .''



 We have waited for more than 340 years for our 


 constitutional and God-given rights. The nations of Asia and 


 Africa are moving with jetlike speed toward gaining political 


 independence, but we still creep at horse-and-buggy pace 


 toward gaining a cup of coffee at a lunch counter. Perhaps it 


 is easy for those who have never felt the stinging dark of 


 segregation to say, ''Wait.'' But when you have seen vicious 


 mobs lynch your mothers and fathers at will and drown your 


 sisters and brothers at whim; when you have seen hate-filled 


 policemen curse, kick and even kill your black brothers and 


 sisters; when you see the vast majority of your twenty 


 million Negro brothers smothering in an airtight cage of 


 poverty in the midst of an affluent society; when you 


 suddenly find your tongue twisted and your speech stammering 


 as you seek to explain to your six-year-old daughter why she 


 can't go to the public amusement park that has just been 


 advertised on television, and see tears welling up in her 


 eyes when she is told that Funtown is closed to colored 


 children, and see ominous clouds of inferiority beginning to 


 form in her little mental sky, and see her beginning to 


 distort her personality by developing an unconscious 


 bitterness toward white people; when you have to concoct an 


 answer for a five-year-old son who is asking: ''Daddy, why do 


 white people treat colored people so mean?''; when you take a 


 cross-country drive and find it necessary to sleep night 


 after night in the uncomfortable corners of your automobile 


 because no motel will accept you; when you are humiliated day 


 in and day out by nagging signs reading ''white'' and 


 ''colored''; when your first name becomes ''nigger,'' your 


 middle name becomes ''boy'' (however old you are) and your 


 last name becomes ''John,'' and your wife and mother are 


 never given the respected title ''Mrs.''; when you are 


 harried by day and haunted by night by the fact that you are 


 a Negro, living constantly at tiptoe stance, never quite 


 knowing what to expect next, and are plagued with inner fears 


 and outer resentments; when you know forever fighting a 


 degenerating sense of ''nobodiness'' then you will understand 


 why we find it difficult to wait. There comes a time when the 


 cup of endurance runs over, and men are no longer willing to 


 be plunged into the abyss of despair. I hope, sirs, you 


 can understand our legitimate and unavoidable impatience . 


 . .



 I must make two honest confessions to you, my Christian and 


 Jewish brothers. First, I must confess that over the past few 


 years I have been gravely disappointed with the white 


 moderate. I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion 


 that the Negro's great stumbling block in his stride toward 


 freedom is not the White Citizen's Councilor or the Ku Klux 


 Klanner, but the white moderate, who is more devoted to 


 ''order'' than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which 


 is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the 


 presence of justice; who constantly says: ''I agree with you 


 in the goal you seek, but I cannot agree with your methods of 


 direct action''; who paternalistically believes he can set 


 the timetable for another man's freedom; who lives by a 


 mythical concept of time and who constantly advises the Negro 


 to wait for a ''more convenient season.'' Shallow 


 understanding from people of good will is more frustrating 


 than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will. 


 Lukewarm acceptance is much more bewildering than outright 


 rejection . . .



 Oppressed people cannot remain oppressed forever. The 


 yearning for freedom eventually manifests itself, and that is 


 what has happened to the American Negro. Something within has 


 reminded him of his birthright of freedom, and something 


 without has reminded him that it can be gained. Consciously 


 or unconsciously, he has been caught up by the Zeitgeist, and 


 with his black brothers of Africa and his brown and yellow 


 brothers of Asia, South America and the Caribbean, the United 


 States Negro is moving with a sense of great urgency toward 


 the promised land of racial justice. If one recognizes this 


 vital urge that has engulfed the Negro community, one should 


 readily understand why public demonstrations are taking 


 place. The Negro has many pent-up resentments and latent 


 frustrations, and he




 must release them. So let him march; let him make prayer 


 pilgrimages to the city hall; let him go on freedom rides--


 and try to understand why he must do so. If his repressed 


 emotions are not released in nonviolent ways, they will seek 


 expression through violence; this is not a threat but a fact 


 of history. So I have not said to my people: ''Get rid of 


 your discontent.'' Rather, I have tried to say that this 


 normal and healthy discontent can be channeled into the 


 creative outlet of nonviolent direct action. And now this 


 approach is being termed extremist . . .



 But though I was initially disappointed at being 


 categorized as an extremist, as I continued to think about 


 the matter I gradually gained a measure of satisfaction from 


 the label. Was not Jesus an extremist for love: ''Love your 


 enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate 


 you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and 


 persecute you.'' Was not Amos an extremist for justice: ''Let 


 justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-


 flowing stream.'' Was not Paul an extremist for the Christian 


 gospel: ''I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.'' 


 Was not Martin Luther an extremist: ''Here I stand; I cannot 


 do otherwise, so help me God.'' And John Bunyan: ''I will 


 stay in jail to the end of my days before I make a butchery 


 of my conscience.'' And Abraham Lincoln: ''This nation cannot 


 survive half slave and half free.'' And Thomas Jefferson: 


 ''We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are 


 created equal . . .'' So the question is not whether we will 


 be extremists, but what kind of extremists we will be.



 We be extremists for hate or for love? Will we be extremist 


 for the preservation of injustice or for the extension of 


 justice? In that dramatic scene on Calvary's hill three men 


 were crucified. We must never forget that all three were 


 crucified for the same crime--the crime of extremism. Two 


 were extremists for immorality, and thus fell below their 


 environment. The other, Jeans Christ, was an extremist for 


 love, truth and goodness, and thereby rose above his 


 environment. Perhaps the South, the nation and the world are 


 in dire need of creative extremists . . .



 But the judgment of God is upon the church as never before. 


 If today's church does not recapture the sacrificial spirit 


 of the early church, it vi lose its authenticity, forfeit the 


 loyalty of millions, and be dismissed as an irrelevant social 


 club with no meaning for the twentieth century. Every day I 


 meet young people whose disappointment with the church has 


 turned into outright disgust . . .



 I wish you had commended the Negro sit-inners and 


 demonstrators of Birmingham for their sublime courage, their 


 willingness to suffer and their amazing discipline in the 


 midst of great provocation. One day the South will recognize 


 its real heroes. They will be the James Merediths, with the 


 noble sense of purpose that enables them to face Jeering, and 


 hostile mobs, and with the agonizing loneliness that 


 characterizes the life of the pioneer. They will be old, 


 oppressed, battered Negro women, symbolized in a seventy-two-


 year-old woman in Montgomery, Alabama, who rose up with a 


 sense of dignity and with her people decided not to ride 


 segregated buses, and who responded with ungrammatical 


 profundity to one who inquired about her weariness: ''My 


 fleets is tired, but my soul is at rest.'' They be the young 


 high school and college students, the young ministers of the 


 gospel and a host of their elders, courageously and 


 nonviolently sitting in at lunch counters and willingly going 


 to jail for conscience' sake. One day the South will know 


 that when these disinherited children of God sat down at 


 lunch counters, they were in reality standing up for what is 


 best in the American dream and for the most sacred values in 


 our Judaeo-Christian heritage, thereby bringing our nation 


 back to those great wells of democracy which were dug deep by 


 the founding fathers in their formulation of the Constitution 


 and the Declaration of Independence . . .



 I hope this letter finds you strong in the faith. I also 


 hope that circumstances will soon make it possible for me to 


 meet each of you, not as an integrationist or a civil rights 


 leader but as a fellow clergyman and a Christian brother. Let 


 us. all hope that the dark clouds of racial prejudice will 


 soon pass away and the deep fog of misunderstanding will be 


 lifted from our fear-drenched communities, and in some not 


 too distant tomorrow the radiant stars of love and 


 brotherhood will shine over our great nation with all their 


 scintillating beauty . . .





 Yours for the cause of Peace and Brotherhood,


 Martin Luther King, Jr.
