---
---

# SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING LOWERING FLAG OVER CAPITOL TO HONOR  MILITARY DEATHS
## `4066db86d2becfaf496333956d305fdc`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. I thank the gentlelady from 
California.

All of us, I'm sure, have had an opportunity--at least most--to visit 
the war zones in Iraq and Afghanistan. And being there, we have 
observed the greatness of the volunteers who volunteer their service 
for this great country and to help preserve, defend, and to bring about 
liberty and freedom to others in different parts of the world today, 
mainly in those two war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the third 
one in the area of the Balkans.

But as they serve, some give the ultimate sacrifice. And for all of 
those who serve and who have served, and for those who have given the 
ultimate sacrifice, we can never really do enough as a Nation to thank 
them for their service and, ultimately, leaving their families with the 
loss of their lives.

In 1775, a shot heard around the world brought American men and women 
into battle at the Siege of Boston that lasted through the spring of 
1776, which eventually brought us into war for our independence. After 
several years and the loss of many lives, we obtained our independence. 
Since that time, our young men and women have been willing to volunteer 
to go into the battlefields to preserve the freedom that our first 
military men and women fought to give us, and we've been willing to 
preserve that and we should continue as a Nation.

But I think when we look at those who give the ultimate sacrifice, 
sometimes we give the medals and we show sympathy and appreciation to 
the families, and then after a while, we forget that. I know in every 
courthouse and every city hall there are monuments that have the names 
of those who have given their lives for this country and paid the 
ultimate sacrifice.

On Memorial Day we visit and Veterans Day we visit, perhaps some 
special days like 9/11 we again remember and we visit those who have 
their names engraved on the markings and on the monuments in our 
courthouses and city halls throughout this country.



But I believe that just those two or three special occasions are not 
enough.

And, Mr. Speaker, I didn't realize how little we were showing 
appreciation for those who gave the ultimate sacrifice until my very 
first visit in early 2004 to Iraq. We had just traveled from one part 
of Iraq, flying back into Baghdad in a C-130. And before we boarded the 
plane, there was an escort detail. And we noticed that there was a 
casket, a flag-draped casket. A very solemn occasion as you looked at 
the lines of the young men and women who were saying farewell to the 
one who had given his life. And they placed that in that cargo bay off 
the C-130. Those of us who were Members of Congress sat more to the 
front--those who have traveled obviously know that we ride the jump 
seats as we go in and out into Iraq or Afghanistan.

And for some reason, when I looked in the faces of those young men 
who were the escorts, the solemn faces, the faces who weren't looking 
to anyone, I don't think, for sympathy, but just understanding, for me, 
on that occasion, I said, I don't think we do enough. And in 2004, I 
introduced this bill, the same one that's here today, to where we can 
at least once a month--12 times a year, plus the other occasions--say 
thank you to the mothers and fathers, to the brothers and sisters of 
the one who gave his life, and to the one who gave his life, that 
America still cherishes, respects, loves and remembers the sacrifice 
that you gave to this Nation.

So for me, it is my hope that this bill passes unanimously, and that 
we honor those who have given their life for this great Nation of ours.