---
---

# AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT
## `40662e1cd14df2f096eab4143dd82490`
`Mr. SMITH of New Jersey — 7 November 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, like most Americans, I believe 
we urgently need health care reform to provide every American access to 
high-quality medical care.

During the long and painful illnesses of both my parents, I had to 
fight with their health management organization to get them the care 
they deserved. Their HMO put my family through months of frustration 
and anguish. I know I'm not alone--tens of millions of Americans have 
gone through this as well. It's not right, and it's time to change 
that. Americans need more protection, power, and say in their health 
care programs, and they need us to reform the system to make it more 
affordable for everyone.

Regrettably, H.R. 3962, the bill before the House tonight, not only 
falls short, but it will make most people's health care worse, and it 
will certainly disempower all of us. For this reason I strongly oppose 
the bill--H.R. 3962.

After carefully studying H.R. 3962, I am concerned that the bill is 
actually a step backwards--many patients will have less, not more, 
access to and say over their health care if H.R. 3692 is enacted. I 
firmly believe we can and must reform our health care system and 
provide better solutions for those currently uninsured or underinsured. 
But we must do so without jeopardizing the quality of health care for 
these currently insured people and families, many of whom will see 
their own health care access and quality seriously eroded under the 
bill.

H.R. 3962 will:

Limit patient access by establishing federal bureaucracies with new 
authority to determine what medical treatments and services will be 
covered at, what costs patients will pay--Americans will be so 
disadvantaged that this bill makes those who don't purchase 
''acceptable'' coverage (as defined by the federal government) subject 
to criminal fines and imprisonment up to 5 years.

Cause most Americans to lose access to their current health insurance 
coverage and force them into a nationally uniform public plan. It will 
do this by subsidizing a government-run ''public plan'' that will 
ultimately drive private health plans out of business. Most Americans 
don't want to lose their current insurance, and they trust the public 
plan even less than they trust private insurance, which at least has to 
compete for customers, and permits them to choose their doctors. This 
would hit my constituents especially hard--according to the Urban 
Institute, approximately 90% of the people in my district currently 
have health coverage;

Slash payments to health-care providers, threatening the continued 
existence of many hospitals, home health and skilled nursing facilities 
serving New Jersey residents.

Madam Speaker, throughout my career in Congress, I have been a 
steadfast supporter of Medicare for our senior citizens and the 
disabled. I have voted several times to preserve and protect Medicare 
even when I stood alone in my own party rejecting a proposal to cut 
$270 billion from Medicare in 1995.

That is why I find it absolutely unacceptable that H.R. 3962 cuts 
Medicare by a whopping $500 billion. Proponents argue that some funding 
will be returned through other avenues. But even if that were true, 
Medicare will still be drastically cut by a net of $219.4 billion, in 
their ''best case scenario.''

The bill also guts Medicare Advantage plans, which offer additional 
coverage to over 11 million seniors--15,983 in my district alone--who 
choose Medicare Advantage plans as the coverage that best meets their 
needs.

I will not vote for massive cuts in Medicare. These cuts will wreak 
havoc on our nation's health care system and everyone it serves, 
particularly the seniors and disabled. We need reform legislation that 
respects all human life, the most vulnerable among us which includes 
the frail and the disabled of all ages.

Finally, this bill will hinder economic recovery and job creation 
during a major recession. Just yesterday the nation's unemployment rate 
rose above 10 percent for the first time since 1983, and if you include 
those who have stopped looking for jobs and those who can only find 
part-time work, the rate is 17.5 percent. The bill does additional harm 
by:

Raising taxes on individuals and small businesses by $729.5 billion;

Failing to reform our costly and unfair system of medical liability 
lawsuits, which inflates health care costs by billions of dollars each 
year, exceeding 10% of all health care expenditures;

Mandating a $34 billion expansion of state Medicaid payments--in 
order to cover this massive increase, financially strapped states like 
New Jersey will have to cut other services; and

Costing the taxpayer, according to the Congressional Budget Office 
(CBO), $1.3 trillion over ten years and using budget gimmicks and tax 
increases to cover that cost.

I must mention two other serious problems with the bill:

It does not adequately protect the freedom of conscience of health 
care providers opposed to abortion, and sets up mechanisms that ration 
care by creating government ''waiting lists'' if there are insufficient 
funds to pay expenses; and

It does not require patients to verify their identity, which, 
according to the CBO, means that millions undocumented immigrants will 
receive free health care, unfairly subsidized by taxpaying citizens.

It is truly unfortunate that the Democratic leadership did not work 
to put forth a health care reform bill that addressed these concerns. 
We need a proposal that advances solutions rather than creates new 
problems. Let me be clear, I take a back seat to no one when it comes 
to working to ensure that the federal government accepts its role and 
is doing its part in helping people and providing a health care safety 
net for those in desperate need of health care support. I am proud of 
my record, voting to defeat cuts to and expand existing federal health 
care programs, while working to protect patient rights and the delivery 
of quality medical care. These efforts include:

Medicare/Medicaid/SCHIP. I support providing our senior citizens a 
high level of benefits under the Medicare program. On one occasion, I 
voted against a $270 billion reduction in Medicare spending. One reason 
I cannot support the current health care legislation is because it 
makes over $500 billion in cuts to Medicare. To expand health insurance 
to more uninsured low-income children, I voted in 1997 for legislation 
creating the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and 
voted last year to expand the program. SCHIP and Medicaid together 
cover more than 30 million low-income children, as well as 16 million 
adults, 6 million seniors, and 10 million persons with disabilities. 
That is why I have been so adamant about protecting those programs.

Community Health Centers. Federally designated community health 
centers are another effective means to get affordable health care to 
underserved communities. The health centers program includes community, 
migrant, homeless, and public housing health centers and provides 
primary and preventive care to more than 18 million individuals at over 
3,700 sites located in every state and U.S. territory. I have been a 
consistent supporter of increased funding for the community health 
centers program. A significant factor in the success of community 
health centers is that they are managed at the community level with a 
concern for serving their clients in their local neighborhoods.


Veterans Health Care. As former Chairman of the House Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, I fought successfully (and sometimes nearly alone) 
to provide increased medical services and funding for veterans health 
care programs. I wrote several laws to boost and expand veterans health 
care, including the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Programs 
Enhancement Act (PL 107-135), which expanded and enhanced veterans' 
healthcare services and reduced out-of-pocket costs for low income 
veterans by 80 percent and continues to help disabled veterans obtain 
the tools they need to live fuller lives. I also wrote the law, the 
Veterans Health Programs Improvement Act of 2004 (PL 108-422), that 
created 5 poly-trauma centers within the VA, and an additional 17 
networked sites, that specialize in treating complex multi-trauma 
injuries--including severe brain injury--associated with combat 
injuries from Iraq and Afghanistan.

Health Care Caucuses. Working with my colleagues across the aisle, I 
have cofounded and currently co-chair important bipartisan health care 
working groups, i.e. caucuses, which aim to educate Members of Congress 
and increase federal resources and research on treatments and cures for 
specific diseases, some which effect New Jersey residents 
disproportionately. For instance, I serve as co-chairman of the 
bipartisan Congressional Alzheimer's Task Force; the Coalition for 
Autism Research and Education; the Spina Bifida Caucus; and the Lyme 
Disease Caucus. Each caucus has served as an effective forum to advance 
legislation that helps families combating health care challenges;

Patients Rights. As far back as 2001, I cosponsored and voted for the 
Patient Protection Act which contained critical patient protections to 
help put doctors and patients back in control of their health care 
decisions, rather than bureaucrats at managed care companies. 
Unfortunately, while separate bills passed the House and the Senate, 
they were never signed into law.

Insurance Reform. I voted for the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of


1996 (HIPPA), which provided insurability protections for individuals 
moving between insurance plans in the individual or group markets and 
reduced or eliminated preexisting medical condition exclusion periods 
for such individuals. I have also been a strong advocate for allowing 
small businesses, associations, and non-profit organizations to band 
together to purchase health insurance. In acquiring health insurance, 
small businesses do not enjoy the benefits of economies of scale of 
large businesses, which allows those large businesses to spread 
administrative costs over a large base and provide significant leverage 
in negotiating lower premiums. Over 50 percent of the nation's 
uninsured are employed in a small business or are a dependent of such a 
worker.

Medical Malpractice Reform. The House of Representatives has voted to 
pass medical liability reform legislation with my support eight times 
in the past 15 years. These bills--which sought to place a cap on non-
economic damages, limit punitive damages, and restrict attorneys' 
fees--were modeled after a California law that many credited for 
relatively low malpractice premiums in the state.

While we have had some significant successes in these critical areas 
expanding--frequently after much toil--it is indisputable that more 
comprehensive changes are needed, including major reforms of the 
private health insurance market.


The goal of responsible health care reform should be to provide 
credible health insurance coverage for everyone, strengthening the 
health care safety net so that no one is left out, and incentivizing 
quality and innovation, as well as healthy behaviors and prevention. 
This means that the current private health insurance market will have 
to be reformed to put patients first, and to eliminate denials for pre-
existing conditions and lifetime caps and promoting portability between 
jobs and geographic areas, including across state lines. The tax code 
should be modernized to promote affordability and individual control, 
provide assistance to low-income and middle-class families. Medicare 
requires reform to be more efficient and responsive, with sustainable 
payment rates.

Of course responsible health care reform will respect basic 
principles of justice: it will put patients and their doctors in charge 
of medical decisions, not insurance companies or government 
bureaucrats. It will also ensure that the lives and health of all 
persons are respected regardless of stage of development, age or 
disability.

The Republican alternative amendment does these things. It focuses on 
lowering health care premiums for families and small businesses, 
increasing access to affordable, high-quality care, and promoting 
healthier lifestyles--without increasing taxes or adding to the 
crushing debt Washington has placed on our children and grandchildren 
and without cutting Medicare. It also establishes a real conscience 
protection for health care providers and it requires verification of 
citizenship and identity.

I oppose H.R. 3962 because in many ways it jeopardizes coverage for 
those who already have it, especially seniors and the disabled. At the 
same time it exercises far too much top-down government control, 
forcing everyone toward a government plan, controlling exactly what 
sort of care will be offered. For this reason I support the Republican 
alternative amendment. It moves significantly in the right direction 
while applying the wisdom of Hippocrates' first principle of medicine: 
doing no harm.












Amendment Offered by Mr. Stupak
