# None
## `407556c11d64e2d7b3427c2d15f9caa8`
`Mr. ENZI — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to express my disappointment in this 
all-night session and the attempt to call this PR stunt progress for 
our troops. It is clear that some in this Chamber are putting rhetoric 
before results. Our troops in Iraq continue to pay the price of 
political rhetoric in Washington, DC.

I believe my colleagues truly care about our troops and I share their 
desire to have all of our troops home as soon as possible. To endorse a 
strategy of withdrawing troops in 120 days after this bill passes, 
however, undermines those very troops. We make it even more difficult 
for them to achieve their mission. With today's rapid communication 
made possible by the Internet, cell phones, and other technologies, 
what we say here can almost instantaneously find its way around the 
world and straight to the camps of both friends and foes--and they are 
both watching. In fact, I don't think it is an exaggeration to say that 
the whole world is watching to see what we will decide to do.

Ambassador Ryan Crocker, our U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, has made some 
very interesting comments that I find valuable. He, like our military 
commanders in Iraq, is in the best position to give us in Washington a 
true assessment of the situation on the ground. Ambassador Crocker has 
stated that he could see the Iraqi Government achieve none of the 
debaathification benchmarks and yet have a situation of stability and 
progress. At the same time, we could see a situation where all 
benchmarks are achieved and yet have an unstable and unsecure nation.

In statements on this floor, I have discussed the goals of benchmarks 
for the Iraqi Government--and I continue to believe we should be 
setting those goals. We should be helping the Iraqi Government achieve 
them. But we cannot expect the Iraqi Government to exist in a vacuum 
where our American ideals of democracy will simply exist in 1 day, 1 
month, or 1 year.

I have also recently read an article by former Secretary of State 
Henry Kissinger in the Washington Post. Dr. Kissinger wrote about the 
centuries-long struggles between the Sunni, Shiia, and Kurdish 
populations in Iraq. He, too, points out that it is unrealistic to 
expect these groups to, in a matter of a few years, forget hundreds of 
years of conflict and work together in our timeframe.

I will ask that three articles be printed in the Record.

The people of the United States and certainly the members of the 
Senate should continue to press for progress being made by the Iraqi 
Government. We should provide our troops and our civilian 
representatives on the ground in Iraq with the resources they need to 
assist the Iraqis in achieving a secure and stable state. We must not 
undermine their efforts in attempt to score political points.



An assessment of military actions will be released in September. When 
that assessment is made by those on the ground in Iraq, I will 
carefully evaluate what their determinations mean for the future of 
America's troops serving in Iraq.

I want to close by expressing my heartfelt thanks to all of the men 
and women serving in our U.S. Armed Forces. You are all true heroes. 
You have volunteered to defend our Nation, our freedom, and our way of 
life. For those of you deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the 
world, I hope you know the difference you are making in the lives of 
the people around you. Your families, friends, and the people of 
America are safer because of the work you are doing.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the articles to which I 
referred be printed in the Record.