---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `4082461e07290944a87eba9a9630b081`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 16 December 2009`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3326, 
the Fiscal Year 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, as 
amended by the Senate. However, while I applaud the hard work of House 
leadership in bringing this much needed legislation to the floor, I 
regret that an opportunity to more fully address the threat posed by 
suspected terrorists currently under detention by


the United States government has been missed.

The United States military is responsible for keeping Americans safe. 
And in light of the challenge that we face in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 
Federal Government's commitment to our soldiers has never been more 
important. As such, I'm pleased we're working to ensure that the 
promises we've made to those who serve in our Armed Forces are kept. 
Whether it's the 3.4 percent military pay increase or the $104 billion 
to improve military equipment, I believe we must ensure our troops 
receive the support they deserve for the great sacrifice they have made 
by serving our country, and clearly this bill represents a strong show 
of that support.

However, while H.R. 3326, as passed, is a strong bill, I was 
disappointed that one of the most troubling issues of the day was not 
addressed. Critical to ensuring individual Americans' safety is the 
future treatment of the dangerous enemy combatants housed at the 
Guantanamo detention facility. Rather than allowing Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed to be tried in New York City through our civilian court system 
and transporting Guantanamo detainees to Thomson Correctional 
Institution in Illinois, Congress should unequivocally restrict enemy 
combatants to trial by military commission and permanently deny funding 
to transport them into our country.

Madam Speaker, we are at a critical juncture in our nation's history. 
However, as we work to bolster a strong national defense, we cannot 
ignore the ever-present threat posed by those rogue agents who wish to 
do us harm. I believe a cornerstone of addressing this threat is to 
remove the current legal ambiguity with regard to detainee treatment. 
By trying these detainees in a civilian setting, we are allowing them 
to exploit our judicial system for personal gain and undermine the work 
of our military commissions, which have served our nation for 
centuries.

So while I am pleased to be here on the floor today supporting our 
troops, it is my sincere hope that the questions surrounding America's 
prosecution of enemy combatants will be answered in a way that best 
ensures our national security.