# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `4086ffbc345000f1586e9c7ed348fcda`
`Mr. TESTER â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I am proud to join with my Democratic 
colleagues in the freshmen class who are offering amendment No. 2999 
today. I wish to give my thanks in particular to Senator McCaskill, 
Senator Webb, as well as the other six freshmen Senators in the 
Democratic caucus in offering this amendment that deals with 
accountability as it applies to contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The nine of us were elected last fall in large measure because the 
people in this country were tired of the war in Iraq and tired of a 
lack of accountability for how our tax dollars have been spent in the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The fact is, people in Montana and around 
the country work way too hard to have their tax dollars stolen from 
them by people who think they can take advantage of an environment 
where there is little or no oversight or accountability. This amendment 
will bring some much needed accountability in the way our tax dollars 
are spent in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we will do it in a way that 
takes this issue out of the political spotlight.

This amendment will establish a bipartisan commission to review the 
contracts we have entered into in fighting the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The Commission will be outside of Congress and will be 
outside of the Bush administration. The amendment will also direct this 
new Commission to review the way new contracts are awarded and 
overseen. This will give us a chance to prevent future waste, fraud, 
and abuse.

The Commission will work in consultation with the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction, which currently oversees only 
reconstruction contracts in Iraq, to review and investigate logistics, 
security, and intelligence work that has been contracted out by the 
Defense Department.

According to the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office, we 
have squandered $10 billion in Iraq reconstruction funds due to 
contract overcharges and unsupported expenses. That means 1 out of 
every 6 reconstruction dollars spent in Iraq is not accounted for, and 
only now, after 5 years of war in Iraq, the Army is looking back at 
nearly $100 million in contracts to determine how these funds have been 
spent.

I think it is important for folks to understand we are not coming at 
this with the idea that every contract is a bad one. There are many 
contractors who are doing a good job and who are being responsible with 
our tax dollars. But there are others who are not. At a time when we 
are struggling to win the hearts and minds of the Iraqi and Afghani 
people, those who are deliberately overeating at the taxpayer trough, 
while our troops are fighting and dying in Iraq, are nothing short of 
treasonous.

Many Americans have questioned how their tax dollars are being spent 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have wondered why it is that there are 
more contractors than troops in Iraq. They have wondered why some 
companies are enjoying record profits even though so many projects 
remain incomplete. For too long, the answer from the Government has 
been a deafening silence. This amendment is a long-overdue response to 
the cries for accountability and transparency in our contracting 
process. It should not be and is not a partisan issue. It is about good 
government. I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.