---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `408c53db0c05c87c043ebacefab6be11`
`Mr. ELLISON — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, make no mistake about it, the change that 
took place in this body over the course of November 7 is directly 
related to this war in Iraq. And the presence of a number of people who 
are here now is directly related to the will of the American people to 
end this war, which never should have been started.

The fact is, the strategy to escalate the troops is not new, it has 
been tried at least four other times. It won't work this time, it 
didn't work those times. The thing to do now is to engage 
diplomatically and politically. That is what this situation calls for 
and that is the only thing that will bring success in this conflict at 
this time.

Support the troops? Of course. Of course, support the troops. Always 
we support the troops. But there comes a time when you cannot get the 
success that you seek at the barrel of a gun, you have to talk it out, 
you have to engage diplomatically, you have to engage politically. 
There is no substitute for that.

Support the troops, but bring them home. Support the troops, redeploy 
them, and allow the Iraqi people to seize and protect their country at 
this time.

I carry a message here today on behalf of people like Phil Steger and 
the Friends For a Nonviolent World, on behalf of Chapter 27 of Veterans 
For Peace, on behalf of every patriot who stands for peace, in the 
frigid cold, every Wednesday night on Lake Street Bridge in 
Minneapolis.

On behalf of the 3,100 Americans killed, including Minnesotans, I 
carry that message. On behalf of 24,000 scarred and wounded young 
Americans, including 372 Minnesotans, I carry the message. On behalf of 
the families and the loved ones of the damaged and deceased, I carry 
the message that the American soldier has done what has been asked, and 
it is time for politicians to step forward and do their job, which is 
to seek a political and diplomatic solution to this conflict, something 
that this latest escalation cannot do.

On behalf of the $8 billion we send to Iraq each month, hard-working 
American tax dollars that could be used to enrich the lives of the 
86,000 uninsured children of Minnesota, or for nearly the 700,000 
Minnesota Medicare patients, I carry the message that we need peace. We 
need to pursue it vigorously, unwaveringly, and urgently.

On behalf of the Americans who purposefully misled repeatedly, 
including the administration as related to these weapons of mass 
destruction where none existed, on behalf of the people who claim 
falsely of the collusion between 9/11 and Saddam Hussein where none 
existed, on behalf of the people who said that regime change would be 
welcomed with flowers instead of IEDs, I say stop the deception, start 
telling the truth.

On behalf of the people who say that the Iraqi oil revenues would pay 
for this war instead of draining the American Treasury of over $400 
billion, I say stop the deception, start telling the truth.

On behalf of those Americans who told us, repeatedly, facts which got 
us into this war in the first place, and which they are trying to 
sustain us in this war now, I say stop the deception. Stop the killing. 
Stop the carnage. Support our troops, do not support this escalation. 
Send a clear signal to the President that this is the wrong way to go.

For 6 years now, while the deception has deepened, we were told to 
shut up, bite your tongues, you are not as patriotic as me, you don't 
love America as much as I do. None of that is true. We have to stop 
this polarizing language and really focus on the best way out of this.

Even people who support the escalation can't claim that we are going 
to be in Iraq forever. What is your plan for eventually getting out of 
this thing? We say let's start the withdrawal now, let's start the 
diplomatic solution now, let's start the political solution now.

I want to say, on behalf of those who really thirst for peace, who 
believe that peace really is the answer, that we need to look at the 
words of Martin Luther King, Jr., when he spoke out against the Vietnam 
War. He said, ''There comes a time when silence is betrayal.'' And so 
it is.

And so, in keeping in line with the legacy of Dr. King, I want to 
talk about peace today. To those people who believe in the principles 
of peace and that peaceful dissent that guided Dr. King, those people 
should know that for you to raise your voice on behalf of peace is a 
patriotic act, it is a good thing.



To those people who say they believe in peace and believe peace is 
the right way to go, let me wrap up my remarks by just reminding you 
that Marine General Peter Pace, somebody who knows a little bit about 
warfare, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, just last week said, 
There is no doubt in my mind that the dialogue here in Washington 
strengthens our democracy, period. He added, Potential enemies of the 
United States, they may take comfort in rancor, but they do not know 
anything about how democracy works. The fact is that peace is 
patriotic. Dissenting from an ill-fated policy of the President is the 
right thing to do. Indeed, it is our obligation.

So please continue to stand up for peace and never forget that peace 
is the answer, and peace is going to prevail.