# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2918,  LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `4090125110af317cfec0e0734ddabb7e`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, this rule provides for consideration of the conference 
report on H.R. 2918, the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act. I rise 
in strong support of the rule and of the underlying legislation. The 
bill before us today includes not only the fy 2010 Legislative Branch 
appropriations bill but, more importantly, a continuing resolution to 
keep the government operating for the next 6 weeks.

With a few important exceptions, the continuing resolution provides 
level funding. In other words, the bill maintains funding levels passed 
at the 2009 appropriations process levels.

One of those exceptions is in the vital area of veterans health care, 
which receives an increase in this bill. The VA estimates that it will 
treat more than 6.1 million patients in 2010, including more than 
419,000 veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. That number 
represents an increase of 56,000 more patients than in 2009.

To ensure that the VA can provide our veterans the care that they 
need and that they deserve, the bill increases the funding for VA 
health by $3.85 billion. I would encourage all Members on both sides of 
the aisle who wish to provide this needed increase in veterans health 
care to support the bill.

To address the right-wing talk radio target of the week, no funds in 
this bill may be provided to ACORN or any of its affiliates, 
subsidiaries or allied organizations.

In terms of process, Madam Speaker, none of us on either side of the 
aisle are happy with continuing resolutions. They have been used for 
years under Democratic and Republican majorities, but they are clearly 
not ideal.

Here in the House, we have completed our work of passing all of the 
appropriations bills, and I want to commend Chairman Obey and his 
colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their efforts and all of 
their hard work.

Unfortunately, it seems that these days that you need 60 votes in the 
Senate to agree that the sun came up this morning. The Senate has not 
yet passed all of its bills, and this continuing resolution is 
necessary to ensure that vital programs continue to receive funding.

I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying 
legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.