---
---

# None
## `40918da977537d9a4798e054f80a599d`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor 586 members 
of the Alaska Army National Guard's 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry who 
recently returned from their yearlong deployment to southern Iraq and 
Kuwait. The guardsmen have been successfully serving as security forces 
in northern Kuwait and southern Iraq since October 2006, guarding camps 
and convoys heading into Iraq. The guardsmen come from all over my 
State, with members of the unit hailing from 80 different communities 
across Alaska including Anchorage, Fairbanks, Kodiak, Soldotna, Kenai, 
Nome, and many native villages. The unit also included National 
Guardsmen from New York, Mississippi, Illinois, Georgia, and Puerto 
Rico.



This was the largest deployment of the Alaska National Guard since 
World War II and thankfully all 586 guardsmen who were deployed 
overseas returned home safely. Many of these guardsmen had never left 
Alaska prior to joining the National Guard, but none hesitated to serve 
their country.

As I told the National Guardsmen at their welcome home ceremony at 
Camp Shelby, Mississippi, ''You can't support the troops unless you 
respect them. And I humbly respect you because you have done your job 
as you were charged to do so, and as volunteers. You left your families 
and you went forth and accomplished what you were taught to do.''

I truly believe that the importance of the National Guard to our 
country cannot be overstated, which is why it is important that we 
honor these citizen-soldiers. For this reason I am introducing the 
following resolution to honor these Guardsmen for their outstanding 
service to our country.















H. Con. Res. 240




 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry of the Alaska 


 Army National Guard deployment of almost 600 Alaskans was the 


 largest deployment of the Alaska National Guard since World 


 War II;



 Whereas the Alaskans of the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry 


 came from 80 different communities across Alaska;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry included 75 


 soldiers from New York, Mississippi, Illinois, Georgia and 


 Puerto Rico;



 Whereas the 586 soldiers of the 3rd Battalion, 297th 


 Infantry were mobilized in July of 2006 and deployed to Camp 


 Shelby, Mississippi;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry was deployed to 


 Camp Navstar and Camp Buehring in Northern Kuwait;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry courageously 


 performed route and perimeter security missions, mounted 


 combat patrols and inspections and searches of vehicles going 


 into Iraq from Kuwait, among other assignments;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry, over the course 


 of 15 months in Kuwait and Iraq, inspected and searched over 


 30,000 semi-trucks;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry designed all 


 force protection plans in northern Kuwait;



 Whereas the families of the members of the 3rd Battalion, 


 297th Infantry have provided unwavering support while waiting 


 patiently for their loved ones to return;



 Whereas the employers of members and family members of the 


 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry have displayed patriotism over 


 profit, by keeping positions saved for the returning soldiers 


 and supporting the families during the difficult days of this 


 long deployment, and these employers are great corporate 


 citizens through their support of members of the Armed Forces 


 and their family members;



 Whereas the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry has performed 


 admirably and courageously; gaining the gratitude and respect 


 of Alaskans and all Americans; and



 Whereas members of the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry 


 received 7 Bronze Stars, 23 Meritorious Service Medals, 142 


 Army Commendations and more than 200 Army Achievement Medals 


 for their outstanding service: Now, therefore, be it



 Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 


 concurring), That Congress--



 (1) commends the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry of the 


 Alaska Army National Guard upon its completion of deployment 


 and brave service to the Commonwealth of Alaska and the 


 citizens of the United States; and



 (2) directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to 


 transmit a copy of this resolution to the Adjutant General of 


 the Alaska National Guard for appropriate display.
