# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `409cc7ba50ff3235d23beb542ca17ca7`
`Mr. HODES â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Klein, I want to pick up on a few points you made, 
because as I have traveled around New Hampshire, I have met with 
numerous veterans and lots of folks in the active military. The people 
in New Hampshire are not especially liberal, left-wing people. They are 
Americans.

This issue is really an issue of what it means to be a patriot. 
Because we all want the best outcome we can possibly make for this 
country, for our troops, for our veterans, for our wounded warriors. We 
want to do the best we can for America. On whatever side of this debate 
about the proper policy, I think we all need to respect each other's 
views on that.

I find that in New Hampshire. But what I find is a deep yearning that 
this country is accountable to the American people, that our government 
is accountable to the American people in a way that sets us on a course 
for being number one.

Now, I don't mean that in any big, bullying way, but number one 
because, up until recently, in my years--I have been around for 56 
years--this country stood on its values. We stood on the principles of 
truth, justice, fairness, equality, and opportunity for all. That is 
what the American people expect from their government. That is where 
they want our country to go. They see that the war in Iraq has diverted 
us from being as great as we can be, from fulfilling the true promise 
of America both in the blood and treasure of our brave soldiers lost in 
the sands of Iraq.

They also are very concerned. I speak to people about some of what 
happened and the mistakes that were made that produced the issues that 
we are in today. They are very concerned, for instance, that while 9/11 
was caused by al Qaeda terrorists in Afghanistan with the Taliban, that 
the Bush administration not only implied but said that somehow, Saddam 
Hussein and Iraq were tied in with al Qaeda at the time of that attack. 
It just wasn't so.

We have made some serious mistakes that they see. They see that the 
object of going in, occupying Baghdad and immediately firing the civil 
service, de-Baathification, firing the Army, simply provided fuel for 
the insurgency, provided people and weapons to fight against stability 
in Iraq. They see those questions.

Now the question they are asking is, where to? Where do we go from 
here? The good news is that some of the Republican Senators have begun 
to see the light. I just want to quote one of our distinguished 
colleagues who is in the Senate Chamber, Senator Richard Lugar, the 
distinguished Republican from Indiana, the ranking member on the 
Foreign Relations Committee, who said, ''In my judgment, the costs and 
risks of continuing down the current path outweigh the potential 
benefits that might be achieved. Persisting indefinitely with the surge 
strategy will delay policy adjustments that have a better chance of 
protecting our vital interests over the long term. Our security 
interests call for a downsizing and redeployment of U.S. military 
forces to a more sustainable position.'' That was a speech by Senator 
Lugar, a Republican from Indiana, on the Senate floor on June 25 of 
this year. He is beginning to face the reality and getting ready for a 
new direction in Iraq.

We have now been joined by our distinguished colleague, Jason Altmire 
from Pennsylvania. We are delighted to have you with us. He often 
speaks with the 30-Something Group. It is a real treat to have him with 
the New Member Caucus tonight. The Class of 2006 welcomes you, Jason.