# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `40a281d8017d7b0ce4cf90836673fd4a`
`Mr. LEVIN — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I yield myself 8 minutes.

I support the nomination of LTG Doug Lute to be Assistant to the 
President and Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Lieutenant General Lute is an accomplished senior officer with a 
distinguished record and great experience in both military tactics and 
national security strategy and policy. Lieutenant General Lute has been 
serving as the Director of Operations, J-3, on the Joint Staff since 
September of 2006. Immediately prior to this assignment, he served for 
more than 2 years as the Director of Operations, J-3, at U.S. Central 
Command, overseeing combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and other 
operations in the CENTCOM area of responsibility.

While I know of no concerns as to General Lute's qualifications for 
the position to which he has been nominated by the President, there 
have been some other concerns expressed about this nomination. The 
first concern questions the need for the position itself as well as the 
potential for confusion as to who is responsible for Iraq and 
Afghanistan policy. On the one hand, the position implies a direct and 
independent relationship with the President as Assistant to the 
President, and on the other hand, as Deputy National Security Adviser 
for Iraq and Afghanistan, the position implies subordination to the 
National Security Adviser.

One can argue that the responsibility for Iraq and Afghanistan policy 
clearly belongs to the National Security Adviser, as well as the 
responsibility for directly advising the President on those issues. 
Creating a position with ambiguous subordination to the National 
Security Adviser could needlessly complicate and confuse an already 
confused policy process. I, too, have some concerns in this regard but 
not to the extent that I will oppose the President's decision to create 
such a position.

The other concern which has been expressed is that appointing an 
Active-Duty military officer to such a political position is a practice 
which should be avoided in that for the officer in question, it 
needlessly blurs the distinction between recommendations he might make 
based on unbiased professional military judgment and those based upon 
or colored by political considerations. In a larger sense, it is 
counter to the traditional American approach to civil-military 
relations. For the individual officer, it may also create difficulties 
in subsequently returning from a political position to a uniformed, 
apolitical, military position. I emphasize that General Lute will 
remain on active duty during this period.


However, this would not be the first time that uniformed military 
officers, remaining on active duty, have served


in such positions, one of the most notable examples being Colin 
Powell's own service as, first, the deputy National Security Adviser, 
and then as the National Security Adviser, and subsequent outstanding 
service as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. While I don't believe 
it should be the norm for a military officer to serve in these kinds of 
positions, I do not believe this should be a disqualifying concern in 
rare circumstances such as this, and therefore should not disqualify 
General Lute from his nominated position.

I do believe, however, that General Lute has been nominated for an 
unenviable position. He will be responsible for bringing coherence to 
an incoherent policy--a policy that is still floundering after more 
than 4 years of war in Iraq.

General Lute told the Armed Services Committee that ''the position is 
an advisor and coordinator, without directive authority beyond a small 
staff.'' He further said that the ability to move policy forward had to 
do more with such factors as ''Presidential direction and support, 
acceptance by other policy principals, broad commitment to a common 
cause, cultivated interpersonal relationships, personal integrity, and 
meaningful results.''

Secretary Rice, described as a close personal friend of the 
President--indeed almost a family member--was either not able to get 
that Presidential direction and support or not able to employ it to 
bring coherence to the President's policy. One must wonder how General 
Lute can be expected to be more successful.

It is no secret that several retired four-star general officers were 
offered the position and turned it down. According to media reports, 
one reason given by one of the generals was that the administration 
remains fundamentally divided on how to carry out the conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Retired Marine GEN Jack Sheehan, who declined to be 
considered for the position, said:




 The very fundamental issue is, they [the administration] 


 don't know where the hell they're going.


General Sheehan reportedly expressed concern that the hawks within 
the administration, including Vice President Cheney, remain more 
powerful than the pragmatists looking for an exit strategy in Iraq. 
This does not bode well for General Lute.

It is no secret that General Lute himself questioned the so-called 
surge strategy for Iraq before its announcement by President Bush last 
January. Indeed, General Lute confirmed that doubt at his hearing.

The surge is now complete, and the results are not very promising. 
American casualties are at some of the highest levels of the war, 
sectarian violence is rising again after a short reduction, and the 
insurgency is as active as ever, especially in the use of mass 
casualty-producing car bombs against Iraqi citizens and improvised 
explosive devices against United States and Iraqi forces.

The stated principal purpose of the surge was to give space and time 
for the Iraqi politicians to make progress on the critically important 
political reconciliation benchmarks, such as implementing legislation 
for the equitable distribution of revenues from oil sales, de-
Baathification, and constitutional amendments, that would lead to 
reconciliation among the three main Iraqi groups. Progress is not 
apparent in those critically important political reconciliation areas--
again, the stated purpose of the surge.

I believe the only chance to get Iraqi politicians to stand up is 
when they know we are going to begin to stand down. Our soldiers risk 
their lives while Iraqi politicians refuse to take political risks and 
make the necessary compromises to promote reconciliation. Those are the 
compromises which everybody agrees must be made if there is going to be 
any hope to end the violence in Iraq. We cannot continue to have the 
lives of American servicemembers held hostage to Iraqi political 
intrigue and intransigence.

I hope once General Lute is confirmed, he will be willing and able to 
redirect Iraq policy to exert maximum pressure on Iraqi leaders to 
achieve political reconciliation. The beginning of that is a phased 
redeployment of United States troops from Iraq. That is the only 
leverage on those leaders with any hope of success, with them finally 
understanding that their future is in their hands and we cannot save 
them from themselves.

But as for today's nomination, I support the confirmation of LTG 
Douglas Lute to be the special assistant to the President and the 
Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan.

I yield the floor.