# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `40ae7579377add759a9de573601f4f4c`
`Mr. REID â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I apologize to everyone, especially those 
who were planning on going to visit with the President of Mexico with 
me on Friday. I have had a longstanding appointment with the President 
to talk about issues important to our country, but we are now in the 
midst of this debate dealing with Iraq and, following that, the U.S. 
attorneys. I have told everyone that we weren't going to have votes on 
Friday, and that was really my intention because I was going to be out 
of the country with five of my colleagues. I haven't had a chance to 
speak to any of the five Senators who are traveling with me. But I 
think it is only fair at this time that I cancel my trip, and that is 
the reason I am addressing the Senate now. My trip is canceled as of 
now.

I don't hold any ill will toward anyone. Senator McConnell has worked 
with me every half hour today trying to work something out, so this is 
not any finger pointing in any way. I just want the Record to reflect 
that I think we will work something out so we will not have to be in 
session on Friday, but I don't want anyone thinking that any of my work 
toward completing everything we need to do here by tomorrow is based 
upon my trip because that is not it. I want to make sure that everyone 
is free. I will be talking to my colleagues independently and telling 
them that we will try to do this some other time. But I think I would 
be judged very poorly if during the midst of this debate on the most 
important issue facing the American people--Iraq and then the issue we 
are also trying to resolve, and that is the U.S. attorneys problem--
that my trip got in the way of that at all.


Again, I want the Record to reflect that the Republican leader has 
been a gentleman throughout. It is not his fault in any way. I hold no 
one to blame. I just want to make sure that as negotiations go forward 
from this minute, they are based on what is best for the Senate and has 
nothing to do with my trip. I will continue to work, I tell all my 
colleagues, both on the majority and the minority side, with the 
distinguished Republican leader to do everything we can so that we 
don't have votes on Friday, but we may not be able to do that. I think 
we can, but we may not be able to. If we can't work something out on a 
consent to finish this Iraq debate in some positive manner, then we 
would have to have--I would have to move to cloture tomorrow night some 
time, at 6 or 7 o'clock. But I will continue to work on this, and I 
apologize. Even though I had one of my staff a few minutes ago call the 
Mexican Ambassador to say that we would likely not be able to do that 
trip, and now we are not going to be able to do the trip, I will call 
the President of Mexico and tell him there will be other times to do 
this trip.