---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `40ba168d11640c438fa1a70a3d57d47d`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise this afternoon to raise my voice 
in strong support of H.R. 3093, the Commerce, Justice, Science 
Appropriations Act of 2007. I wish to thank and congratulate Chairwoman 
Mikulski and Ranking Member Shelby, Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member 
Cochran for their strong leadership on this bill.

As a former attorney general for Colorado, I am particularly proud of 
the investment that this bill will make in the local, State, and 
Federal law enforcement agencies across our country, the more than 
800,000 officers who patrol America's streets and put their lives on 
the line every day to help make our communities safe and secure. They 
are truly the frontlines of America's homeland security.

In my 6 years as attorney general of Colorado, and in the last 2/1/2/ 
years as a Senator, I have traveled thousands of miles through my State 
to visit with county sheriffs, police chiefs, and law enforcement 
officers working in our small towns, rural counties, and big cities. 
They are public servants through and through. They know that security 
is the foundation of a free society. They know that to enjoy our 
liberties and a prosperous economy, Americans must live in a society 
governed by the rule of law, free from the threat of violence and 
secure in their place of residence.

It is the voices of these men and women in uniform across our 
country, America's peace officers, that should help guide our law 
enforcement efforts in this country. They should help us make sure we 
are prepared to meet the emergency we will confront and that will help 
us address the domestic security priorities we face in the Nation. We 
should therefore take notice when sheriffs and police officers tell us 
they do not have the resources they need to combat the scourge of meth 
that is devastating so many communities across our Nation.

Meth is tearing families apart and financing an underground economy 
in abandoned farm buildings, fire traps, and houses that are shrouded 
with plastic. When police go to raid a lab, they never know what they 
are going to find; whether it is going to be a drug armed to the teeth, 
whether it is going to be chemicals that are ready to burn and to 
explode or drug users who are in desperate need of medical attention.

In my State, on a raid on a meth lab in Aurora, CO, this past summer, 
police found a 2-year-old boy lying in the basement next to a highly 
toxic cocktail of chemicals. The police rescued him. But what his 
parents were doing or thinking one can only imagine. Stories such as 
this story have been too common across our country.

We should also take notice when people such as the U.S. attorney in 
Colorado, Troy Eid, tell us we do not have enough Federal law 
enforcement officers to serve Native American communities in 
southwestern Colorado. Last year, we had a total of five Bureau of 
Indian Affairs officers policing 600,000 acres in one corner of my 
State. This is astonishing--five Bureau of Indian Affairs officers 
policing 600,000 acres.

Criminals, in fact, were calling in false crime reports on one side 
of the reservation, drawing police away from their target they were 
aiming to hit on the other side of the reservation.

With this shortage of law enforcement, the murder rate on the Ute 
Mountain Ute and Southern Ute reservations in Southwestern Colorado has 
climbed to almost 20 percent of the national average. We need to take 
notice when people such as recently retired Sheriff Liggett, of Mineral 
County, CO, tell us our communications equipment in rural communities 
is woefully inadequate.

I have known Sheriff Liggett for many years. On snowy nights, Sheriff 
Liggett would call ahead and make sure that I and other travelers made 
it safely over Slumgullion Pass or Wolf Creek Pass on our way to our 
destinations.

That is the way things are done in rural Colorado. Sheriff Liggett 
knows very well the boundaries of his department's communications 
coverage and the risks that the limitations of that coverage pose to 
residents and travelers.

The Mineral County Sheriff's Department, similar to so many rural 
sheriffs' departments, need broader communications coverage and a 
better ability to talk across agencies and jurisdictions in case an 
emergency arises.

In late 1990, we made some progress in helping bring safety and 
security to American's communities. The Federal Government, seeing the 
homicide rate on the rise, responded to the public's


call for a crackdown on crime by making smarter investment in law 
enforcement and crime prevention. These investments paid off, with 
violent crime in the United States dropping by nearly 40 percent from 
the record highs of the early 1990s.

Unfortunately, these investments have lagged in recent years, and the 
administration has tried to cut key programs at the very moment, at the 
very moment that our law enforcement officers are facing a set of 
growing challenges from homeland security and emergency preparedness to 
combating meth, to all of the other issues that the 800,000 men and 
women who keep the security in our country face every day.

I know this administration has been focused on Iraq and that this has 
consumed a massive proportion of Federal spending; almost $750 billion 
in the last 4/1/2/ years. But this focus on Iraq and our security 
objectives abroad should not come at the expense of American security 
right here at home in our United States.

Too many Americans live with fear of drug-related violence in their 
communities. Too many Americans have seen meth destroy the lives of a 
family member or of a neighbor. Too many Americans worry that when a 
disaster strikes, the way it did with Katrina, help will come but help 
will not come quickly enough.

This bill, which the chairperson from Maryland and Ranking Member 
Shelby have put together, resets our priorities to where they should 
be, on the safety and security of America's families. For that I thank 
and applaud the leadership of Senator Mikulski.

The Appropriations Committee has reported a bill that restores 
critical investments on law enforcement that this President had 
proposed to cut. I wish to briefly talk about a few of those provisions 
that will benefit the peace officers of my State of Colorado.

First, I am pleased the bill we are considering today includes $1.4 
billion for State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance, including $660 
million for the Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants and $190 
million for Byrne discretionary grants.


This program, which the President had--beyond my understanding--
proposed to eliminate, provides grants to State and local governments 
for law enforcement, for prosecution and court programs, for prevention 
and community education programs, drug treatment, and community 
corrections programs. These are the kinds of programs that the men and 
women in law enforcement in this country know do, in fact, work to make 
our communities safe.

Secondly, this bill includes $550 million for the Community Oriented 
Policing Services, known as COPS. These funds go to tribal, State, and 
local law enforcement agencies for community policing initiatives which 
put law enforcement professionals on the streets with a beat so they 
can build relationships with the people they serve and they protect.

By earning the trust of the members of their communities and making 
these individuals stakeholders in their own safety, community policing 
makes law enforcement safer and more efficient. Some of the COPS 
Program funds that are set forth in this bill will go directly to the 
drug task forces that have been operational and effective in my State 
of Colorado. They include: The San Luis Valley Drug Task Force, my 
native valley; they include the 22nd Judicial District Drug Task Force, 
the North Metro Task Force, the Delta/Montrose Drug Task Force, the 
Eagle County Drug Task Force, the Greater Routt and Moffatt Narcotics 
Enforcement Team, the Weld County Drug Task Force.

Rest assured that from my point of view as a former attorney general 
of the State of Colorado, I know these task forces are at the point of 
the spear in combating the scourge of drugs in my State of Colorado, 
and these important funds will allow us to keep up that fight.

Finally, I am pleased this bill provides $5.6 billion for the Bureau 
of Prisons to help curb the staff shortages, construction needs and 
operations budgets for the Federal prison system.

The correctional officers who handle some of the most dangerous 
criminals in America will tell you the funding levels over the past few 
years have been inadequate.

At the Supermax Prison in Florence, CO, which houses inmates such as 
Ted Kaczynski, al-Qaida terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui, and the shoe 
bomber, Richard Reid, at that Supermax facility, where we house the 
most dangerous of the most dangerous of America's enemies, funding cuts 
have left them short staffed and short on beds.

At the prison that houses terrorists, gang leaders and the most 
violent members of society, this is a dangerous game that we cannot 
afford, and this legislation moves forward in a way to address those 
shortfalls.

I am not going to take time to go through all the other good that is 
included in this bill, but I would mention very briefly the $340 
million this bill provides to the juvenile justice program and the 
investment this bill makes in all our Federal law enforcement agencies 
such as the DEA, the FBI, and the ATF.

When you look at these investments, you begin to understand how 
important this bill is to our Nation's law enforcement authority. 
Anyone who has worked or who works in law enforcement today and who 
takes the time to look at this bill, will understand this is a strong 
statement of support for peace officers and for protecting our public 
across the country. That is why I am perplexed that there is a veto 
threat by the President on this bill.

There should not be that veto threat because this is a bill that 
takes a strong position to secure Americans here in the homeland. I 
hope that as this bill makes it through the Congressional process and 
to the President's desk, President Bush will decide he is going to 
stand up for the Nation's law enforcement and for the security here in 
the homeland and will, in fact, sign this bill.

I end where I began. This is a very good bipartisan product that 
Senator Mikulski and Ranking Member Shelby have put together for the 
consideration of this Chamber. I am proud to be a supporter of this 
bill. I urge my colleagues to support it.