---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `40bab35c5fa0e721d08a862980628238`
`Mr. BOYD — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. BOYD. Madam Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Murtha and Ranking 
Member Young for their work on the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense 
Appropriations Act. This bill will ensure that our military members 
have the equipment, training and resources they need to continue to 
defend our great nation, particularly in light of the continuing 
engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a Vietnam veteran, I understand 
the sacrifices our troops are making and they are never far from my 
mind in the work I do here.

I specifically want to highlight the section in the bill under 
consideration today regarding the Combat Air Force restructure plan and 
thank the Chairman for his work with me on this provision to delay the 
early retirement of F-15s from Tyndall Air Force Base. I also want to 
acknowledge and thank the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of 
Staff for their incredible dedication and willingness to resolve this 
tough issue with me.

This six month delay of the Combat Air Force restructure plan 
stipulated in H.R. 3326 represents a tremendous legislative victory for 
Bay County and is the result of a year's worth of efforts by our 
community. Working together, we have put Tyndall in a strategic 
position to be a key component of the Air Force's next generation 
fighter infrastructure. It has been made clear from the very highest 
levels of the Air Force, from the Chief and Secretary, that Tyndall is 
a national jewel that plays, and will continue to play, a valuable role 
in our country's defense.

I also want to thank the people of Bay County, particularly the Bay 
Defense Alliance, who have been partners with me as we worked together 
to protect the economic interest of our community and security 
interests of our country. It is no secret from the halls of Congress to 
the halls of the Pentagon that the community supporting Tyndall Air 
Force Base is top notch.

Additionally, I look forward to the results of the reporting 
requirements in this bill that will help us all better understand the 
Air Force's fighter requirements and the impact that the drawdown would 
have on our nation's combat air forces and the communities that support 
them.

In summary, this bill will make sure that our nation remains the 
strongest military in the world and I strongly support it.