---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `40c19efbae56efd437a15d9477557641`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, consistent with the Republican 
Leadership's policy on earmarks, I submit this statement for the 
Congressional Record.

Requesting Member: Congressman K.
Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Tech University.

Address of Requesting Entity: 19th and University, Lubbock, Texas 
79409.

Description of Request: Provide $4,000,000 to Texas Tech University 
to research the use of Compact Pulsed Power as a scientific base for 
integrating electrical weapons systems onto all-electric combat 
vehicles. Compact Pulsed Power is the use of targeted electromagnetic 
radiation to disable electronic devices such as cell phones. Initial 
research indicates that compact pulsed power technology could be 
beneficial to the Department of Defense by being able to disable 
Improvised Explosive Devices used in Iraq and Afghanistan. Texas Tech 
has developed the technology but needs to field test it in order to 
deploy it with troops on the ground. An existing lightly armored 
vehicle such as a HMMWV will be modified to an all-electric platform 
with an integrated fuel cell and auxiliary battery pack. Two or three 
types of electric weapon systems (high power microwave (HPM) generator, 
hypervelocity rail gun, and/or high power laser) will be integrated 
into the platform. Individually each of these systems is quite complex 
and the combination of any two of these systems will increase the 
integration problem exponentially. The information gained from this 
research could be significant in furthering the nation's defense 
capabilities.

Requesting Member: Congressman K.
Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Zebra Imaging.

Address of Requesting Entity: 9801 Metric Blvd., Suite 200, Austin, 
Texas 78758.

Description of Request: Provide $2,800,000 in funding to complete the 
final phase of a three-year development program to provide a field-
deployable version of the Enhanced Holographic Imager (EHI) system. The 
holographic


imager system is used to produce 3-D imagery for the Army's tactical 
battlefield visualization program, and has proven to be an extremely 
useful capability for deployed Army and U.S. Special Operations Command 
warfighters. Over 1700 holographic images were provided to soldiers in 
theater in 2007. The deployable EHI will produce holograms three times 
faster than the current system (improving responsiveness to the war 
fighter) and is transportable allowing the imager to be located closer 
to the tactical users.

Requesting Member: Congressman K.
Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army, Other Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Army National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: Camp Mabry, Austin,Texas 78763-5218.

Description of Request: Provide the Texas National Guard $1,000,000 
for the procurement of 700 Megahertz APCO-25 standard two-way radios 
for operational and tactical interagency interoperability in their 
disaster response task force. This project allows the Texas National 
Guard forces to utilize 700 and 800 MHz trunked radio systems being 
linked across Texas as established in the State Communications 
Interoperability Plan. It further fully enables interagency 
interoperability to coordinate and synchronize interagency efforts to 
maintain unity of effort.

Requesting Member: Congressman K.
Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army, Other Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Army National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: Camp Mabry, Austin, Texas 78763-5218.

Description of Request: Provide $3,000,000 to the Texas Military 
Forces (TXMF) for eight Joint Incident Scene Communication Capability 
(JISCC) packages required for disaster response. This equipment enables 
the Texas National Guard Joint Inter-Agency Task Force (JIATF) to 
command and control its interagency structure in and out of Texas in 
support of other states under the Emergency Management Assistance 
Compact. It supports the various disaster command posts including the 
Joint Interagency Task Force headquarters, each subordinate task force 
command post, local incident command posts, Emergency Operations 
Centers, and other multi-agency coordination centers. The JISCC system 
also uses Department of Defense satellites eliminating the persistent 
shortage of funds to pay for commercial satellite service. Ten JISCC 
packages have been authorized in previous years, but currently, the 
Texas National Guard has two on-hand.

Requesting Member: Congressman K.
Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Defense-wide, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Applied Research Associates.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1848 Lockhill-Selma Rd., Suite 102, San 
Antonio, Texas 78213.

Description of Request: Provide $3,000,000 to develop a blast-on-
vehicle test device for use in evaluating survivability-based military 
vehicle designs. This program will provide a cost-effective and time-
efficient alternative to full-scale live-fire testing. It will provide 
a test capability in support of the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) 
program and future military vehicle development programs.

With the introduction of survivability-based design criteria in light 
tactical vehicles, the test and evaluation requirements of new vehicle 
designs are more extensive. Therefore, the objective of this program is 
to design a test structure analogous to the civilian automotive safety 
community's Heidelberg sled tests. Whereas the Heidelberg sled tests 
simulate the loading conditions of a vehicle crash, the blast-on-
vehicle test device will simulate the loading conditions of road-side 
or undercarriage explosion.

Requesting Member: Congressman K. Michael Conaway.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Navy, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Angelo State University.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2601 W. Avenue N., San Angelo, Texas 
76909.

Description of Request: Provide $1,000,000 for Angelo State 
University and Texas State University Systems' Center for Hetero-
Functional Materials (CHM). CHM will help meet the need within the 
Department of Defense for the development of new materials to create 
''single-chip-devices'' as conventional semiconductor manufacturing 
technology is reaching its maturity and its rate of innovation has 
saturated. These new devices require many types of built-in hetero-
functionality, simply not available or achievable using conventional 
semiconductor/materials technology. The CHM provides the infrastructure 
and resources required for research and development of new materials 
and processes that will be required for the fabrication of next 
generation devices. These hetero-functional materials and structures 
will allow devices to be built on a single chip, thereby reducing costs 
and size while enabling more versatility than is currently achievable. 
The Office of Naval Research (ONR) deemed the CHM as critical to 
developing next generation devices for the military. CHM received 
support and funding in Fiscal Year 2008.
