# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `40d9c0050873d477aa38c4a57944909d`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I wish to speak in favor of the 
amendment to the supplemental that focuses on our domestic priorities, 
which is the first amendment we will be voting on this morning. I 
encourage my colleagues to vote in support of this important package.

While President Bush is fixated on trying to get his next check for 
the Iraq war, we on the Senate Appropriations Committee under the 
leadership


of Chairman Byrd have brought to the floor important priorities for 
Americans here at home.

As our economy continues to struggle, more and more Americans find 
themselves without work and having trouble paying their bills. In 
April, the unemployment rate in New Jersey was 5 percent. That is up 
from 4.8 percent in March of this year and 4.3 percent in April of 
2007. Not only are more people out of work, but they are staying 
unemployed for longer periods of time as they search for new jobs. 
These unemployed Americans are facing the prospect of losing their 
homes and fighting to afford the rising costs of food, gasoline, and 
health care. They need our help, which is why in this amendment we 
extend unemployment benefits by 13 weeks in all States and an 
additional 13 weeks in States with the highest unemployment rates. This 
is the right thing to do, and we must do it now.

This amendment also includes a provision that I successfully offered 
in the Senate Appropriations Committee markup last week to delay a Bush 
administration policy that threatens the health care of hundreds of 
thousands of children across the country, including 10,000 in New 
Jersey. Last year, I supported and the Senate passed, an expansion of 
the Children's Health Insurance Program that would have provided health 
insurance for an additional 4 million children nationwide. President 
Bush irresponsibly vetoed that bill twice--and then made matters worse 
by issuing a new policy that will actually take away health care from 
children who have it today. This is not only misguided--both the 
Government Accountability Office and the Congressional Research Service 
found that it violated Federal law. During these tough economic times, 
the last thing we should be doing is taking away health care from our 
children. My provision in this amendment would delay this policy until 
April 1, 2009.

As our veterans return home from overseas, we must show our gratitude 
for their service by improving educational benefits to help them afford 
to go to college. Our veterans are finding that the current G.I. bill 
has simply not kept up with the rising costs of college, and they are 
forced to either forego college entirely or face mounting debt to get a 
degree. The amendment now on the floor includes a provision based on 
the Webb-Hagel-Lautenberg-Warner legislation which closes the gap 
between the current G.I. bill and the costs of college by paying for 
tuition, books and housing at the most expensive public institution in 
the veteran's State. This update of the G.I. bill deserves our strong 
support.

The domestic package before us also includes $10 million to conduct 
oversight of American taxpayer dollars spent in Afghanistan. Our work 
in Afghanistan is critical to our national security and our fight 
against terrorism. But right now, we know too little about how billions 
of U.S. dollars in reconstruction and assistance funding are spent in 
Afghanistan and whether there is any waste, fraud, and abuse of these 
funds. In January of this year, President Bush signed into law my 
legislation to establish a Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction, SIGAR, to root out waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer 
money in Afghanistan. The SIGAR funding we would provide today would 
bring us one step closer to better oversight and accountability, and to 
the beginning of SIGAR's work to uncover information about any 
corruption and mismanagement of U.S. assistance to Afghanistan.

Finally, we must help our States and local communities recover from 
and prepare for natural disasters, including floods. This amendment 
includes more than $8 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers to 
address the damage caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and other 
recent natural disasters. We have had our eyes opened to the massive 
devastation that can occur when we neglect our Nation's flood control 
infrastructure. In addition to gulf coast recovery, I am pleased that 
this amendment will also provide funding for emergency infrastructure 
needs in other areas, including my home State of New Jersey.

The Senate has an opportunity with this vote to honor our 
responsibility to our returning veterans and all those who are 
struggling in our country today. I implore my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle to join us in supporting this critical amendment.