---
---

# HONORING AND EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO THE 1ST BATTALION OF THE 133RD  INFANTRY OF THE IOWA NATIONAL GUARD
## `40ef6a48f37729181640826d39fa61cc`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I rise today to support the 
passage of H. Res. 568, a bill honoring and expressing gratitude to the 
members and families of the 1st Battalion of the 133rd Infantry of the 
Iowa National Guard. My introduction of this bill last week coincided 
with the long-awaited homecoming of the 1-133rd, known as the ''Ironman 
Battalion,'' after a long and extended deployment in Iraq. I am glad 
that the House has moved swiftly to consider this important resolution, 
and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of it today in order to pay 
tribute to this incredible group of Iowans.

Last Wednesday was truly a momentous day in Iowa as the members of 
the 1-133rd were reunited with their friends, family, and loved ones at 
a homecoming ceremony in Waterloo after more than a year of service in 
Iraq. The members and families of the 1-133rd have been in Iowans' 
thoughts and prayers, and this day of reunion and celebration had been 
eagerly awaited, since the Battalion left for Iraq last spring.

Iowans' admiration and love for the members of the 1-133rd was 
palpable in Waterloo as an overflow crowd of an estimated 8,000 people 
packed Riverfront Stadium to welcome the hundreds of men and women of 
the Battalion home. As the Battalion drove the final miles from Ft. 
McCoy in Wisconsin, Iowans lined the road to wave at the 1-133rd and 
waved American flags from overpasses. Sadly, the day was also made 
bittersweet by the absence of 1-133rd members SGT 1st Class Scott 
Nisely and SGT Kampha Sourivong, who gave the ultimate sacrifice for 
their country when they were tragically killed during combat operations 
in Iraq on September 30, 2006.

Many of my colleagues here may already be familiar with the men and 
women of the 1-133rd if they saw the Memorial Day special edition of 
''60 Minutes'' that was dedicated to telling the story of the 
Battalion. While it is impossible for those who have not served in Iraq 
to fully understand the experiences of the 1-133rd there, or to 
comprehend the sacrifices that they and their families have made on 
behalf of our country, this program gave Americans a small glimpse of 
the challenges the members of the 1-133rd and their families faced 
throughout their long deployment, as well as into their incredible 
perseverance.


Iowans who watched the ''60 Minutes'' special featuring the 1-133rd 
saw the story of their friends, neighbors, and loved ones who chose to 
serve and sacrifice when their country called upon them. We saw the 
daily threats of roadside bombs, insurgents, and snipers faced by the 
members of the 1-133rd in Iraq as they helped deliver fuel to coalition 
forces. We saw families adjusting back home, and banding together to 
help one another. We saw the hardship and heartache that was 
experienced by the members and their families when they received the 
news that their tour of duty was to be extended from April until this 
summer. We saw children born while fathers were overseas, and we saw 
the lives of our fellow Iowans cut tragically short. For me, the 
program reinforced what I had already learned about the members of the 
1-133rd from my frequent communications with their commanding officer, 
LTC Ben Corell: that they are men and women of great strength and 
character who selflessly and bravely put their lives on the line every 
day for their country in Iraq.

Throughout their long tour of duty in the al-Anbar province of Iraq, 
one of the most dangerous parts of the country, the 1-133rd detained 
over 60 insurgents. They completed over 500 missions providing security 
for convoys, and logged in over 4 million mission miles. In addition, 
they have delivered over one-third of the fuel needed to sustain 
coalition forces in Iraq. Their crucial service, and their extended 
deployment, are also reflective


of the critical and increasing role of the National Guard in our 
defense missions overseas. Their contributions to the U.S. mission in 
Iraq are indeed impressive and commendable, which is why I believe that 
the entire country should honor and thank the men and women of the 1-
133rd for their service and their sacrifices there through the passage 
of this resolution.

The 1st Battalion of the 133rd Infantry of the Iowa National Guard is 
notable for other reasons as well. They are the longest-serving Iowa 
military unit since World War II. They are also part of the Army 
National Guard unit which has served the longest continuous deployment 
of any Army National Guard unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

The men and women of the 1-133rd have made me and so many other 
Iowans and Americans proud through their work and their sacrifices in 
Iraq, and I hope that it also gives them and their families pride to 
reflect upon their accomplishments. I feel incredibly honored and 
privileged to represent them in the U.S. Congress, and I am so pleased 
today that the entire House of Representatives will commend and thank 
them for their service through the passage of H. Res. 568.

I am proud to have introduced this bill with the support of 70 
bipartisan original co-sponsors, including the entire Iowa 
Congressional Delegation. The strong support this resolution has on 
both sides of the aisle is reflective of the pride and gratitude that 
Americans feel towards our National Guard troops, and all of our men 
and women serving in uniform.

I would like to thank Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton 
and his staff, and Majority Leader Hoyer and his staff, for helping to 
facilitate the swift consideration of this bill by the full House. The 
United States will be forever indebted to the members and families of 
the 1-133rd for their service and their sacrifices in Iraq, and I hope 
that this resolution comes to serve as a genuine expression of thanks 
from a grateful state and a grateful nation.

Again, I would like to commend and thank this incredible Battalion 
for their work, and I urge my colleagues to support the passage of H. 
Res. 568 today to honor and express gratitude to the men and women of 
the 1st Battalion of the 133rd Infantry of the Iowa National Guard.