---
---

# None
## `410d67d8edbfee15efab1d4d6c7e7699`
`Mr. HODES — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HODES. Madam Chairman, first I want to thank the distinguished 
Chair of the committee, Mr. Skelton, as well as my cosponsors on this 
amendment, Congresswoman DeLauro and Congressman DeFazio.

Madam Chairman, my amendment to H.R. 5658 addresses an issue of 
utmost importance to our Constitution and to the integrity of our 
government.



And it will help restore the trust of the American people in their 
government.

In a free and democratic society, our government should never use the 
public airwaves to propagandize our citizens.

Recent media reports have alleged an organized effort by former 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Department of Defense 
officials to manipulate network news military analysts to promote 
administration spin on the war in Iraq, even though many of those 
analysts knew the information not to be accurate.

Internal Pentagon documents obtained by the New York Times refer to 
these military analysts as message force multipliers, surrogates who 
can be counted on to deliver administration themes and messages to 
millions of Americans in the form of their own opinions.

In fact, one analyst apparently referred to the efforts by the 
Pentagon as brainwashing. A report conducted by media watchdog Media 
Matters showed that from January 2002 these military analysts, many of 
whom have ties to the defense industry, appeared on network and cable 
news stations nearly 4,500 times. That's right, 4,500 instances. 
Imagine the millions of people who heard those impressions 4,500 times.

The American people were spun by Bush administration message 
multipliers. They were fed administration talking points believing they 
were getting independent military analysis.

Days after the news story appeared, the Pentagon suspended the 
program. The news outlets who hosted the programs and analysts have 
been remarkably silent. The Department of Defense Inspector General has 
already begun an internal review of the program, but given the 
possibility that the public, as well as decision-makers in this 
Congress, were misled about the war in Iraq, both in the run-up to the 
war and afterwards, I believe it is absolutely critical that a public 
investigation happen that is transparent to this body, as well as to 
the American people.

Congress cannot allow an administration to manipulate the public with 
false propaganda on matters of war and our national security.

My amendment will ensure that no money authorized in this act will be 
used for any domestic propaganda program within the United States aimed 
at U.S. citizens. It will require a report to Congress by both the 
Defense Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office on 
whether previous restrictions on propaganda have been violated and laws 
broken.

It's finally time for the American people to know the truth. If we 
allow our government to lie to the American people, we lose the 
democracy and liberty on which our country was founded, and we risk 
becoming what generations of brave Americans have fought so hard to 
defeat.

Let us today on this floor in this Congress say never again will we 
allow this to happen in our republic.

I urge passage of this amendment, and today, we will say with one 
voice that the American people will not tolerate domestic propaganda. 
We will find the truth. We will correct any abuses of power.

I reserve the balance of my time.