# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `41219ee7125fff219a8c3c05388d4c74`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 17 December 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor on behalf of over 
10,000 constituents from my home State of Washington who have sent me 
letters and e-mails over the past 6 months to tell me their stories and 
their struggles with our health care system.

I come to the floor on behalf of the thousands who do not have the 
time or who do not have the resources to write to me and ask for help 
but who are struggling as well.

I come to the floor on behalf of small business owners, parents, 
senior citizens, and people with preexisting conditions, people with 
insurance whose premiums are skyrocketing, and people without insurance 
who spend their nights praying they do not have an accident or fall 
ill.

These people are all worried about keeping their jobs or making a 
mortgage payment and for whom the cost of getting sick today or being 
dropped from their health care plan or opening their mail to see 
another premium increase is too much to bear. Those are the people who 
deserve a real debate and a real plan, not distortions or silly 
distractions, such as conversations about how many pages are in this 
health care bill. What is more important than the number of pages in 
this health care bill is the help within those pages for businesses and 
families across this country.

I have watched, day after day, as our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle have come down to this floor. They have made outrageous 
claims. They have handed out reams of paper and stacked copies of the 
Senate bill on top of copies of the House bill to try and turn a 
serious debate into a sideshow. But if my colleagues on the other side 
want to focus on pages, fine, let's focus on pages.

Beside me is a photo of a woman named Doreen Kelsey. In front of 
Doreen is a stack of papers. Those are hundreds upon hundreds of pages 
of forms and rejection letters and appeals and denials from her 
insurance company. These are pages that have taken hours and hours to 
fill out and that have stood between Doreen's husband and the care he 
desperately needed.


I met Doreen at a roundtable I hosted in August in Spokane, WA, in my 
State. Doreen told me she is self-employed and isn't able to purchase 
her own health insurance because she has a preexisting condition. Now, 
luckily, she and her family have health insurance coverage through her 
husband Tony's employer. She told me she and Tony thought their family 
had good insurance coverage. But when he asked for a colonoscopy, they 
soon discovered the lengths to which insurance companies will go to 
deny, to delay, and to dispute the care families such as the Kelseys 
assumed were included in their coverage.

Their insurance carrier told them before they would pay for this 
preventive care, it would have to be approved by a primary care 
physician. After being delayed for more than a month because of


that requirement--and this whole stack of papers here--the colonoscopy 
ultimately confirmed their fears, and he was diagnosed with stage 4 
colon cancer. With that diagnosis in hand, the Kelseys were determined 
to beat this terrible disease together, but rather than focusing on 
fighting cancer they were forced to fight their insurance company.

Doreen told me although they had faithfully paid their premiums 
throughout their entire working lives, now that Tony desperately needed 
lifesaving treatment, he was in a constant struggle of paperwork with 
his insurance company to pay for even routine care. They weren't asking 
for anything new, they weren't asking for anything experimental, they 
were just asking for the care that a lifetime of paid premiums should 
have entitled them to.

The Kelseys assumed what most Americans do when they are paying for 
good health insurance. They assumed that while their insurance was 
expensive, it would be there for them when they needed it. Well, Doreen 
and her family, like many other American families and businesses, have 
come to find out that in our current health care insurance system, 
stability is sometimes nothing more than an illusion.

With each procedure and each battle, the Kelseys faced a new fight--
more paperwork stacked on more paperwork, another appeal and another 
appeal. At one point, Doreen told me she had to appeal all the way to 
the State insurance regulator just to get a corrected explanation of 
benefits form--paperwork--from her insurance company. She told me they 
had to borrow thousands of dollars to pay doctors while their claims 
were tied up in what seemed like an endless appeal process--paperwork.

The Kelseys' insurance now costs more than their mortgage, and they 
are constantly worried that Tony's employer will drop that coverage. 
But, thankfully, she told me Tony is working hard and successfully 
battling his cancer. In the meantime, Doreen has successfully been 
battling her insurance company. But this isn't how our system should 
work. When we pass the Senate's health care reform bill we are 
debating, it will not be.

Let me tell everyone--and the Kelseys--how our bill will help them. 
First of all, our bill ends insurance company discrimination for 
preexisting conditions, so Doreen will be able to purchase insurance on 
her own and not have to rely on her husband's employer. Doreen would 
also have access to a number of different plans through an exchange 
that we are setting up where insurance companies, for the first time, 
would have to compete for her business. Our plan would inject 
competition into the insurance market, and we know that will lower 
costs and give families such as Doreen's more choices.

Our plan also makes it illegal for insurance companies to drop people 
when they get sick, so Doreen and Tony wouldn't have to worry about 
losing their coverage at the moment they need it the most. Since we 
know that preventive care is critical to saving lives and saving money 
on health care costs in the long term, our bill ensures free preventive 
services under all insurance plans.

Our plan invests in prevention and in public health to encourage 
innovations in health care that prevent illness and disease before they 
require more costly treatment. It would have allowed Tony to get a 
colonoscopy when he first needed it so he could get his treatment 
started sooner.

Mr. President, we also know families deserve the security and 
stability of knowing that if they or their loved one do get sick, they 
will not be forced into bankruptcy to pay for the cost. Our bill 
restricts the arbitrary limits that insurance companies currently place 
on the amount of coverage families receive. It caps the total amount 
that insurance companies can make people pay out of pocket on copays 
and deductibles. And it eliminates the lifetime limits insurance 
companies can impose on coverage.

In addition to putting in place those important consumer protections 
that would help people such as Doreen and Tony, it will give families 
the stability and security they deserve and lower the cost of care so 
Americans such as Tony and Doreen would not have coverage that costs as 
much or more than their mortgage. We do that by putting in place 
premium rate reviews to track increases and crack down on excessive 
insurance company overhead costs.

When our bill passes--and I am confident it will, despite the delay 
and the delay and the delay that we are seeing on the other side of the 
aisle--insurance companies will no longer be able to hike up Doreen's 
premiums to pay for a bureaucracy they will then put to work battling 
her claims.

We also provide sliding scale premium tax credits--tax credits--for 
families who still can't afford coverage, which would help 450,000 
people in my home State of Washington get the coverage they need.

Mr. President, the bill before us today--which some of my colleagues 
have sitting on their desks and they bring out here on a daily basis to 
show us the pages--will help families such as the Kelseys. That is what 
is within the pages of the bill they keep throwing at us. So I think, 
rather than talking about the number of pages in the bill, our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle might actually want to talk 
about what is in the bill because right now, instead of debating the 
merits of bringing down costs or protecting families from losing the 
coverage when they get sick, our colleagues are actually spending time 
complaining this bill has too many pages.

I ask the Presiding Officer and my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle to take a look at this photo of Doreen sitting next to 
hundreds and hundreds of pages of correspondence and appeals and fights 
with her insurance company. These are the pages we ought to be talking 
about. These are the pages that impact people's lives, and the Kelseys 
are the people we ought to be talking about.

So when my colleagues come down here and complain about the number of 
pages in our health reform bill--those pages that will help our 
families and businesses lower costs--I want them to think about the 
number of pages right here in front of Doreen. These are pages that 
have caused the Kelseys unimaginable heartache, and these are the pages 
that have come between them and the health care they paid for.

These are the numbers we ought to be focusing on--the 14,000 people 
who are losing coverage every day. These are the numbers we ought to be 
focusing on--the 51 million people who have no insurance. Those are the 
numbers we ought to be focusing on, not the number of pages in the 
bill.

Mr. President, we have to end the politics, end the delay and the 
partisanship. We need to end this obstruction because that is what the 
Kelseys faced every day, delay and obstruction. They are facing it 
again on the floor of the Senate. It is time for us to come together on 
this important bill and bring our businesses and our families the 
insurance reform they have been asking for. I hope that is what 
Americans will remember at the end of the day, that the pages in this 
bill are going to change their lives so they don't have to fight their 
insurance companies again.

Mr. President, we are here today in the Senate--nobody on the floor, 
just me talking about what we ought to be doing, and you in the Chair, 
waiting. Why? Because we have a Defense appropriations bill in front of 
the Senate. It is a Defense appropriations bill that needs to be passed 
by the end of this year. It needs to be passed so we can get back on 
the floor and pass our health care reform bill.

Some people on the other side of the aisle have decided that delaying 
this Defense bill will somehow help them delay this from ever being 
passed--the health care bill that would help Doreen and her family. 
Well, Mr. President, it isn't just about making a political point. What 
we are doing is having our soldiers--who are serving on the ground in 
Iraq, in Afghanistan, around the globe and here in our country--wonder 
what they are going to get for Christmas--a delay from the Senate?

The bill in front of us provides a 3.4-percent military pay increase. 
This is an All-Volunteer Force we have out there working for us. Many 
of them are away from their families this Christmas. They do not want 
to hear that the Senate is delaying passing this important bill that 
will give them the security they need because of political obstruction 
in order to delay a health care bill.



This Defense bill is critically important. It has very important 
support for our military and their families. It has passed through this 
Senate before, and we are ready now to make the final trip to the White 
House, which needs to be done, by the way, by tomorrow. So I hope our 
colleagues will not continue to delay. I hope they will allow us to 
move to final passage on this bill so our men and women who are serving 
us in the military and around the globe know there is a Senate who is 
working for them.

I have heard some of them on the other side complain that some things 
were added to the Senate Defense bill--that also need to be done by the 
end of the year, besides the Defense bill--such as making sure our 
families, whose benefits are running out for unemployment, or COBRA for 
health care insurance, get a 2-month extension. So should our Christmas 
present to them be: Sorry, you aren't going to get your small little 
help as we end this year. We want to keep that going for another 3 
months during one of the worst economic times we have seen. So, of 
course, we put it in this bill.

Because of the obstruction on the other side, we can't get it through 
in a timely fashion. It has to be done by the end of this year. We are 
doing the right thing for our families. We are doing the right thing 
for our military by putting it in this bill and getting it done and to 
the President so we can finish our work.

Mr. President, these are all critical issues. We are all tired. We 
have been here day after day after day. It is time to get this done. 
Let me tell you why. Because Doreen and her husband are facing piles 
and piles of paperwork to care for her husband. They are fighting their 
insurance company. And all we have to do is put these bills in front of 
us, get them done, and provide some relief for America. I hope that is 
what we focus on, Mr. President. I hope we stop the deny and delay and 
obstruction that the Kelseys have had to fight with their insurance 
company. Let's move these bills and go home to our families for 
Christmas.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.