---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `41329c32c10856f82efed38018e4923b`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 25 September 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I want to start by thanking Chairman 
Dingell as well as the Democratic leadership for working so hard to 
bring the Children's Health Insurance Program reauthorization bill 
before us today. H.R. 976 is not a compromise that was easily come by, 
and it's important to recognize the hard work that has gone into it.

Let's be clear, today each of us is either voting for providing 
healthcare to more uninsured children, or voting against covering more 
uninsured kids.

This bill is not the bill that I would have written, nor is it as 
good as the bill that passed the House. But it will cover the 6.6 
million children currently covered by CHIP and will reach an additional 
4 million kids. It also provides children with dental coverage and 
finally puts mental health services on par with other medical benefits 
covered under the program. This bill will also improve quality 
improvement, outreach, and enrollment efforts under CHIP, and will 
target those most in need. It is a good bill that we think will get to 
the President's desk. Thus, I think the commitment this bill makes to 
our children should be celebrated.

Yet, we need to push further and pass several provisions that were in 
the house bill, including meaningful improvements in access to basic 
health services, including granting access to our legal immigrant 
children, more affordable prescription drug costs and benefits for 
senior citizens and people with disabilities, and adequate 
reimbursements for physicians that provide critical care to the 
Medicare population.

Incredibly, President Bush has pledged to veto this compromise, 
bipartisan, bicameral measure. The President and the Congressional 
Republican leadership say that we cannot afford it. We can't afford to 
cover children, but we can afford the war in Iraq. The bill to provide 
health care to children will cost $35 billion over the next 5 years--
but we will spend over $50 billion in the next 5 months in Iraq.

While this bill could have been so much more to so many of our 
constituents, it does


bring us a necessary, moderate expansion of the Children's Health 
Insurance Program and I urge my colleagues to support it.