# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2740, MEJA EXPANSION AND  ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `4136148d0623bae082956207a5ad4133`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the 
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Sutton) for yielding me the customary 30 
minutes, and I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, let me begin by saying this rule provides for the 
consideration of H.R. 2740, the MEJA Expansion and


Enforcement Act. This bill is an attempt to ensure that all Federal 
civilian contractors can be prosecuted for crimes they commit abroad. 
The issue before us today is not, Mr. Speaker, a policy decision to 
determine whether or not contractors should be in Iraq, but, rather, 
the issue is whether the principle of current law should be applied to 
civilian contractors.

Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Forbes, the ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security in the Judiciary 
Committee testified before the Rules Committee that while the intent of 
this legislation is right, this bill is very, very poorly drafted. 
During markup of the bill by the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Forbes 
and other Republicans on the Judiciary Committee raised concerns with 
Members on the other side of the aisle. Republicans agreed that they 
would work to move this legislation forward because of assurances made 
by the majority members of the committee that their concerns would be 
worked out. Mr. Forbes testified before the Rules Committee that his 
main concerns with the bill were a lack of clear definitions, vague 
language and Federal mandates on the FBI without additional resources.

Mr. Speaker, a manager's amendment was submitted to the Rules 
Committee and it wasn't until after the Rules Committee amendment 
deadline had passed Monday evening that Mr. Forbes found that none of 
the concerns raised by Republicans were addressed in the manager's 
amendment. At this point, of course, it was too late for Mr. Forbes and 
other Members to submit amendments. Had they tried to submit amendments 
to the Rules Committee past the deadline, they likely would have been 
turned away at the Rules Committee door, just as many Members, 
including myself, have been this Congress.

Yesterday, the ranking member, Mr. Dreier, attempted to provide an 
open rule for consideration of this bill. An open rule would have 
allowed any Member of the House of Representatives an opportunity to 
come forward and amend the bill, and especially those members of the 
Judiciary Committee that felt that they were left out of this process. 
However, the Democrat-controlled Rules Committee rejected this idea on 
a party line vote of 8-4.

Mr. Dreier then attempted to allow Mr. Forbes to offer an amendment 
on the floor today to make changes to the bill in order to restore the 
commitment that was once made by the Democrat majority. But I am 
disappointed that this attempt was also rejected on a party line vote 
of 8-4.

Mr. Speaker, the underlying bill was reported by the Judiciary 
Committee over 2 months ago and yet the Democrat majority failed to 
make good on their commitment to address the reasonable and entirely 
justifiable concerns raised by Republicans.

Mr. Speaker, contractor accountability is an issue that should be 
discussed and addressed in a bipartisan manner. But there are 
legitimate concerns with the way this bill was drafted. Unfortunately, 
this rule denies Members, including all Republicans, an opportunity to 
improve the underlying bill. Because the Rules Committee has once again 
chosen to stifle bipartisanship and deliberation by bringing forth this 
restrictive rule, I must urge my colleagues to oppose this rule, House 
Resolution 702.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.