# SUPPORT PARALYMPICS
## `414155c9e1665ceaca061323eabf6821`
`Mr. FILNER — 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I would like to call your attention to 
H.R. 4255, the ''United States Olympic Committee (USOC) Paralympic 
Program Act of 2007.''

This legislation authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
provide grants to the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) to plan, 
develop, manage, and implement a Paralympic Program for disabled 
veterans and servicemembers.

Paralympics, sports for the physically disabled, traces its origins 
to World War II when the paralympic movement began to offer sports as a 
form of rehabilitation for the injured veterans of that era. Paralympic 
activity has a proven track record in terms of rehabilitation and 
improving the quality of life for the physically disabled. Paralympics 
also improves the mobility, vitality, physical, psychological, and 
social well-being of disabled veterans while reducing their incidence 
of secondary medical conditions.

It is particularly important that the thousands of injured military 
and veterans returning to the United States after service in Iraq and 
Afghanistan be afforded the chance to participate in such paralympic 
activities as part of their rehabilitation, both while on active duty 
and when, as veterans, they return to their home communities.

The United States Olympic Committee is particularly well-suited to 
plan and institute a Paralympic Program for our military and veterans. 
In 1998, Congress passed the ''Olympic and Amateur Sports Act 
Amendments,'' which charged the USOC with the responsibility of 
encouraging and assisting amateur athletic programs and competitions 
for athletes with disabilities. Since that time, the USOC has led a 
resurgence in paralympic sports in the United States.

When our injured servicemembers began returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the USOC began offering Paralympic Military Sports Camps 
at its training facilities, including at the USOC training facility in 
my district in Chula Vista, California. To date, over 1,200 injured 
veterans have been introduced to paralympic sports as a result of these 
training camps. The USOC has spent millions of dollars on this military 
and veteran Paralympics Program and will continue to support these 
efforts. However, with so many injured military and veterans, much more 
needs to be done.

The paralympic sports camps of the USOC last for a week at a time. 
The USOC is also beginning an effort to bring paralympic sports to 
various locations throughout the country. It is imperative that we 
expand these efforts so that once our injured military personnel 
graduate to veteran status, they will be able to participate year round 
in their own communities in paralympic activities as part of their 
continuing rehabilitation.

Under this program, the USOC will develop community-based Paralympic 
Programs that provide services and activities for disabled veterans and 
servicemembers. These activities will include instruction and 
competition in paralympic sports, training and technical assistance and 
other program-specific medical and personal care support activities 
necessary to create a network of community-based Paralympic Programs 
easily accessible to our injured veterans.

This legislation also requires the Secretary to conduct an outreach 
program to inform all disabled veterans about the existence of the 
Paralympic Program and to encourage their participation. Although non-
veterans may participate in these community-based programs, the funds 
authorized by this legislation can only be used to support activities 
and services for disabled veterans and servicemembers.

The purpose of this program is to enhance the rehabilitation, 
readiness, and quality of life of severely injured servicemembers and 
veterans. There is great urgency to implement this expanded program as 
quickly as possible in order to motivate, teach, and inspire veterans 
at all stages of recovery and to return them to a lifestyle full of 
activity, accomplishment, and enjoyment in their own communities.

I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. 
We owe it to those who have given their all for their country.



