---
---

# None
## `4161b13efdb213525cd8f8d32df4c3f3`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, House Resolution 829 provides for consideration of the 
conference report to accompany H.R. 2892, the Department of Homeland 
Security Appropriations Act of 2010. The rule waives all points of 
order against the conference report and against its consideration. The 
rule provides that the conference report shall be considered as read. 
And finally, the rule provides that the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered without intervention of any motion, except 1 hour 
of debate and one motion to recommit, if applicable.

This conference report appropriates over $42 billion in funds 
necessary to protect the American people and enhance our national 
security. Through terrorist threat mitigation, natural disaster 
response, and immigration enforcement, this appropriations bill 
provides the funding to fulfill the many essential responsibilities of 
a range of important governmental agencies, from the Coast Guard to 
FEMA to Customs and Border Protection to the Transportation Security 
Administration.

Particularly critical in this legislation are the partnerships 
established with State and local communities to prepare for and protect 
against a range of emergency situations, including natural disasters 
and acts of terrorism and violence. The funding provided for emergency 
response resources demonstrates the need for collaboration among 
Federal, State, and local governments in providing for effective 
security. It's worth noting a few of the major initiatives contained in 
this conference report.

This legislation helps secure our borders by providing over $10 
billion for Customs and Border Protection, including funding for over 
20,000 Border Patrol agents, which represents an increase of 6,000 
agents since 2006. In addition, this report extends authorization of 
the E-Verify program for 3 years, under which employers are able to 
check the legal status of their workers. This legislation provides the 
funding to operate and improve the existing E-Verify program.

Ensuring the safety and security of our Nation's infrastructure is a 
critical part of this legislation. This conference report provides the 
necessary funding to the Transportation Security Administration and the 
Coast Guard to protect our Nation's vast transportation network, 
including airports, seaports, subways, trains, and buses. With this 
funding, the TSA will be able to improve explosive detection equipment 
at airports, and the Coast Guard will be able to replace aging ships 
and aircraft, which is much needed, modernizing a force that is 
essential to our national security.

Madam Speaker, I have always praised the Federal Emergency Management 
program for the fine work they do in helping distressed communities. In 
my home State of Florida, we are frequently plagued with natural 
disasters, including hurricanes and flooding. These disasters 
profoundly impact Florida's residents, particularly when so many 
individuals and families experience severe damage to their homes and 
communities.

I'm pleased with the funding levels indicated in this report for the 
firefighter grants, flood map modernization, predisaster mitigation, 
and emergency food and shelter programs. I know that the men and women 
at FEMA work hard and are dedicated to relieving the plight of 
Americans faced with the hardships of natural disasters.

At the same time, I've never been shy about making my voice heard on 
matters important to my constituents and all residents of Florida and 
our Nation that experience disasters. I have been outspoken on the need 
for FEMA to improve temporary housing.

I'm also pleased to have included language in this bill requiring the 
Florida Long Term Recovery Office, located in Orlando, to remain open. 
And a footnote there, Representatives Alan Grayson and Suzanne Kosmas 
are deserving of a lot of consideration from


us for that action that I, along with Robert Wexler and others, began 
quite some time before they came to Congress. In order to enhance 
communication and relief operations, this is necessary in the event of 
a natural disaster.

Madam Speaker, I do want to address the provisions in this report 
relating to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay. I know that this body has 
been very focused on this matter, as rightly we should be, as President 
Obama has committed his administration to close the detention facility 
at Guantanamo by January of 2010. This conference report prohibits 
current detainees from being transferred to the United States, except 
to be prosecuted, and then only after Congress receives a detailed plan 
on the risks involved, the legal rationale for their transfer, and a 
notification from the Governor of the affected State.

This is all well and good, but the language in this bill, while a 
good step forward, is not going to solve the problem of what to do with 
the hundreds of individuals we have detained, and those in the 
future that we may have to detain, whether they are detained at 
Guantanamo or Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan or any other facility 
where they may be detained by the United States.


The debate over Guantanamo, in my opinion, is missing the larger 
picture, and that is a need to reform our entire detainment policy. As 
I have maintained, the problem is policy, not the place. Without a 
system of justice to deal with suspected terrorists, wherever they are 
held, we are left with a broken system that has been a significant 
recruiting tool for al Qaeda and other groups which threaten our 
Nation's security. We need to deny them that image of America.

We need a judicial process that accomplishes at least three things: 
Number 1, protects our national security by holding and prosecuting 
those who have committed crimes or who pose an imperative threat to our 
country; number 2, upholds international standards of human rights; and 
3, strengthens our Nation's image as a country that upholds the rule of 
law and does not resort to arbitrary justice, even while under threat.

This appropriations season has, so far, brought forth a number of 
bills, almost all with language relating to Guantanamo and a whole lot 
of that ''not in my backyard'' stuff. At some point soon, we're going 
to need to move beyond trying to legislate this matter into 
appropriations bills and, instead, deal with what is necessary, and 
that is, new policies and guidelines to bring our national security 
needs in line with our historic national values.

I'm pleased to have introduced H.R. 3728, the Detainment Reform Act, 
which will move us forward on this matter, and I urge my colleagues and 
the President and his administration to give some vent to supporting 
this effort, revising it, or doing what is necessary in order for this 
bill or others to establish the policy that's needed for detaining 
individuals who would be imperative threats or conduct themselves in a 
criminal manner against this Nation.

Madam Speaker, ultimately, the conference report before us today 
provides the necessary funding for the Federal, State, and local 
agencies, programs and efforts that will protect our Nation.

I reserve the balance of my time.