---
---

# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `4178a73fdc478d8bd81b5f6e3399db69`
`Mr. WYNN — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. WYNN. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank first the gentlewoman 
from California for yielding, and also for her consistent, aggressive 
and activist leadership on this issue. She has been very courageous 
throughout. She has always taken a principled position, and she is now 
leading our efforts to stand up and express our opposition to the 
President. I want to thank her for that.

Sometimes one of the most difficult things for a politician or 
elected official to do is to say I was wrong; I made a mistake. I am 
here to say that tonight.

After 9/11, after the Pentagon was attacked in addition to New York, 
my district, which is just outside of Washington, D.C., felt the 
effects very severely. A lot of my constituents worked in the Pentagon. 
I went to several funerals, and I was very sensitive to the fact that 
my constituents in suburban Washington, D.C., in Montgomery County and 
in Prince Georges County, as Federal workers, were very vulnerable to 
an attack in what is arguably the number one or the number two target 
of terrorists in the United States.

I represent 72,000 Federal employees, most of whom work right here in 
the Nation's capital, in the immediate Capitol complex area.

At that time, the President was presenting, as the gentlewoman 
mentioned, extensive evidence about the existence of weapons of mass 
destruction, about attempts to develop a nuclear arsenal, about 
chemical and biological warfare, and I was of the belief that the 
President, on issues of national security, would put politics aside and 
would consider only the best interests of the country. Boy, was I 
wrong.

It has turned out and become evident to everyone that the President's 
intelligence was seriously flawed. It was inaccurate, it was distorted, 
and it was exaggerated to create a false impression of urgency that 
this country had an urgent threat and that weapons of mass destruction, 
in fact, existed and that they posed a threat to the citizens of the 
United States and, in my consideration, a threat to my constituents 
here in the Washington metropolitan area.

We were shown classified information, documents, photographs and the 
like, all of which were designed to create the impression that we were 
facing an imminent threat. Assuming the President would not mislead the 
country, I supported the war. That was a mistake.

But then it came to pass and became increasingly evident that there 
were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and that we were not facing 
an imminent threat. So in May of 2004, in an appearance before the 
Muslim Council in my district, I said I think my vote was wrong; I 
think my vote was a mistake.

Subsequent to that, I heard people say, well, what about the fact 
that we toppled Saddam Hussein? Well, that was a laudable goal, but it 
was not worth 3,000 troops. Well, what about the fact we created 
elections and they put their finger in purple ink and they had 
elections for the first time? I said I agree, that, too, is a laudable 
goal, but that was not worth 3,000 troops.

If you had asked me then to make this decision based on what I know 
now, I would not have voted to support the use of troops.



Because, you see, there are a lot of dictators in the world, some of 
whom we not only deal with, some of whom we actually arm. There are a 
lot of dictators that are cruel, that murder their own people, that 
violate human rights. There are a lot of countries that don't have 
democratic processes. And yet we do not make the decision that we ought 
to engage with them militarily. So to my way of thinking, the only 
justification, the only justification would have been the existence of 
weapons of mass destruction and an imminent threat to the United States 
that in fact did not exist.

What we have in fact seen is that our military presence has worsened 
the situation. Areas that did not have terrorists now have terrorists. 
They are called breeding grounds for terrorism because our presence 
creates a cause for the terrorists, a motivation, if you will, a 
catalyst, an antagonism. That is not solving the problem of terrorism. 
That is not effectively fighting the war on terrorism. Our military 
role has not been productive and effective; in fact, it is been 
counterproductive and sadly ineffective.

It is time to withdraw our troops. We need to begin now to withdraw 
our troops so that the Iraqis will take more responsibility for their 
own security. In fact, Mr. Maliki says that is what he wants us to do. 
He says, ''Give us the weapons, we will do it.'' He is not so excited 
about having us. Clearly, the American people don't want to be in Iraq. 
More importantly, the Iraqi people don't want us to be in Iraq. It is 
time for us to pull out. We are in the midst of a civil war, one that 
we cannot resolve, and therefore we are not playing a constructive 
role.

We are now on the eve of another adventure in Iraq or, should I say, 
misadventure, in which the President is proposing not to withdraw but 
just the opposite, contrary to the recommendations of the joint chiefs, 
contrary to the recommendations of the Iraqi Study Group. The President 
is saying, Let's send more troops. He calls it a surge. Folks, it is a 
troop escalation and an escalation of this war, and I will oppose it.

There is a saying that the old folks used to say: Fool me once, shame 
on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.

Mr. President, you fooled me once. Shame on you. Fool me twice? I 
don't think so.

I am opposed to any troop escalation. I am opposed to any surge. I am 
opposed to any expansion of this war by military means. Yes, we have to 
fight the war on terrorism, but it seems to me we need to use 
diplomatic means to create an environment in which we can promote 
peace. We need to involve the other countries in the region, be it Shia 
or be it Sunni, who have an interest in a stable region. It is their 
region. They don't want war as a way of life in their region. Let's 
involve those countries, the Egypts, the Jordans, the Saudi Arabias. 
Let them get engaged in helping resolve this war. Let us step back from 
this war. We need to implement diplomatic solutions.

So this is not a question of withdrawing United States leadership. We 
need to leave, but we need to leave diplomatically. We need to 
understand that, in the modern world, the use of military force is 
extremely limited, limited in its utility, because we are operating in 
a different environment, a terrorist environment, an insurgent 
environment in which additional troops


only work for a temporary period of time. The insurgency withdraws, 
melts away, and then reemerges, which is to say, the President's 
proposal can only lead to a permanent U.S. presence of even more 
troops, putting them in harm's way.

We have lost over 3,000 troops. The Iraqi people have lost tens of 
thousands more, maybe even hundreds of thousands. It is time to 
withdraw our military presence. It is time to advance the cause of 
peace through diplomatic means and diplomatic leadership.

I want to thank the gentlewoman again for giving me this opportunity 
to speak.