# REMEMBERING SPECIALIST JACOB WILLIAM SEXTON
## `41a5f8e9fd92dc2313a1320fd09631a9`
`Mr. BAYH — 26 October 2009`

---


Mr. BAYH. Madam President, I rise today to honor the life of Army SPC 
Jacob William Sexton. A member of Company A, 2nd Battalion 151st 
Infantry of the Indiana National Guard, Jacob was only 21 years old 
when his life came to a tragic end on October 12, 2009, while on leave 
from active deployment in Afghanistan.

Today, I join Jacob's family and friends in mourning his untimely 
death. Jacob will be remembered as a loving brother, son and friend to 
many. He is survived by his parents, Jeffery and Barbara; his three 
brothers, Joshua, Jeremiah and Jared; his paternal grandparents; 
maternal grandmother; and a community of friends and family members. 
Like two of his brothers, Jacob followed in the footsteps of his 
father, an Army veteran. His brother described Jacob as his father's 
best friend.

A native of Farmland, IN, Jacob enlisted in the National Guard after 
graduating from Monroe Central High School in 2006. He served his first 
tour in Iraq with the Winchester guard unit as a humvee driver. Upon 
returning home, he continued to serve his country by training other 
military humvee drivers and keeping charge of weapons and ammunition at 
Camp Atterbury. More recently, he was deployed near Kabul, Afghanistan, 
where he was described by his superiors as a model soldier with good 
morale and an excellent sense of humor.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over the loss of Jacob, we 
can take pride in the example he set as a soldier, a son, a grandson, 
and a brother. Today and always, he will be remembered by family, 
friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we cherish 
the legacy of his service and his life.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Jacob William Sexton in the 
record of the Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace.

I pray that the Sexton family can find comfort in the words of the 
prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the 
Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''
