# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `41b7619e227cdd11dffe4c0dd578d2ee`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I would like to thank Chairman Levin and 
Ranking Member McCain for their leadership and my colleagues on the 
Senate Armed Services Committee for working in a bipartisan fashion to 
craft the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. This 
bill provides our troops with the resources, training and equipment 
they need to fulfill their mission. It takes care of our troops and 
their families, including a 3.4-percent across-the-board pay raise. 
Additionally, it authorizes fiscal year 2010 end strengths to allow for 
the expansion of our Armed Forces and provide a greater time period 
between deployments, which will ease some of the burden placed on our 
troops and their families.

This bill includes important language to ensure that the Iraqi and 
Afghan governments take more responsibility for ensuring their own 
security and stability. It provides nearly $7.5 billion to train and 
equip the Afghan National Army and National Police Force; extends for 
one year the authority for the Department of Defense--DOD--to support 
State Department programs for security and stabilization assistance; 
emphasizes the need to establish comprehensive measures of progress for 
the administration's strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan and report 
regularly to Congress on progress in the region; and provides funding 
for the Commanders' Emergency Response program in Iraq and Afghanistan 
to enable Commanders to quickly fund humanitarian relief and 
reconstruction projects and authorizes funds to promote Afghan-led 
local development.

I am pleased that this bill provides our brave men and women in 
uniform the equipment, training and support they require. The bill 
fully funds readiness and depot maintenance programs to ensure that 
forces are trained and their equipment deployment ready. This bill 
provides $6.7 billion for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle 
Fund to protect our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill also 
provides full funding for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization. This is very timely as there have been reports of stepped 
up use of Improvised Explosive Devices--IED--in Afghanistan. In light 
of the recent missile tests conducted by North Korea, the authorization 
to convert six additional Aegis ships for missile defense capabilities 
and field additional Terminal High Altitude Air Defense--THAAD--and 
Standard Missile 3--SM-3--missile defense capabilities is very timely. 
As a long time proponent of corrosion control for DOD systems, I am 
happy to note that this bill provides for corrosion protection to keep 
equipment working effectively for a longer period of time. This is 
especially important in light of our current budget situation. If we 
can protect our systems from the detrimental effects of corrosion and 
make them last longer, it will save valuable resources.

As stewards of taxpayer dollars, we must ensure that there is 
thorough oversight of the Department of Defense's programs and 
activities. This bill takes important steps to accomplish this 
including, enhancing the ability of the DOD IG to conduct audits by 
authorizing the IG to subpoena witnesses; requiring DOD to justify all 
sole-source contract awards in excess of $20 million; and improving DOD 
financial management by requiring the Department to engage in business 
process reengineering before it approves a new business system 
modernization program.

One of my priorities as a member of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee and chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee is to 
ensure our servicemembers and veterans receive the health care services 
they need, including treatment for invisible wounds of war such as 
post-traumatic stress disorder. I am pleased that this bill


takes some important steps in caring for our troops. For example, it: 
Requires the Secretary of Defense to develop and implement a plan to 
increase the number of military and civilian behavioral health 
personnel and to consider the feasibility of additional officers and 
enlisted specialties as behavioral health counselors; authorizes the 
service secretaries to detail up to 25 officers each year as students 
to study for doctorate degrees in clinical psychology; requires person-
to-person mental health assessments at designated intervals for 
servicemembers deployed in connection with contingency operations; 
requires an assessment of case management services for behavioral 
health care under TRICARE; authorizes travel and transportation 
allowances for up to three individuals to travel with seriously injured 
or wounded individuals during their inpatient stay; authorizes 
compensation to caregivers for the assistance they provide to 
servicemembers with combat-related catastrophic injuries or illnesses 
requiring assistance in daily living; and, requires the Department of 
Defense to initiate a process of reform and improvement of the TRICARE 
system. It extends eligibility for TRICARE Standard to gray area 
retirees.

I have also worked to improve the collaboration and cooperation 
between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to help smooth the transition from military to civilian life. I 
applaud the inclusion of language in this bill that requires the 
Secretary of Defense to report on the exchange of medical data between 
the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, an 
issue I have worked on with Chairman Levin. In addition, the bill 
authorizes the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to jointly operate a Federal Health Care Center to showcase its 
ability to work in unison to serve current and former servicemembers.

This bill exemplifies what can be achieved when we put aside our 
party differences and work together to support our military. Moreover, 
it demonstrates our commitment to provide our troops and their families 
with the support that they require and deserve.