---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `41b9e265627ee7d913a015c24d37db04`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Well, I thank the gentleman. And I thank the 
gentleman from New York for his clear testimony and for fulfilling his 
obligation, not only as a Congressman, but as a citizen, to ask the 
hard questions. When we send our soldiers and our warriors into harm's 
way, it's all of our responsibility to ask, is this the right mission? 
Are they being provided for with the right equipment? Are we doing 
everything necessary to ensure that that's happening?

And quite honestly, the problem around here up until January of this 
year was that people were being told that it was unpatriotic, it wasn't 
right to question those things because the President, under his 
administration, was determining that he was the unitary executive, he 
was the decider. Now, that's the President's right, that's this 
President's right or any right, I guess, to determine how they're going 
to look at that.

The foundational principles, though, of this country don't let us 
just get to pick and choose. We go back to the document that the 
gentleman from Kentucky keeps referring to. The Constitution of the 
United States clearly lays out for us, and I think it's kind of 
interesting and maybe even critical for us, it might be the teacher in 
me that goes back to this, I have been rereading a book on the 
Constitutional Convention by two professors from Georgia that take 
James Madison's notes about what was happening at that time and that 
summer when they were thinking how they were going to form this 
government.



When the President talks about he doesn't need 435 commanders in the 
field or whatever, what he does need to understand is that these 435 
Members were the very first piece of decision-making that went into 
that convention.

I would like to quote a little bit if I could from this, to my 
colleagues and to you, Mr. Speaker, about what was going through their 
minds as they were formulating this and what our responsibilities as 
article 1 is. Keep in mind that they met on May 30, and on June 1, the 
first piece of legislation once they got a quorum and they decided they 
were going to go with a Federal or national government, here are some 
of the notes that were compiled. Here is Mr. Mason.

Mr. Mason argued strongly for an election of the larger branch by the 
people. It was going to be the grand depository of the democratic 
principles of the people. It was, so to speak, to be our House of 
Commons. It ought to know and sympathize with every part of the people. 
It ought to therefore not only be taken from different parts of the 
whole, but also from different districts of the larger members, which 
had several instances, particularly in Virginia, different interests of 
views arising from differences of produce, differences of habit, all 
kinds of differences.

Mr. Madison considered the popular election of one branch of the 
national legislature as essential to a free government. He thought, 
too, that the great fabric to be raised would be more stable and 
durable if it should rest on the solid foundation of the people 
themselves and their elected representatives as the pillars. They went 
on to formulate how they were going to do that and have the debate of 
who should elect the Senate and how those things should happen. But 
there was no doubt in anyone's mind by the framers of this government 
about where the pillar and where that foundation should lay.

I think it is interesting, then, to take a look at this of when they 
talked about the next branch, when they started talking about the 
executive branch. On June 1, the delegates began considering the 
structure of the executive. They were not sure yet what duties would 
fall to the executive or even whether a single person would hold that 
position. The major issue that faced them was one of balance. If the 
executive branch was too strong and independent, many delegates feared 
it might result in another monarchy like the ones they had recently 
revolted from. But if the executive was too weak and depended solely on 
the legislature, it might be ineffective. Thus, checks and balances 
were key to this.

In going through and looking at these, the different issues that are 
coming up or the clauses that went into this, it was apparent from the 
very beginning that the Founders of this Nation clearly understood 
that. As we said earlier, and my colleagues each said, this isn't about 
a piece of legislation. This is a platform or a framework to get back 
to where this country came from. This isn't about President Bush. This 
is about all subsequent Presidents. And so be it, be that Democratic, 
Republican or whatever it would be, that those individuals still must 
fall within this framework.

I believe, and I think my colleagues that are here tonight believe, 
that that was one of the motivating factors for sending many of us here 
almost a year ago to the day. It wasn't just ideology. It was about the 
framework of the genius that went into the Constitution


and the thought processes that formed that.

So in listening to this and listening to Mr. Hall describe his trip 
to Iraq, he is fulfilling his constitutional duties as an elected 
official and fulfilling the things that we know are necessary. I would 
go back to talking about this MRAP. If you remember, without the 
oversight, it was the administration that sent our soldiers with the 
army that we had, not the one that we would want. No one asked about 
body armor. No one asked about up-armored Humvees. Those were the 
questions that should have been asked in this chamber. But they were 
told, no, go along with the executive.

Well, article I is about saying, we will never just go along because 
that is not our duty. I am pleased to see each of my colleagues here. I 
know the passion that each of them feel for this issue is a passion for 
this great Nation. It is a passion for the founding principles. It is 
not a revisionist history. It is not a power grab. It is functional 
government that delivers for its people. That is what we need to get 
back to.

With that, I would like to, if I could, yield to the gentlewoman from 
Ohio.