# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2740, MEJA EXPANSION AND  ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `41baba7f70cff08e412140246de32b34`
`Ms. MATSUI — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Ohio for 
yielding me time.

I rise today in strong support not only of this bill but also of 
increased accountability in Iraq. From the outset, this misguided war 
has been characterized by gray areas, gray areas of policy, of 
motivation and of legitimacy. One consequence of these gray areas has 
been the collapse of law and order in Iraq. Many military contractors, 
contractors paid by our government, contribute to the chaos there.

Mr. Speaker, the Iraq war is a first major conflict in which private 
contractors perform tasks typically done by uniformed military. 
Employees from companies like Blackwater provide security for military 
and political figures. They protect buildings. Rumors have swirled that 
they may soon guard military convoys.

Mr. Speaker, private contractors acting in military roles should be 
held to the same standards as our armed services. They should not have 
free rein to shoot, maim and kill people in the name of security. If 
they act illegally, they must be punished accordingly. This, Mr. 
Speaker, is what law and order means. We cannot convince the world that 
we value peace and security if American contractors are undermining it 
in Iraq. It is hypocritical for us to ask Iraqis to obey the rule of 
law when we do not demand the same from the contractors we are paying. 
Like all of my colleagues, I want our brave young men and women in Iraq 
to be as safe as they can be. The legislation before us today will help 
restore the trust of the Iraqi public and of the international 
community.

During World War II, only 5 percent of our in-theater forces were 
private contractors. Today, we have just as many contractors in Iraq as 
we do American soldiers, contractors who are not accountable to the 
American people but who are paid for by the American people. Crimes 
committed by these contractors are the reason why this bill is so long 
overdue. It finally holds contractors accountable for their actions. 
But the larger issue is that our men and women in uniform are 
overburdened. Our military is in danger of collapsing under the strain 
of a never-ending war. This is one of the many reasons why we must 
change course in Iraq.

That, Mr. Speaker, is my objective. It is the objective of a clear 
majority in the House. It is the will of the American people. We must 
do everything we


can to increase oversight of contractors. This legislation is a step in 
the right direction.

I urge my colleagues to take this step today so that in the coming 
days, we can finally change our Nation's course in Iraq.

