---
---

# EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING CREATION OF REFUGEE POPULATIONS
## `41ccc18ee07a4d08fe9ac8ff4b53f693`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 185. I 
commend this body for recognizing the rights of Jewish refugees 
displaced from Arab countries. I agree that a resolution that addresses 
the legitimate rights of all refugees is inherent to establishing 
enduring peace in the Middle East.

The resolution draws its strength by including all refugees in the 
Middle East, including Jews, Christians, minority communities, Iraqis, 
and Palestinians. A lasting peace in the Middle East must abate 
feelings of hostility throughout all refugee populations. As the 
resolution suggests, this includes recognition of Jewish, Palestinian, 
and Christian refugee populations but must also encompass all Middle 
East refugee populations ''numbering in the hundreds of thousands and 
comprised of peoples from many ethnic, religious, and national 
backgrounds.''

As such, I urge this body to continue to be mindful of and work 
toward peaceful, enduring solutions for all refugee populations in the 
Middle East. Currently the two largest refugee populations in the world 
are Iraqi and Palestinian refugees. The United Nations has estimated 
that there are approximately 2,000,000 Iraqi refugees currently 
displaced from their homes (and another 2,200,000 internally 
displaced). These Iraqi refugees endure deprivation of food, shelter, 
and medical care. The United States must be mindful of the role of our 
foreign policy in the creation of this refugee population and our 
continuing role in addressing this humanitarian crisis.

United Nations-recognized Palestinian refugees currently constitute 
an approximate 3,700,000-person population. According to the United 
Nations Relief and Work Agency, UNRWA, of these refugees, approximately 
1,300,000 Palestinian refugees continue to live in 58 recognized 
refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the West Bank, and the Gaza 
Strip. Moreover, ongoing Israeli policies like settlement expansion, 
which contravene the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention as well 
as the basis of Palestinian-Israeli peace agreements, create new 
refugee populations today.

I support H. Res. 185 for recognizing the displacement, human rights, 
suffering and loss of all refugees. I encourage this body to do so in a 
way that brings us closer to establishing a just and long-lasting Arab-
Israeli peace. To make this dream a reality we must truly rise to 
become the ''honest broker'' of peace in the Middle East.