---
---

# HONORING SPC JAMIN Y. MOORE
## `41d19dc6a85687d10b9540cc506aedca`
`Mr. McCARTHY of California — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. McCARTHY of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor 
those brave men and women who have been wounded while serving our 
country in the United States Army. SPC Jamin Y. Moore is one such 
individual who, while serving in Iraq, sustained serious injury after 
his platoon hit an improvised explosive device. SPC Moore is a graduate 
of Liberty High School in Bakersfield, California and I wish to honor 
him and his duty and sacrifice to our country by inserting into the 
Congressional Record a poem he wrote on Saturday, May 20, 2006, on why 
he joined the United States Army.



 I go because . . .


 I go for a multitude of reasons; many which make sense to me 





 alone and cannot be expressed in words, for words can 





 never describe the deepest truisms in life.


 I go to serve my country and to protect those I love.


 I go to honor those who have served and fallen before me, not 





 only those of this country; but of all who paid with 





 blood to make the world better.


 I go because I believe that I must be willing to fight and 





 die for what I believe, or I am nothing.


 I go because I have been called upon to serve.


 I go because I will gain a deeper understanding of who I am.


 I go because I realize that a constant battle is raging 





 between good and evil, hope and despair, life and 





 death.


 I have chosen my side and go to fight in the War of Life.
