---
---

# HONORING THE AIR FORCE ESSAY CONTEST WINNER--ASHITA GANGULY
## `41d46848817ba3458cd22c06bd173895`
`Mr. HALL of Texas — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I am pleased today to place in the 
Congressional Record the following winning essay, which Ashita Ganguly, 
a Senior at Paris High School in Paris, Texas, submitted to the Air 
Force Essay Contest.


Part of the Air Force Mission Statement Is ''Excellence in All We Do''; 











What Does This Mean To You?




 Excellence is a tradition that beats proudly in the hearts 


 of all Americans. The United States Air Force is a specific 


 example of the furtherance of such a tradition. Since its 


 formation in 1947, the Air Force has relentlessly strived to 


 serve and protect America and her people with unyielding 


 strength, valor, and conviction. Although it has established 


 itself as the largest and most technologically advanced air 


 force in the world, it is the spirited and courageous men and 


 women, selflessly serving their country and fellow citizens, 


 who truly distinguish the United States Air Force from all 


 others.



 Webster defines excellence as unusual goodness or worth. 


 Throughout its existence, the Air Force has showcased this 


 unique generosity not only in regards to national affairs, 


 but also in world affairs. During the Cold War, when Soviet 


 leader Joseph Stalin disrupted the supply traffic to Berlin, 


 the United States Air Force undertook Operation Vittles, also 


 known as the Berlin Airlifts. From June of 1948 to May of 


 1949, the Air Force was able to deliver an astounding 2.3 


 million tons of cargo on the 277,685 flights, providing vital 


 necessities to all of Berlin's citizens. The excellence in 


 efficiency proved by the Air Force in these missions 


 continues to remain un-matched. In the years following, the 


 Air Force continued to lead in many other humanitarian 


 efforts including Operation Safe Haven, which relocated 


 20,000 Hungarian refugees following the Hungarian Revolution 


 of 1956, and Operation Provide Hope, which provided medical 


 equipment to former Soviet republics during their transition 


 to democratic and free-market states.



 Since its conception, the Air Force has been involved in a 


 number of wars and conflicts including World War I, World War 


 II, the Cold War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Gulf 


 War, the Kosovo War, and, of course, the Iraq War. Its 


 members have valiantly served to preserve democratic values 


 in all parts of the world with great regard to ''a proud 


 heritage, a tradition of honor, and a legacy of valor,'' as 


 stated in The Airman's Creed.



 A few years ago, I witnessed this tradition first hand when 


 visiting Andrews Air Force base in Maryland. Watching the air 


 show, I was astonished to see the meticulous craft and 


 precision displayed by the pilots. The intricate and complex 


 formations of the planes in flight still lives in my memory. 


 However, despite being surrounded by the most sophisticated 


 and advanced technology comprehensible to man, it was the 


 infectious spirit of enthusiasm for duty that captivated me. 


 Watching the pilots animatedly discuss their air crafts and 


 missions spurred my interest.



 The 351,800 members of the United States Air Force, groomed 


 by tradition, guided by values, and driven by strife towards 


 excellence represent the heart and soul of American culture. 


 Exhibiting superiority of character and performance, both on 


 and off duty, they are the role models in an often misguided 


 period in society. As the United States Air Force continues 


 ''To fly and fight in Air, Space, and Cyberspace,'' ordinary 


 citizens, like me, can only expect excellence in all of their 


 endeavors. Their example inspires us all.
