# THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `41d8f05235f8cfbc3b4a43da43ff8bfd`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, it is indeed a great privilege and 
honor to come back to the floor of the House and present some 
alternative views, some views that I hope are more grounded in truth as 
this is another edition of the Official Truth Squad. We've heard some 
interesting comments over the last hour and over the last few days and 
weeks and months. So, Mr. Speaker, it is indeed an honor to be 
designated by our leadership to come and share some words with this 
Chamber.

I would first comment about the relative tone and the divisiveness of 
the language that we have just heard. It just astounds me that people 
think who come to Washington that our constituents want us to be 
divisive. When I go home, what I hear from folks is that they want us 
to work together, that they want us to work together positively for 
solutions. So the class warfare debate that we have just experienced 
over the last hour is truly remarkable, as one Member talked about the 
spirit of Lincoln, a proud Republican, and what he brought to our 
Nation. A government of the people, by the people, and for the people 
is what he championed. He also championed an end to class warfare. So I 
would encourage my colleagues to read further in history and to expand 
their vision of what it is that their constituents truly want. And as I 
mentioned, Mr. Speaker, my constituents, our constituents, I think, 
want us to work together.

This is the Official Truth Squad. This is a group of folks who come 
to the floor and have an opportunity to address our colleagues and 
hopefully


bring, over the course of an hour, a little brighter perspective, a 
little more upbeat perspective, a little more optimistic perspective, 
and, hopefully, a little more truthful perspective because so often 
what happens on the floor of this House during the course of our 
debates is that the truth tends to be swept away. And, again, that 
frustrates our constituents. It frustrates my constituents, I know, 
when they ask why we can't stick to the facts, stick to reason as we 
try to solve the significant challenges that confront us as a Nation.

I have a number of favorite quotes. One of them is this one from the 
late United States Senator from New York, Daniel Patrick Moynihan. He 
said, famously, ''Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but they 
are not entitled to their own facts.'' Another one of my favorite 
quotes is ''Imitation is the most sincere form of flattery.'' So I was 
so pleased when I heard either the Speaker or the majority leader say 
just this in a debate recently, and I would ask my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to heed this. Everyone's entitled to their own 
opinion, and you ought to state so, and that's appropriate. But you're 
not entitled to your own facts.

So tonight, Mr. Speaker, we're going to share a few facts with our 
colleagues, and I am going to start by bringing a couple of quotes from 
a true American institution. Certainly the ''Tonight Show'' is an 
American institution. The current host of the ''Tonight Show,'' Jay 
Leno, oftentimes crystallizes in just a very humorous way what the 
American people are thinking. So I thought it would be appropriate to 
share with our colleagues, Mr. Speaker, what Jay Leno has said over the 
past couple of days. This is about the state of Congress right now. As 
you know, Mr. Speaker, the numbers for Congress aren't great right now. 
I would again encourage my colleagues to try to use the sense of what 
the American people are saying as a positive impetus to have us move 
forward together in a commonsense, positive, upbeat, principled way 
that reflects the will of our Nation.

But Jay Leno said the other day, ''And our new Democratic Congress, 
remember, they promised longer workweeks. Well, now they announced 
they're going to a 4-day workweek. I guess they realized they don't 
need a full 5 days to do nothing.'' It was alluding to the fact that 
really not much has gotten done in these first 10 months of this 110th 
Congress under the new leadership. And it hasn't for a variety of 
reasons. We will talk a little bit about that tonight. But I would 
suggest most clearly, Mr. Speaker, that it hasn't because this new 
majority seems to be unwilling to work together on behalf of the 
American people. SCHIP is a classic example, and our colleagues 
mentioned that, and we will talk a little bit about that tonight.

Jay Leno also said just 2 days ago, ''The Democrats in Congress have 
announced they will now be taking Fridays off. Apparently they were 
getting worried their approval rating was getting too high.'' As I 
mentioned, Mr. Speaker, the approval rating for Congress is not great.

And that troubles me. It should trouble all of us. It troubles me 
because I think that what the American people are seeing when they look 
here to Washington, when they look to the Speaker and to the leaders 
that are running this Congress, they see an institution and they see a 
group of leaders who are not willing to work with each other. And for 
those of us who are less than senior Members, certainly in the minority 
party at this time, it is very distressing because we came here, all of 
us came here, to solve problems. I oftentimes encourage my colleagues 
to go back and read their first piece of campaign literature in their 
first campaign because I think, Mr. Speaker, that speaks to the goals 
and the vision and the dreams that we all had when we came to Congress.

But as you know, Mr. Speaker, a recent Zogby poll found that for the 
second month in a row, this Democrat-led Congress's approval rating was 
11 percent. Now, why is that? Well, I think if you look at the bills 
that have been passed through this Congress and signed into law, there 
have been 107 of them so far, Mr. Speaker, 107 bills. Now, you might 
think that that would be a grand accomplishment, and I suspect that it 
is on one measure. This new majority touted the fact that they have had 
over a thousand votes. What they didn't say is that the vast majority 
of those were procedural votes. They were determining how the bills 
ought to move forward, oftentimes in significantly noninclusive ways. 
But 107 bills have gone through the House and the Senate and signed 
into law by the President. So I thought it would be helpful to kind of 
break down those 107 bills. What were they? Were they wonderful 
solutions, as have been proposed, to children's health insurance? Were 
they wonderful solutions to health system reform? As a physician 
myself, I believe so strongly that we need significant, positive, 
patient-centered health system reform.



Was that one of the bills that was signed? Was controlling the crisis 
that we have in the area of illegal immigration, was that one of the 
bills? Well, regretfully, Mr. Speaker, as you well know, it wasn't.

In fact, of 107 bills signed into law, 47 of those bills named post 
offices, courthouses or roads. Now, those are important things to do, 
and certainly when we name and honor individuals with the naming of a 
post office or a courthouse or a road, that's an important thing to do, 
but it ought not be something that the majority party brings forward 
and champions as a grand accomplishment. I haven't looked at what the 
votes were on those 47 bills, but I suspect that, by and large, they 
were unanimous. I will just take a wild guess, Mr. Speaker; I suspect 
that the vast majority of those were unanimous.

So, 47 of the 107 bills signed into law were naming post offices or 
roads or courthouses. Forty-four of the bills were noncontroversial 
measures that were either sponsored by Republicans or they passed 
overwhelmingly. And those are the kind of routine things that you've 
just got to do to keep the trains running on time here.

So, 47 naming post offices or other buildings; 44 were 
noncontroversial. Fourteen of the remaining 16 were to extend 
preexisting laws or laws that had been passed during the Republican-led 
Congress. Now, that means that there were only two left out of that 
whole 107 bills that were signed into law. In fact, I would suggest, 
Mr. Speaker, that these were the two most important bills. One of them 
was the extension of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and 
we'll talk a little bit about that. But to keep our Nation safe, one of 
them was that bill. That passed. But as I note, Mr. Speaker, that 
passed over the objection of the leadership of the Democrat Party.

So, one of the most important things we've done, in fact, probably 
one of the two most important things that we've done, passed over the 
objection of the leadership of the Democrat Party, the majority party. 
The other bill that passed was the supplemental to provide appropriate 
resources for our troops.

So, Mr. Speaker, not an opinion, but a fact is that we have, yes, we 
have, indeed, had over 1,000 votes. And the majority party is very 
proud of that, and maybe they should be. But when you look at the 
number of bills that have passed Congress, 107, 47 of those were to 
name post offices or buildings, 44 were noncontroversial, 14 were to 
continue previous law, and two, the two most important, the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act and the appropriate resources for our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, passed over the objection and the vote 
of the majority leadership, the majority of the majority leadership.

So, Mr. Speaker, I'm not sure that's something to champion, but I 
will tell you that I believe that's part of the reason that the 
American people say, ''What's going on? What's going on up there in 
Washington? Can you all please work together on behalf of the American 
people?'' which is what I believe and my colleagues, I know, believe we 
ought to do. In fact, many of those things would be very, very humorous 
if they weren't so doggone serious. We are in challenging times, Mr. 
Speaker, and I would suggest and encourage my colleagues, frankly, on 
both sides of the aisle to put positive issues out there and work 
together as we move forward.

One of the bills that we heard from our good friends on was the SCHIP 
bill, the State Children's Health Insurance


Program, and I will be joined by a number of colleagues tonight to talk 
about that. I would just like to say that as a physician who practiced 
in the northern side of Atlanta for over 20 years taking care of kids, 
I take personal offense to anybody who says that those of us who have 
not supported so far the State Children's Health Insurance 
reauthorization bill don't care about kids. Clearly, we care about 
kids. I spent my entire professional life caring for kids.

The other side says, well, 81 percent of the American people want 
SCHIP. Well, they do when you ask them the question, do you support the 
State Children's Health Insurance Program? And I ask that of my folks 
when I go home and have meetings and talk to Rotary Clubs and other 
kinds of groups. And I have asked them over the past 2 or 3 months, do 
you support renewing the State Children's Health Insurance Program? And 
sure enough, the vast majority of the people raise their hand, and as 
well they should. And I ask them to keep their hand up. And then I 
said, now, would you support that bill if you knew that poor kids were 
not going to be taken care of before kids in wealthier families? Put 
your hand down if you wouldn't support that bill if you knew that kids 
from higher income families would get insurance paid for by the 
taxpayer before lower income kids. And about one-third or so of the 
hands come down; still a number of hands up there. And I say that 
because that's what is in the bill that the majority party passed and 
that was vetoed by the President, and then we sustained that veto.

And then I say, well, now, would you support that State Children's 
Health Insurance Program if you knew that it also covered childless 
adults? And a number of other hands come down. And I don't make that 
up. I ask that question because that's in the bill. Now we've got about 
one-half or maybe one-third of the folks still raising their hand 
saying they would support the bill. I say, now, would you support the 
bill if you knew that 2 million kids would be forced from private 
personal health insurance onto public, State-run, government-run 
bureaucratic medicine? And you get almost all of them coming down at 
that point. They've kind of gotten the clue that in the fine print in 
the bill, it's not what they've been led to believe.

And then I ask them, well, would you support the bill if you knew 
that in order to make the funding work, you would have to have 22 
million new smokers in America because it's paid for by tobacco tax, 
would you support it now?

Well, Mr. Speaker, I don't have to tell you the results of this 
unscientific poll. But the fact of the matter is, not an opinion, but 
the fact of the matter is when I get through outlining what was in the 
bill, there isn't a hand left. There isn't a hand still raised that 
said they would support that bill.

And so, Mr. Speaker, that's why the numbers have come down. In the 
length of time that the majority party has been demagoguing this issue 
and trumpeting out their radio ads and their television ads across this 
Nation, what has happened is that the American people have recognized 
that the story that they were being told by this majority party, the 
Democrat leadership, was, in fact, not the truth. It may have been an 
opinion; it certainly wasn't the truth.

And so now what we see is 55, 60, 60-plus percent of the American 
people saying yes, we want to help poor kids, absolutely, that's 
appropriate. And we'll talk tonight about how we should do that, a 
positive message, an upbeat message, an optimistic message, a message 
that says, yes, Americans are generous, we know that, and they believe 
that, in fact, there is a better way, there is a better way to do 
business here in Washington, hopefully to raise those numbers. There is 
also a better way to fashion a bill that would provide health insurance 
for low-income kids.

So I am pleased to be joined tonight by a couple of colleagues, my 
good friend from New Jersey, who certainly knows fiscal issues as well 
as the issue of State Children's Health Insurance Program. I look 
forward to your comments this evening and yield to my good friend Mr. 
Garrett.
