---
---

# HONORING THE 3RD BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM
## `41e920d988df7a6d7a8aa43f3e513a25`
`Mr. OWENS — 19 January 2010`

---


Mr. OWENS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the outstanding 
service of the 3rd Brigade Combat Team, ''Spartans,'' 10th Mountain 
Division, as they complete their service in Afghanistan and return to 
their families and loved ones.

I am tremendously proud of the brave soldiers of the 3rd BCT who have 
sacrificed so much to keep our Nation safe. The family members of these 
soldiers must also be recognized, enduring through the Spartans' year-
long deployment and providing their unwavering support as they return 
home.

The 3rd Brigade Combat Team was led during their missions in 
Afghanistan by COL David B. Haight and CSM Delbert D. Byers. The 
brigade consists of the Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 3rd 
Brigade, 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry Regiment, 2nd Battalion, 87th 
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Battalion, 71st Cavalry Regiment, 4th Battalion, 
25th Field Artillery Regiment, 710th Brigade Support Battalion, and the 
3rd Brigade Special Troops Battalion.

The Spartans began their deployment to Afghanistan in December of 
2008 in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Their assigned area of 
operations covered Wardak and Logar 1st-32nd Provinces, with the 1st-
32nd detached to operate in Kunar Province. The 3rd BCT guarded the 
southern approaches to Kabul. If enemy forces sought to attack the city 
from the south, they had to get through the Spartans first.

The 3rd BCT's deployment to the area was significant in another way 
as well. Their operations marked the first time during Operation 
Enduring Freedom that International and Security Assistance Force, 
ISAF, units conducted counterinsurgency operations in either Wardak or 
Logar provinces. Before the Spartans arrived in country, only Afghan 
National Army and Afghan National Police operated in the provinces; 
these forces were isolated and confined to local areas.

The Brigade's units partnered with Afghan security forces to help 
develop their capacity and overall professionalism, ultimately playing 
a pivotal role in returning the security of Afghanistan over to the 
Afghan people. Aggressive counterinsurgency efforts resulted in low 
morale among insurgents and surviving leadership fleeing the region.

3rd BCT's operations resulted in 419 detainees, 236 enemy killed, and 
120 enemy wounded. At the same time, the Spartans had 311 friendly 
casualties and 32 brave Soldiers killed in action.

They have truly performed in the best of Fort Drum's traditions and 
deserve our heartfelt thanks. It is with sincere gratitude that I 
recognize them before Congress today.
