# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `41ff24cff9e0862cfad62ae9dd9279b6`
`Mr. COBURN — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. COBURN. Going back to the Congolese, most of the victims were 
women, children, and the elderly. Some were decapitated. Remember, 
these are U.N. peacekeeping forces--peacekeeping. Others were chopped 
to death by machete, beaten to death with clubs as they tried to flee.

They may not have been actual U.N. officers, but the U.N. was 
supplying all the logistics, all the transportation for this group of 
people. Where is the oversight?

U.N. contribution: Compiling forecasts of global agriculture 
production and identifying areas of likely famine and the risk of 
severe hunger, to facilitate food assistance. We make a contribution to 
the U.N. The Food and Agriculture Organization is currently hosting a 
U.N. conference, a food summit in Rome, where the opening speaker is 
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe who has literally destroyed his 
Nation, which used to be the bread basket of Africa and which is now 
dependent on food imports. We are helping to pay for President Mugabe--
who can't travel hardly anywhere else in the world because he is such a 
rogue dictator--we are sponsoring, through our dollars, meetings where 
he is the headline speaker.




 The meeting was branded a failure within a couple of hours 


 of its start after the 192 participating countries 


 unanimously rebuffed the United Nations' appeal for 


 commitments of billions of dollars in yearly aid to develop 


 agriculture in poor nations.


It is not because they don't care about people having problems with 
food; it is they recognize the U.N. is ineffective at doing that and 
they are not going to commit more money, but we continue to commit more 
money.

The U.N. Environment Programme spends $1 billion a year--20 percent 
of it our money--on global warming and its effect on agriculture.

The U.N. has coordinated efforts by the global shipping industry and 
governments to prevent and respond to acts of piracy on the high seas.

It was totally ineffective. Do you know why we decreased the amount 
of piracy on the high seas? It is because of Task Force 51, which was 
formed by the U.S. Navy because the United Nations was totally 
ineffective in accomplishing that purpose.

I could go on and on. But the fact is, the United Nations is not only 
morally bankrupt in its leadership and efficiency, it is filled with 
fraud, waste, and, as noted, tremendous acts of violence through the 
peacekeeping armies it sends throughout the world. Yet we are going to 
have people say we shouldn't take some of that money away. We are not 
taking all the money away with this amendment anyway; we are just 
taking a small portion to pay for our bill.

We are going to have people actually vote to continue to do these 
things, instead of taking care of our veterans and not steal it from 
our children.

I heard Senator Tester speak about the wonderful things in this bill 
to help people who drive to VA clinics and VA hospitals. There is a 
better idea. If a veteran is deserving of care, give him a card. Let 
them go wherever they want.


Why should they have to drive 160 miles, when they can get the care 
right down the street from somebody they trust and they know. But 
instead we say: We are going to promise you health care, but you can 
only get it here. Real freedom for our veterans--real health care for 
our veterans is to honor their commitment by saying: Here is your card, 
you served our Nation, go get your health care wherever you want. If 
you want to get it next door or if you want to go to the M.D. Anderson 
or Mayo Clinic, you can. You can go wherever you want because we are 
going to honor your commitment.

I recognize our VA hospitals have done a magnificent job in improving 
their care, but I will tell you the test for the VA hospital system is 
this: Go ask any doctor coming out of training who experienced part of 
their time in a VA hospital and ask them to choose for their family: Do 
you want your family treated at a VA hospital or somewhere else where 
you trained? Nary a one will pick a VA hospital because the care isn't 
as good. It is better, and it is getting better all the time, but it is 
not as good. So we are saying to veterans: Here is where you have to 
go, when what we should say is: Thank you for your service. Here is 
what we owe you. Go get care wherever you want to get it or wherever 
you think you can get the best treatment.

On prosthetics, the VA is the best in the world. Nobody compares. On 
post-traumatic stress disorder, they are the best in the world. Nobody 
can compare. They are underfunded in those areas. This bill is right on 
that. But the real commitment is to give the choice. The veteran fought 
for freedom. Give them the choice, the freedom to choose what they want 
for them.

Why is it important we change how the Senate operates in terms of 
making hard decisions? The reason it is important is there are millions 
of these little girls out there. I have five of them, five grandkids 
just like her. She has a little sign around her neck. She says: ''I am 
already $38,375 in debt and I only own a dollhouse.'' Of course, when 
you divide up the $12 trillion which we passed this week in directly 
owned debt; it doesn't count the billions--I mean the trillions--we 
have borrowed from Social Security and the other trust funds, such as 
the waterway trust fund and all these other organizations we have 
stolen from, it doesn't include that. But that is for every man, woman, 
and child in this country. It is over $30,000 now, this year. I think 
when you look at her, you have to say, certainly, we ought to be making 
some changes. By the way, between now and 2019, that number goes to 
over $96,000 per man, woman, and child. But she is a child. This 
doesn't apply to veterans, but it applies to almost everything else we 
are doing.


This is what Thomas Jefferson said:




 The democracy will cease to exist when you take away from 


 those who are willing to work to give to those who would not.


If you think about what is happening in our country right now and how 
things are being shifted, what we are doing is, we are on the cusp of a 
dramatic change in our country in terms of balance. This huge bill, 
which I will talk about later, is a major move in that direction. 
Senator Byrd and I were talking this morning about this. In this bill 
is a 5-percent tax on cosmetic surgery. Just the day before yesterday, 
the U.S. Preventive Task Force Services recommended--because it is not 
cost effective--that women under 50 not get mammograms unless they have 
risk factors. You tell that to the thousands of women under 50 who were 
diagnosed with breast cancer last year with a mammogram. Tell them it 
is not cost effective. But also in this bill is a 5-percent tax on 
breast reconstruction surgery after they have had a mastectomy. They 
are going to tax having their breasts rebuilt after their breasts have 
been taken off because it is an ''elective'' plastic surgery. It is an 
elective cosmetic surgery. We are going to have a tax on it because we 
have taxed elective cosmetic surgery.

We are in trouble as a nation because we have taken our eye off the 
ball. I see the majority whip is back. I told him I would be happy to 
yield. At this time, I will reserve the remainder of my time and yield 
the floor to the majority whip.
















 Exhibit 1


Rebuttal of State Department Talking Points on Coburn Amendment 2785




 The State Department Bureau of Legislative Affairs opposes 


 the Coburn amendment to S. 1963, the Caregivers and Veterans 


 Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009 (S. 1963). In its formal 


 opposition, it lists a number of programs as reasons to 


 support the U.N. and oppose the Coburn amendment.



 Many of the programs and activities that the State 


 Department listed have experienced severe problems in 


 execution or are taking credit for activities by national 


 governments or private entities. (Their document is after the 


 rebuttal).



 Below is a list of those ''accomplishments'' and facts that 


 should be considered.



 U.N. Contribution: Facilitating and holding elections in 


 Afghanistan and Iraq (U.N. Secretariat).



 Response: The United Nations cannot account for tens of 


 millions of dollars provided to the troubled Afghan election 


 commission, according to two confidential U.N. audits and 


 interviews with current and former senior diplomats.



 The Afghan election commission, with tens of millions in 


 U.N. funding and hundreds of millions in U.S. funding, 


 facilitated mass election fraud and operated ghost polling 


 places.



 ''Everybody kept sending money'' to the elections 


 commission, said Peter Galbraith, the former deputy chief of 


 the U.N. mission in Afghanistan. ''Nobody put the brakes on. 


 U.S. taxpayers spent hundreds of millions of dollars on a 


 fraudulent election.'' Galbraith, a deputy to the senior U.N. 


 official in Afghanistan, was fired last month after 


 protesting fraud in the elections.



 As of April 2009, the U.N. spent $72.4 million supporting 


 the electoral commission with $56.7 million coming from the 


 U.S. Agency for International Development. The Special 


 Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction states that 


 the United States provided at least $263 million in funding 


 for the election.



 In one instance, the United Nations Development Program 


 paid $6.8 million for transportation costs in areas where no 


 U.N. officials were present. Overall the audits found that 


 U.N. monitoring of U.S. taxpayer funds was ''seriously 


 inadequate.''



 U.N. Contribution: Monitoring nuclear programs in North 


 Korea and Iran.



 Response: In 2002, the North Korean government used United 


 Nations Development Program, UNDP, aid to purchase 


 conventional arms, ballistic missiles. It also transferred 


 millions of dollars in cash to the government of North Korea 


 with no oversight of how the money was spent.



 In September 2009, North Korea announced to the United 


 Nations Security Council that it was almost complete in 


 ''weaponizing'' nuclear materials from its nuclear reactor. 


 Last week, North Korea announced the processing was complete.



 As of this morning, Iran had rejected the U.N. offer to 


 send enriched uranium out of the country to prevent it from 


 developing nuclear weapons.



 U.N. Contribution: Funding 17 U.N. Peacekeeping Operations, 


 including those in Haiti, Liberia, Lebanon, Darfur and the 


 Democratic Republic of Congo.



 Response: U.N. Peacekeeping operations plagued by rape and 


 sexual exploitation of refugees--In 1994, a draft U.N. report 


 was leaked detailing how peacekeepers in Morocco, Pakistan, 


 Uruguay, Tunis, South Africa and Nepal were involved in 68 


 cases of rape, prostitution and pedophilia. The report also 


 stated that the investigation into these cases is being 


 undermined by bribery and witness intimidation by U.N. 


 personnel.



 In 2006, it was reported that peacekeepers in Haiti and 


 Liberia were involved in sexual exploitation of refugees.



 In 2007, leaked reports indicate the U.N. has caught 200 


 peacekeepers for sex offenses in the past three years ranging 


 from rape to assault on minors. In all of these cases, there 


 is no known evidence of an offending U.N. peacekeeper being 


 prosecuted.



 Just this month, Human Rights Watch reported that Congolese 


 armed forces, supported by U.N. peacekeepers in the eastern 


 Democratic Republic of Congo have brutally killed hundreds of 


 civilians and committed widespread rape in the past three 


 months in a military operation backed by the United Nations.



 Most of the victims were women, children, and the elderly. 


 Some were decapitated. Others were chopped to death by 


 machete, beaten to death with clubs, or shot as they tried to 


 flee.



 The U.N. peacekeeping mission provides substantial 


 operational and logistics support to the soldiers, including 


 military firepower, transport, rations, and fuel.



 The attacking Congolese soldiers made no distinction 


 between combatants and civilians, shooting many at close 


 range or chopping their victims to death with machetes. In 


 one of the hamlets, Katanda, Congolese army soldiers 


 decapitated four young men, cut off their arms, and then 


 threw their heads and limbs 20 meters away from their bodies. 


 The soldiers then raped 16 women and girls, including a 12-


 year-old girl, later killing four of them.



 The U.S. now pays 27 percent of all U.N. peacekeeping 


 operations. Reducing our contribution to these wasteful 


 efforts could help ensure that U.N. peacekeepers are not 


 funding widespread rape and exploitation of refugees.



 U.N. Contribution: Compiling forecasts of global 


 agricultural production, identifying areas of likely famine 


 and risk of severe hunger, to facilitate emergency food 


 assistance (FAO).





 Response: The FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization) is 


 currently hosting a U.N. food summit in Rome, where the 


 opening speaker is Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe. Mugabe 


 is barred from travel to most Western countries because of 


 his atrocious human rights record, but receives an exception 


 for U.N. sponsored events. No G-8 leader attended the event 


 save the Prime Minister of Italy, the host nation.



 ''The meeting was branded a failure within a couple of 


 hours of its start after the 192 participating countries 


 unanimously rebuffed the United Nations' appeal for 


 commitments of billions of dollars in yearly aid to develop 


 agriculture in poor nations.''



 The U.N. Environment Program spends over $1 billion 


 annually on global warming initiatives (and weighs in on its 


 effect on agriculture) but there is almost no auditing or 


 oversight being conducted. The U.N. Environment program has 


 one auditor and one assistant to oversee its operations. 


 According to the task force it would take 17 years for the 


 auditor to oversee just the high-risk areas already 


 identified in UNEP's work.



 U.N. Contribution: Coordinating tsunami and earthquake 


 relief projects in Indonesia and Pakistan (U.N. Secretariat/