# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `4204c5f022d72106fba27d031804796e`
`Mr. LEVIN — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I hope the Senate will be allowed to 
debate our policy in Iraq by proceeding to this legislation this 
afternoon. Iraq is the single most important policy issue facing our 
country. It was a major issue in the November elections last fall. The 
American people have strong opinions about what is happening in Iraq. 
They want their elected officials to debate this issue, and we should 
do it. The debate should go forward. A filibuster is out of place on 
war and peace issues, on something of this magnitude. The debate is not 
about whether we want the United States to act to maximize chances of 
success in Iraq. We all want to maximize chances of success in Iraq. We 
all want to see a stable Iraq which enhances our own national security. 
But the President's course of action, which he has been on for 3/1/2/ 
years and which he has now proposed to continue on to deepen our 
involvement in Iraq, does not enhance our security. It does not 
maximize chances of success in Iraq.

The debate is about the best way to maximize chances of success in 
Iraq. Is the new strategy of the President, which puts over 21,000 more 
American troops in the middle of an Iraqi civil war, the best way to 
bring that about? That is what this debate is about. There actually 
seems to be an agreement among most observers that an Iraqi political 
settlement is the key to ending the violence in Iraq. The difference of 
opinion exists on whether Iraqi politicians need breathing space, as 
President Bush has said, to reach required political compromises or 
whether, as many of us believe, Iraqi politicians need to be pressured 
to make those compromises and that the addition of 21,000 more troops 
doesn't make a political compromise more likely; it just gets us in 
deeper in the middle of a civil conflict.

The bill we are hoping to proceed to today incorporates the modified 
Warner resolution verbatim, except for a minor change in order to make 
it a bill instead of a resolution. The reason for making it a bill 
instead of a resolution is simply to make it more amendable. Unlike a 
resolution, which is clumsy to amend, there is no intent to put this 
modified Warner language in the form of a bill for any other purpose. 
As a matter of fact, the majority leader has asked for unanimous 
consent to treat a resolution with Senator Warner's language as 
amendable, as though it were a bill, to achieve the goal we are trying 
to achieve. This unanimous consent was objected to by the Republican 
leader.

The majority leader, Senator Reid, has also told Senator McConnell 
that we are more than willing to transform this bill into a resolution 
prior to final passage, if we can get to final passage, if a filibuster 
does not thwart our getting to final passage.

What does the modified Warner language do which is incorporated into 
this bill? It makes it clear the Congress disagrees with the 
President's plan to increase force levels and urges the President 
instead to consider all options and alternatives. This bill makes it 
clear that we will fund troops in the field. There is no difference 
between these two documents in that regard. Both our bill and the 
McCain resolution make it clear we want to fund the troops in the 
field. Our bill makes it clear that the responsibility for Iraq's 
internal security and for halting sectarian violence must rest 
primarily with the Government of Iraq and Iraqi security forces. It 
makes it clear that Iraqis must reach political settlements in order to 
achieve reconciliation, and the failure of the Iraqis to reach such 
settlements to create a truly unified government contributes to 
increasing violence in Iraq.

Our bill makes it clear that the primary objective of the overall 
United States strategy in Iraq should be to encourage Iraqi leaders to 
make political compromises that will foster reconciliation and 
establish a true unity government, ultimately leading to improvements 
in the security situation.

Adding American troops does not increase the probability of achieving 
the primary objective. Listen to what GEN John Abizaid said when he 
testified to Congress in November of last year:




 I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the 


 Corps Commander, [and] General Dempsey. We all talked 


 together. And I said to them, in your professional opinion, 


 if we were to bring in more American troops now, does it add 


 considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And 


 they all said no. And the reason is, because we want the 


 Iraqis to do more. It's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us 


 to do this work.


Finally, General Abizaid said:




 I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, [prevent the Iraqis] from taking more 


 responsibility for their own future.


Besides making it less likely that the Iraqis will take more 
responsibility for their own future, adding more American troops is an 
attempt to reach a military solution to an inherently political 
problem.

The Prime Minister of Iraq himself stated last November:




 The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of aggravation and bloodletting of innocents are the 


 [Iraqi] politicians.

Adding more American troops does not pressure Iraqi politicians to be 
Iraqi leaders and to make the political compromises essential for a 
political solution; it only allows them to continue what in the words 
of the National Intelligence Estimate is the ''current winner-take-all 
attitude and sectarian animosities infecting the political scene.''

The administration says this bill emboldens the enemy. Congressional 
debate over Iraq policy doesn't embolden the enemy. The enemy is 
already emboldened.

What emboldens the enemy is the almost 4 years' presence of Western 
troops in the middle of a Muslim country's capital, which causes over 
70 percent of the residents of that country to oppose our presence.



What emboldens the enemy is the open-ended presence of Western 
troops, which serves as a magnet for extremists and gives a propaganda 
club to our enemies.

What emboldens the enemy is invading Iraq without the support of the 
international community.

What emboldens the enemy is lawlessness and looters ransacking public 
buildings and institutions in Iraq.

What emboldens the enemy is invading Iraq without a plan for the 
aftermath of the invasion.

What emboldens the enemy is increasing the number of American troops, 
which results in Iraqis taking less responsibility for providing 
security for all the citizens of Iraq.

What emboldens the enemy is the creation of Green Zones protecting 
Iraqi political leaders, in which they pursue a winner-take-all 
political approach.

Madam President, how much time do I have?