# THE ECONOMY
## `4237551f0bbccdf4ef735c6779d0c95c`
`Mrs. BOXER — 26 September 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am very disturbed and disheartened that 
our Republican friends would object to such a bill at such a time. 
During rush hour on August 1, 2007, the I-35 West bridge in Minneapolis 
collapsed, sending dozens of cars into the Mississippi River. This 
tragedy, which every American remembers well, claimed the lives of 13 
people.

Just to see that bridge go down broke your heart. It served, though, 
as a wake-up call--at least we thought it did--that we cannot neglect 
our Nation's crumbling infrastructure. Half of all the bridges in this 
country were built before 1964, the average age of a bridge in the 
national bridge inventory is 43 years old, and 26 percent of our 
bridges are deficient. Yet the Republicans will not allow this 
bipartisan bill to go through. It shouldn't take a tragedy such as the 
one in Minneapolis to remind us that the safety of our bridges and 
highways and other infrastructure can be a matter of life and death.

Senator Klobuchar and Chairman Oberstar have worked to address these 
problems. That bill I asked unanimous consent to pass today, the 
National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act of 2008, will 
begin those repairs.

I beg my Republican friends to wake up and smell the roses. A bridge 
collapsed. We need to rebuild our bridges and put people to work to do 
it. If we have enough money to rebuild Iraq, we ought to have enough 
money to rebuild bridges in this country that are a danger to our 
people.

The I-35 tragedy claimed the lives of 13 people. It has also served 
as an urgent wake-up call that we cannot neglect our Nation's crumbling 
infrastructure.

The National Transportation Safety Board has not yet issued the 
results of


its investigation into the Minnesota bridge collapse, but we do know 
that additional resources are needed to repair and replace aging 
bridges and highways across our Nation.

Half of all bridges in this country were built before 1964, and the 
average age of a bridge in the National Bridge Inventory is 43 years 
old.

Of approximately 600,000 bridges nationwide, about 26 percent are 
considered deficient.

This means we need to make significant investments just to maintain 
our bridges at safe functioning levels, followed by even larger 
investments over the next 20 to 30 years to completely replace aging 
bridges.

It should not take a tragedy like the one in Minneapolis to remind us 
that the safety of our bridges, highways, and other infrastructure can 
be a matter of life and death.

Senator Klobuchar and Chairman Oberstar have worked together to 
address problems with our Nation's bridges by introducing legislation 
entitled, the National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act 
of 2008.

The House version of this legislation, H.R. 3999, was approved by an 
overwhelming bipartisan vote of 357 to 55 in the House of 
Representatives on July 24 and was approved the Senate Committee on 
Environment and Public Works by voice vote on September 17.

This legislation makes changes to the requirements set forth in the 
Highway Bridge Program, while authorizing a one-time additional $1 
billion for bridge repair and replacement.

One key provision in this legislation is a requirement for the 
Department of Transportation to develop a national risk-based priority 
system for the repair, rehabilitation or replacement of each 
structurally deficient or functionally obsolete bridge.

We have great challenges before us. But at the end of the day it is a 
matter of setting priorities.

If we are going to keep our people safe and our economy strong and 
healthy, we need to make a serious investment in our transportation 
infrastructure.

I ask unanimous consent to have the following letters of support 
printed in the Record.