---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `42382da22257e6e2a8c4e18f87637136`
`Mr. DORGAN — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. If the Senator will yield for one additional question, 
the Senator from Illinois is on the Appropriations Committee with me. 
My understanding is the President is going to be sending down a second 
supplemental request within days. I understand the White House might 
not want to send it down before the override issue on the SCHIP 
program. But the SCHIP program would spend $7 billion a year for 5 
years. That is $35 billion. All of it is paid for. None of it is 
contributing one penny to the debt. The result of that spending? The 
3.8 million children who at this point have no health insurance 
coverage would now be fully covered with health insurance. The 
President seemed to, when he vetoed the legislation, be saying: I am 
going to be the guardian of the Federal Treasury and the taxpayers' 
checkbook. This is big-government bureaucracy--socialized medicine, in 
fact.

This is fully paid for, $7 billion a year. Isn't it the case that the 
President has requested two things of us? One is already here, and the 
other will come next week. One is $145 billion in emergency funding for 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, not a penny of it paid for all this 
year, and on top of that, we believe another roughly $44 billion 
supplemental. So that will be a $189 billion emergency supplemental 
this year. In other words, $7 billion for kids is too much; $189 
billion, which will bring us somewhere close to two-thirds of a 
trillion dollars, the President has requested we spend, not a penny of 
it paid for. The implication of all that is, let's send soldiers to 
fight. When they come back, they can pay for the debt we have incurred 
because we don't intend to pay for any of it.

Isn't it the case that the very same President who says $7 billion a 
year which is fully paid for and which will result in children's health 
insurance for 3.8 million children is the President who is sending us a 
$189 billion additional request for 1 year, none of it paid for?