---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `423ddda9ae44260e50a1398dcf065859`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I was not present for votes on Monday, 
March 19 and Tuesday, March 20, 2007 because I was meeting with British 
Members of Parliament in an effort to build an international coalition 
to end the Iraq War. If I was present, I would have voted:

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 157 (H.R. 138, Recognizing the importance of 
Hot Springs National Park on its 175th anniversary);

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 158 (H.R. 658, Natural Resource Protection 
Cooperative Agreement Act);

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 159 (H.R. 839, Arthur V. Watkins Dam 
Enlargement Act);

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 160 (H. Res. 254, Providing for consideration 
of the bill [H.R. 1227] to assist in the provision of affordable 
housing to low income families affected by Hurricane Katrina);

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 161 (H. Con. Res. 42, Honoring the heroic 
service and sacrifice of the 6,500 glider pilots of the United States 
Army Air Forces during World War II);

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 162 (H.R. 759, Redesignating the Ellis Island 
Library on Ellis Island, NY as the ''Bob Hope Memorial Library'');

''Yea'' on rollcall No. 163 (On approving the Journal);

''No'' on rollcall No. 164 (Hensarling Amendment to H.R. 1227, to 
require recipients of rental assistance under the bill to perform 20 
hours per week of approved work activities);

''No'' on rollcall No. 165 (Biggert Amendment to H.R. 1227, to 
require that, instead of replacing all pre-Katrina public housing 
units, only the number of public housing units occupied pre-Katrina be 
replaced); and

''Aye'' on rollcall No. 166 (Al Green Amendment to H.R. 1227, to 
extend FEMA housing assistance for evacuees of Hurricanes Katrina, 
Rita, and Wilma until December 31, 2007 and provide tenant-based 
voucher assistance upon termination of FEMA housing assistance for 
eligible families)
