# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `424351d8220275c9b680649864ce9cd0`
`Mrs. BIGGERT — 23 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BIGGERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1591, 
the so-called U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq 
Accountability Act of 2007.

That's what my Democratic colleagues are calling the bill. And while 
I support the funding in the bill for troop readiness and veterans' 
health care, I wonder why the bill's title ends with Iraq 
Accountability. Why not mention hand-outs to dairy interests, spinach 
farmers, citrus growers, or for storing peanuts? Yes, $74 million for 
storing peanuts.

Why not mention the unrequested funding for fighting wildfires in the 
west, or the doubling of so-called ''emergency'' funds for the long-
known and well planned Base Realignment and Closure effort--funding 
that the new majority knew was needed, but wouldn't provide in the 
continuing resolution just last month? Why not mention the increase in 
the minimum wage or funding for asbestos abatement in the Capitol 
contained in this alleged emergency wartime supplemental appropriations 
bill?

''Clean'' is not a word I would use to describe this bill, which 
includes more than $21 billion in spending that is completely unrelated 
to troop readiness, veterans' health, or Iraq. Sure, I've heard of 
Christmas in July, but Christmas in March? What happened to the other 
party's promise to end business as usual? This bill is worse than 
usual. As the editorial in USA Today put it yesterday, ''It's hard to 
believe which is worse: leaders offering peanuts for a vote of this 
magnitude, or members allowing their votes to be bought for peanuts.''

Don't get me wrong. I agree that Congress has a responsibility and an 
obligation to ensure the Veterans Administration and the Department of 
Defense have the resources necessary to care for our veterans from all 
wars and our wounded soldiers returning from Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
elsewhere.

I agree that Congress has a responsibility and an obligation to see 
that American troops are ready and able to fulfill their mission. 
That's why I am a cosponsor of a bill introduced by my distinguished 
and decorated colleague from Texas, Mr. Johnson. H.R. 511 pledges, 
''Congress will not cut off or restrict funding for units and members 
of the Armed Forces that the Commander in Chief has deployed in harm's 
way'' in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I also agree that we must do a better job holding the Iraqi 
government accountable. For too long, we pursued an open-ended 
commitment without well-defined goals and clear benchmarks for success.

That's why I am a cosponsor of legislation, H.R. 1062, that will hold 
the Administration--and the Iraqi government--accountable in achieving 
clear benchmarks.

It requires the President to report to Congress, every 30 days, on 
the extent to which the Government of Iraq is moving forward on more 
than a dozen fronts, from troop training and security to rebuilding, 
reconciliation, international cooperation and enforcing the rule of 
law.

It also requires progress reports on the implementation of strategies 
that will prevent Iraqi territory from becoming a safe haven for 
terrorist activities.

But the bill we are considering today goes beyond funding and 
benchmarks and crosses a constitutional line that has long kept 
Congress from micromanaging military and foreign affairs.

Instead of sweeping away bureaucratic obstacles to success, this bill 
creates 435 new armchair generals.

Instead of giving General Petraeus and our diplomatic leaders the 
flexibility to fulfill their mission, it saddles them with bureaucratic 
requirements and arbitrary timetables.

Instead of ensuring that our troops in harm's way have the resources 
and equipment they need, this bill uses our military men and women as 
pawns in a dangerous political game.

Instead of giving our troops, the Iraqi people, and their fledgling 
government one last chance, it gives them one last mandate--to retreat 
in defeat.

As if the bill wasn't wasteful enough, it starts a perilous countdown 
to a vacuum in leadership and security that threatens any prospect for 
peace or stability in the Middle East for years to come. And it does a 
great disservice to our men and women in uniform and their commanders 
in the field who have already sacrificed so much for our freedom and 
security and that of the Iraqi people. They deserve better.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this irresponsible bill.