---
---

# None
## `42527693bf1d475943b0ecd734c80790`
`Mr. WEINER — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. WEINER. First of all, let me express my great gratitude to the 
chairman and ranking member for including language that I had suggested 
and also into improving general transparency in the bill.

The language that I inserted, that hopefully will be a part of the 
manager's amendment when passed, will ask the GAO the fundamental 
question, not only how much do the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq cost to 
our Federal taxpayers, but how much do they cost localities like mine 
where literally hundreds of thousands of hours have been lost by 
patriotic New Yorkers, particularly in homeland security jobs like 
police, fire and EMS, going off to fight on the frontlines, and yet the 
city taxpayers still wind up paying for it. Hundreds of thousands of 
hours have been lost.

Now obviously the primary cost of the war is the lost lives and the 
injured men and women who serve for us, and we should always keep them 
in our thoughts and our prayers. But there also is a growing cost to 
localities, particularly ones with profound numbers of employees, like 
New York City has. How much is this costing? The GAO is going to have 
to come back to tell all of us in our localities how many of the 
Reservists have gone off but yet the local taxpayers still are winding 
up picking up those costs. These are important things to know. I want 
to thank the chairman for including it. I urge a ''yes'' vote on the 
manager's amendment so it can be included in the law.