---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `42582b5fff92707cd509ffd254d7ed8b`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, 5 years ago in a well-orchestrated 
public relations stunt that featured landing on an aircraft carrier, 
President Bush proclaimed, ''In the battle of Iraq, the United States 
and our allies have prevailed.''

Just 2 weeks ago, on the fifth anniversary of ''Mission 
Accomplished,'' the White House could only express exasperation that 
anyone would even make a fuss that 5 years have gone by and we're still 
in Iraq, deeper than ever.

Well, here's why people are making such a fuss, Madam Speaker: Over 
4,000 American service men and women killed in Iraq; over 30,000 of our 
troops wounded or maimed; a continuing U.S. occupation of Iraq; and a 
mission that is never ending, never defined, and completely open-ended.

Ironically, the USS Abraham Lincoln, the aircraft carrier where 
President Bush declared victory in Iraq, was just deployed last week 
for another tour of duty in the Persian Gulf.

Today this House will have a choice to make, whether to continue this 
war well into next year. Today we will choose whether to support the 
George Bush strategy of keeping the war going until he can safely get 
out of town.



Once again, U.S. forces are engaged in some of the most intense 
combat since the height of the insurgency. Once again, they are 
battling Iraqi militias, not al Qaeda, in the markets, homes and 
alleyways of Baghdad. April 2008 was the deadliest month for Iraqi 
civilians since last August.

The U.N. now reports that 4.7 million Iraqis have been forced by 
violence to leave their homes. Roughly 2 million of them are refugees 
in neighboring countries. And another 2.7 million are internally 
displaced.

What is worse, we don't even have the decency to pay for this war, 
which has created a mountain of debt that American taxpayers will be 
paying off for years to come. This generation's mistake is becoming the 
next generation's burden.

Currently the war costs $2.4 billion each and every week. Reports 
estimate that the costs of this war, even if we could bring it to an 
end over the next 2 years, will exceed $3 trillion when we take into 
account rebuilding our broken military and addressing the needs of our 
military veterans.

Billions for the care of the severely wounded.

Billions for the care of veterans traumatized by war.

Billions to staunch the flow of suicides by young men and women who 
have served in Iraq.

And billions more to rebuild and re-equip our Armed Forces.

Why can't the Iraqi Government, which is currently running a huge 
surplus, do more to rebuild their country?

Madam Speaker, I am holding office hours across my congressional 
district in Massachusetts. These are mainly small towns and 
communities. Every weekend I meet a steady stream of constituents who 
come in and who want to talk about the war. People are so disappointed, 
so frustrated and so angry that this war is still going on. And it is 
not just Massachusetts. It is Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi and 
every other State in the Union.

Now I know, Madam Speaker, that there will be opportunities today to 
support strong conditions on the war and the redeployment of our 
troops. We will have the opportunity to vote in support of greatly 
expanded educational benefits for our military veterans and for a 
generous response to the emergency global food crisis.

And I thank Chairman Obey for those initiatives.

But Madam Speaker, I cannot vote for one more dime for this war. 
Enough is enough. Before he leaves town, George Bush should bring our 
troops home.