# None
## `425da5aee193719d6a21b28fc1dbfe58`
`Mr. ISSA â€” 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, today as we prepare to pass House Concurrent 
Resolution 5, which will express support for the designation of Hire a 
Veteran Week, I would like to highlight two people, who have built a 
Web site that has assisted many of the military heroes and veterans 
from my Congressional District find employment upon their return home 
from Iraq and Afghanistan.

In February, 2005, Mark and Tori Baird created the Web site 
www.hiremarines.com to serve Marines at Camp Pendleton, CA, who were 
seeking to find either part-time or full employment after bravely 
serving our Nation. This site quickly caught on with local employers 
and media, and soon the Baird's received e-mails from military 
personnel across the country that wanted to use their site. After 6 
months, www.hiremarines.com was expanded to included servicemen from 
all branches of the Armed Forces, both in Southern California and 
beyond, and the name of the site was changed to www.hirepatriots.com.

As a U.S. Army veteran, I have a sincere appreciation and respect for 
the military personnel who serve in our Armed Forces. Veterans posses 
special qualities and skills that make them ideal candidates for 
employment, and the Congress should do everything that it can to 
encourage more employers to hire them.

Many of the brave men and women who have served the United States so 
gallantly and selflessly in the war on terrorism and the war in Iraq 
since September 11, 2001, are beginning to return home to be reunited 
with their loved ones. They will soon be reentering the workforce or 
searching for their first jobs outside of military service.

H. Con. Res. 5 is an important effort to highlight this issue. I hope 
it will encourage other citizens to follow in the example of Mark and 
Tori in either hiring veterans, or providing assistance to those that 
are currently seeking jobs.

This is a small thing to do for these brave men and women who defend 
our safety and freedom.