# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `426c25d74409d19cca9b62d97fb32bb2`
`Mr. MURTHA — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, I keep hearing people say that we have got 
to give this a chance. For 4 years we have given this a chance. For 4 
years we have had our troops overseas.

Here is the problem that we face. Every time that we give them a 
chance, they disappear. For instance, they said that the Iraqis are 
going to lead this surge. Let me tell you, 50 percent of the Iraqis in 
the units aren't showing up. So the Americans have to take over. We 
have to pay the bill.

The Europeans, this is just as important to the Europeans as it is to 
us, and the Europeans benefit from the oil that comes from Iraq, yet 
they are not really participating to any significant amount, versus the 
first war where they participated significantly. George Bush I got a 
coalition together.

The problem we have with what is going on, this is not General 
Petraeus' war, this is the administration's war. This administration 
has put us in a position where the military has to actually violate 
their own guidelines in order to get troops to Iraq.

I knew over an a year ago we didn't have the numbers of troops we 
needed to sustain this deployment, and the surge makes it worse. The 
worst thing we can do is send troops, and if you vote against this, you 
are going to vote for sending troops into war without being fully 
mission-capable, without the training and equipment they need, and that 
is absolutely unacceptable.

I note to the Congress and I note to the people sitting on that side 
who worked so hard to fund the military, we put $70 billion in last 
time that the administration did not even ask for.

We have 36,000 additional troops in here for the overall picture. So 
if you vote against this, you are voting against those 36,000 troops, 
for the total number of troops that need to be not deployed, but need 
to be available to be deployed.

Our reserves are in desperate shape. Our Strategic Reserve, when we 
started this war with C-1, they are now in the lowest state of 
readiness. They couldn't be deployed. Only two divisions would be 
deployed. So we have a lot of work to do.

And I say to the Members, you are voting against supporting the 
troops if you vote against the money that goes to the troops and the 
money that has already been sent or is going to be sent. They are going 
to run out in April, and we need to get this bill through.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the Members on both sides of the aisle to vote 
for this legislation.



Mr. LEWIS OF California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Barrett).