# PEPFAR
## `427b3f50a052f434ee39d1cb6da4ea0e`
`Mr. DURBIN — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to respond to the Senator 
from Arizona. I don't quarrel with his premise that we need to spend a 
lot more money when it comes to Native Americans. Senator Byron Dorgan 
tried valiantly for months to bring Indian health care to the floor. He 
ran into a lot of obstacles. I think all of us believe when it comes to 
Native Americans, there is a lot more we need to do. But it strikes me 
as fundamentally unfair to argue that money should be taken from 
fighting a global epidemic of HIV/AIDS, the problem of tuberculosis and 
malaria, and divert that money and put it into help for Native 
Americans.

Has America reached that point? Is that what the choices have come 
to, that we cannot join the world in trying to stop this global AIDS 
epidemic to the extent we know is necessary?

If there is anyone who believes that the $50 billion over 5 years 
suggested in this bill is adequate to the challenge, they haven't sat 
down to take an honest look. This is indeed a global epidemic. There 
are parts of this bill that have been criticized by some. I would like 
to address one of them. It is the argument that somehow we have gone 
adrift. We are no longer talking about prevention and medication, but 
we are talking about unrelated elements. One criticism is that this 
bill addresses the global AIDS epidemic in terms of food and water. I 
can tell you point blank that the best medicine in the world is no help 
to a person who is suffering from malnutrition or a person whose water 
supply is contaminated, making them sick when they take the expensive 
drugs.

I have seen it in Africa, where people receiving the antiretroviral 
medications are wasting away because of malnutrition. We can't save 
their lives from starvation simply by stopping the onset of HIV 
infection. So we need, if we are going to do this honestly, to take a 
serious and comprehensive look at the challenge.

This is a rarity in a way, that the Members on the Democratic side 
and the overwhelming majority on the Republican side are of one mind. 
We support the President. The President was right when he initiated the 
PEPFAR Program to deal with global AIDS and the global fight to address 
those countries that are not part of PEPFAR. But we need to come 
together now and try to pass this bill for the President and, more 
importantly, for those who are the victims of this global epidemic.

I will be the first in line when Senator Kyl offers his amendment to 
help those Native Americans who are being shortchanged and deprived 
because of our inadequate funding. But at the risk of being slightly 
political for a moment, were we not fighting a war in Iraq that costs 
$10 billion to $15 billion a month, there would be a lot more to spend 
in America. That war, which is now in its sixth year, with no end in 
sight, has drained our Treasury of over $700 billion that could have 
been spent for curing diseases, dealing with Native Americans in the 
United States, expanding education, expanding health care and clinics 
in our own country, more medical research. Instead, we have been 
shoveling this money as fast as we can out of our Treasury into Iraq 
and making it part of our permanent national deficit. That is the 
reality of what we face.

It is hard to imagine that Iraq, an oil-rich country, one of the 
richest in the world with oil, is still waiting on U.S. taxpayers to 
spend more money to help them out of the current problems they face. It 
is time for the Iraqis to step up and defend their own country, govern 
their own country, and spend their own money on their own problems.

After almost 6 years, it is overdue. If they do that, there would be 
a lot more money in the United States for our priorities. A strong 
America begins at home. It begins by bringing this war to an end, 
bringing our combat troops home.

When we have suggestions from the Iraqis that it is time for America 
to leave, I think we ought to take them. We ought to start bringing our 
brave men and women, who have risked their lives, home to the hero's 
welcome they deserve. Waiting for another 10, 20, 50, or 100 years, as 
some have suggested, is ludicrous. The United States cannot afford it, 
and it is no favor to Iraq to create that kind of long-term dependency.

I sincerely hope we can resolve this. I hope we can pass the 
President's bill. I support it. I hope there is adequate bipartisan 
support. Then when Senator Kyl and others come forward and ask us to 
find money to help Native Americans, they can count on many of us on 
the Democratic side.