# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2892, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `428055606b141ee4765ba9e21c6df327`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I stand in strong support of the 
Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Report for FY 2010. The 
security of our Nation is clearly our top priority. And this bill 
dedicates more money for homeland security when compared to 2009 
levels.

Homeland security is not a Democratic or Republican issue. It is USA 
first--our community, our families, and our country. I want to thank 
Chairman Price and Ranking Member Rogers, as well as our friends in the 
Senate, for their bipartisan and bicameral efforts in crafting this 
conference report. And I'd like to speak about two key issues, two key 
components in this bill: the Coast Guard and cybersecurity. But before 
I do that, I have to respond to my friend John Culberson's comments. I 
disagree with his comments.

Number 1, as far as prisoners are concerned, if, in fact, there are 
prisoners that are so dangerous that would hurt our country, I would 
much rather have us control those prisoners. If we need to bring them 
to the United States of America to try them, I have more confidence in 
our court system and our prison system than some of the countries they 
go back to where they could escape and come back and do harm to our 
citizens. That's step one.

The second thing I disagree with my friend about is the issue about 
Miranda rights in theater. Now, those of us who have been to Iraq and 
Afghanistan know that that is not the case. It started when a friend of 
mine--I am on the Intelligence Committee--another Mr. Rogers came back 
and said that he got information that soldiers were having to give 
Miranda warnings to people, to the enemy. That is not the case. We've 
had hearings. I've done my own due diligence. That is not what our men 
and women are required to do. So let's get the facts straight. Let's 
get the politics off the table, and let's talk about this Homeland 
Security bill, how it affects and protects our country, our families, 
and that is very important and relevant.

Now, the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard of the United States of 
America, since 1790, has been a critical part of our Nation's defenses. 
They handle everything from water rescues, as an example, in the 
Baltimore harbor, which I represent, to drug interdictions off our 
Nation's coast. Since 9/11, the Coast Guard has been asked to do even 
more. They have stepped up to the plate and kept watch on our Nation's 
waterways to keep our country safe.

I support the $8.8 billion for the Coast Guard included in this 
legislation. This is more than $275 million above the 2009 level. I am 
proud to represent the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay in Congress in my 
district. The yard is in my district near the Port of Baltimore. The 
men and women of the yard do an excellent job maintaining and repairing 
the entire Coast Guard fleet.

Now I want to get to the issue of cyber. The second thing, and one of 
the most important issues that we're dealing with as far as national 
security, is cyberattacks. I would support $283 million to address the 
growing threats to our Nation's networks. Our Nation's networks control 
much of what we do every day. They power our computers and our cell 
phones. They power the electrical grid that allows us to turn the 
lights on and the classified military and intelligence networks that 
keep our country safe. It's all too easy to use basic Internet hacking 
techniques to wreak havoc on our Nation's information infrastructure. 
Imagine if the Bank of America was suddenly cyberattacked.