---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT JEDEDIAH BERMAN, BOISE, IDAHO
## `42828b71a109d3cc68d83b98482c2de2`
`Mr. SIMPSON — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Sergeant Jedediah 
Berman, an Idaho native, a constituent of mine, and a proud member of 
the United States Military for over 15 years.

In 2004, Sergeant Berman was serving in Iraq when he was seriously 
wounded by an lED explosion next to his Fox vehicle. The right side of 
his head was badly injured. His arm was mangled, his lung had 
collapsed, his knee was injured, and he had shrapnel in his shoulder. 
He was treated first at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, 
then transferred to Walter Reed Medical Center here in Washington, and 
finally sent to Madigan Medical Center in Fort Lewis to undergo 
intensive treatment and rehabilitation. While his doctors were able to 
rebuild much of his face, they could not replace his eye or repair his 
hearing in his right ear. Shrapnel remained lodged in his body and his 
brain, his knees continued to cause him intense pain, and he had only 
limited use of his arm.

Despite these enormous hardships and the significant pain of his 
injuries, Sergeant Berman badly wanted to return to Iraq to be with his 
unit, the Stryker Brigade Combat Team, which had been redeployed to 
Iraq while Berman was recovering. Last November, he received good news 
from the review board that he was fit for duty and would be able to 
rejoin his fellow soldiers. He deployed a few days before Christmas and 
has rejoined the Stryker Brigade in Iraq where he continues to serve 
our great Nation.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Berman is an inspiration and example to us 
all. He exemplifies the sort of brave and honorable military men and 
women that are protecting our Nation in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
throughout the rest of the world. I am proud and honored to represent 
him and many others like him in Congress, and I am grateful for their 
service to our great Nation. I would also like to recognize Sergeant 
Berman's family, and the many other military families throughout 
America, for their sacrifices and thank his mother, in particular, who 
brought her son's service and commitment to my attention.

As we conduct our business in Congress, I know that my colleagues and 
I will continue to recognize and pay tribute to the honorable men and 
women who are serving our country and honor the many Sergeant Bermans 
who willingly make such great sacrifices to protect those of us at 
home. To our military men and women serving at home and abroad, the 
American people thank you for your great service to our country.
