# None
## `428448735bac0febfe7e9efa2b122d3b`
`Mr. COLEMAN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Madam President, I note that if we adopt the Levin-Reed 
amendment, we would be doing what the Senator from New York said we 
should not do. We must not redeploy out of Iraq with the same failure 
of planning there was going in.

This amendment before us today is a directive from the Senate to 
redeploy out of Iraq without any planning. Simply sitting here in this 
air-conditioned Chamber, making a statement that this is what we are 
going to do, without talking to the commanders on the ground would be a 
tragic mistake.

Earlier this year, when the President talked about the surge, I 
raised an objection. In my travels to Iraq, it was clear to me that we 
were facing a battle in Anbar Province against al-Qaida in Iraq, the 
Sunni insurgency; and that battle, by the way, we were winning, and we 
see the results of that today. But in Baghdad we faced sectarian 
violence and faced American soldiers being in the midst of a civil war, 
and that troubled me. I raised concerns.

But then 54 days ago we had a discussion in this Chamber. We took a 
rollcall vote on a bill, and the bill passed 80 to 14, with over four-
fifths of the Senate agreeing that day, with rare bipartisanship that 
we achieved in this Chamber. That wasn't about naming a post office or 
a courthouse. We got an agreement to address the future of our 
involvement in Iraq. In that bipartisan effort on the floor of the 
Senate, we gave support to General Petraeus, who was confirmed 
unanimously in the Senate, who would provide a report to this body on 
the surge that I had concerns about no later than September 15. General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Corker, our Ambassador to Iraq, who served in 
Pakistan right before being selected as Ambassador to Iraq, would come 
back and deliver a report to this body and the President, with the 
President delivering a report no later than September 15. We required 
this report because we decided as a body that regardless of our 
concerns about the new strategy, we should allow General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Corker to execute the new strategy and to report on their 
progress.

We recently came to broad bipartisan agreement that we should give 
the strategy a chance to work. How did we end up here tonight picking a 
date for withdrawal before the report and testimony that we mandated? I 
don't have the answer. I am afraid that question itself causes me to 
oppose the Levin-Reed amendment. I have the utmost respect for the 
Senator from Michigan. We have served together on the Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations for years, working as a team to defend 
America and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse. Recently, we dealt with 
the possibility of dirty bombs being developed in this country. So I 
know he is a good man. I believe the amendment is well intentioned and 
I believe the transition is a goal that I share. The bottom line is we 
need a mission in Iraq in the sense that we cannot be fighting the 
Iraqis' war for them. They have to step forward and achieve power and 
reconciliation--things they have not done to date. We cannot, however, 
have a precipitous withdrawal.

I serve on the Foreign Relations Committee, and we have had hour 
after hour of testimony on the consequences of a precipitous withdrawal 
and the impact it would have on the ethnic cleansing in Iraq. I will 
talk more about the region.

Ultimately, our safety is my concern. Precipitous withdrawal would 
set in place a series of events, none of which are positive. I didn't 
hear anyone come before the Foreign Relations Committee to talk about 
that. The Iraq Study Group, which so many have looked at and pointed 
to, made it clear--no precipitous withdrawal.

Right now, we have an amendment that sets a withdrawal, that doesn't 
consult the commanders on the ground, that flies in the face of action 
we took 54 days ago. I can't answer the question, why now? In part, I 
hear from the majority leader and others. Are there polls? Do we lift 
our finger to the wind and say: Well, 54 days ago, we told General 
Petraeus to move forward. We have our troops on the ground who are 
carrying out their mission. Yet we are debating today to say we are 
going to move forward with a plan for withdrawal which has not been 
thought out, which has not been planned, which has not been processed 
in a way that you would think one should do that. We are concerned 
about the consequences, in spite of the fact that 54 days ago we sent a 
message to General Petraeus: Go forth with the surge, and then come 
back and report to us.

There are consequences to precipitous withdrawal. If you look at 
Iraq--and the Senator from Arizona talked about this a little earlier--
in the northern region, Turkey has troops on the Iraqi border and 
inside Iraq. If we were to withdraw and if there were to be that 
division, you would have a Kurdistan. There are deep concerns that the 
Turks would move forward. There are concerns about terrorism, a group 
called the PKK. You have that issue of instability. You have Anbar 
Province in which there has been much discussion about the successes we 
have achieved in Anbar Province with the local sheiks joining our side. 
But you have foreign fighters coming in, without anyone stepping in 
between, from Syria, the Syrian border there, landing at Damascus 
Airport and coming through and then destabilizing that region and 
perhaps setting back the gains we have made.

In the south, we have Iran. Iran clearly, as my colleagues on both 
sides have noted, is playing a major part in what is happening, not 
just in the south but in the region. The fact is, in Lebanon, Hezbollah 
is a proxy of Iran. The weapons Hezbollah has have come through Iran 
through Syria. In the Gaza Strip in Israel, Hamas is a tool of Iran. So 
if we were to simply withdraw without planning, if we were to put in 
place a series of events that caused disruption and conflict in the 
region, we would give Iranians a chance to strengthen their hand. If 
they do that, then what do the Saudis do?

I have had conversations with Saudi leaders. I am ranking member of 
the Near East Subcommittee. I have had conversations with Egyptian 
leaders, the Jordanians. They don't want to see Iran go forward. They 
don't want to see Iran expand its power.

It is fascinating, because the Senator from New York talked about our 
position in the world and long overdue international diplomacy. The 
moderate Iraqi States in the region see the threat of Islamic extremism 
as fostering the support of Moqtada al-Sadr, the support of Hezbollah, 
the support of Hamas. They understand that is a greater threat to them 
than Israel. So they don't want to see us precipitously withdraw.

Ban Ki-moon, Secretary General of the United Nations, has been quoted 
repeatedly on the floor, saying to us that we need to understand the 
serious consequences if we were to simply withdraw. There are 
consequences not just for the region but, ultimately, for us in terms 
of the threat of terrorism being expanded with an al-Qaida victory, if 
America is out. They drove the Russians out of Afghanistan. America is 
driven out of Iraq. That represents a threat to us. That represents 
greater recruitment. It represents the battle being brought from there 
to here. That is a real concern.

We have a situation where 54 days ago we said to General Petraeus in 
September: Come forward with a report. Then, from that, we will go 
forth with a plan of action.

I would hope that right away the administration now is looking at a 
series of choices. Senators Lugar and Warner have put that on the 
table. I hope that is going on now, that we understand that the Iraqi 
Government has not done the things that have to be done to move forward 
with power sharing and reconciliation. They have not met the 
benchmarks. I have grave concerns about their ability to do so. We have 
to be looking at alternatives. We have to be looking at a range of 
options. But why now? Why at this point in time, other than there are, 
I presume, interest groups on the left who are concerned that the 
Democratic majority hasn't done what MoveOn.Org wants them to do, which 
is to get us out of Iraq?

We had a bipartisan agreement in this body to have a reasoned course 
of


action, that we need to be out of the central sectarian violence. The 
Iraqis need to be fighting their battle. We need to maintain the gains 
we have had in places such as Anbar and not step back and allow that 
ground and that blood that has been shed to be shed for naught. But why 
now? Why now? What is the event that has somehow triggered the 
necessity to move forward today, to be here all night? If anything, 
from what we heard from General Petraeus on the military side, we are 
moving forward. On the benchmarks for things the Iraqis haven't done, 
we have until September.

I presume one of the good things that will come out of this debate 
will be that we put continued pressure on the Iraqis to do what they 
have to do. I don't know whether Maliki has the ability to do that. I 
have my doubts. But I think it is really important.

The Senator from Michigan said we are going to be measured by how we 
leave. Ultimately, we are not going to be in Iraq fighting their battle 
forever. We may be in Iraq a long time. If you look at this region, we 
may be there a long time. We have been in Germany a long time, Korea a 
long time. We have been in Kosovo a long time. But we need to be there, 
not being in the center of a sectarian battle, not being in the center 
of a civil war, but to make sure the Iranians don't sweep through and 
expand their influence. We have to make sure the Turks don't step down 
and destabilize the one stable region, to make sure foreign fighters 
don't move forward and come into Damascus Airport and come across the 
border near Anbar Province.

We need to do that in a way in which it doesn't happen because of 
political pressure, it doesn't happen because of a poll, it doesn't 
happen because we picked a date out of thin air that says: We are doing 
a Defense authorization, so now we are going to get a plan for 
withdrawal on the floor of the Senate without listening to General 
Petraeus, after 54 days ago telling him he could go forward and 
come back in September.


It is our responsibility to act in the best interest of our Nation's 
Armed Forces who have sacrificed so much. It is our responsibility to 
avoid, as Madison and Hamilton described in Federalist 62, the impulse 
and passion of what might seem like the easiest path--simply ending our 
involvement in Iraq and hoping for the best. We cannot do that. We must 
give the strategy the time we said we would give to it work, while at 
the same time preparing for our next step, something Senators Warner 
and Lugar have articulated so well. We need to continue to plan for the 
future and continue to evolve as we address new challenges and a 
changing environment.

We need to remember that Iraq is not just a war; it is a country that 
is in the center of a very critical region. We have invested blood and 
treasure in a way we never anticipated, something I remember every time 
I visit Walter Reed. While our commitment is not open-ended, it is a 
commitment whose new strategy requires us to live up to the obligations 
we made when we said to our general: Move forward; when we put our 
troops there and said: Be in harm's way; and then to come back in 
September.

We need to change the mission. We shouldn't have a precipitous date 
for withdrawal. We are going to be there long term, but we have to do 
it thoughtfully, strategically. We cannot have it poll driven. We 
cannot have it special interest driven. We should not be doing it here 
in the Levin-Reed amendment, which I will oppose tomorrow.

I yield the floor.