---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4286aed960fbcbd2610a71bb654e05c7`
`Mr. CONRAD — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, I have enjoyed listening to my 
colleagues describe this budget resolution. But it has nothing 
whatsoever to do with the budget resolution we have produced. It is a 
wonderful speech. It is the same speech they give every year no matter 
what the budget resolution says. But it absolutely has no attachment to 
what we have presented.

I hear this talk about the biggest tax increase ever in the world 
history. He said the same thing last year. And you know what happened. 
We have cut taxes. In fact, I have that chart too. It is very 
interesting because he gave precisely the same speech last year. It may 
have been exactly the same speech.

And what has happened with this Democratic-controlled Congress? Well, 
here are the tax cuts we have enacted, $194 billion. After they said we 
were going to have the biggest tax increase in the history of the world 
last year, we have cut taxes by $194 billion, with $7 billion of 
revenue raised through loophole closers that have been enacted, 
loophole closers that, frankly, many of them supported to advance the 
legislation that was important to us all. But that is the record.

After the speech, the identical speech, virtually the identical 
speech he gave last year, that we were going to have the biggest tax 
increase in the history of the world--what is the record? We have cut 
taxes by $194 billion, overwhelmingly on the middle class.

Now, let's look at this budget resolution. The green line is the 
revenue that is in our resolution. The red line is the President's. 
That is a very small difference, as you can see, a very small 
difference between the two. In fact, here is the difference: $15.6 
trillion of revenue in our resolution, $15.2 trillion of revenue in the 
President's proposed budget. That is a difference of 2.6 percent. So I 
do not know what he is talking about when he is talking about the 
biggest tax increase in the history of the world. That has nothing 
whatever to do with our resolution.

In fact, our resolution has substantial tax relief. The Baucus 
amendment adopted on the Senate floor with bipartisan support extended 
the middle-class tax relief by providing for marriage penalty relief, 
by providing for extension of the child tax credit, by extending the 
10-percent bracket.

We also provided alternative minimum tax relief to prevent 26 million 
people from being caught up in the alternative minimum tax, almost an 
eightfold increase from the number affected now. We have taken 
effective action to prevent that from happening. We have estate tax 
reform that will provide that only two-tenths of 1 percent of estates 
will face any taxes.

We provide for energy and education tax cuts. We provide for property 
tax relief, and we provide for extension of the popular tax extenders. 
All of that is done in this bill. Now, there is a difference in 
revenue, as I indicated, a very modest 2.6 percent between what is in 
our budget resolution and what the President called for.

Well, where are we going to get that revenue if we are not going to 
have a tax increase? Well, the first thing we do is go after the tax 
gap which is now estimated at $345 billion a year. That is the 
difference between what is paid and what is owed, $345 billion a year.



If we got 20 percent of that amount alone we could meet our numbers 
with no tax increase. But that is not the only place we can look 
because, as I have shown before on the floor of the Senate, this 
building down in the Cayman Islands called Ugland House, this little 
modest, five-story building is the home to 12,748 companies.

Now, I have said this is the most efficient building in the world. 
Think of that. That little building down in the Cayman Islands, and 
12,748 companies claim they are doing business out of that little 
building. Of course, the only business they are doing in this building 
is monkey business because what they are doing is claiming they are 
doing business there in order to engage in tax avoidance. That is the 
business they are engaged in in Ugland House.

Now, if anybody doubts it, here is a recent story from the Boston 
Globe from March 6 of this year: Shell companies in Cayman Islands 
allow Kellogg, Brown and Root to avoid Medicare and Social Security 
taxes in the United States. What they have done down there this is the 
Nation's top Iraq war contractor until last year, a subsidiary of 
Halliburton, is to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in 
Federal Medicare and Social Security taxes by hiring workers through 
shell companies based in this tropical tax haven.

Now, what we are saying is, let's shut down this kind of scam. How 
much is there? Well, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said 
there is $100 billion a year that is being lost to the U.S. Treasury in 
tax scams being run in these offshore tax evasion schemes. So if you 
have $345 billion a year in the tax gap, money that is owed that is not 
being paid, and the vast majority of us pay what we owe, it is 
outrageous that some are getting away without paying what they owe. And 
our argument on our side is that we ought to go after those folks who 
are not paying what they owe and are cheating all the rest of us.

On our side we say: Let's shut down these offshore tax havens that 
are costing us another $100 billion a year, these tax scams that are 
cheating all of the rest of us. You add those two together, that is 
$445 billion a year.

Again, now we need less than 20 percent of that in order to 
completely close this revenue gap.

But it doesn't end there, because I have shown this chart on the 
floor of the Senate too. This is a picture of a sewer system in Europe. 
What does a sewer system have to do with the budget of the United 
States? We have companies in America buying European sewer systems to 
write them off on their books to reduce their taxes here. Then they 
lease the sewer systems back to the European cities that built them in 
the first place. Is that unbelievable? Our friends on the other side 
don't want to do anything about that. They don't want to shut that 
down. They think that is OK. We don't. We think that should be shut 
down. This is another tens of billions of dollars a year in these types 
of tax scams.

We have things we have done to try to shut down some of these 
operations. We have put these in bills that the President has 
threatened to veto. This is almost hard to believe, but this is what 
has been going on. We proposed shutting down these scams. One of the 
things we propose is codifying economic substance, prohibiting 
transactions with no economic rationale done solely to evade taxes. We 
proposed shutting down schemes to lease foreign subway and sewer 
systems and depreciate their assets on the books of the United States 
to avoid taxes here. We have proposed ending deferral of offshore 
compensation by hedge fund managers trying to avoid taxation in this 
country. One of those people, by the way, earned over $1 billion last 
year alone. And there is not just one; there are many of them who 
earned over a billion dollars a year last year. Then they cook up a 
scheme where they move their money offshore to avoid paying taxes in 
this country and stick all the rest of us with the bill. We have said 
no, let's shut that down. The President has threatened to veto that.

We have talked about expanding broker information reporting to 
prevent this evasion and taxing people who leave this country and give 
up their citizenship to evade taxes they owe here. As unbelievable as 
it may sound, we have people who give up their U.S. citizenship, go to 
one of these tax havens and say: We don't owe any taxes in America 
because we don't live there anymore. We are no longer a citizen of that 
country. We are now down in the Cayman Islands or another one of these 
tax havens.

In fact, I went on the Internet. It is amazing to go on, put in 
''offshore tax havens.'' Punch that in and then do a search. You will 
get over 1 million hits. One of my favorites is ''live offshore in a 
luxury yacht, never pay taxes again.'' This is the kind of scam that is 
going on. We say shut it down. If we only got back 15 percent of the 
money in the tax gap--not 50 percent, 15 percent--if we got back 15 
percent of this tax gap, of these abusive tax shelters, we could meet 
our numbers with no tax increase. Remember, in our resolution, we have 
hundreds of billions of dollars of tax reduction on middle-income 
people, because we have extended all the middle-class tax cuts. That is 
what this resolution does. The other side doesn't want to do that. What 
they want to do is make sure to protect the wealthiest among us. They 
want to protect those who are engaged in these scams. I don't know why 
they want to. I don't get it. But that, apparently, is their position. 
They are going to have to defend it.

As I have indicated, there is no assumed tax increase in this budget 
resolution--none. There are substantial tax reductions, hundreds of 
billions of tax reductions.

I will end as I began. Last year the Senator on the opposing side 
gave the same speech, that our budget resolution had the biggest tax 
increases in the history of the world. Here is the record. Now we can 
look back and we can see what happened. Did Democrats increase taxes? 
No. Democrats cut taxes by $194 billion. In fact, people all across the 
country are getting checks from the Federal Government right now that 
represent those tax reductions enacted and, by the way, enacted on a 
bipartisan basis. The President signed the bill. So people know they 
got a tax reduction from Democrats when we have been in control of 
Congress this year, because they are getting the checks in the mailbox 
right now.

After the Senator asserted last year we were going to have the 
biggest tax increase in the history of the world, it didn't happen. 
There wasn't any tax increase. Instead, there were tax reductions.

There is no tax increase in this budget resolution either. None. None 
is assumed. We don't need any to meet the revenue numbers which are 
only 2.6 percent more than the President's revenue numbers. In fact, we 
have substantial middle-class tax relief. The middle-class tax relief 
that is in this package is right here. We extend the middle-class tax 
provisions that provide marriage penalty relief. We extend the 
important child tax credit. We extend the 10-percent bracket that 
provides such good relief to middle-income people. We have provided for 
relief from the alternative minimum tax. We have provided for estate 
tax reform. We have provided energy and education tax cuts, property 
tax relief, and the popular tax extenders. All of that tax relief is in 
this package.

I hope our colleagues will reject the assertion that is in the 
Senator's motion because it bears absolutely no relationship to the 
budget resolution before us.

I yield the floor, suggest the absence of a quorum, and ask unanimous 
consent that the time be charged equally.