---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4290b1232ef5986bdfe380ea70adc4a4`
`Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, this debate is a sad moment in 
our Nation's history. If there was ever a time when Americans should be 
standing together, this is the time. This resolution does nothing but 
divide.

Throughout our country's illustrious history, we have been confronted 
with many challenges, but challenges met with unity of purpose, 
unflinching courage and unyielding resolve to be victorious against all 
odds.

This debate, disguised as a no-confidence vote against the President, 
is really about defeat, about surrender, about retreating from an enemy 
determined to destroy our very existence.

Mr. Speaker, the obvious truth of our situation is that we may run, 
but we can't hide. They know where we live.

Today, Americans all over this great land should stop for a moment 
and consider this national debate. They should ask themselves what this 
means to them personally, their families and their neighbors. Is it 
worth the expense and sacrifice of war now in order to establish a 
secure and lasting peace? Or should our Nation take momentary relief 
and retreat as we wait for our newly emboldened enemies to strike our 
homeland with even more fierce and deadly attacks?

Mr. Speaker, we must all realize that September 11, 2001 was not the 
end of the radical Islamic jihad against the United States. It was just 
the beginning. September 11 was a declaration of war. The fact is, we 
are not at war with Iraq. Iraq is an ally in our war against the 
radical Islamic jihadists. Iraq is only one among many battlegrounds 
where we are fighting jihadists who are committed to the destruction of 
Western civilization and replacing it with theocratic Taliban-style 
rule.

Mr. Speaker, if we cut and run, if we retreat from Iraq, we will 
forfeit our ability to lead the world against the enemies of peace. 
Iraq, in all likelihood, would fall to Iranian dominance and would 
become a launching pad for terror attacks against the United States and 
Israel. Islamic jihadists will be emboldened in Afghanistan, Pakistan, 
and the greater Middle East. The world oil supply could be vulnerable 
to jihadist control, and nuclear armed missiles in Pakistan could turn 
into a hellish nightmare.

And Israel, Mr. Speaker, one of our closest and most faithful allies, 
could see its very existence perilously close to total annihilation. 
World War III could even be the final consequence of the misguided 
actions of this Congress if we retreat from Iraq. But sadly, Mr. 
Speaker, there are some in this Congress who are more concerned about 
the next election than the next generation.

So where are the FDRs, the Churchills, the Pattons, the MacArthurs, 
the Trumans, the John F. Kennedys, and the men and women of the 
Greatest Generation in this hour of our great peril? They are in Iraq 
and Afghanistan fighting for our safety and our security. But the self-
centered generation, the politicians, the media types and the whiners 
and complainers are sitting in the safety of their homes complaining 
about the unpleasantries of war. This generation of the self-centered 
and indulgent, if successful in their defeatism, will condemn untold 
numbers to horrors never imagined by the most creative writers of 
horror fiction.

Mr. Speaker, I cannot, will not believe, as a Nation, that we have 
become so preoccupied with our own personal and political Quaedas that 
we have fallen asleep to the dangers before our Nation. The hour of 
decision is upon us. Will we rally from our slumber and awaken to 
reality? We are at war. Or will we close our eyes in self-deception and 
hide ourselves under the blanket of a cowardly resolution? Tomorrow we 
must choose. Will it be commitment over retreat, freedom over slavery, 
courage over fear, democracy over theocratic fascism, security over 
terror, life over death?

Mr. Speaker, our brave men and women serving in our Armed Forces have 
already chosen. They have willingly volunteered to put their lives on 
the line and, at this very moment, are fighting for all that we 
cherish. It is they who represent today's greatest generation.

Tomorrow we can honor these brave souls by choosing their values, by 
defeating this disgraceful resolution, or we can pass this vile 
legislation and have it recorded to our eternal shame.