---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `4291af8a31d59c5bb1ecb23a5cf8af05`
`Mr. BYRD — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Providing agricultural disaster relief is not politics, no. 
It is good policy.

The bill that is before the Senate also includes $2 billion for 
securing the homeland. In the State of the Union, the President said:




 The evil that inspired and rejoiced in 9/11 is still at 


 work in the world. And so long as that's the case, America is 


 still a nation at war.


Despite hundreds of innocent people being killed in train bombings in 
London, Madrid, Moscow, Tokyo, and Mombai, India, and despite the 
aviation sector remaining at a high terrorist threat level since 
August, the President did not request one extra dime--not one thin 
dime--in the supplemental for securing the homeland. This bill includes 
funding for purchasing explosive detection systems for our airports, 
for grants to help secure our rail and transit systems, and for 
securing our ports and borders. The money is needed now.

For 5/1/2/ years, since the attack on 9/11, this administration has 
raised fears of another terrorist attack. The administration has 
announced a high, or orange, threat level for possible terrorist 
attacks on eight different occasions. In every State of the Union 
Address, the President has stoked the fires of fear. Periodically, the 
Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the FBI 
Director helped to fan those flames. Yet the President consistently 
sends to Congress budgets for homeland security that do not reflect 
this perceived threat. Rather than spreading fear, the administration 
should be reducing vulnerabilities by doing everything it can to deter 
another attack. Providing funding to secure the homeland is not 
politics; it is an essential duty.

The President's ''rob Peter to pay Paul'' approach to funding 
domestic agencies has real and demonstrably severe consequences. The 
failed response to Hurricane Katrina proved that. The inability to 
provide first-class health care to our wounded veterans proved that. 
But we never learn.

Another important aspect of this bill is in the oversight and 
accountability that it mandates. For far too long--far too long--
oversight has been a lost cause, yes, around this Congress. Tough 
questions are ditched in favor of softballs. Honest answers are buried 
in political spin. This legislation says ''no more.'' Real oversight is 
back, and it will not be denied. This legislation makes major 
investments in inspectors general, from the Special Inspector General 
for Iraq Reconstruction to inspectors general for the Department of 
State, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Justice. Let's 
hope we can begin to get the waste, fraud, and abuse in Government 
under control. The legislation presses forward with GAO audits of the 
use of these dollars as we try to put an end to the contractors' 
bonanza of big dollars free from the prying eyes of Congress or the 
public. Insisting that U.S. tax dollars are wisely spent is not 
politics. What is it? It is our duty. Hear me. It is our duty.


The Appropriations Committee has made careful choices. The White 
House assertion that spending in this bill is excessive or extraneous 
or political--humbug. It simply has no foundation. The committee has 
chosen to provide first-rate care to the war wounded, to provide 
resources to help the gulf region rebuild after Katrina, to improve 
homeland security, and to provide agricultural disaster assistance. 
This is a good bill. I urge prompt action on this legislation.

Madam President, I yield the floor.