# None
## `42920c4ceef0e26b1efa3655db2be358`
`Ms. WOOLSEY â€” 3 June 2008`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Lieutenant General 
William E. Odom, a great American and a true patriot. General Odom 
passed away last Friday at the age of 75 after a lifetime of service to 
the Nation. General Odom was a soldier and a scholar. He was a teacher 
and the author of seven books on history and international relations. 
He served Presidents of both parties. He was one of our Nation's top 
experts on military intelligence. He was a great visionary. And he was 
among the first to correctly and courageously warn that invading Iraq 
would be folly.

I am proud to say that he was a friend. He generously shared his 
insight and counsel with me, and I found what he told and shared to be 
invaluable.

General Odom was born in Tennessee and graduated from West Point. He 
received a Ph.D. from Columbia University and became a leading author 
on the Soviet Union. After teaching at West Point and Columbia, he 
served in the Carter administration as assistant to the President for 
national security affairs. Neither a Democrat nor a Republican, he also 
served in the Reagan administration as director of the National 
Security Agency. After retiring from the military, he became a 
professor at Yale University and a senior fellow with the Hudson 
Institute.

General Odom was a patriot in every sense of the word. He served in 
Vietnam, and his family has continued to serve. His son was wounded in 
Iraq. But General Odom also understood that true patriotism meant 
disagreeing with your government's actions when you think they are 
wrong.

He opposed the invasion and occupation of Iraq long before it began 
when it was not the popular thing to do and long before most of the 
rest of the country opposed it. His boss in the Carter administration, 
Mr. Brzezinksi, had this to say of his early opposition to the 
invasion, ''Among senior military people, (Odom) was probably the first 
to consider the war in Iraq a misbegotten adventure. He believed that 
we're just stoking hostility to the United States in that region and 
developing an opposition that cannot be defeated by military means.''

In September of 2006, I and several of my colleagues in the House 
invited General Odom to speak at one of a series of ad hoc 
Congressional hearings and forums hosted by the Progressive Caucus on 
Iraq. General Odom described how al Qaeda's recruitment efforts had 
been seriously weakened by our efforts in Afghanistan, but he said that 
al Qaeda's recruitments soared after the invasion of Iraq. General Odom 
said, to (Osama bin Laden), the invasion must have been manna from 
heaven, probably saving his organization.'' I can't think of any more 
powerful argument against the invasion and continued occupation of Iraq 
than what he said.

General Odom did not just oppose the administration's policy. He 
offered a real alternative that could both end the conflict in Iraq and 
lay the foundation for regional peace. He said, ''No effective new 
strategy can be devised for the United States until it begins 
withdrawing its forces from Iraq. Withdrawal is the pre-condition for 
winning support from countries in Europe that have stood aside, and, 
other major powers including India, China, Japan, and Russia. It will 
also shock and change attitudes in Iran, Syria, and other countries on 
Iraq's borders making them more likely to take seriously new U.S. 
approaches to restoring regional stability.''

Everyone who knew General Odom knew that he was a tireless worker and 
a straight shooter. He continued to oppose war virtually up until the 
day that he died. Just 3 days before he passed away, an op-ed article 
he co-authored on Iran appeared in the Washington Post. The article 
opposed the drumbeat of war against Iran and offered a policy of 
diplomacy that can stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. I hope 
every Member of this House will read that article.

General William Odom was a military man who worked hard for peace. If 
we had listened to him about Iraq in 2002, we could have saved tens of 
thousands of lives. I hope we will listen to his words now, because 
they can save many more lives in the future. General Odom was a great 
inspiration while he was alive, and I know that he will continue to 
inspire us in the days ahead.









[From the Washington Post, May 27, 2008]













A Sensible Path on Iran








 (By Zbigniew Brzezinski and William Odom)




 Current U.S. policy toward the regime in Tehran will almost 


 certainly result in an Iran with nuclear weapons. The 


 seemingly clever combination of the use of ''sticks'' and 


 ''carrots,'' including the frequent official hints of an 


 American military option ''remaining on the table,'' simply 


 intensifies Iran's desire to have its own nuclear arsenal. 


 Alas, such a heavy-handed ''sticks'' and ''carrots'' policy 


 may work with donkeys but not with serious countries. The 


 United States would have a better chance of success if the 


 White House abandoned its threats of military action and its 


 calls for regime change.



 Consider countries that could have quickly become nuclear 


 weapon states had they been treated similarly. Brazil, 


 Argentina and South Africa had nuclear weapons programs but 


 gave them up, each for different reasons. Had the United 


 States threatened to change their regimes if they would not, 


 probably none would have complied. But when ''sticks'' and 


 ''carrots'' failed to prevent India and Pakistan from 


 acquiring nuclear weapons, the United States rapidly 


 accommodated both, preferring good relations with them to 


 hostile ones. What does this suggest to leaders in Iran?



 To look at the issue another way, imagine if China, a 


 signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and a 


 country that has deliberately not engaged in a nuclear arms 


 race with Russia or the United States, threatened to change 


 the American regime if it did not begin a steady destruction 


 of its nuclear arsenal. The threat would have an arguable 


 legal basis, because all treaty signatories promised long ago 


 to reduce their arsenals, eventually to zero. The American 


 reaction, of course, would be explosive public opposition to 


 such a demand. U.S. leaders might even mimic the fantasy 


 rhetoric of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad regarding 


 the use of nuclear weapons.



 A successful approach to Iran has to accommodate its 


 security interests and ours. Neither a U.S. air attack on 


 Iranian nuclear facilities nor a less effective Israeli one 


 could do more than merely set back Iran's nuclear program. In 


 either case, the United States would be held accountable and 


 would have to pay the price resulting from likely Iranian 


 reactions. These would almost certainly involve destabilizing 


 the Middle East, as well as Afghanistan, and serious efforts 


 to disrupt the flow of oil, at the very least generating a 


 massive increase in its already high cost. The turmoil in the 


 Middle East resulting from a preemptive attack on Iran would 


 hurt America and eventually Israel, too.



 Given Iran's stated goals--a nuclear power capability but 


 not nuclear weapons, as well as an alleged desire to discuss 


 broader U.S.-Iranian security issues--a realistic policy 


 would exploit this opening to see what it might yield. The 


 United States could indicate that it is prepared to 


 negotiate, either on the basis of no preconditions by either 


 side (though retaining the right to terminate the 


 negotiations if Iran remains unyielding but begins to enrich 


 its uranium beyond levels allowed by the Non-Proliferation 


 Treaty); or to negotiate on the basis of an Iranian 


 willingness to suspend enrichment in return for simultaneous 


 U.S. suspension of major economic and financial sanctions.



 Such a broader and more flexible approach would increase 


 the prospects of an international arrangement being devised 


 to accommodate Iran's desire for an autonomous nuclear energy 


 program while minimizing the possibility that it could be 


 rapidly transformed into a nuclear weapons program. Moreover, 


 there is no credible reason to assume that the traditional 


 policy of strategic deterrence, which worked so well in U.S. 


 relations with the Soviet Union and with China and which has 


 helped to stabilize India-Pakistan hostility, would not work 


 in the case of Iran. The widely propagated notion of a 


 suicidal Iran detonating its very first nuclear weapon 


 against Israel is more the product of paranoia or demagogy 


 than of serious strategic calculus. It cannot be the basis 


 for U.S. policy, and it should not be for Israel's, either.



 An additional longer-range benefit of such a dramatically 


 different diplomatic approach is that it could help bring 


 Iran back into its traditional role of strategic cooperation 


 with the United States in stabilizing the Gulf region. 


 Eventually, Iran could even return to its long-standing and 


 geopolitically natural pre-1979 policy of cooperative 


 relations with Israel. One should note also in this 


 connection Iranian hostility toward al-Qaeda, lately 


 intensified by al-Qaeda's Web-based campaign urging a U.S.-


 Iranian war, which could both weaken what al-Qaeda views as 


 Iran's apostate Shiite regime and bog America down in a 


 prolonged regional conflict.



 Last but not least, consider that American sanctions have 


 been deliberately obstructing Iran's efforts to increase its 


 oil and natural gas outputs. That has contributed to the 


 rising cost of energy. An eventual American-Iranian 


 accommodation would significantly increase the flow of 


 Iranian energy to the world market. Americans doubtless would




 prefer to pay less for filling their gas tanks than having to 


 pay much more to finance a wider conflict in the Persian 


 Gulf.
