# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `42986ee3590d271b893045a73c662ad0`
`Mr. REGULA — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. REGULA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with regret to express my 
opposition to this supplemental appropriations bill. I oppose this bill 
because rather than the bill before us, we need a bill that cleanly has 
as its objective providing support for our troops, not a bill that is 
saddled with all kinds of extraneous programs, programs that should 
stand on their own merits, not be used to gain support. We need a bill 
that will have as its goal stability in Iraq, that will enable the 
Iraqi people to take responsibility for the future of their country.

The Iraq Study Group report has one recommendation that summarized 
the need for a clean supplemental that will provide the funds necessary 
to achieve the goals we all want for the future of our forces in this 
conflict, and I quote from this report: ''If the Iraqi Government 
demonstrates political will and makes substantial progress towards the 
achievement of milestones on national reconciliation, security and 
governance, the United States should make clear its willingness to 
continue training, assistance and support for Iraq's security forces 
and to continue political, military and economic support for the Iraq 
Government.'' And this is important: ''As Iraq becomes more capable of 
governing, defending and sustaining itself, the U.S. military and 
civilian presence in Iraq can be reduced.''

That is really what the goal of this supplemental is. I think it is 
vitally important that we have a clean bill that makes clear our goal 
of success in Iraq, that will reflect honorably on the sacrifices that 
have been made by the Armed Forces of our Nation, that is part of 
securing for the people of our


country freedom from terrorist threats.

I urge my colleagues to vote against this collection of unrelated 
expenditures. Vote instead for a clean bill to support our troops.