---
---

# HOMES FOR HEROES ACT OF 2007
## `42a06b5dbc630e093e071c7f6ed0ea4f`
`Mr. SHAYS — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

I rise today in support of H.R. 3329, the Homes for Heroes Act, 
because it is past time to address the rapid growth of our Nation's 
homeless veterans population and enhance affordable housing 
opportunities for returning veterans. Permanent supportive housing 
remains the number one unmet need of veterans. The National Alliance to 
End Homelessness found that nearly half a million of our Nation's 
veterans are severely rent-burdened and devote more than 50 percent of 
their income to rent.

The bill will strengthen housing opportunities for our returning 
veterans by creating a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development, HUD, and authorizes 
$200 million for new construction of low income and homeless veteran 
housing and 20,000 new vouchers for homeless veterans. We have a 
responsibility to assure the well-being of these brave men and women, 
true American heroes, when they return home.

Veterans are twice as likely to be chronically homeless compared to 
other Americans. Additional obstacles include physical and mental 
health-related problems, weakened social networks, high stressful 
occupational demands and non-transferability of skills to civilian 
jobs, which create the need for additional supportive services for this 
population.



In fact, the Alliance to End Homelessness concluded veterans make up 
a disproportionate share of the homeless population. While veterans 
only represent 11 percent of the civilian population age 18 and over, 
they account for nearly 26 percent of our Nation's homeless population. 
This is clearly unacceptable. This disparity is especially concerning 
as our Nation's troops in Iraq and Afghanistan return home.

While the VA currently has over 19,000 transitional housing beds for 
homeless veterans and has invested in new initiatives specifically 
targeting at-risk populations, various Government Accountability 
Office, GAO, and VA studies indicate that the VA still lacks the 
capacity to provide timely access to health services for veterans at 
risk for homelessness.

I believe this bill will enhance supportive and affordable housing 
opportunities for veterans, and I urge all my colleagues to support 
this bill.

I thank the ranking member for yielding me time.