# None
## `42a685b06566bb52e01eb814ffa4144b`
`Mr. OWENS — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. OWENS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

The United States Army's 10th Mountain Division, stationed on Fort 
Drum, New York, has a long and storied history of defending the 
American way of life.

The 10th Mountain Division was first activated as the 10th Light 
Division on July 13, 1943, at Camp Hale, Colorado. From there, the 
brave soldiers who made up the 10th Mountain Division's first unit 
immediately began a rigorous training regimen designed to prepare for 
the imminent invasion of Axis-controlled Europe. They first entered 
combat in January of 1945 as they were deployed to the North Apennine 
Mountains in Italy, opposite battle-hardened German troops, which 
marked the beginning of a relentless drive to liberate Italy from the 
clutches of the enemy.

As the nature of warfare has changed throughout the decades, the 10th 
Mountain Division has adapted to defend the Nation against foreign 
threats. From its work as a training division preparing soldiers for 
Cold War service to deployments in West Germany, Somalia, Mogadishu, 
and Haiti, and the current war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 
10th Mountain Division has served to maintain both national and global 
stability.

On February 13, 1985, the 10th Mountain Division was activated in the 
heart of the North Country at Fort


Drum. Following the September 11 attacks, units of the 10th Mountain 
Division were deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Since 
then, the unit has played a role in major offenses throughout the war 
on terror that have brought stability to embattled areas in the Middle 
East. For more than 65 years, the brave men and women and their 
families who make up the 10th Mountain Division have endured untold 
sacrifices to make the Nation safer and more secure.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here today to recognize the achievements of the 
soldiers serving in the 10th Mountain Division, as well as citizen 
soldiers of the Army Reserve and National Guard who have fought with 
the 10th Mountain Division during its 60-year history. I would like to 
thank the family members of the 10th Mountain Division for their 
tireless service and sacrifice on behalf of the United States, and I 
commend the North Country community for their unwavering support of 
Fort Drum and the men and women serving in uniform.

Finally, I speak for the House of Representatives when I offer my 
condolences to the family and friends of the 10th Mountain Division 
soldiers who have given the ultimate sacrifice in the defense of 
freedom.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.