---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `42d04700baa6b5bda8d5616c3d947ed5`
`Mr. LEAHY — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, earlier today, we had a meeting of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee. Defense Secretary Gates and Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Pace were there. I was at that 
meeting. I had questions that I asked. I have been bothered since the 
meeting, not so much by what they said, but by what has happened in the 
last few days.

Every one of us, when we turn on our television set, sees the 
devastation in Kansas by a tornado--something we would not see in my 
State of Vermont. But even in a State where these are not unusual 
things, the devastation of this tornado was unique. I thought yesterday 
about how the President of the United States, through his spokesperson, 
blatantly dismissed the all too real concerns of the Governor of 
Kansas, Governor Sebelius, about the equipment levels available to our 
National Guard for dealing with such emergencies at home as this 
horrible disaster I spoke of that befell Greensburg, KS.

The White House spokesperson, sitting comfortably at the White House, 
said: Well, you know, there is no problem. The Guard has considerable 
equipment stocks still available.

Everybody who has studied the situation with our National Guard 
around this country knows that assertion is absurd on a number of 
levels. Maybe they felt they could make a political statement because 
the Governor is of another party. But the reality is, the Governor 
spoke the truth. She knows the Guard faces real, incontrovertible 
shortfalls in vital equipment.

Contrary to what the White House has said, the Governors--I am 
talking about the Governors; Republican, Democratic Governors alike--
and their adjutant generals--those who are the heads of the National 
Guard in their respective States--are reporting something quite 
different than the blase attitude of the White House.

State after State reports missing humvees, medium-sized trucks, 
generators, dump trucks, communications systems. These are not claims 
from just any observer of Guard issues; these are the leaders who have 
been elected by the people to provide for their security and deal with 
these sometimes terrifying State emergencies.

As the Presiding Officer knows, the Governors command the Guard when 
operating in a State, and we have to give special credence to what they 
say. The idea that there is no problem--this kind of dismissive ''there 
is no problem''--is equally ridiculous because it has been clearly 
documented there is a very real $24 billion equipment shortfall in Army 
National Guard equipment alone. Now, those are reports that do not take 
into consideration the shortfalls within the Air National Guard. But 
both the Active Army and the National Guard agree on this figure. It 
was developed together with the National Guard Bureau working closely 
with the Army staff.

To say there is no problem, on the one hand, and have an arm of the 
administration, on the other hand, say there is a $24 billion 
shortfall--to me, that is a problem.



What is a greater problem is there are no plans to address this 
shortfall in the long-range budget. There are no plans to buy the 
18,000 needed humvees, no plans to obtain the 30,000 medium-sized 
trucks, no plans to purchase the 12,000 required generators, no plans 
to purchase the 62,000 communications sets--the list goes on and on.

Another reason the White House's assessment of Guard equipment issues 
is so flawed is that everyone--from the Guard leadership to the Army 
leadership to Members here on the Hill--knows that, very frequently, 
that equipment slated for the Guard never actually makes it to the 
Guard because it is diverted, transferred to the Active Force before it 
gets into Guard stocks.

Even when the Guard equipment makes it into the Guard stocks, it is 
often quickly turned around and sent right back off to Iraq, along with 
deploying Guard units, many of which now face their second Iraq 
deployment.

It is passing strange to me that while this administration asks for a 
blank check to resupply the Iraqi National Guard, they do not have 1 
cent in their long-range budget to resupply the American National 
Guard. Now, whether someone is for or against the war in Iraq, you 
would think our own forces--our own American national guard--could be 
treated at least on par with the Iraqi national guard, especially as we 
see the brave men and women of our National Guard not only answering 
the call in Iraq and Afghanistan, but answering the call when there are 
dangers here at home. We do not see them, as we have seen in units of 
the Iraqi national guard, setting out to kill each other or forming 
death squads. So why do we write blank checks for the Iraqi national 
guard when we can't take care of our own? I wish the President and the 
White House would come to fully realize this reality. Here is the real 
situation when it comes to National Guard equipment: The Guard does not 
have adequate stocks to deal with emergencies where they can maximize 
their full potential. In a smaller scale disaster, they cannot respond 
as quickly to support first responders and local law enforcement.

That is what we saw recently in Kansas. Now, suppose you have another 
emergency in Kansas or a larger scale emergency or something like 
Hurricane Katrina or, God forbid, two simultaneous disasters. The Guard 
is going to be hard pressed to respond as well as it did along the gulf 
coast almost 2 years ago.

Let me show you some photographs. You can see from these photographs, 
these are things our Guard does. You see this capsized tanker, and 
helicopters trying to rescue the people. Those are National Guard 
helicopters.

Here we have a forest fire close to an urban area, where homes are in 
danger. You can see an airplane putting down a fire retardant. That is 
a National Guard airplane.


Here you see a little child being rescued, carried up to a helicopter 
in the arms--the embracing arms, the safety of the arms--of a National 
Guard member.

Here you see the rescue of somebody who was in an accident.

Here you see National Guard in armored personnel carriers in a 
flooded area. In case you are wondering where that area is, look at the 
sign in the background that says ''Welcome to New Orleans.'' Much of 
that sign is under water. First responders--the police, fire 
departments--in New Orleans were totally overwhelmed, figuratively and 
literally. The Guard responded.

Look at these firefighters, trudging through a forest, at risk to 
their own lives, to put out a forest fire. Who are they? National Guard 
members.

The Secretary of Defense maintained this morning in his appearance 
before the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that the Guard has 56 
percent of its equipment stocks available. Well, that figure 
contradicts everything I have heard from other responsible officials, 
who put the figure closer to 35 percent. Frankly, 35 percent or 56 
percent is not adequate, by any means.

In the latest supplemental spending bill, which the President seemed 
happy to veto, I worked with my colleague on the National Guard Caucus, 
Senator Bond. We cochair the National Guard Caucus. We also serve on 
the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. We added $1 billion for Army 
Guard equipment purchases. That $1 billion was not requested by the 
administration. We had virtually unanimous support, Republicans and 
Democrats, in this body for it. It would go directly for dealing with 
that $24 billion shortfall. Now, that has been vetoed. We are going to 
work together in a bipartisan fashion to get it back into whatever 
spending bill we pass.

We cannot do that unless we work together--unless we work together. 
This is a case where it almost becomes a cliche to say: We cannot 
afford to let our Guard down--but we cannot. We do not have tornadoes 
in Vermont, but we have had some pretty vicious floods--one that nearly 
wiped out my hometown of Montpelier, VT, the capital. We have had some 
pretty vicious ice storms--one that almost removed the agricultural 
sector of a major part of our State.

In each case--as hard working as the local responders were, and they 
were, the police and the fire departments--the first call of the 
Governor went to the Guard, the National Guard. And they came. They 
rescued people. They kept people going.

When you have an ice storm, and it is 10 degrees below zero in your 
State, you can't wait for them to say: Well, we have 56 percent or we 
have 35 percent of your equipment. The other equipment you need is in 
Los Angeles, and we will ship it to you as quickly as we can. That is 
the old ''check is in the mail.'' If it is 10 degrees below zero, and 
you have an ice storm, with all the power lines that come down, people 
are going to die--people are going to die--if they can't get power 
within a matter of, really, minutes. The Guard can do that.

We know what a fiasco it was with our still dysfunctional Department 
of Homeland Security after Katrina. We have seen how the Department of 
Homeland Security and its FEMA division have still not responded to 
that. But we did respond when the Governors called out the National 
Guard.


So I rarely ever respond to comments made by the White House and 
their press operation, even when they take gratuitous swipes at me, but 
this one, I couldn't pass up. They know what the numbers are. They know 
the Governor of Kansas was speaking the truth. They know the Guard is 
woefully undersupplied. They know they have been diverting money to pay 
for the Iraqi National Guard from our Guard. So I think it would be 
really helpful for the White House to stop showing contempt for the 
views of our Nation's elected Governors. Take and consider their input, 
respect their thoughts about the Guard given their places with the 
National Guard in their States.

Let's turn the situation around. Let's come up with a new plan to 
replenish depleted Guard equipment stocks. We can't afford to continue 
to let our Guard down.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the appropriate charts on this matter.