# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE NEW POWER-SHARING GOVERNMENT IN NORTHERN  IRELAND
## `42d573c3af73eb9de513bea2a20c33a6`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 11 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like, first of all, to commend our distinguished colleague, 
Mr. Gallegly of California, for introducing an important resolution 
that commemorates a historic occasion in the quest for lasting peace in 
Northern Ireland.



On May 8, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern pronounced ''the historic 
beginning of a new era for Northern Ireland, an era founded on peace 
and partnership, an era of new politics and new realities.''

That day indeed marked a new era as age-old rivals Ian Paisley of the 
Democratic Unionist Party and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein became 
Northern Ireland's First Minister and Deputy First Minister, 
respectively, taking their places in the new power-sharing government 
at Stormont.

May 8 also marked the end of direct rule from London and the end of 
guns and bombs as a form of political expression. These developments 
provide an opportunity for the people of Northern Ireland to govern 
themselves.

Finally, that day marked the end of decades of conflict and gave hope 
to the spirit of reconciliation, hope that may inspire those in other 
communities ravaged by sectarian conflict to keep striving to find 
peace. We think in particular today of the conflicts of Iraq, Lebanon, 
Israel and Palestine, Cyprus, and Kashmir. The end to civil wars can 
bring true peace. Ireland is a true example. And since, of course, the 
war in Iraq is raging as a civil war, this is a most potent model of 
success for peace and reconciliation.

We know it will not be easy for these dividing societies to achieve 
lasting peace, but it was not an easy road for Northern Ireland's war-
weary politicians. The prospect of reconciliation was tantalizingly 
close in April, 1998, when political leaders signed the Good Friday 
Agreement and voters endorsed its provisions in a referendum. I am 
reminded of traveling to Ireland with then chairman of the Foreign 
Relations Committee, Ben Gilman, as we went from area to area talking 
with the disparate groups addressing the question of peace in Ireland. 
In December, 1999, the new Northern Ireland Executive finally met for 
the first time after repeated failures to agree upon its membership.

During the next 3 years, the assembly operated in fits and starts as 
political leaders sought to reach agreement on outstanding issues, such 
as the decommissioning of weapons and reform of the police service. 
Trust between the two communities deteriorated to such a point that 
devolution was suspended in October, 2002, and not restored until this 
past May. It is due in large part to the tireless efforts of Northern 
Ireland's political representatives as well as the constant 
encouragement of Ireland and Britain's long-serving leaders, Bertie 
Ahern and Tony Blair, that solutions were eventually found to the most 
vexing problems. And may we be reminded that there were those who were 
willing to lay down their weapons.

I would also like to pay tribute to the efforts of Presidents Bush 
and Clinton as well as former Senator George Mitchell, who worked 
together with British and Irish leaders to fulfill the promises of the 
Good Friday Agreement. Senator George Mitchell worked without ceasing 
and worked with passion and heart.

It is, of course, the people of Northern Ireland who are the biggest 
winners, as we in this House hope the establishment of the new power-
sharing government heralds the dawn of a truly new era characterized by 
peace, prosperity and mutual respect for all races and religions.

Madam Speaker, I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.