# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `42d5ee1e975e5ab91028b20cfc90c146`
`Mr. ROSS — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Utah, and the gentleman's right, 
the Blue Dog Coalition, we want to thank Chairman Skelton for including 
key provisions of our bill, H. Res. 97, in the Defense authorization 
bill.

H. Res. 97 was previously introduced by Blue Dog members and calls 
for transparency in how Iraq War funds are spent. Specifically, the 
Defense authorization bill addresses the lack of oversight and 
accountability in the war by requiring that the Government 
Accountability Office, commonly referred to as the GAO, report every 6 
months on the handling of contracts in Iraq.

In addition, Blue Dog members applaud the inclusion of measures in 
the Defense authorization bill which establish essential management 
goals for the Department of Defense and expand the authority of the 
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction to include all 
reconstruction funding, regardless of source or fiscal year.

Again, we're all about providing the funding our troops need. We want 
to make sure that funding gets to them and that this administration's 
accountable for it and that the Iraqi people are accountable for how 
the money is being spent that we send to them.

Mr. Speaker, if you have got any comments or questions or concerns 
for


us, you can e-mail us at bluedogs@mail.house.gov. Again, that's 
bluedogs@mail.house.gov.

I yield to my fellow Blue Dog member all the way from California (Mr. 
Costa).