---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `42d71e286a39a54c5999a4bfbe770c6d`
`Mr. LEVIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, there isn't any dispute about whether a 
stable and independent Iraq is in our national interest. Some of us 
disagreed with the way we went to war with Iraq 4/1/2/ years ago. We 
have disagreed, many of us, with many of the Bush administration's 
policies in Iraq since then, including ignoring the advice of senior 
military leaders such as General Shinseki in planning the invasion, 
failing to properly plan for the occupation and its aftermath, 
disbanding the Iraqi Army, banning low-level Baath Party members from 
post-Saddam Government employment, failing to pressure the Iraqi 
leaders to meet the benchmarks and the timetable they set for 
themselves and, most recently, increasing the U.S. military presence in 
Iraq with the so-called surge, when we should be reducing our military 
presence.

But the challenge facing us now, given where we are today, is what is 
the best way to promote a stable and independent Iraq. Is the course we 
are on succeeding? So while the opponents of changing course argue that 
those of us who want to change course don't see the importance of a 
stable and independent Iraq, they are exactly wrong. We see the 
importance of it, but we see the current policy is failing to move us 
in the direction of a stable and independent Iraq. It is the status 
quo--


staying the course--that jeopardizes the goal of a stable and 
independent Iraq. So while there is disagreement on whether the current 
course is leading to a stable and independent Iraq, there is 
agreement--broad consensus--on the desirability of that goal.

There has also been a consensus for some time that there is no 
military solution to the sectarian violence in Iraq, and that the key 
to ending the violence lies in bringing about a political settlement 
among the various factions in Iraq today. Even Prime Minister Maliki 
recognized that fact a few months ago. This is what he said:




 The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of blood letting of innocents are the Iraqi 


 politicians.


That is the Prime Minister of Iraq pointing out that it is the 
failure of the Iraqi politicians that is resulting in the ongoing 
violence. President Bush said this last January. He said the purpose of 
the surge--the explicit purpose, the stated purpose of the surge--was 
to give Iraqi politicians ''breathing space'' to work out a political 
settlement.

It is also pretty much undisputed that the stated purpose of the 
surge--that explicitly stated purpose about giving the Iraqi 
politicians breathing space to work out their political settlement--has 
not been achieved. There are going to be arguments back and forth about 
how much military progress there has been on the ground, and there are 
statistics both ways. I accept General Petraeus's assessment--and I 
have been there recently--that there has been some military progress on 
the ground. But the purpose of the surge, the goal of the surge was to 
provide breathing space to the Iraqi politicians; and the more the 
surge has succeeded, the less excuse there is for the Iraqi politicians 
not working out their political misunderstandings.

So it works exactly the opposite way from what the opponents of this 
amendment say. To the extent the surge has succeeded militarily, it 
makes it less understandable, less excusable, and less acceptable for 
the Iraqi politicians to continue to dawdle. By the way, the President 
has kind of shifted ground in terms of the purpose of the surge, 
anyway. Now the goal of the surge is to provide security and help Iraqi 
forces to maintain it. So having failed in its purpose, which was to 
give the Iraqi politicians room to work out their political 
misunderstandings, now we have a much more open-ended goal: to provide 
security and help the Iraqi forces to maintain it.

Madam President, General Petraeus agreed in his testimony last week 
that the purpose of the surge--to provide breathing space to work out a 
political settlement--has not been achieved. He was asked a direct 
question and he gave that answer. He acknowledged the political 
settlement has not been achieved and that that was the stated purpose 
of the surge.

There has been a lot of debate on whether the current situation on 
the ground in Iraq shows significant progress in terms of security--by 
the way, even though, as I said, this can be argued back and forth, 
there has been a public opinion poll taken in Iraq. The Iraqi people 
have been asked that question--not by supporters or opponents of the 
policy but by ABC News. Here is what the poll results were, and this is 
the Iraqi citizens being asked whether they feel more or less secure as 
a result of the surge. Here is the analysis by ABC News:




 The surge broadly is seen to have done more harm than good, 


 with 65 to 70 percent [of Iraqis] saying it's worsened rather 


 than improved security in surge areas, security in other 


 areas, conditions for political dialog, the ability of the 


 Iraqi government to do its work, the pace of reconstruction, 


 and the pace of economic development.


The result of the surge--or more accurately, the lack of political 
results--underscores the reality that there is going to be no end to 
the violence until Iraqi national leaders work out their political 
differences. As the Independent Commission on the Security Forces of 
Iraq, under the leadership of retired Marine General Jim Jones, 
reported last week:




 Political reconciliation is the key to ending sectarian 


 violence in Iraq.


The Iraqi politicians surely haven't done that. They have not kept 
the commitments they made to achieve political reconciliation by 
adopting legislation setting the dates for provincial elections, 
approving a hydrocarbon law, a debaathification law, and submitting 
constitutional amendments to a referendum.

I want to emphasize that the Iraqis' commitments to work out their 
key differences and the timetable to do so were their commitments and 
their timetable. So when Prime Minister Maliki complains that outsiders 
are not going to dictate to the Iraqi Government, what he is trying to 
do is obscure the fact that his own government set the benchmarks and 
timetables for themselves.

Back in January, when President Bush proposed the surge, this is what 
he said about the benchmarks and the need for the Iraqis to meet them:




 America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it 


 has announced.


Last Thursday, we heard the same old song from the President. He 
said:




 The [Iraqi] government has not met its own legislative 


 benchmarks, and in my meeting with Iraq leaders, I have made 


 it clear that they must.


Eight months after saying we are going to hold the Iraqi Government 
to the benchmarks, the President's words ring hollow. We are not 
insisting the Iraqi leaders keep their commitments, and there have been 
absolutely no consequences for the Iraqi leaders' failure to do so. 
James Baker, Lee Hamilton, and the rest of the Iraq Study Group 
recommended the following:




 If the Iraqi government does not make substantial progress 


 toward the achievement of milestones on national 


 reconciliation, security, and governance, the United States 


 should reduce its political, military, or economic support 


 for the Iraqi government.


Now, those were the words of the Iraq Study Group. That is exactly 
what is needed: consequences--clear, direct, and understandable 
consequences. But the only response to the Iraqi politicians' continued 
dawdling has been the repeated calls by the President for patience.

I make reference to a letter from the Secretary of State, Condoleezza 
Rice, dated January 30, 2007. The question had been raised whether the 
timelines that were set by the Iraqi Government were in fact their 
timelines or ours. This is what Secretary Rice said about the 
timelines:





. . . Iraq's Policy Committee on National Security agreed 


 upon a set of political, security, and economic benchmarks 


 and an associated timeline in September 2006. These were 


 reaffirmed by the Presidency Council on October 16, 2006, and 


 referenced by the Iraq Study Group; the relevant document 


 (enclosed) was posted at that time on the President of Iraq's 


 website.


Madam President, we have been told by the--at least the public has 
been told by, I believe, the Prime Minister of Iraq that they are not 
going to accept America's timeline, that we are not going to impose a 
timeline on Iraq. What Secretary Rice's letter to me confirmed very 
precisely is that the Presidency Council of Iraq on October 16, 2006, 
adopted, reaffirmed--in her words, ''Iraq's Policy Committee on 
National Security agreed upon a set of . . . timelines.''

The dates are here. Here is the timeline.

September 2006: To form a review committee and to agree on a 
political timetable.

October 2006: Approve a hydrocarbon law and approve a provincial 
election law.

November 2006: Approve a debaathification law and approve provincial 
council authorities law.

December 2006: Approve amnesty, militias, and other armed formations 
law.

January 2007: Constitutional Review Committee completes its work.

February 2007: Form independent commissions in accordance with the 
constitution.

March 2007: Constitutional amendments referendum.

I ask unanimous consent that the letter from Secretary Rice to me 
dated January 30, 2007, be printed in the Record at this point, which 
makes the very clear statement that, No. 1, the timelines I have 
referred to attached to her letter are the Iraqi Government's 
timelines, and they formally adopted those.