---
---

# STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `42e0ad7e4c756fbb052d832d1128d90e`
`Mr. BOND — 10 April 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, this is a very important debate, but I have 
another very important subject that I need to bring to the attention of 
this body. First and foremost, as I address this body, Congress has yet 
to take the necessary steps to approve emergency funding for our troops 
serving in a war zone. While I applaud the steps taken by the 
leadership of the Senate to appoint conferees moments after passing the 
supplemental appropriations bill, Speaker Pelosi and the House 
leadership have been too busy conducting foreign policy to appoint 
conferees.

I am here. We are ready--I, along with a number of my colleagues--to 
get to work and get the funds where they are needed. As I said time and 
time again on the Senate floor, our generals and military commanders 
are in the best position and are best suited to know the needs of our 
forces. When they tell us they need the funds urgently, I do not 
believe they are leaving much room for interpretation.

General Schoomaker, Army Chief of Staff--a no-nonsense operator--
said:




 Without approval of the supplemental funds in April, we 


 will be forced to take increasingly draconian measures which 


 will impact Army readiness and impose hardships on our 


 soldiers and their families.


Secretary Gates, whom war critics and opponents alike embraced this 
straight-talking, candid Secretary of Defense, said:




 This kind of disruption to key programs will have a 


 genuinely adverse effect on the readiness of the Army and the 


 quality of life for soldiers and families.


In addition, this, too, would degrade the already perilous State of 
the National Guard's home front mission to support civil authorities. 
We are told that 88 percent of the Guard units at home are not equipped 
to respond to natural disasters or a potential terrorist attack.

That is why I was proud to support, with my friend and National Guard 
Caucus cochairman, Senator Leahy, inclusion of a billion dollars in the 
supplemental for Guard equipment.

The most significant and important constitutional role this Congress 
is supposed to be undertaking is exercising its power over the purse. 
Yet, ironically and most detrimentally to our troops, that one 
paramount duty seems to be the last one on the to-do list of some in 
Congress. Instead, the retreat-and-defeat crowd has sought to 
micromanage the war from 8,000 miles away, setting timetables and 
prescribing troop movements. This same message will discourage our 
allies, who are beginning to help, obviously, our troops, and only 
encourage our enemies.

The recent action taken by the retreat-and-defeat crowd would suggest 
they are vested in defeat in order to achieve the goals of the far left 
wing of the Democratic Party where Michael Moore, George Soros, and 
others who support their party with tens of millions of dollars for 
527s will do anything to undermine President Bush, even if it means 
losing the war that radical Islam and al-Qaida have declared on us.

As we have seen in recent weeks since the implementation of General 
Petraeus' plan, there is movement in the right direction. It cannot be 
changed overnight and nobody should expect an immediate turnaround, but 
it is the best hope we have. Senator McCain, who just returned from 
Iraq, reports that Sunni sheiks in Anbar are now fighting al-Qaida, 
more than 50 joint United States-Iraqi stations have been established 
in Baghdad, Muqtada al-Sadr has felt the heat, and his followers 
overall are not contesting them. Finally, Senator McCain observed that 
Iraqi Army and police forces are increasingly fighting on their own, 
with their size and capability growing.

While Senator McCain and I would agree that there are no guarantees 
for victory and we have a long way to go, we certainly need to make 
every effort to achieve it. Yet some Members of this body and the other 
body say the real war on terror is in Afghanistan, not Iraq. If that is 
so, why are our marines fighting in Al Anbar against al-Qaida?

Charles Krauthammer, on March 30 in the Washington Post, wrote on 
this very topic:




 Thought experiment: Bring in a completely neutral 


 observer--a Martian--and point out to him that the U.S. is 


 involved in two hot wars against radical Islam insurgents. 


 One is in Afghanistan, a geographically marginal backwater 


 with no resources and no industrial or technical 


 infrastructure. The other is in Iraq, one of the three 


 principal Arab states, with untold oil wealth, an educated 


 population, an advanced military and technological 


 infrastructure that, though suffering decay in the later 


 years of Saddam Hussein's rule, could easily be revived if it 


 falls into the wrong hands. Add to that the fact that its 


 strategic location would give its rulers inordinate influence 


 over the entire Persian Gulf region, including Saudi Arabia, 


 Kuwait, and the Gulf States. Then ask your Martian: Which is 


 the more important battle? He would not even understand why 


 you are asking the question.


The war in Iraq is a very important front on the larger global 
battlefield. If anyone doubts this, then all we need to do is to listen 
to what Osama bin Laden had to say back in December 2004 in a message 
to Muslims in Iraq.

Bin Ladin said: I now address my speech to the whole of the Islamic 
Nation. Listen and understand. The issue is big, and the misfortune is 
momentous. The most important and serious issue today for the whole 
world is this Third World War which the crusader Zionist coalition 
began against the Islamic Nation. It is raging in the land of the Two 
Rivers. The world's millstone and pillar is in Baghdad, the capital of 
the caliphate.

That is what Osama bin Laden said. He has gone on to say: The whole 
world is watching this war and the two adversaries--the Islamic Nation, 
on the one


hand, and the United States and its allies on the other. It is either 
victory and glory or misery and humiliation.

Now, obviously we did not declare war on radical Islam; it declared 
war on us.

In addition, some in the House have sought to strike the term 
''global war on terror,'' pandering again to the likes of the George 
Soros wing of the party, undercutting U.S. efforts.

The global war on terror is a real mission that 9/11 showed us has no 
geographical boundaries and one that so many of our brave men and women 
have died for since the attacks of 9/11.

The terrorists have been targeting the United States throughout the 
1980s and 1990s. The United States never responded to those attacks, 
and the message sent was one of weakness, not strength. We would be 
repeating the same mistake today by communicating a weakness of our 
will by our political leaders. We withdrew from Vietnam, we withdrew 
from Beirut, we withdrew from Mogadishu. These repeated withdrawals 
signal to our enemies all over the world that if they inflict enough 
damage on our most heroic citizens, the marines will never surrender, 
but Washington will.

A precipitous withdrawal, such as that being prescribed by the 
wannabe generals here in the Congress, would be disastrous. The Iraq 
Study Group's recommendations reached the same conclusion. James Baker, 
the group's cochairman, just wrote:




 The report does not set timetables or deadlines for the 


 removal of troops as contemplated by the supplemental 


 spending bills the House and Senate passed. In fact, the 


 report specifically opposes that approach. As many military 


 and political leaders told us, an arbitrary deadline would 


 allow the enemy to wait us out and would strengthen the 


 positions of extremists over moderates. A premature American 


 departure from Iraq, we unanimously concluded, would almost 


 certainly produce even greater sectarian violence and further 


 deterioration of conditions in Iraq and possibly other 


 countries.


The intelligence community, in open hearing, said precipitous 
withdrawal on a political timetable would lead to heightened killings 
of Shias and Sunnis, offer a safe haven for al-Qaida to reestablish 
itself, and likely a region-wide war between Sunni and Shia countries.

To ignore these questions and considerations simply because they are 
unpalatable is shortsighted at best and dangerous at the worst. Those 
who want to end the war precipitously because they want to embarrass 
the President do not want to talk about the fact that the war in Iraq 
will do anything but end--in fact, would only grow even more dangerous. 
If we leave, radical Islamists will follow us home.

What I say to those who want to get out either immediately or on a 
political timetable, not based on the conditions on the ground, is if 
you want to run the war on terror from this body, you will own it. Even 
if some would-be generals in this body think they are smarter than 
General Petraeus and can devise a better plan in legislation--and I 
doubt that they can--how can they adjust their legislation conditions 
on the battlefield? To micromanage a war is to ensure defeat.


When a newly revitalized al-Qaida carries out renewed 9/11-scale 
attacks, you will own those attacks as well. There are hundreds of 
thousands of soldiers, marines, guardsmen, and reservists and their 
families who will remember, and I will help remind everyone.

As you may know, I proudly hail from the Show Me State. If all of the 
rhetoric in Washington about supporting the troops is true, and I 
believe people mean it, then I suggest that the Congress show our 
troops we do support them by getting them the funds and giving them a 
chance to succeed and not taking away management from the hands of our 
capable generals in the field and bringing to it this body where, in 
our great military wisdom, we know better than the troops, the 
officers, and the commanders on the ground what the conditions are in 
Iraq and the other battlefields.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.