# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `42ecfc93b4e82ec33938a6d14a57a67e`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this 
appropriations bill and thank Chairman Obey, Chairman Edwards, and our 
ranking members for their work in setting a new standard for funding 
our veterans program.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of this appropriations bill, 
and to congratulate Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member and Chairman 
Obey for their work in crafting this bill that sets a new standard for 
funding veterans' programs.

For the first time since the veterans' service organizations began 
producing their independent budget, Congress has met and even exceeded 
their request in this bill. The bill appropriates a total of $87.7 
billion for veterans' programs, which marks a $6.7 billion increase in 
funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs--the largest increase in 
veterans' health care funding in the 77-year history of the VA.



This level of funding lets veterans, our troops, and their families 
know this Congress is going to make sure the promises we made to the 
men and women who fight for our country will be fulfilled, even after 
they are done with their service. The wait times at VA medical 
facilities have increased in recent years; the number of veterans has 
increased and will continue to grow in the coming years as service 
members return from Iraq and Afghanistan; and unspeakable conditions at 
Walter Reed uncovered earlier this year all require attention, and this 
bill ensures there is funding to address these problems.

During a time of war, we need to demonstrate a strong commitment not 
only to our troops currently serving, but to those who have returned 
from service and those who fought to defend our country in previous 
conflicts. I would also like to offer my support for a project request 
to provide funding for a fire station at Ellington Field, and I hope 
the chairman will give it strong consideration as projects are funded.

The existing fire station at Ellington field is in a rapidly 
deteriorating condition and does not meet OSHA or Air Force standards. 
Roof leaks and lack of insulation result in equipment being destroyed 
and extremely high operating costs. New firefighting apparatus must be 
parked outside the station because they will not fit into the truck 
bays.

This fire station supports all flying operations at Ellington Field 
including Air National Guard, Army National Guard, U.S. Coast Guard, 
NASA, and civilian aircraft. Construction of a new fire station at 
Ellington is critical for the Texas Air National Guard and all units 
stationed at Ellington Field.

Mr. Chairman, I again applaud the leadership from the chairmen who 
drafted this bill, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this legislation.