# None
## `42ee190eff06608bc2b418db340f9abb`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. We have one more. This is the Concord Coalition. 
This is the gold standard of the budget hawks. This is bipartisan, this 
is deficit hawks, Republicans, Democrats. In an issue brief of March 
28, quote, ''Thus, to be clear, the budget resolution does not call for 
or require a tax increase.'' That was three, separate, third-party 
validators.

I am just going to make this statement, and I am going to kick it to 
one of my friends. The same people that are saying we are raising taxes 
are the same people that said we would be greeted as liberators. They 
are the same people that said, you know, we use the oil money for 
reconstruction, the same people that said it would only cost us $50 
billion to run the war in Iraq, the same people that said we are in our 
last throes, the same people that said mission was accomplished, those 
are the same people that are saying that the Democratic budget is going 
to raise taxes, which three third-party validators have not say. All I 
am going to say is this. Let's ask the American people to reserve 
judgment.

Next January and February, when you file your taxes, you compare them 
to the taxes you filed this year, and you will see that the Democrats 
have not raised your taxes. Reserve judgment, keep your sheets, keep 
your forms from this year, and you will see next year that we have not 
done it, and that will be one more that you could add to the list of 
inaccuracies that have been levied towards the American people.