# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `43330a1f8aebde45121a88ce93eabec8`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 31 July 2008`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise tonight in support of this bill. I 
want to thank Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member Wamp for their 
extraordinary efforts on behalf of this Nation's veterans, and for 
including report language on veterans burial benefits.



I'm deeply concerned about the eroding value of plot allowance and 
burial benefits provided to our Nation's veterans. Because the benefits 
are not indexed to inflation, their value continues to diminish each 
year. As a result, families and State veteran cemeteries have been left 
to cover the increasing costs of burying their loved ones. The VA 
simply must assess the need to increase the plot allowance of burial 
benefits to cover the same percentage of burial benefit costs that were 
covered in 1973 when these benefits were first initiated.

I appreciate the fact that the chairman has included the report 
language in the report the need for increasing burial benefits for our 
veterans.

I'm also pleased that the committee recognizes the importance of 
veterans' mental health and substance abuse services. This is an issue 
of great importance to me. I had a constituent by the name of Justin 
Bailey. He volunteered to serve this Nation, he was sent to Iraq, he 
served with honor and distinction. And when he returned, he developed a 
substance abuse problem. At the suggestion of his parents, he checked 
himself into a VA facility, and even though he was suffering from a 
substance abuse problem due to PTSD and other mental health issues, he 
was given more medication while he was in the VA facility. And he 
ultimately ended up overdosing while he was in the care of the VA.

Unfortunately, Justin is not an isolated incident. There are 
thousands of young men and women returning from service overseas that 
come back with a mental health problem or substance abuse problem or 
PTSD. I'm very delighted that this committee and Chairman Edwards have 
recognized that this is a crisis and this bill increases funding for 
mental health and substance abuse services for our veterans.

Again, I want to thank Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member Wamp for 
recognizing the importance of these issues, and I would like to urge my 
colleagues to support this legislation without reservation and without 
continuing to add on things that do not belong in this bill and are not 
germane.

Let's stand up for our veterans, and let's stand up for them this 
evening.

I yield back.