# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `433974137485af1abaf8d5b466d15cbc`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague Senator 
Obama to introduce the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act. 
This bill will require the Secretary of Veteran's Affairs to establish 
a program for the provision of readjustment and mental health services 
to veterans who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation 
Enduring Freedom, with a particular emphasis on those soldiers who 
served in the National Guard and Reserves.

Operation Enduring Freedom, OEF, and Operation Iraqi Freedom, OIF, 
are unique in their extensive use of National Guard and Reserve troops 
and their reliance on repetitive deployments. More than 1,500 National 
Guard and Reservists from New Mexico have been deployed in support of 
OIF and OEF. Several hundred of these soldiers have been deployed 
multiple times. This is a new era for our National Guard and for the 
Reserve. The role of these organizations in defending our national 
security has significantly increased. Guard and Reserve members are 
seeing significant combat action and we know that a number of these 
soldiers will return with mental and physical wounds suffered in these 
wars, including post traumatic stress disorder, depression, brain 
injuries and other traumatic illnesses.

Virtually all returning veterans and their families will face 
readjustment problems. These soldiers and their families deserve the 
best care and treatment possible, but where do our National Guard and 
Reserve soldiers fit into the military and veterans' systems of care? 
These ''citizen-soldiers'' are not returning to military bases, but 
rather to communities that are frequently remote from VA medical 
centers and clinics.

We're quick to urge that VA provide veterans needed treatment for 
service-related mental health problems, but we also need to do more to 
remove the barriers such as travel and distance that oftentimes will 
prevent a veteran from seeking and continuing treatment. The Domenici-
Obama bill calls on the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop a 
national program to reach vets who can't or won't seek VA care. It 
requires the Secretary to mount a national program to train a cadre of 
returning servicemembers for positions as peer outreach workers and 
peer-support specialists. In any remote area of the country in which 
the VA determines there is inadequate access to a VA medical center, 
the bill directs the Secretary of the VA to contract with community 
mental health centers and other qualified entities to provide peer 
outreach and support services, readjustment counseling and mental 
health services. However, any resulting contracts would require centers 
to first train and adhere to the VA's expertise and standards of care 
in mental health. It also will require any contract-provider to hire a 
trained peer specialist as well as have its clinicians participate in a 
training program to be certain they'll provide ''culturally competent'' 
services.

This bill also gives needed attention to the toll these military 
operations have on the mental health needs of our veterans' families. 
These deployments are causing great stress for the spouses and children 
of these soldiers. Yet despite the recognition of the mental health 
needs of the family members of the returning veterans, current law 
limits the ability of the VA to work with these family members. This 
bill will expand access to mental health services for the immediate 
family of the veteran so that they may help the veteran recover in the 
case of injury or illness incurred during deployment. It will also help 
expand access to services so that the family can better help the 
veteran adjust back to civilian life, and also help the readjustment of 
the family to the return of the veteran.

Lastly, this bill will extend the eligibility for health care 
services from the Department of Veterans Affairs for veterans who 
served in combat from 2 years to 5 years. Two years is often 
insufficient time for symptoms related to PTSD and other mental illness 
to manifest. In many cases, it takes years for symptoms to present 
themselves, and the difficulty is often compounded by the fact that 
many servicemembers do not immediately seek the care that they need. 
Five years provides a more adequate window to address these risks.

Outreach and access to treatment are essential to prevent 
readjustment problems for our returning veterans and their families. 
Left untreated, mental disorders like PTSD and depression can become 
chronic and debilitating. We need systems in place to ensure that OEF/
OIF veterans who are returning to their homes have access to the 
services they need. It is my hope that this legislation will help close 
the gaps we currently have in our service delivery systems and provide 
help to those who have experienced mental health problems as a result 
of their service to their country.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.