# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `433b046363e655786c0831bdb80d29c7`
`Mr. McHUGH â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. McHUGH. I thank the gentleman both for yielding and for his very, 
very gracious comments, and I thank Mr. Chairman.

I want to begin by giving thanks where thanks are certainly due. I 
want to express my particular appreciation to my chairman on the 
Personnel Subcommittee, a fellow I had the opportunity to work with 
when he was ranking member for a number of years when I had the 
opportunity to Chair that subcommittee, Dr. Snyder; as well as and 
equally so with the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Skelton; and, 
of course, my dear friend and such a great leader from the great State 
of California (Mr. Hunter), for their leadership for recognizing the 
need to react to this, not in a bipartisan, not in a political way, but 
in a way that embodies the spirit of the Armed Services Committee.

One reason I am so proud and have been for now going on 15 years to 
serve on it and that is in the interest of those incredibly brave and 
unselfish men and women who don the uniform of the United States of 
America. We owe our thanks as well, as the gentleman from Maryland 
suggested, to the VA Committee, Mr. Filner and Mr. Buyer, for their 
willingness to work together in addressing what we all recognize is a 
very, very serious problem.

This is not a perfect bill. It does not meet the entire range of 
challenges and problems that we know exist, the entire range and need 
of problems that, frankly, have been known to many of us for many, many 
years, particularly the disconnect between two very well-meaning 
systems, that of the Department of Defense, who cares for our wounded, 
and later, after retirement and disability ratings, the VA department, 
who cares for those who follow through.

Both of them tried to do the job, and they tried to do it in very 
distinct ways, and what we have understood now and what was 
demonstrated at least in part at Walter Reed is the challenges of 
helping those two well-meaning, independent agencies work better 
together.

But while it is not, Mr. Chairman, a perfect bill, it is a very, very 
good bill, an excellent first step, a place where we can put into 
effect mechanisms to better ensure the quality of service and, equally 
important, provide a continuum of care for the brave men and women who 
risk their lives in defense of our freedoms, of America's freedoms. And 
I think we can all agree as well we owe that to them. We owe it to 
their families. We owe them nothing less than the best that we can 
possibly provide, the absolute best; and this bill takes an important 
step towards effecting that kind of necessary change.

There will have to be things that follow. Once we hear from the 
recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission and from the DOD and 
Military Services' reviews and analysis, we will be in an even better 
position to take whatever additional actions are necessary to bring it 
together.

But you have heard my colleagues here on the floor today speak about 
the important components of this bill. We have looked at the problems, 
we have looked at the challenges that these folks have faced, and we 
have tried to


respond to them. Everything from hotlines to actual human hand-offs 
between the two systems, more case managers, more personal face-to-face 
responsiveness to the problems they may encounter, this bill provides 
it, with more to follow.

I also want to add, Mr. Chairman, that without the hard work of the 
staff on both sides of the Armed Services Committee we would not have 
had this legislation. Our particular thanks to Mike Higgins, Debra 
Wada, John Chapla, and Jeanette James, amongst others, who took our 
concerns, who took our feedback and made them into the bill that we 
receive here today; and we owe them as well.

Before I yield back, on a last note, Mr. Chairman, I would be remiss 
if I didn't once again add my words of deep appreciation to those 
incredible military medical professionals who through their hard work, 
who through their dedication are solely responsible for the best 
quality care. We are experiencing survival rates today coming out of 
Afghanistan and Iraq that we have never experienced in any theater of 
war in the history of this Nation, in fact, in the history of mankind, 
and that is because of the wonderful job that they do.

This challenge has never been about them, and I want them most 
importantly to recognize we understand the differences of the system 
and, in fact, two systems that need correcting and better oversight 
from their valiant efforts. We all owe them our deepest appreciation.

So I am proud to be associated with this bill, a bill that will take 
a quantitative and qualitative step forward in providing the best 
possible care to our wounded and fallen warriors.