---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `43645383c458cfd5f23acace7934e30a`
`Mr. BOND — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the 
amendment, introduced by Senator Barrasso, to strike the funding for 
the Central Intelligence Agency's Center on Climate Change and National 
Security. Climate change and the role of the intelligence community has 
been the subject of many lively discussions before the Select Committee 
on Intelligence.

As the vice chairman of this committee, I have worked with the 
chairman, Senator Dianne Feinstein, to resolve many issues of 
importance to the intelligence community. Unfortunately, on this issue 
of climate change, I have and will continue to disagree respectfully 
with the chairman.

I recognize that many Members on both sides of the aisle have strong 
beliefs about global climate change, its causes, and its possible 
consequences. Regardless of how you come down on this issue, however, 
our intelligence agencies are not the appropriate venue for dealing 
with it.

Members who support the creation of this center at CIA have cited the 
national security implications of global climate change. I agree that 
global climate change could have national and global security 
implications and that elements of the U.S. Government and private 
sector should be studying it, but the intelligence community is not one 
of those elements. Other government entities, such as the Environmental 
Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, are far better suited to study this issue.

The intelligence community is not a think tank. Its job, put simply, 
is to steal secrets and provide analysis of those secrets. There are no 
secrets to steal or to analyze when studying current weather patterns 
and estimating the geopolitical effects of an event 20 or more years in 
the future as this new CIA center would be asked to do.

The Senate Intelligence Committee is constantly reminded by various 
commissions, and the intelligence community itself, that our Nation's 
intelligence analysts are overtasked, overworked, and do not have 
adequate time to devote to long-term assessments, even on the important 
countries and issues they currently cover on a daily basis, such as 
terrorism, proliferation, Iran, Iraq, and China.

To those who support this center, I would ask a simple question: As 
we


face continued threats in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran, which analysts 
are going to be pulled from their current responsibilities to analyze 
the implications of climate change? Adequately covering all of the 
geopolitical implications of global climate change would require 
analysis on dozens of countries by analysts who are familiar with some 
or all of those countries. In short, it would require drawing on a 
substantial part of our analytic corp.

Can we really afford to have these analysts redirected from their 
current responsibilities to work on global climate change, especially 
when our nation is at war? I strongly doubt that terrorist leaders or 
rogue nations will stop plotting against us while our analysts take 
time off to ponder the potential implications of global climate change.

Through my many discussions with Senator Feinstein, I am familiar 
with the motivation for this center. While I will vote in favor of 
Senator Barrasso's amendment, I would be willing to work with Senator 
Feinstein and others to find alternative avenues to obtain the 
information being sought through this center.

The bottom line is this--at a time when our Nation is fighting wars 
on two fronts, terrorists continue to plot attacks on our homeland, and 
the threat of proliferation grows, we cannot afford for our overtaxed 
intelligence agencies to take time off to ponder climate change.