# None
## `43646e330b6fd38824f4b571cd260301`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan started wearing his pink ties, which my 
daughter always says, real men wear pink. That is actually salmon, but 
we won't talk about it.

Mr. Speaker, in all seriousness, we have an awful lot of business 
that will be taking place in the next 24 hours. We are approaching 
Memorial Day, and there have been a lot of reports about the Iraq 
emergency supplemental. There has been a lot of discussion about 
lobbying reform. There has been a lot of discussion about the 
reauthorization of the agriculture bill. But I can tell you one thing, 
Mr. Speaker: Unlike previous Congresses, the work is being done here by 
those of us that are under the dome, doing what the people of America 
sent us up here to do.

As we talk about the war, I think it is important to know that the 
issues in Iraq and Afghanistan are very, very serious to all of us 
here, to all of us in Washington, D.C., and Americans throughout the 
country, and especially the family members of those serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We always give this report. As of 10 a.m. this morning, 
the death toll in Iraq as it relates to the men and women in uniform is 
3,424; wounded in action and returning to duty is 14,073; and wounded 
in action and not returning to duty is 11,476. I think it is very 
important that we pay very close attention to those numbers.

The days of six supplementals passing off of this floor, half a 
trillion dollars spent and no strings attached to any of those 
appropriation dollars, those days are over. I am very proud of the 
leadership in the House and the Senate in fighting with the White House 
and bringing about the kind of accountability that the American people 
have called for.

You heard me say here on this floor in the past, Mr. Speaker, that 
there have been bills that in the spirit of the bill, I voted for those 
bills, but as it relates to the substance of those bills, I have had a 
few problems with the lack of accountability. That is paramount now in 
this bill that hopefully will pass the House floor tomorrow. There are 
benchmarks. There are reporting periods that the President has to 
report back to the Congress. In September, we will be coming in for a 
landing and making some real decisions.

The Iraqi Parliament, as you know, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, they have 
been holding quite a few conversations, as a matter of fact, talking 
about going on vacation for 60 days. The Defense Minister called his 
Ministers together to plan for an immediate U.S. withdrawal of troops, 
because I believe they know with this new Congress in place, the days 
of the Iraqi Government drawing down on the taxpayer dollars, the U.S. 
taxpayer dollars, without accountability, are over; and if they are not 
willing to reform themselves, then we should not be willing to have our 
men and women on the streets of Iraq fighting on behalf of safety and 
patrolling the streets, when the Iraqis are not doing what they are 
supposed to be doing.

With that, I will yield to one of my good friends. I will yield to 
Ms. Wasserman Schultz, who is a very good friend, and then Mr. Ryan 
comes in after her in my friendship.