# None
## `4383811c197e483c4049c85432b765d5`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 17 December 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution of which I am proud 
to be an original cosponsor.

I want to thank my good friend from New York, Congresswoman Nita 
Lowey, for her timely work in authoring this resolution; and of course 
I thank my chairman, Mr. Berman of California, as well.

The sudden and unexpected passing of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke 
earlier this week was a shock to all of us. The depth of sadness that 
we felt at the news was a testament to his exemplary life of service to 
our country in so many different capacities.

Ambassador Holbrooke was one of the most consequential world 
diplomats of the last half century, and his tireless work in pursuit of 
United States national interests and international peace have put us 
all in his debt.

His advocacy for peace was, of course, most clearly shown during the 
conflict in Bosnia. His tenacity and force of will brought the warring 
parties to the negotiation table in Dayton, Ohio, where he skillfully 
brokered the accord that ended over 3 years of atrocities and bloody 
conflict.



Over 100,000 perished in the Bosnian war, and it is impossible to say 
how many thousands may have been saved by Ambassador Holbrooke's 
actions at Dayton. And while that accomplishment would have been enough 
to mark any diplomatic career with high distinction, it was only one of 
the many facets of his service which continued to the very end of his 
life. As Assistant Secretary of State for two regions of the world, 
East Asia and Europe; as United States Ambassador to the United 
Nations; and as U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, he made his mark on many issues that remain urgent concerns 
today. In New York at the U.N., he did much of the heavy lifting on 
congressionally led efforts to rein in U.N. spending, to make more 
equitable the dues paid by the United States, and to improve the 
standing of Israel in that multinational body.

Sadly, those concerns have returned with a renewed urgency--with the 
need for fundamental reform of the U.N. budgets and the virulently 
anti-Israel U.N. Human Rights Council--and the Congress can only hope 
to have such a tenacious, principled partner in the future.

Ambassador Holbrooke made his final appearance before our Committee 
on Foreign Affairs in the spring of last year as U.S. Special 
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. We lament the loss of his 
matchless skills in those critical regions. We grieve at his passing, 
but let us honor his service by renewing our own commitment to success 
in Afghanistan.

At this time we extend our condolences, our thoughts, and our prayers 
to his wife Kati and to his children. While we mourn the loss of a 
dedicated public servant, they mourn the loss of a husband and a 
father.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me in this expression of 
gratitude for the service of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.