---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `438d37b917f1f70faa33343a84bb45f6`
`Mr. FILNER — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, today we have the first bills that are 
coming out of the Veterans Committee this year. We are going to have an 
ambitious agenda for our committee, an agenda that in fact is demanded 
by the American people.

We have seen in the last few weeks enormous attention paid to the 
treatment, or lack thereof, that is given to our Nation's veterans, 
whether they are from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the first Persian 
Gulf War or now from Iraq and Afghanistan.

We have seen the Washington Post articles which detailed the problems 
at Walter Reed. We have seen news magazines have cover stories on how 
veterans are falling through the cracks of the system. We have seen on 
ABC News, Bob Woodruff, do a very moving piece on how brain injuries 
are treated, or perhaps not treated. We have seen stories in the press 
of homeless, already, from veterans of Iraq.

The American people understand that we are not treating our veterans 
the way we claim to be. The American people, I think, understand that 
the treatment of our warriors is a part of the cost of war, and we 
simply have to provide for those brave men and women who have fought 
for our Nation's freedom.

So we have an ambitious agenda in front of us, Mr. Speaker. These 
first items today address some specific areas that demand attention. I 
thank the Members from across the aisle for their support not only of 
these bills, but I think for the agenda that we are going to pursue in 
the future.

And it is time, Mr. Speaker, that we say as a Congress and as a 
Nation, no matter where we are on this war in Iraq, that when those 
brave young men and women come back we are going to treat them with all 
the love and respect and honor and care that American veterans should 
have. And we make that pledge on both sides of the aisle.

As I said, one of the top priorities of our committee is to address 
the needs of returning servicemembers from Iraq and Afghanistan, 
especially in the areas of mental health.



I believe that if we send our citizens off to war, we have to address 
their health care needs when they return. We cannot say, support our 
troops, support our troops, support our troops, and then forget them 
when they come home.

It turns out, I think unsurprisingly, that veterans suffer a higher 
risk of suicide than the general population. The stress of combat 
combined with the stigma that exists for servicemembers and veterans 
seeking mental health care can have disastrous consequences. It has 
already occurred for returning veterans, maybe a couple


hundred. We must do everything possible to improve the VA's mental 
health services and its ability to detect and help those veterans most 
at risk.

This bill, H.R. 327, is an important step in the right direction. It 
comes to us from our colleague from Iowa (Mr. Boswell), who has taken 
the tragedy from a family in Iowa and turned it into constructive 
measures so that tragedy will not be repeated in other parts of the 
Nation. And we thank Mr. Boswell and his colleague, Mr. Braley from 
Iowa, for bringing this to our attention.

This bill will provide important tools to the Veterans Administration 
to assist the Department in strengthening suicide prevention, 
education, and awareness programs within the VA by mandating a 
comprehensive program for suicide prevention among veterans.

Again, I thank Mr. Boswell for introducing this bill. I thank Mr. 
Miller and his colleagues for supporting it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.