---
---

# None
## `43a012146bcaf300ba7626f1818ebb2c`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I thank the chairwoman for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, the rule allows for the supplemental to be considered in 
two parts. Part 1 is funding for the war and Iraq, and part 2 includes 
expanded benefits for GI education, expanded unemployment compensation, 
disaster relief, food aid, and other measures.

I want to begin also, Mr. Speaker, by thanking Chairman Obey for his 
incredible leadership in trying to forge a decent and fair compromise. 
He has more patience than I.

Mr. Speaker, let me start with talking about amendment No. 2. I 
strongly support the measures contained in this amendment. It expands 
the GI benefits for the education of our veterans, including those 
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, and extends them more equitably for 
all of our service branches, including the Guard and Reserves.

The amendment also extends unemployment benefits by up to 13 weeks in 
every State for workers who have exhausted their benefits.



It places a moratorium on six Medicaid regulations, the costs of 
which are fully offset.

It provides emergency funding to meet critical needs, especially in 
addressing the global food crisis and disaster and refugee assistance.

It includes many other measures, Mr. Speaker, that are worth 
supporting, that are important, that are vital, and so I urge all my 
colleagues to support amendment No. 2.

Let me now just say a few words about funding for the war in Iraq, 
Mr. Speaker.

Under amendment No. 1, funding for the Iraq war is provided without 
conditions, a blank check, with no requirements about how or when we 
might begin removing our military forces from Iraq or prohibiting the 
Bush administration from moving forward with a Status of Forces 
Agreement that could tie the hands of the next administration to design 
a new policy and a new future with Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, how can anyone in this Chamber give this President 
another blank check for the war in Iraq? This is the same President who 
rushed us into war under false pretenses. There were no weapons of mass 
destruction and no ties to al Qaeda. Everything he and his 
administration have told us has been wrong. Where is the 
accountability?

For me, this is one compromise too many. It represents one cave-in 
too many. It asks Congress to roll over and be blind to the 
consequences of the war for the next 9 months or so.

Five years after the invasion of Iraq, the Bush administration 
continues the occupation of Iraq with no end in sight. More than 4,500 
American soldiers and tens of thousands of Iraqi civilians have been 
killed, and over 30,000 Americans wounded.

It is long past time for a change in course, and this bill does 
absolutely nothing to bring that about.

This is George Bush's war, and he should end it while he is still 
President.

I urge my colleagues in the strongest possible terms to oppose this 
amendment, amendment No. 1, and demand that this President and his 
administration begin the safe and orderly withdrawal of our troops from 
Iraq.

