# None
## `43ad73addb94ca602f4440c3f21b9237`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise in support of my friend and 
colleague from Illinois, as well as our leader, Senator Reid, about 
what is going on here. This is unbelievable. What we have, in fact, is 
the folks from the other side of the aisle are in disarray. Their basic 
tenet and philosophy which govern them, which they use to govern, which 
they have used to win elections starting with Ronald Reagan, is falling 
apart. There is dissension in the Republican Party. There are different 
wings all over the place. Most importantly, the Republican base which 
says, basically, shrink Government, get rid of Government, is very far 
away from where the American mainstream is--not just far away from 
where Democrats are but far away from the mainstream.

But my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have nowhere to go. 
They cannot put forward a positive program because their positive 
program is out of date with the needs of 21st century America. So they 
have come up with a strategy of obstruction: 57, 58, 59, and soon they 
will set the record in numbers of filibusters--not just obstructing on 
the most major of issues but on just about everything. Their view is: 
We can block things and show we count. Well, the rules of the Senate 
certainly allow them to block anything they want as long as they 
prevent us from getting 60 votes. That is true, but that is hardly a 
sign of strength. That is hardly a sign of resoluteness. It is a sign, 
in my judgment, of weakness, of an inability to do anything positive, 
and therefore a unity around just being negative.

In 1980, a lot of people felt Government was too big and out of 
control. In 2008, with our health care system needing help, with our 
education system needing help, with our energy policy in a shambles, 
with our foreign policy--I heard my colleague from Texas mention 
fighting al-Qaida. What percentage of the troops in Iraq are fighting 
al-Qaida? We all know that is a misstatement of what is going on there. 
The vast majority of those who are fighting are fighting in the war 
between the Sunnis and the Shiites. So our present needs in America are 
different. The world has been hit by a technological revolution. The 
world has been hit by globalization.

In 2000, we sat astride the globe. We had a budget surplus. We had a 
prosperous economy. We were respected in the world. Over the last 7 
years, under the leadership of President Bush, that has been 
squandered. That is not just Democrats speaking; that is America 
speaking. Close to 70 percent of America thinks we are headed in the 
wrong direction. A majority of not only Democrats but Independents and 
a near majority of Republicans think we are headed in the wrong 
direction. But my


colleagues across the aisle, clinging to their base, narrower and 
narrower, further and further away from the American mainstream and 
what the American people want, have come up with a policy of 
obstruction because they can't come up with anything else.

So we come to the floor and ask for reasonable debates on the major 
issues facing us, whether it be weaning us away from oil and fossil 
fuels, whether it be improving health care for children, whether it be 
a change in course in Iraq, which the vast majority of America demands, 
and they block it, and then they block it again, and then they block it 
again. My good colleagues from Illinois and from Nevada even brought up 
the most noncontroversial bill: a registry on ALS. My uncle, who was a 
well-known obstetrician, the head of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital's 
Department of Obstetrics, died of ALS. I care about this. I watched him 
waste away. They blocked that too.

This strategy, which creates a feeling of false strength among my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, is doomed to failure. This 
strategy, I predict, will help create the demise of even the large 
minority they have right now.

There will be a Democratic nominee; there will be a Presidential 
campaign in the summer and the fall. That Presidential Democratic 
nominee, whoever she or he may be, will be campaigning and saying we 
need change. We cannot get change unless we increase the number of 
people who want change in the Senate. Senator X and Senator Y and 
Senator Z on the other side of the aisle have stood in the way of 
change, and they will continue to. So put in a new Senator who will 
vote for change. My Republican colleagues are filibustering themselves 
out of their seats come 2008. This strategy--short term, narrow, and 
shortsighted--will not stand because the American people demand change.

I want to talk about one area I have been asked to talk about, the 
subprime loan crisis. I have said time and time again we need to do 
something about this crisis. I have been talking about it for a long 
time. The Bush administration and Senate Republicans have ideological 
handcuffs on: Government should not be involved, no matter what. If 
hundreds of thousands of innocent people are losing their homes, no 
Government. If our financial markets are shaking and quaking, no 
Government. If housing prices are going down for the first time across 
America so that even if you fully paid your mortgage, you are suffering 
from this subprime crisis, no Government, no matter what, no matter the 
consequences.

Guess what that sounds like. It sounds like the Republican platform 
of the 1890s or 1920s. I thought we had learned something since then. 
Government is not the only answer, and it probably should not even be 
the first answer, in most instances, but it is often the only answer. 
What we have seen is this administration comes up with the sort of 
plans and schemes that twist themselves into a pretzel to try to say 
they are helping with this crisis and avoiding any Government 
involvement. It hasn't worked. Confidence in our credit markets 
declines. The number of foreclosures goes up. Housing prices continue 
to go down. The shame of it all is there are simple solutions.