# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `43aee1b41a2fa5d48aec40a2ea6d54db`
`Mr. ENSIGN â€” 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. First of all, we were flying over the Kandahar Province 
in the southern part of Afghanistan in these Black Hawk helicopters, 
visiting a few of the forward operating bases--one for training, the 
other one for trying to provide stability for the region. As we were 
flying over, it was surprising how many agricultural fields there were 
in that part of the country. It was a very fertile area, and it seemed 
to me that 80 to 90 percent of the crops I saw from the air were 
poppies. This is just an estimate, but it was pretty easy to see them 
because the poppies were in bloom. They were everywhere, including 
right next to our bases, because we have stopped the eradication 
program. There has been a change in policy. This change was the one 
element of policy which I disagreed with over there. I think we do need 
to reevaluate, as the Senator from Delaware talked about, this tough 
love approach. I do think that is the way to go because you do have to 
have the positive incentives in there to grow other crops. But I don't 
believe you can do that without the negative consequences if farmers do 
decide to grow the poppies. In other words, if the positives are not 
strong enough, they may decide they are going to grow poppies anyway.

A couple problems with the poppies is, one, the Taliban wants to grow 
them because it helps fund the Taliban; and two, poppies are a very 
drought-resistant crop and Afghanistan has been in a drought for about 
8 years. So growing poppies is a stable source of income for the Afghan 
farmers.

The other thing the Senator from Delaware mentioned is that other 
countries in the area would love to have their produce. The problem is 
getting that produce to market. They do not have anywhere to store the 
produce. They have a guaranteed market there for the poppies with the 
transportation. The Taliban is not going to attack their transport, if 
that is what they are growing. So this is very much a difficult 
situation, but it isn't a situation that is, I believe, without a 
solution. I believe we can come to a solution on this, and that is why 
I think we need to reevaluate what we are doing in Afghanistan by not 
including eradication as part of the process. Because when we talk 
about the police--and I see Senator Brown has joined us, one of our 
colleagues who was on the trip--there is corruption in the police 
force. Well, in every country in the world that has a serious drug 
problem, it leads to corruption in the police, which leads to 
corruption of any kind of judicial system, officials in the government 
and on and on and on.

I would be curious to hear from my colleague, our newest Senator, the 
Senator from Massachusetts, who was a real joy to have with us on the 
trip.