---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `43bad97df59285330ac0e1bdd33d2b07`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 17 December 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 878 provides 1 hour of 
debate on the motion by the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations 
to concur in the Senate amendment to H.R. 2764, the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Act with 
each of the two House amendments printed in the report accompanying the 
resolution.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the 
motion except those arising out of clause 10 of rule XXI, and provides 
that the Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read.

The rule directs the Chair to divide the question of adoption of the 
motion between the two House amendments; and, finally, it provides that 
the Chair may postpone further consideration of the motion to a time 
designated by the Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, it is our constitutional obligation to ensure that our 
government is running efficiently, from our children who need quality 
education to our veterans who need the benefits promised to them when 
they put their lives on the line for their country, and to our senior 
citizens who need access to health care and affordable prescription 
drugs.

And I am proud to say that we, here in the House of Representatives, 
have fulfilled our fiscal responsibility to the American people by 
passing all 12 of our appropriations bills on time. We've also used our 
time this year to pass all of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, to 
increase the minimum wage, to promote a 21st century jobs and global 
economic initiative, add much needed funds to the gulf coast following 
hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and to undertake the largest expansion of 
college aid since the GI Bill in 1944.

We also passed the widely acclaimed landmark lobbying and ethics 
reforms standards, enacted PAYGO, resulting in no new deficit spending, 
and passed an unprecedented energy bill that will help our Nation to be 
more energy efficient, while addressing global warming.

We will not soon forget that, of the 12 appropriations bills that we 
were supposed to have passed in 2006 when Republicans controlled the 
Chamber, only two were completed. The others were abandoned, requiring 
the incoming Democrat majority to meet the responsibilities abdicated 
by an outgoing party that now claims a mantle of fiscal responsibility. 
Simply put, we were forced to clean up their mess.

And according to the Office of Management and Budget, President Bush 
and the Republican Congress increased Federal spending by nearly 50 
percent, turned record surpluses into record deficits, and increased 
our national debt by more than $3 trillion. And let's not forget that 
President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress doubled our 
foreign debt to more than $2 trillion, more in 7 years, Mr. Speaker,


more in just 7 years than in the previous 224 years of our Nation 
combined. Listen to that, America. They did more in 7 years to run up 
the debt than the previous 224 years of our Nation combined.

Now, all this among budget failures that vastly increased our 
national debt, while leaving the agencies, States and localities in 
limbo for months concerning their future funding. Let me add to that 
our children's health program.

It is simply astounding to me that the President would request an 11 
percent increase for the Pentagon, a 12 percent increase for foreign 
aid, and $195 billion emergency funding for this terrible war, while in 
the same breath claiming that any increase in domestic programs needed 
for the citizens is fiscally irresponsible.

We all remember the promises of the Bush administration claiming 
that, at the most, the Iraq war would cost $50 billion. A recent report 
issued on November 13 states that the total economic cost of the Iraq 
war through 2008 exceeds $1.3 trillion, with a projected cost of $3.5 
trillion; a long way from $50 billion.

I believe the New York Times Editorial Board said it succinctly in 
their editorial published last week when they wrote, and I quote, ''We 
know what's behind President Bush's sudden enthusiasm for fiscal 
discipline after years of running up deficits and debt: Political 
posturing, just in time for the 2008 election.''

But one should not forget the damage that his administration 
inflicted by shortchanging domestic programs in favor of tax cuts for 
the wealthy and his never-ending Iraq war.

I will submit this editorial for the Congressional Record.









[From the New York Times, Dec. 11, 2007]










 Disabled, and Waiting for Justice




 We know what is behind President Bush's sudden enthusiasm 


 for fiscal discipline after years of running up deficits and 


 debt: political posturing, just in time for the 2008 


 election. But one should not forget the damage that his 


 administration has also inflicted by shortchanging important 


 domestic programs in favor of tax cuts for the wealthy and 


 his never-ending Iraq war.



 A case in point is the worsening bureaucratic delays at the 


 chronically underfunded Social Security Administration that 


 have kept hundreds of thousands of disabled Americans from 


 timely receipt of their Social Security disability benefits.



 As laid out by Erik Eckholm in the Times on Monday, the 


 backlog of applicants who are awaiting a decision after 


 appealing an initial rejection has soared to 755,000 from 


 311,000 in 2000. The average wait for an appeals hearing now 


 exceeds 500 days, twice as long as applicants had to wait in 


 2000.



 Typically two-thirds of those who appeal eventually win 


 their cases. But during the long wait, their conditions may 


 worsen and their lives often fall apart. More and more people 


 have lost their homes, declared bankruptcy or even died while 


 awaiting an appeals hearing.



 In one poignant case described by Mr. Eckholm, a North 


 Carolina woman who is tethered to an oxygen tank 24 hours a 


 day has been waiting three years for a decision. She finally 


 got a hearing last month and is awaiting a final verdict, 


 but, meanwhile, she has lost her apartment and alternates 


 sleeping at her daughter's crowded house and a friend's 


 place.



 The cause of the bottlenecks is well known. There are 


 simply too few administrative law judges--1,025 at present--


 to keep up with the workload. The Social Security 


 Administration is adopting automated tools and more efficient 


 administrative practices, but virtually everyone agrees that 


 no real dent will be made in the backlog until the agency can 


 hire more judges and support staff.



 The blame for this debacle lies mostly with the 


 Republicans. For most of this decade, the administration has 


 held the agency's budget requests down and Republican-


 dominated Congresses have appropriated less than the 


 administration requested. Now the Democratic-led Congress 


 wants to increase funding to the Social Security 


 Administration, and the White House is resisting.



 Last month, Congress passed a $151 billion health, 


 education and labor spending bill that would have given the 


 Social Security Administration $275 million more than the 


 president requested, enough to hire a lot more judges and 


 provide other vital services. But Mr. Bush vetoed that bill 


 as profligate.



 Democrats in Congress are working on a compromise to meet 


 Mr. Bush halfway on the whole range of domestic spending 


 bills. The White House is not interested in compromise.



 If the president remains intransigent, federal agencies may 


 have to limp along under continuing resolutions that maintain 


 last year's spending levels. That would likely, among many 


 other domestic problems, crimp any new hiring at the Social 


 Security Administration and might require furloughs, leading 


 to even longer waits. Mr. Bush should back down from his veto 


 threat and accept a reasonable compromise. Both sides should 


 ensure that real efforts are made to reduce these intolerable 


 backlogs.


Mr. Speaker, this week's actions by the President is just one thread 
in the appalling tapestry that this administration has in its misplaced 
policies.

Democrats believe that running this House right is a matter of pride. 
We believe it's a matter of having fundamental respect for both the 
institution in which we serve and for the citizens who have given us 
the privilege to serve here.



In the spirit of working together, we Democrats in Congress 
collectively extended our hand to those on the other side of the aisle, 
including the President, to reconcile our differences and pass this 
important spending bill.

In return, we received nothing but the same obstructionism that has 
plagued our body and our counterpart on the other side of the Capitol.

And today, those same Members who once enjoyed the splendors of 
having a majority in the House, the Senate and a Republican President, 
now chastise the Democratic Congress for trying to solve their own 
fiscal blunders. But their cries ring hollow, Mr. Speaker.

Democrats have crafted this omnibus appropriations bill that invests 
in the American people's priorities, that protects our troops and 
invests in the homefront, and restores funding to the President's 
devastating cuts to medical research, to college assistance, to job 
training, and education and health care.

And when my fellow Members of Congress and I cast our votes on this 
floor this evening, we seek to reconcile our ideals with what is 
possible to achieve. We seek to do both what is right in principle and 
necessary at any particular point in time and pray that the two are one 
in the same.

In this bill, we fund programs for medical research, and we provide 
280,000 more underinsured Americans with access to health care. We 
added extra funds for title I, special education, teacher quality 
grants, after-school programs, and Head Start, while also adding more 
for Pell Grants and other student aid programs.

We added extra funds above the President's request to help local 
communities hire and train more local law enforcement, while also 
adding more in homeland security grants to better secure our Nation. We 
also have met the guaranteed levels set in the authorization bill while 
adding funds for our bridges, which sorely need it.

We invest in solar and wind energy, biofuels, and energy efficiency, 
while also promoting scientific investments and conservation efforts.

And I would like to stress that this bill provides $3.7 billion in 
additional funding for our veterans health.

Mr. Speaker, we all agree that it is unfortunate we are forced to 
pass an omnibus to get our work done at the end of the year. This is 
especially disheartening because we Democrats in the House of 
Representatives have been absolute in our pledge to fund important 
programs and help the American people. And this omnibus comes only as a 
remedy to the obstructionism in the other body.

The President should accept this reasonable compromise and sign it 
into law. It is a crucial bill that will keep us on our course of 
fulfilling our promises to the American people, and I believe it is a 
clear demonstration of the Democrats' devotion to being fiscally 
responsible with the money given to us by our fellow citizens.

As I shared a quote from an editorial from the New York Times 
earlier, I would like to close with another quote published on November 
26. It states: ''It is clear that Mr. Bush's threat to veto Congress' 
proposed spending bills has nothing to do with fiscal discipline. It's 
all about appealing to his base and distracting attention from his 
failings, like Iraq. Mr. Bush will no doubt persist in that mode as 
long as his Republican allies allow him to.'' I could not agree more.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.