# None
## `43bb2fd6c121435a7d6fc3d098ec10b4`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of House Resolution 947, sponsored by my friend and colleague from 
California, Mr. Royce, which offers the House of Representatives' 
congratulations to Lee Myung-Bak on his election to the presidency of 
the Republic of Korea.

Additionally, this resolution recognizes the very special and 
longstanding relationship between South Korea and the United States; a 
relationship whose modern day form was first forged in the heat of 
battle as U.S. and South Korean soldiers fought to defend South Korea 
from aggression by Communist North Korea. In fact, our history of 
friendship reaches beyond the past century; and just last year we 
celebrated the 125th anniversary of the Korean American Treaty of 
Peace, Amity, Commerce and Navigation which was signed in 1882.

In my opinion, it is hard to overestimate the importance of the close 
bond between the United States and South Korea. The United States and 
Korea have a mutual defense treaty that dates back to 1953, and Korea 
has supported U.S. military efforts abroad, as recently as in both Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Korea has been one of only four partners and allies 
that stood with us through all four major conflicts since World War II. 
In addition, South Korea demonstrated her great friendship and 
generosity in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, pledging over $30 
million in aid for relief and recovery efforts--the fourth largest 
amount donated by any foreign country.

On June 30, 2007, representatives of both governments signed the 
historic United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement. If and when this 
agreement is approved by Congress I believe it will increase trade and 
investment flowing through our agriculture, industrial, consumer 
products, automobile and financial services sectors. I believe this 
agreement will enhance the strong partnership between two great 
democratic nations and will open the door wider to the exchange of 
science and ideas that will cause us both to continue to prosper.

This agreement is a natural extension of the strong affinity between 
our two countries, marked by extraordinary diplomatic, political, 
military, and economic cooperation. Although the devil is always in the 
details, I understand that this agreement could potentially be the most 
commercially-significant free trade agreement signed by the United 
States in more than a decade.

As many of my colleagues already know, South Korea is already the 
United States' seventh largest export market and sixth largest market 
for U.S. agricultural products. In fact, according to the latest 
statistics, our annual bilateral trade totals nearly $80 billion. Any 
agreement that can open up more Korean markets to U.S. goods and 
services can only have a positive effect on the American economy by 
creating more and better jobs, enriching consumer choice, and boosting 
U.S. industry and manufacturing.

Koreans have invested nearly $20 billion in the United States, and 
have created American jobs through companies like Hyundai Motors, 
Samsung Electronics, and Kia Motors. And as the largest investor in 
Korea, the United States already has a leading presence in that 
country.

As I have said before and will continue to say, I think it is 
important to note that trade relationships do more than just facilitate 
economic growth; this FTA recognizes our special relationship with 
South Korea that I mentioned before and makes the strong statement that 
we will continue to stand with our allies.

South Korea is the fifth largest tourism-generating country to the 
United States with over 800,000 Koreans visiting the U.S. every single 
year. This number is expected to double (at the minimum) when South 
Korea joins the Visa Waiver Program. According to the Department of 
Homeland Security, South Korea also has the largest foreign student 
population in the U.S. Nearly 2 million Americans of Korean descent 
live in communities all across our Nation, representing all walks of 
life and making innumerable contributions to the enrichment of our 
Nation's culture and economy.



South Korea is a strong, unwavering ally in the U.S.-led Global War 
on Terror, having dispatched the third largest contingent of troops to 
Iraq, and to Afghanistan (where a South Korean soldier was killed 
during hostile action), and to Lebanon in support of peacekeeping 
operations; and South Korea is a key partner in the Six-Party Talks to 
resolve North Korea's nuclear issue.

I firmly believe that South Korea may be the premier success story of 
U.S. foreign policy in the post-World War II period. Having assisted 
South Korea in transforming itself from a war-torn, impoverished 
economy into a successful democracy with a free enterprise economy (the 
world's 11th largest), South Korea is now an indispensable partner with 
the United States in promoting democracy, a free market economy and 
respect for the rule of law around the world.

I believe that President-Elect Myung-Bak understands and appreciates 
the important history behind our bilateral relations. His desire to 
better relations with the United States through an emphasis on free 
market solutions encourages me that the work we have begun will 
continue to grow under his leadership. I look forward to a continuation 
of the United States-South Korean partnership during the President-
Elect's term and for many years beyond.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 947 and join me in 
congratulating President Lee Myung-Bak, and extending to him the very 
best wishes of the House of Representatives as he assumes office later 
this month.