---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `43c75efc6c631935b70db010a61177e6`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution.

Is this the perfect solution? No. But how can there be a perfect 
solution to a war so imperfectly devised, so catastrophically planned, 
so horribly managed by the Bush administration?

This resolution turns in a better direction. It provides health care 
to our veterans.

It provides support to our warfighters.

It demands accountability from our President.

And it creates the process to redeploy our troops.

I voted for the use of force in Iraq, Mr. Speaker. I believed then, 
as I believe now, that the Middle East is an exceedingly dangerous 
region on the brink of an eruption that threatens global security.

But the war in Iraq did not stabilize the Middle East. It has 
destabilized it.

Before the war in Iraq, Iran was concerned about Israel. Today, 
Israel is concerned about Iran.

Before the war in Iraq, there was no such thing as ''Al Queda in 
Iraq''. Today, there is.

Before the war in Iraq, our military was capable of swiftly and 
decisively responding to multiple threats, foreign and domestic. Just 
yesterday, the New York National Guard reported to my office that it 
has only 37 percent of the mission critical transportation it needs to 
respond to a homeland security emergency in my state: whether it's a 
terrorist attack or a severe hurricane.

This resolution reinvests in the priorities we need. And it says to 
both the Iraqi government and the Bush Administration:

''No more blank checks. No more endless commitments.''

Many are troubled with the inclusion of a strategic withdrawal of our 
troops between December of this year and August of next. Mr. Speaker.

And I must be honest. I have struggled with this as well. The 
decision should be hard. It should be contentious. It should torment us 
all. Because no matter what we do, the stakes are high. The 
consequences are great.

If you lean to the right, an August 2008 redeployment is way too 
soon.

If you lean to the left, an August 2008 redeployment is way too long.

I reached my own judgment a few months ago. Based not on polls, not 
on politics, not on the convenience of sound-bytes on either side of 
the aisle and not on righteous absolutism that can only be formulated 
in a vacuum. I formed it after listening to the Commanding General of 
CENTCOM testify to the Armed Services Committee that we had until the 
middle of this year before Baghdad spins out of control. Shortly after 
that, the Iraq Study Group, after months of non-partisan work and 
study, reached the judgment that: ''By the first quarter of 2008, 
subject to unexpected developments in the security situation on the 
ground, all combat brigades not necessary for force protection could be 
out of Iraq.''

The middle of this year to the middle of next year.

Those are the benchmarks, Mr. Speaker. Those are the nonpartisan, 
nonpolitical, balanced and reasoned benchmarks.

And those benchmarks are contained in this resolution.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, let me say this: Today Republicans and 
Democrats will disagree. Fair enough. But it's time to stop thinking 
about our disagreements and begin working together on our agreements.

Last week, several members of the House Center Aisle Caucus, which I 
have the privilege of co-chairing, met to discuss cooperating on 
several Iraq initiatives. This week. I introduced the first of these 
bipartisan measures with the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Davis), the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Carney), the gentleman from Louisiana 
(Mr.


Boustany). Our resolution requires the President to submit a Status Of 
Forces Agreement to the Iraq government, just as we have with other 
governments where we have a military presence. This will send the 
message that we are not occupiers of Iraq. And we follow the rule of 
law.

I mention this now, Mr. Speaker, in the hopes that my colleagues who 
wish to join us in constructive ways forward will join us. That the 
debate will turn from left and right to forward.

That is what our troops want. That is what our constituents want. 
That is our obligation.