---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT COLONEL MATTHEW SCHWIND
## `43c96a808eca69803ef743a91c7b657c`
`Mr. LYNCH — 19 July 2010`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, today I recognize and pay tribute to 
Lieutenant Colonel Matthew Schwind, United States Army, on the occasion 
of his transfer to the 101st Airborne Division, Air Assault, at Ft. 
Campbell, Kentucky. I, and many other members of this chamber, have had 
the pleasure of working with him over the past three years that he has 
served as a part of the U.S. Army Office of Legislative Affairs and as 
a Liaison Officer in the Army Liaison Office in the U.S. House of 
Representatives.

Lieutenant Colonel Schwind enlisted in the United States Army in 
1989, attended Basic Training, Advanced Individual Training, and served 
three years as an Aero-Scout Observer with the 101st Airborne Division, 
AASLT. In that time, he deployed with his unit to Operation Desert 
Shield/Desert Storm in 1991. After redeploying in 1991, he attended 
Officer Candidate School at Fort Benning, Georgia and was commissioned 
a Field Artillery Lieutenant on January 30, 1992.

The next day he married the former Darlene Hendrix of Columbia, 
Tennessee. They have been married over 18 years and have a daughter, 
Jennifer, and son, Dylan.

Through the years, LTC Schwind's assignments have taken him to 
Kentucky, Oklahoma, Hawaii, Virginia, Texas, Kansas, New York, and 
Washington, DC.

Lieutenant Colonel Schwind's deployments include Operation Desert 
Shield/Storm; Restore Hope, Haiti, IFOR, Bosnia; and Enduring Freedom, 
Afghanistan.

Matt is a graduate of the Aero-Scout Observer Course, the Air Assault 
School, the Field Artillery Officer Basic Course, Combined Logistics 
Captain's Career Course, Combined Arms and Staff Services School, and 
the Command and General Staff College. He has a Masters Degree in 
Logistics Management from the Florida Institute of Technology.

During his assignment to the Army House Liaison Office, Lieutenant 
Colonel Schwind developed outstanding rapport with senior Members of 
Congress and their staffs--both personal and committee. He was often a 
by-name request from committee chairmen to plan, coordinate, and escort 
their fact-finding and oversight delegations. He served as the Army 
representative on 20 congressional and staff delegations to locations 
within the continental United States, Iraq, Afghanistan, and other 
overseas locations.

Lieutenant Colonel Schwind leaves OCLL for Fort Campbell, Kentucky, 
this July. He will work on the staff of the 101st Sustainment Brigade, 
and then take command of the 426th Brigade Support Battalion in the 
summer of 2011.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues please join me in recognizing 
the outstanding accomplishments of Lieutenant Colonel Matthew Schwind 
in serving the United States Army and the Nation.
