# None
## `43cedee1166120cebe2bef75ae466de7`
`Mr. McKEON — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Again, if we had been given the time to discuss Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell, we could have spent more time talking about all of the good 
things in the bill. But only having 5 minutes to discuss that, we have 
to use whatever time we can to explain to people what is going on.

When I talked to members of the Joint Chiefs a couple of days ago, 
one of them said one of the reasons that he opposes doing anything 
right now in opposition to the plan that was set up earlier this year 
was because, he says, I am here. I understand the innuendoes around the 
Hill. I understand the process of the amendment, and I understand that 
it doesn't really kick in until later. But, he said, the people in the 
field, the service people that we promised to hear from before we take 
action, don't understand that.



And he said, the headline will read, Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repealed.

Well, they don't even have to wait for us. The Senate already did it. 
The breaking news alert on Fox News is: ''The Senate Armed Services 
Committee votes to repeal military's Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy on 
gays.'' And then if we follow through and do the same thing tonight 
with the Murphy amendment, that will be the headline. So the young men 
and women in Afghanistan, when they're watching on Fox News, that's 
what they're seeing right now.

So then when we do get around to this company that we hired to make 
this survey to reach out to 350,000 of our servicepeople and their 
families, when they hear the question they're going to say, what, 
you're asking us now, after the decision?

What kind of respect is that to show to our young men and women who 
are out there laying their life on the line?

They signed a contract. They joined the military. They're an all-
volunteer force. And they signed under certain circumstances, and now 
those are going to be changed without any input from them.

Oh, yeah. We're going to follow through with the charade. We will 
have the survey, it will be turned in in December, but the die is 
already cast if that amendment passes tonight. And I don't think that 
is the way that we should be treating our military, especially the 
people on this committee.

Our responsibility is to look out for those young men and young women 
that are out there defending us and defending freedom around the world. 
And the lack of respect to give them the opportunity to have input on 
this very important issue, one that we've lived with now for 17 years, 
that has to be changed now, just doesn't make sense.

A Member earlier this evening talked about common sense and the lack 
of it that we see around here. And one of the reasons why we're given 
an 18 percent vote of approval from the American people, because we 
show a lack of common sense, we show a lack of respect. This amendment 
will show a lack of respect to the young men and young women in uniform 
and their families.

Again, let me read from Admiral Roughead's letter, the admiral, he's 
the Chief of Naval Operations.

He says, I share the view of Secretary Gates that the best approach 
would be to complete the Department of Defense review before there is 
any legislation to change the law. My concern is that legislation 
changes at this point, regardless of the precise language used in 
this--and this amendment was written very carefully--may cause 
confusion on the status of the law in the fleet and disrupt the review 
process itself by leading sailors to question whether their input 
matters.

And he is right on target.

Obtaining the views and opinions of the force and assessing them in 
the light of the issues involved will be complicated by a shifting 
legislative backdrop and its associated debate.

I plead with you to give the time necessary to have the evaluation, 
to follow the process that's been set.

What are we afraid of?

Is something going to happen that you think is going to change this 
process?

Why not let them have their input? Why not follow through with the 
process that was set by the Secretary?

The company that's been hired to go out and reach out to these 
350,000 of our 2.5 million serving, let's follow through with the 
process; let's respect our young men and women in uniform and follow 
through with the process that has been determined.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.