# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `43d60303fb1e2c2868414d5656480847`
`Mr. DORGAN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of 
myself, my colleague Senator Conrad, and my colleague Senator Salazar. 
My understanding is we will vote on this amendment in the morning. I 
don't know whether there has been a unanimous consent order on that 
matter, but my understanding is it will be voted on at 9:30. I wanted 
to spend a few minutes talking about what this amendment is. Let me 
begin by pointing out the following.

It has been nearly 6 years since Osama bin Laden and the leadership 
of al-Qaida ordered an attack on our country on 9/11/2001. Thousands of 
Americans were killed, innocent Americans murdered by Osama bin Laden 
and the leadership of al-Qaida. Nineteen terrorists with box cutters 
using commercial airliners loaded with fuel attacked this country. 
Thousands died. Six years later, Osama bin Laden is still free. He has 
not been brought to justice. Six years later, we are told in reports by 
senior officials in the newspapers--and I will read some of them--that 
al-Qaida is stronger than it has been in years. Six years later, we are 
told that al-Qaida and the Taliban are rebuilding terrorist training 
camps in northern Pakistan and the region between northern Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. Six years later, we are told that the leadership of al-
Qaida has a secure hideout in Pakistan. Six years later, we are told 
that al-Qaida, with its leadership, remains the greatest terrorist 
threat to our country. All of this after 6 years, two wars in two 
countries, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars 
spent at home and abroad, thousands of American soldiers dead, and tens 
of thousands wounded.

That is a failure. The fact that those who attacked us on 9/11 have 
not been brought to justice and, in fact, are now planning additional 
attacks against this country and other countries and doing so in secure 
and safe harbors in northern Pakistan, the fact that that exists is a 
failure. We have troops going door to door in Baghdad in the middle of 
a civil war. Yet the leadership of al-Qaida, the greatest terrorist 
threat to this country, is apparently living free in a safe harbor in 
northern Pakistan.

Let me describe some of the reasons I bring this discussion to the 
floor. This is testimony by John Negroponte, then-Director of National 
Intelligence on January 11, 2007, before the U.S. Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence:




 Al Qaeda continues to plot attacks against our homeland and 


 other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections 


 and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' 


 secure hideout in Pakistan.


Think of that, 6 years after 9/11, after they engineered the murder 
of innocent Americans, our Director of National Intelligence says the 
leadership of al-Qaida ''continues to plot attacks against our 
homeland'' from their ''secure hideout in Pakistan.''

Further, the Director of National Intelligence, in the same testimony 
said this:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to the homeland.


That is from the Director of National Intelligence. Al-Qaida is the 
greatest terrorist threat to our country. He said that in January of 
this year.

Let me fast forward. The McClatchy newspapers, June 26, 2007. Senior 
U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials in this administration 
said:




 While the U.S. presses its war against insurgents linked to 


 al Qaida in Iraq, Osama bin Laden's group is recruiting, 


 regrouping and rebuilding in a new sanctuary on the border 


 between Afghanistan and Pakistan.



 Al Qaida, its allies in Afghanistan's Taliban movement and 


 Pakistani radicals ''have free rein there now,'' said Marvin 


 Wenibaum, a former State Department intelligence analyst.


That is last month.

July 11, ''Officials Worry of Summer Terrorist Attack.''




 . . . Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff told the 


 editorial board of the Chicago Tribune that he had a ''gut 


 feeling'' about a new period of increased risk.


The next day, July 12:




 Six years after the Bush administration declared war on al-


 Qaeda, the terrorist network is gaining strength and has 


 established a safe haven in remote tribal areas of western 


 Pakistan for training and planning attacks.



 The report, a five-page threat assessment compiled by the 


 National Counterterrorism Center, is titled ''Al-Qaida Better 


 Positioned To Strike the West.''


We have seen some of this before. Mr. Chertoff says he has a gut 
feeling. The fact is, we have a lot of intelligence-gathering 
capability. Mr. Chertoff, Director of Homeland Security, has a gut 
feeling.

Let's go back 6 years to August of 2001, from the President's daily 
briefing. I have it in my hand. It was released in 2004. In August of 
2001 the intelligence gave the President a document titled: ''Bin Ladin 
Determined to Strike in US.'' On 9/11, bin Laden and al-Qaida struck 
the U.S. with devastating effect.

July 2007, secret intelligence assessment from the U.S. National 
Counterterrorism Center:




 Al Qaeda better positioned to strike the west.


Six years ago, the President's daily briefing said bin Laden was 
determined to strike the United States, and he did. Six years later:




 Al Qaeda better positioned to strike the west.


So much money spent in lives, in treasury. So much done, so much 
action in Iraq, where US troops, now go door to door in Baghdad. What 
has happened to the leaders of those who continue to plan attacks 
against our country? What has happened to the leaders of the 
organization who our National Intelligence Director says represent the 
greatest terrorist threat to our country? They live free, able to speak 
to the world. Al Zawahiri last week spoke to the world. They live free. 
They are creating new terrorist training camps, and they are talking to 
the world about their plans to inflict damage and to attack other parts 
of the world. That is called failure.

Let me go back again a few years, September 15, 2001. I will not ever 
forget sitting in the Chamber of the House of Representatives in a 
joint session of Congress when President Bush came to speak. This 
country was one at that point. They weren't Republicans and Democrats. 
This was a country that had been victimized by a devastating attack by 
terrorists who were perfectly content to give their own lives as long 
as they could kill innocent others. The President came and spoke to a 
joint session of Congress. Here is what he said:




 We will not only deal with those who dare attack America, 


 we will deal with those who harbor them and feed them and 


 house them.





On August 31, 2006, at the American Legion National Convention, the 
President said:




 We have made it clear to all nations, if you harbor 


 terrorists, you are just as guilty as the terrorists. You are 


 an enemy of the United States, and you will be held to 


 account.


The question most people ask is: What has happened in 6 years that 
those who planned and executed the attacks against this country now 
live free and apparently have reconstituted their strength and are 
planning further attacks against us? We have committed 150,000 or so 
American troops over a long period of time, so far a period of time 
longer than the Second World War lasted, and they are now going door to 
door in Baghdad in a civil war, where Shia are killing Sunnis and 
Sunnis are killing Shia, and they are both killing American troops. 
Sometime, we are going to leave Iraq. That is not the question. The 
question isn't whether. The American people and this Congress are not 
going to allow American soldiers to be in the middle of a civil war in 
Iraq for years ahead. That is not going to be the case. The question 
isn't whether we leave Iraq. The question is when and how.

But even as we discuss and debate that--and we will this week and 
next week and perhaps the week after--even as we deal with those 
issues, the American people have a right, through this Congress, to ask 
the President: Why is it that those who engineered the attacks are 
still able to engineer and plan further attacks? Why is it that those 
who engineered the attacks of 2001 are still active, are still 
apparently in safe harbors, immune to whatever efforts might or might 
not have existed to bring them to justice? The President was asked 
about this at one point, and the President said: I don't think much 
about Osama bin Laden. Well, he should. We should.

The amendment we offer is very simple. Six long years later, this 
amendment would require the President every 3 months, every single 
quarter, to send a classified report to this Congress telling us what 
has been done in this administration, what has been done to apprehend 
and bring to justice the leadership of al-Qaida.

If, in fact, this is the greatest terrorist threat to our country--if 
that is the case--and that does not come from me, that comes from the 
head of intelligence in this country, John Negroponte, in January of 
this year--if that is the case, why isn't this our primary objective 
and our most important objective?

This amendment says the following: It doubles the reward money for 
the apprehension of Osama bin Laden. It also requires a quarterly 
classified, top secret report to be provided to Congress to tell us 
what is being done to attempt to make this a priority and apprehend the 
leadership of al-Qaida.

I understand it is much easier to recognize failure than to recognize 
success. I understand that. But it does not take much looking to 
understand this failure.

Now, Senator Conrad and I have offered this amendment before, and it 
passed the Senate before and then was quietly dropped in conference by 
those who do not want this amendment to survive.

But it seems to me we ought to as a country understand, if we are 
waking up in the mornings these days and reading, as I read this 
morning in the newspapers--and yesterday morning and the morning 
before--that our Homeland Security Secretary has a ''gut feeling'' 
about this, that or the other thing, and there is a meeting down at the 
White House to assess these increased risks--we need to understand it 
is all about al-Qaida. It is all about the leadership of al-Qaida 
planning additional attacks. It is about the reconstitution of 
terrorist activities in training camps with the Taliban and al-Qaida. 
And--guess what--we are going door to door in Baghdad trying to figure 
out how we deal with the Sunnis and the Shias.

Yes, there are some al-Qaida in Iraq, but those who tell us that is 
the central fight against terrorism are wrong, and they ought to know 
it. Go have a secret briefing upstairs. I tell you, if you believe that 
is the central fight against terrorism, go have a classified, secret 
briefing, and then you come back and tell me that is what you heard. 
You will not hear that.

An honest, level look at what is going on in Iraq will describe, 
unfortunately, a civil war in Iraq. Yes, there is some al-Qaida in 
Anbar Province and some other al-Qaida influences, but the principal 
issue in Iraq is sectarian violence or a civil war, and this Congress, 
at some point, is going to tell this President we are not going to keep 
American soldiers in the middle of a civil war for any great length of 
time. But we will insist that we make a priority as one of our 
significant objectives to bring to justice those who murdered thousands 
of Americans on 9-11-2001, and we will insist that those who are now 
planning additional attacks from a secure hideaway--as Mr. Negroponte 
points out, a secure hideaway--we will insist that some effort be made 
in this country to deal with that issue.

Let me ask one question. I do not want five reasons or three reasons. 
I want somebody to give me one good reason why there ought to be any 
secure hideout anywhere on this Earth for the people, the leaders of 
al-Qaida who committed this atrocious act against this country in 2001 
and who are now planning additional attacks against this country. I do 
not need five reasons. Is there any reason there ought to be a secure 
hideout anywhere on this planet for these people? The answer ought to 
be no.

Getting the terrorists who attacked us on 9-11 has not been our 
objective, in my judgment. We have gotten sidetracked. It has not been 
our objective to make this the central issue, and I believe it ought to 
be the central issue. Senator Conrad believes that. Senator Salazar and 
others believe it. I expect and hope that tomorrow, when we have a vote 
at 9:30 in the morning, the Senate will go on record saying it is 
time--long past the time--for this country to demand that the 
leadership of al-Qaida be brought to justice and that we interrupt the 
opportunity of those to be in a secure hideout in Pakistan, planning 
additional destruction and planning additional deaths against innocent 
Americans in attacks on our homeland.

That is the amendment. It is simple. No one can misunderstand that 
amendment. No one can misinterpret it. My hope is, at the end of the 
vote tomorrow, the Senate will have expressed itself as forcefully as I 
hope it can on this subject.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.