---
---

# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `43d8aa752647992a10bb591ae18af515`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor this morning to speak 
about the Department of Defense authorization bill, which is a very 
good bill that has been put together with the leadership of my good 
friend, Senator Levin and Senator Warner, Senator McCain, and others, 
who have been involved in this legislation. I come to the floor to 
speak in support of this legislation, and I am certain when we get to 
Monday we will have a resounding adoption of this bill, which is so 
important to our men and women in uniform across the globe.

I will be supporting this legislation, but what will be missing from 
this legislation is legislation that crafts a new way forward in Iraq, 
a way forward that transitions our mission from one of combat, policing 
a sectarian civil war, to one which is a limited mission that I believe 
both Democrats and Republicans believe we should be able to attain in 
Iraq.

It is in that context that I was proud to have been one of the 
participants in crafting the legislation that would have implemented 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. I thank the 17 cosponsors 
of that legislation for trying to help this body find a way out of the 
wilderness of Iraq and move forward with a bipartisan approach that 
would unite our Nation behind an effort that we ultimately agree must 
result in bringing our troops home from Iraq and maximizing the 
possibility for us to bring about some level of security in Iraq and 
defend the strategic interests of the United States in that region and 
around the world.

But it wasn't only the 17 sponsors we had on the legislation which 
Senator Alexander and I crafted with the Iraq Study Group, there were 
also other efforts that were underway in this Chamber during the last 
week to try to figure out whether there was a common way forward. 
Senator Levin, Senator Voinovich, Senator Nelson, Senator Collins, and 
others were very involved in that effort, and it is not over. My hope 
is that as we move forward in debating what is the foreign policy and 
national security issue of our time that there may be a way in which we 
can unite the country in a common way forward.