---
---

# IN HONOR OF EDUARDO SOSA SILVA
## `43de5b4fc4bd3d60d00286259f4eac04`
`Mr. FARR — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a man who dedicated 
his life to serving our nation during Operation Enduring Freedom. 
Eduardo Silva of Greenfield, California served our country as 
Specialist in the United States Army and was a devoted husband and a 
proud son. Specialist Silva died in Iraq earlier this month.

Eduardo enlisted in the Army in August 2006 and was deployed to 
Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan in July 2008 where he was a food service 
specialist. He was assigned to the 563rd Aviation Support Battalion, 
159th Combat Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, U.S. Army, Fort 
Campbell, Kentucky.

Eduardo's life inspired the lives of others. He was a proud resident 
of Greenfield where he graduated as Valedictorian from Vista Verde 
Middle School and excelled at Greenfield High School. At an early age, 
he learned to appreciate the arts as a student of music. As a result, 
for his actions both at home and abroad, there is no measure of 
devotion we as a community can dedicate to Eduardo. This soldier, 
husband, and son shall be remembered for his caring, altruistic life.

Held closest to Eduardo's heart is the love and support of his wife 
and partner, Rosalinda, and his family. The memories the family has 
shared of Eduardo depict an honorable, caring, selfless man who gave 
without hesitation. It is evident the Silva family is proud of the 
example Eduardo left on his community.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I would 
like to extend our nation's deepest gratitude for Specialist Eduardo 
Silva's service to the United States of America and for his many 
accomplishments as a husband and son.
