---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `43e0a7b1b80feca3eab83481f49f836a`
`Ms. GRANGER — 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, on Sunday afternoon, I drove about 20 miles 
to the home of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Balint in Willow Park, Texas. I had 
the solemn honor of presenting them with congressional remarks 
commemorating the noble and distinguished service of their son, Paulie.

The parents of Captain Balint did not complain to me or ask me to 
vote to end the war. They talked about the pride of their son and his 
lifetime desire to serve in the military.

The Balints have never waffled in their belief that the war in Iraq 
is one that demands our Nation's full commitment. They experienced a 
loss no one ever wants to share. Paulie was fighting to preserve our 
freedom and our way of life.

As I wished them well and turned to leave, the Balints asked me to 
bring a message back to Washington. They said to tell you to stay firm 
because we need to finish the job in Iraq.

So I am speaking today in memory of Paulie and his mother and his 
father and his brother and those who are still fighting there for us 
and listening to what we have to say.

I will not speak by calling into question anyone's patriotism or 
motives. All of us, Republicans and Democrats alike, recognize that 
much is at stake in Iraq and, undoubtedly, we all feel passionately 
about doing our duty to move forward and address what I consider to be 
the issue of our lives, the worldwide war against terrorists and a 
battleground of that war, which is Iraq.

The issue of responsibility in this war has been discussed during 
this debate, and I believe it is an important issue when addressing 
Iraq and in addressing this resolution.



Certainly in the change of direction the President has presented, the 
Iraqis have a clear responsibility to meet the goals of securing their 
own future. Likewise, Congress has a clear responsibility to produce 
meaningful legislation and provide effective oversight of our 
government's actions, especially during time of war.

Put another way, our citizens hold their elected Representatives 
accountable to craft legislation that results in meaningful and 
positive change. That is precisely what is so disappointingly 
unacceptable about this nonbinding bill, which fails to do anything, 
which holds no one accountable, and does not move our country forward 
on this critical issue.

Frankly, those many who have criticized the administration for 
staying the course too long are now presenting us with a bill that is 
the ''stay the course'' piece of legislation that both advocates 
failure and a position of status quo. More specifically, the bill 
ignores two of the most important parts of our Nation's role in Iraq: 
the consequences of failure and the principal support that we should 
provide our troops during times of war.

Let us say we do redeploy, which means quit. Or let us say the 
Congress takes the next step that is being talked about, and that is 
stopping the funding in Iraq. Let us look clearly at the consequences 
of a failed state in Iraq, not only for America but for the world.

Let there be no mistake, Iraq is but one front in a long war against 
a fanatical enemy who does not value human life and who seeks to 
destroy those who do. Failing to secure Iraq will result in massive 
instability in the Middle East, which will undoubtedly spill over to 
the rest of the world.

Consider the fractured nature of the Middle East and the nature of 
the dangerous threat we face. Iranian television stations routinely 
broadcast commercials that are designed to recruit would-be terrorists. 
In one ad specifically for children, cartoon characters entice them to 
be suicide bombers. Imagine a society that views indoctrinating 10-
year-olds in the joys of


martyrdom as a positive action. And yet that is precisely the kind of 
hate-filled enemy we face in this war, where again Iraq is just one 
battle.

A failed Iraq would provide international terrorists fertile ground 
to sow the seeds of just that type of hatred and extremist thought. 
These terror groups are cold and brutal and fully dedicated to our 
destruction.

In a failed Iraq, terror organizations would exploit a populace who 
is distrustful of Western democracies, who have turned their backs on 
them. These people would be ripe for terrorist recruitment

Just yesterday, many of us met with the ambassadors of Jordan and 
Egypt who warned us of the consequences should we take the next steps 
that have been hinted at during this debate and meetings held in 
congressional offices. America cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of 
the past by withdrawal from a direct confrontation with radical 
terrorists. Should we retreat from the current fight, the enemy will 
continue to intensify their attacks against America, just as they did 
following the 1983 bombings of the Marine barracks in Beirut, the first 
World Trade Center bombing in 1993, the 1996 attack on the Khobar 
Towers in Saudi Arabia, the U.S. Embassy bombings in Africa in 1997, 
and the brazen attack against USS Cole in 2000.

Many of the speakers on this resolution have cited the widely 
accepted Iraq Study Group report, which pointed to the dire 
consequences that America, indeed the world, would face should we fail 
in Iraq. What they choose to ignore is that the bipartisan authors of 
this report stipulated that they would agree with a short-term surge of 
American forces to bolster security and train Iraqi forces, which is 
precisely what our new strategy does.

Two weeks ago, the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq was 
published, and it largely concurred with the findings of the study 
group of the results that failure in Iraq would bring.

Retreat from Iraq would result in pervasive instability in the Middle 
East, encourage rogue regimes, and give terrorists a secure base from 
which to launch attacks against free nations everywhere.

No one disagrees that the situation in Iraq has become more 
dangerous, but let me be perfectly clear. The consequences of failure 
in this fight would be catastrophic not only for America, but for the 
entire world.

While this war is certainly a test of our resolve, America has faced 
tough decisions during critical war years in the past. In 1862 debate 
over the Civil War threatened the success of the campaigns that our 
troops were engaged in. During the opening days of World War II, while 
the troops were engaged in a fight for their lives in the Pacific, 
Congress bickered over strategies of isolationism based in fear. And 
now in 2007, we find ourselves in the fight of our generation.

With all my heart I believe we stand at a crucial crossroad where the 
decision we make will affect not just us, but our children and their 
children and generations to come. Our enemies have demonstrated that 
they are willing to kill us even if they have to die themselves. 
Thankfully, our servicemen and women are willing to bravely defend our 
freedom as we in Congress go through the semantics of debating a 
nonbinding resolution.

For this reason and all the other reasons I have outlined today, I 
will not support a resolution that sends anything less than a clear 
message of support for our troops who are deployed in harm's way. 
Senator Joe Lieberman stated last week in the Senate, ''This bill is a 
resolution of irresolution.''

If you believe the President's new strategy is unsound, then offer a 
better solution to win. If that is where your convictions lie, then 
have the courage to act decisively and be ready to accept the 
consequences of your convictions. Now, that would be a resolution.

The nonbinding resolution before us is at best confusing, at worst 
immoral. It pledges to support the troops in the field but washes its 
hands of what they are doing. We can't have it both ways. We can't say 
that our military men and women have our full support while 
disapproving of their mission on the eve of their battle. The bill does 
not resolve to do anything. It doesn't offer a solution. It only offers 
political expedient top-cover. It would be nice to play the game of 
nonbinding actions, but our soldiers and marines in Iraq don't have 
that option, and neither should we. In fact, if the troops in Iraq 
cared to watch what we were doing in Congress this week, they would be 
outraged. Fortunately for us, they have more important things to do and 
they live in a world where bullets are real and words alone carry 
little meaning.

I will close by asking all of you to picture yourselves as an 18- or 
19-year-old marine or soldier who is preparing for imminent battle in 
Baghdad. At this very moment, you would be fueling your Humvee; loading 
your ammunition, checking your gear and equipment; taking time out to 
pray a private, quiet prayer. And if you are lucky, you might be able 
to call family and friends to tell them how much you love them. And all 
the while, the back of your hair is standing up and the back of your 
neck is itching because the support that you feel that is necessary 
from your government is lacking. As you prepare for battle, the best 
that your elected Representatives back home in your Nation's Capital 
can do is to debate a nonbinding resolution that has no real 
significance, except to call into question the mission you are about to 
embark on.

Quit? Unthinkable. Stop the funding while they are fighting? Immoral. 
Stay the course and do nothing? Outrageous.

What the Nation and our troops deserve is our best thinking and our 
best support.