---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `4400fa333e68ace5a13bd79dfc506335`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I cannot think of two better people to be 
involved in a discussion about what we should be doing in Afghanistan 
than Senator McCain and Senator Levin.

Where I come down on this issue is with Senator Levin because I 
believe it is very important we give the President time to discuss this 
issue in detail. There are a lot of different pieces to this puzzle. It 
is not just General McChrystal's report. It is a report by Ambassador 
Eikenberry. It is a report by Ambassador Holbrooke. I think he would 
have a report from Ambassador Patterson from Pakistan. I think we need 
a report from the DOD in terms of force structure and what additional 
troops we would have beyond that.

There are a number of issues that have to be dealt with here. I think 
as in the past with President Bush, where there was a 3-month process 
before the surge--during that time, people were able to talk to the 
President, and to work their way up the chain of command in the 
military, and the civilians to work their way up in the Department of 
Defense, to talk to the President so the President could have their 
counsel before the President made his decision.

I think that is what we need here. I think one of the most important 
things President Obama said in his speech the other night to the joint 
session was: I am going to be here for a long time, so I want to get it 
right.

We have to get it right in Afghanistan. I think this is the obvious 
time to proceed. Clearly, the present election and the flaws in the 
election, in addition to General McChrystal's report which points out 
the rise of the Taliban, demonstrates it is time for us to sit down and 
take a hard look at what our strategy in Afghanistan is. I think the 
President is going to do that. He is going to go through a process. 
Many people have to be involved. Many


different issues have to be done. And then the President will come with 
his plan for Afghanistan.

At that time, after that happens, I think then--Chairman Levin is 
correct--we should have hearings, we should have people come and 
testify, and that will be the time to do it. In the meantime, I think 
we owe it to the military chain of command that everyone involved in 
that chain of command be allowed to come and talk to the President so 
he can make the best decision he can possibly make before the Senate 
gets an opportunity to deal with everyone who is going to be involved 
with the President.

So, again, I support Senator Levin's amendment. I think it is 
essential we have a process that allows it to go forward.