# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4404b15348ef62c731d7d5c34642c976`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 17 June 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you very much. It is always a pleasure to 
come down and to be able to communicate with the American people with 
my distinguished members of our Blue Dog Coalition. What I would like 
to do as a part of this discussion tonight is to certainly communicate 
why we need to institute and maintain what we have instituted or 
reinstituted, and that is PAYGO, to pay our bills as we go.

Let me see if I can just set the stage to show the American people 
just how precarious a position we are in both from a national security 
standpoint as well as an economic security standpoint. As we stand 
right now, the national debt is a staggering $9.13 trillion. That is 
almost $10 trillion of national debt. And just to show you how serious 
this is, we are accumulating this debt at an astounding rate of $1.4 
billion every single day. That amounts to nearly $10 billion every week 
that we are adding to our national debt.

And then we compound that. This debt is not free. We must pay 
interest on this debt. And the interest on this debt last year alone 
was an astounding $430 billion. So I can put that in perspective. Just 
the interest that we pay for borrowing this money is four times more 
than what we pay for education, for the health of our children, for our 
veterans and homeland security combined. Folks, that's mighty, mighty 
dangerous ground for this country to be on. That is one of the foremost 
reasons why we must change this direction, or else we are going off the 
cliff. And this is something that is of very, very much concern to 
Democrats, I think to some Republicans as well, and most assuredly, to 
our Blue Dog Coalition that is providing the leadership here so that we 
can be responsible.

Now let me just add another point. This money that we are borrowing 
is broken down into two groups. Of the $9.13 trillion in debt, about 
$5.1 trillion of that is what we call the public debt. The other $4 
trillion is debt that we


incur through our private means, through borrowing from Social Security 
and other government agencies. But let's just look at that public debt 
for a moment because the other reason that this is so much of a great 
concern is the threat to our national security. Because, ladies and 
gentlemen, 45 percent of our public debt is being borrowed from foreign 
governments, and not just any foreign government. We are borrowing this 
money from places like China. They have $500 billion of our debt. Japan 
has $601 billion of our debt. And then Saudi Arabia and the oil-
producing OPEC nations have $153 billion in debt. And then if we go to 
places like Russia, $43 billion, and to Korea, $42 billion. And I think 
you are getting the picture, ladies and gentlemen. These are countries 
that we have got to deal with firmly. It is undermining our security to 
have our debt in the hands of these countries because he who controls 
your debt controls you and your future. And it begins to weaken our 
leverage in dealing on the international stage.

Let me just give you one example. About 3 or 4 weeks ago, our 
President Bush went over to Saudi Arabia, yes, to really try to do 
something about the high price of gasoline that my dear friends on the 
other side have just talked about a few moments ago. But here is the 
President going to Saudi Arabia begging hat in hand basically to ask 
the Saudis to increase their oil output. Keep in mind that it only 
costs the Saudis $2 a barrel to get that oil out of the ground. And now 
it's going for what, $120, $130 a barrel? But the Saudis said ''no.'' 
In the back of their minds I am sure they were saying, we got your oil, 
and we got your debt.

That's why I'm saying that this debt situation is placing our Nation 
in a terribly precarious situation from an economic security standpoint 
as well as a national security standpoint. And we have got to change 
that.

And finally, I want to just add this one point, too, because this 
business of continually not only having this huge debt, which we've got 
to saddle on the backs of our grandchildren and other generations, is 
not fair to them. But not only that, but the monies that we are 
spending in Iraq and in Afghanistan are being borrowed from China and 
Japan.

Finally, on the foreign standpoint, it is very important to really 
dramatize the seriousness of this debt. Over the last 8 years, since 
2001, we have borrowed under this President and this Congress, he 
couldn't have done it by himself, more money from foreign governments 
than we have borrowed in the previous 224 years of our existence. 
That's right, ladies and gentlemen. We have borrowed more money under 
the Bush administration and under this last 7 years of Congress than we 
have done in the previous 42 administrations of this country. That is 
numbing. It is mind-boggling. This is a terrible situation for us to be 
in. This is the reason why we have got no choice in this matter. We've 
got to pay our bills.

And it is a great testimony to the leadership of the Blue Dogs and 
certainly the leadership of the Democratic party in this Congress that 
we have indeed instituted pay-as-you-go so that we can have both 
economic security as well as national security. The American people 
deserve no less.