# MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
## `4405d3b749533a1a8e483ce905c0b6e3`
`Mr. GINGREY — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, this opportunity for the minority party 
during this hour is dedicated to the subject of what we are going to be 
dealing with tomorrow, H.R. 5, and that regards the Medicare Part D 
prescription drug, allowing or, in fact, requiring the Secretary to 
negotiate prices. And this is a hugely important issue.

But I want to take just a minute to respond to my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle that just spent their hour with the Out of Iraq 
Caucus. In fact, they asked me for permission for an additional 5 
minutes because they had some very passionate Members that had not had 
an opportunity to speak.

I gladly granted them that opportunity. That is what makes this 
Congress great. That is what makes this country great, the willingness 
to listen to diverse opinions.

But I want to say, and I want to take just a few minutes before we 
get into the discussion of Medicare Part D, how diametrically opposed I 
am to what the Out of Iraq group just had to say during this last hour, 
and, indeed, Mr. Speaker, hour and 5 minutes.

I don't object to their right to have that opinion. I do certainly 
take exception, Mr. Speaker, and my colleagues, when folks stand up 
here, and I am not talking about new Members of this body. In fact, 
there was one new Member from Illinois, the gentleman from Illinois, 
who is going to be part of the Out of Iraq Caucus. I am talking about 
very senior, thoughtful Members. To stand up and suggest that the 
President lied to the American people, I think, is really not, in fact, 
even close to being the truth.

The President, I think, is an honest man. And last night, Mr. 
Speaker, in his presentation to the American people, I thought he did 
an excellent job of explaining why it is so important for us to try to 
apply, if not a knock out blow to the insurgence and the terrorism, the 
sectarian violence that is


going on in and around Baghdad, certainly, to strike a blow that would 
put them on the ropes, would get us off the ropes and put them on the 
ropes. And yet, we hear from the majority party wanting to tie the 
President's hands behind his back and our great military.

I think we have got a wonderful opportunity. Mistakes have been made. 
Absolutely. There is no question about that. I think the President 
acknowledged that last night in his 20-minute speech to the Nation. But 
we have an opportunity.

And this is really, I want my colleagues to think about this. This is 
not about the President's legacy. This is not about the legacy of 
Donald Rumsfeld, or General Abizaid or even our new Secretary of 
Defense, Robert Gates, who we just heard from in a 3-hour hearing at 
the House Armed Services Committee, or our Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, Peter Pace, or General Petraeus. This is about 23 million 
Iraqi people. This is about the citizens of the United States of 
America. This is about the entire Middle East. In fact, this is about 6 
billion people on this planet. And we have to, in my opinion, we have 
to support the plan. If we don't, even if our colleagues in the Out of 
Iraq Caucus absolutely abhor this President and would like to see his 
legacy be one of failure, surely, surely, they are with the American 
people. And I think they are. I think deep down within their heart, 
they are.

But I am absolutely convinced that they have not thought about the 
consequences of, all of a sudden, I mean, almost instantaneously 
pulling our troops out of Iraq, as they say. And I have heard many of 
them say that, Mr. Speaker, and my colleagues. And the fact that, if 
that would happen, I think you would, indeed, have another Vietnam. You 
would, indeed, have a total bedlam and sectarian violence in the 
country of Iraq. You would have Syria and Iran taking over the Middle 
East.

And I just wonder how much longer the country of 7 million people in 
Israel would last. I mean, they have already pledged, Ahmadinejad and 
others, to drive them into the sea. And what respect, Mr. Speaker, 
would the world have for the United States of America if we, indeed, 
cut and run?

I am not suggesting that that is what they are saying. But I think 
that is a perception that the rest of the world would have. You cannot 
depend on the United States. And those terrorists would be back after 
us again.

We haven't had another 9/11 or any kind of a terrorist attack on this 
soil in 5/1/2/ years. But if we follow the recommendation of the Out of 
Iraq Caucus in this Congress, that is exactly what will happen. It will 
be far worse than 3,000 lost lives, of innocent people.

Certainly, the gentleman from Illinois, the new Member, I have great 
respect for all of the new Members, Mr. Speaker. And he talked about 
Martin Luther King, a man of peace. We need people, like Martin Luther 
King, that pray for world peace. I pray for world peace every day, and 
I know all of my colleagues do.


But we also need fighting men and women. We need a strong military 
when we get attacked, an unprovoked attack, when those prayers are not 
working so that we can defend this Nation.

So I am glad to give them an extra 5 minutes so it gives me an 
opportunity to refute most of what was said here in the last hour.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I will turn to the subject of the hour, and 
that, of course, is what is going to be on this floor tomorrow as part 
of the new Democratic majority's 100 hours. This will be H.R. 4.

We have had three bills this week. We have had the so-called 9/11, 
completion of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. We had the 
minimum wage bill and then today of course the stem cell research 
issue.

And tomorrow what the Democratic majority wants to do is require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate prescription drug 
prices. Government price control; put the government in the medicine 
cabinet of 42 million seniors and disabled folks who are part of the 
Medicare program and prescription drug Part D. And they want to do 
that, just as they have done with these other three bills this week, 
with absolutely no opportunity, no opportunity for the minority party 
or even members of the majority, maybe the rank and file, as many of us 
refer to ourselves, to bring amendments, to have an opportunity to go 
before the Rules Committee and say, you know, I think we can improve on 
this bill a little bit. There are certain things I have been thinking 
about it. I am a doctor. I am a nurse. I am a health care worker, and I 
think we can make this a little bit better.

But, no. No, no. This new Democratic majority that railed for the 
last 2 years almost every day that their rights were being trampled 
upon and their amendments were not made in order, and here we are with 
four bills this week.

We are not talking, Mr. Speaker, about naming Post Offices here. We 
are talking about hugely important pieces of legislation, legislation 
that is controversial. This issue today on stem cell research, and we 
are talking about the destruction of what I feel, as a strong pro-life 
physician, is a little human life. And the proof of the pudding of 
course is the snowflake babies, literally thousands of them. And to 
suggest that those little embryos are just extra and throwaway, and we 
don't need them, and why waste them? We didn't get an opportunity to 
offer a single amendment. And this same thing in regard to this 
Medicare Part D issue which will be debated on the floor tomorrow.

Mr. Speaker, and my colleagues, if there is ever an issue of the old 
adage, ''If it ain't broke, don't try to fix it,'' it is this one, 
because this law that was passed in November of 2003 went into effect 
January 1 of 2005, the bill, the benefit, the optional benefit of 
prescription drugs under Medicare has only been in place for 1 year. 
And the success is unbelievable. I mean, it is far beyond anybody's 
expectations. It has an 80 percent approval when you poll seniors 
because they are getting their prescriptions, those who are having to 
pay for them, are getting them at a much lower price. The average 
savings is $1,100 a year for those who are paying their monthly premium 
and their deductible and their copay. And for those who, because of 
their low-income status, are virtually paying nothing but a dollar or 
maybe $3 to $5 for a brand name drug, if that is covered by the 
supplement because of low income, then they are saving at least $2,400 
a year.

And so, Mr. Speaker, to try to improve upon something that is working 
so well, I think, is a grave mistake. And I think, as the expression 
goes, they are going to gum up the works.

Now, let me tell you how setting price controls works and how poorly 
it works for that matter. When we were debating this bill in 2003 in 
the committee on the House side, a Democratic Member, I think it was 
Representative Strickland, now Governor of Ohio, a very good Member of 
this body, suggested, had an amendment and said look, let's set the 
monthly premium at $35. Let's require that the monthly premium be $35, 
I guess, over concern that it could be higher than that.



Let us set it at $35. The same bill was introduced on the Senate 
side, and I am not sure which Senator, which Democratic Senator, 
introduced the bill on the Senate side.

But, again, to set that premium. Well, had we done that, then our 
seniors today would not be enjoying an average monthly premium of $24 a 
month, $24 a month, because the market, the competition between the 
multitude of prescription drug plans that are out there competing for 
business allowed that to happen as they brought down the price of drugs 
as they compete with one another.

I will give you another example in regard to the Medicaid program. 
You know, the States each have their own Medicaid program, and they can 
cover prescription drugs if they want to. They don't have to. Most do, 
and they set prices. The State governments do that to try to save 
money. They set prices.

Well, people who are eligible for both Medicaid, because of their low 
income, and Medicare, because of their age or disability, now these 
dual eligibles, the prescription drugs are paid for by the Medicare 
part D program as the first payer. Well, our community pharmacists are 
so upset because they were getting a higher price for prescription 
drugs under the Medicaid program than they are under this new Medicare 
part


D program which has forced those prices down. Obviously, the 
neighborhood druggists, the community pharmacists are making less 
money, and they are upset. I can understand that.

But this just goes to show you once again, when the government sets 
the price, it is just as likely, if not more likely, that they set the 
price too high. The bureaucrats are notorious for that. The marketplace 
would never let that happen because of competition.

This opportunity to talk about this subject tonight is a very, very 
important issue at an important time. We will talk about it on the 
floor tomorrow and try to proffer these same arguments against 
requiring the Secretary of HHS to set prices. It is the first step down 
the road toward a national health insurance program, a single-payer 
program, or, if you like, Hillary Care. I don't think the country liked 
Hillary Care when it was offered back in 1994, and President Clinton 
paid a price for that, a dear price.

It is just really surprising to me that the Democratic majority would 
come back with this type of issue.

I think what is driving it is the success of this program is so 
resounding, and they, my good friends and colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle, that resisted this program every step of the way, fought 
it every step of the way, now I think they kind of want to get on the 
bandwagon and get a little credit for something.

But I warn them, I warn them, what I frequently hear them and others 
say, when you are in a ditch, when you are deep in a hole, the first 
thing you need to do is stop digging. I think they are digging 
themselves a bigger hole. And, politically, that is good for us. That 
is good for the Republican minority. That will help us regain the 
majority. But it is not good for the American people. It is not good 
for our needy seniors, and that is why I am so opposed to it.

I am very happy to have with me tonight a couple of my Republican 
colleagues, great Members, not just Republican Members that don't have 
special knowledge on this issue, but I am talking about a couple of our 
physician Members.

At this time I would like to yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Burgess), a fellow OB/GYN physician.