# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008-- CONTINUED
## `44109444756ff1d128f5a5b1676115c3`
`Mr. PRYOR — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Madam President, the acclaimed writer H.L. Mencken once 
said:




 In war the heroes always outnumber the soldiers ten to one.


Today, I come to the floor to honor the lives of two of those heroes: 
SFC Anthony Lynn Woodham of Rogers, AR, and Justin English of 
Springdale, AR. Madam President, we lost Specialist First Class Woodham 
on Saturday when he paid the ultimate sacrifice while serving in Iraq 
on his second tour as a member of the 39th Brigade Combat Team. As a 
vehicle maintenance supervisor at Camp Adder in Talil, he kept American 
troops safe and their equipment and vehicles running. Throughout his 20 
years of National Guard service, he also trained countless mechanics, 
instilling in them a strong work ethic, enthusiasm, and patriotism.


In 2004, Specialist First Class Woodham explained that a lot of 
solutions for maintaining equipment are not found in the training 
manual. He learned from trial and error and taught others the art of 
adapting and improvising in order to get the job done quickly and to 
get the job done right. For his leadership and his service, we are a 
truly grateful nation.

MGEN William Wofford of the Arizona National Guard said of Woodham: 
''No words can fill the gap left by such a loss.'' I know those 
sentiments are also true for Specialist First Class Woodham's wife 
Crystal and three children, Patrick, 17, Mitchell, 11, and Courtney, 6.

Arkansas suffered another loss 11 miles away from Rogers, in 
Springdale, AR. The English family is mourning the loss of 25-year-old 
Justin English. A former Springdale firefighter and EMT, he went to 
Iraq for a larger mission--to protect United States personnel and 
installations in Iraq. A week into his mission--just a week into his 
mission--English's vehicle was struck by a roadside bomb near Baghdad 
on Monday.

Those who knew Justin describe his friendliness, positive spirit, and 
willingness to lend a helping hand. Janet English, his aunt, said he 
had always wanted to join the military, find adventure, and serve his 
country. Indeed, he gave his country all.

Arkansas continues to make tremendous sacrifices to defend freedom 
and protect the ones we love. We will never forget the sacrifices made 
by the Woodham family, the English family, and so many other grieving 
families who have lost their loved ones in combat. I urge my colleagues 
in the Senate to honor the service of these brave men and women and 
ensure our troops have the resources they need both while in combat and 
when they return.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.