# None
## `4412b81db9d1b87afd445d17dcedab9e`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentleman from Ohio. I wanted to think


about this in the terms of what this Congress has done to resolve some 
of the issues that we are talking about right now for our brave service 
men and women and their families. Because anyone listening to this 
debate would say, well, that is great that you are talking about what 
the problems are; but what have you done to solve the problems? And I 
want to tell anyone who is willing to listen that we have a tremendous 
record of accomplishment in supporting our troops. Not just saying the 
words, but supporting the troops with our actions, not just our words. 
And we are in the sixth year of the war in Iraq right now, and here are 
some things that this new Congress has done, bills that have been 
signed into law to address the issues that we are talking about.

The gentleman from Ohio talks about traumatic brain injury and the 
incredible impact that has had. TBI is the signature injury of the wars 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, because people who would have been killed in 
previous wars, thanks to better medical technology and better armor and 
equipment, thankfully they survive; but, unfortunately, in many cases 
they are horrifically injured, the type of injuries the gentleman 
witnessed at Walter Reed. I took a trip to Walter Reed, myself, and I 
saw the same types of injuries, the lost limbs, the spinal cord 
injuries and the traumatic brain injuries.

But what happens is, when these men and women come back and they are 
still in the Defense health care system, they are treated for the 
apparent physical injuries that you can see in front of you. And 
because they are moving so quickly, they don't think to screen them for 
TBI if it is not a severe case of TBI. They move them over to the VA. 
The VA has no record of them having had a head injury, so it doesn't 
become part of their medical record and we have symptoms that go 
undiagnosed the rest of the time they are in the VA health care 
facility.

So what this Congress did is said that every VA facility in this 
country has to have somebody on staff who is equipped and trained to 
treat traumatic brain injury, and we created a national data base for 
all of those cases where we establish treatment protocols to make sure 
that those brave men and women who suffered from TBI get the highest 
quality care anywhere in the country. That is something that is going 
to directly impact people's lives.

Because of that law that we passed in this House and that has been 
signed into law, every veteran who enters a VA health care facility is 
going to be screened for traumatic brain injury, so never again will it 
go undiagnosed.