---
---

# None
## `441aa975362caeebf1a778ef7428a3bc`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 19 June 2008`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 1284 provides for consideration 
of the Senate amendments to the House amendments to the Senate 
amendment to the bill H.R. 2642, Supplemental Appropriations Act of 
2008. The rule makes in order a motion by the chairman of the Committee 
on Appropriations that the House, one, concur in the Senate amendment 
to the House amendment numbered 1, and two, concur in the Senate 
amendment to the House amendment numbered 2, with the amendment printed 
in the Rules Committee report.

The motion is debatable for 1 hour and controlled by the Committee on 
Appropriations, and the Chair shall divide the question between the 
dispositions of the two Senate amendments.

Mr. Speaker, the issue to be debated today could not be of greater 
consequence to the future of our Nation or the citizens of this body 
and all of this country. For that reason, the Rules Committee has 
reported out a rule that gives each Member the opportunity to vote his/
her conscience on the most pressing issue of our day: funding for 
combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as critical domestic 
spending to bring relief to the American people and provide our 
veterans with access to higher education.

This legislation meets the spending requirements made by President 
Bush


with the exception of the $2.65 billion in disaster relief for the 
aftermath of the tornadoes and floods that hit the Midwest which was 
added at the President's request.

In addition, the bill includes the $5.8 billion that President Bush 
asked for to strengthen the levees in New Orleans and does not include 
a single earmark except those explicitly requested by his 
administration.

Mr. Speaker, in order to bring the legislation forward today, the 
Democrat majority had to make very difficult decisions. However, making 
difficult choices is appropriate when deciding issues of great 
importance such as the war in Iraq, a war that has placed unprecedented 
strain on this Nation.



At no time in our history has America fought a war of this magnitude, 
or one that is this difficult, with an entirely voluntary military 
force composed of only 1 percent of the general population. And no one 
in this country has been asked to sacrifice as our troops and their 
families have.

Our soldiers are well aware of what the current situation means for 
them, two, three, four, sometimes five deployments of duty, while their 
political leaders casually use words like ''political progress'' to 
justify their redeployment.

However, these extraordinary individuals know full well that they 
return again and again to a conflict that has taken the lives of over 
4,000, almost 5,000 now, of their fellow soldiers and 28 from my 
district alone.

They know that tens of thousands of American men and women are 
returning home wounded and physically disabled, many suffering from 
post-traumatic stress disorder and a host of other mental health 
issues.

They know full well that they are redeployed to a civil war that has 
left millions of Iraqi men, women and children dead and millions more 
in refugee camps or fleeing to other countries that will accept them.

Our soldiers already know quite a lot, and by that I mean, they've 
come to learn that terms like ''political progress'' are little more 
than political posturing and empty rhetoric, and that is not how a 
Nation shows respect for its military.

Unfortunately, such disrespect is what our brave men and women in 
uniform are accustomed to. Our troops were repeatedly promised that 
they would have the equipment they needed to do their jobs. Yet we all 
saw the reports of desperate searches through junk heaps to refit ill-
equipped armored vehicles. We all heard the stories of struggling 
families frantically emptying their savings accounts to purchase 
adequate body armor for their children going off to war.

Our troops were repeatedly promised that they would be taken care of 
when they came home from combat. Yet once again this administration's 
promises turned out to be nothing more than rhetoric. Remember the 
disgraceful images of Walter Reed Hospital, and that is not how a 
grateful Nation shows respect for its troops.

Mr. Speaker, it is with this in mind that we proceed today with this 
legislation. While some pieces of this bill required difficult 
decisions before it could be brought to the floor, others were easy to 
make.

The bill provides immediate resources to our troops currently in the 
field, and nothing is more important than their safety and security. 
And in addition, the bill keeps our promises to our veterans.

Part of the cost of waging war is ensuring that those who fight 
receive the resources that they need to resume their lives when they 
return home. Given all the sacrifices that our troops have made for 
this Nation, it is simply unconscionable to nickel and dime them when 
it comes time for us to keep up our end of the bargain.

The underlying legislation includes a dramatic expansion of the 
education benefits provided to our veterans. Not only do our troops 
deserve this benefit, the same one provided to veterans of World War 
II, but for every dollar we spend on education today, we will see a 
return that will bolster our economy tomorrow. And frankly, our economy 
needs bolstering.

Far too many hardworking Americans are feeling enormous pressure with 
skyrocketing gas and food prices, unaffordable health care costs, 
rising college tuition rates, home foreclosures that are far too 
commonplace, and a terrible job market.

Last month's atrocious unemployment numbers highlight the urgent need 
for assistance to millions of struggling families calling out for 
relief. In fact, the number of Americans looking for work has grown by 
800,000 over the last year, and the number of American jobs has 
declined by 260,000 since the beginning of 2008.

This bill takes immediate action to extend unemployment insurance for 
workers who have exhausted their benefits by up to 13 weeks in every 
State.

Furthermore, the American people are feeling the pain as their hard-
earned tax dollars finance the rebuilding of a foreign Nation while 
their country's own economy and infrastructure are falling apart at the 
seams. To that end, this legislation removes the unfair burden placed 
on the American taxpayer by requiring the Iraqi government to pull its 
own weight and match U.S. reconstruction money dollar-for-dollar.

In addition, it prohibits, once again--and we have to look out for 
those signing statements--but it prohibits once more the establishment 
of permanent bases in Iraq, blocking this administration from saddling 
the American people with a costly occupation long after their soldiers 
are home.

Mr. Speaker, the underlying legislation deals with some of the most 
important issues of the day, our fellow citizens who have been sent to 
fight in a conflict far away from home, as well as critical domestic 
spending that will give relief to the millions of Americans struggling 
just to survive.

The structure of the rule we consider today provides each Member the 
opportunity to cast his or her vote according to their values and their 
priorities. I am proud to support the rule, and I ask my colleagues to 
do the same.

I reserve the balance of my time.