---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `441b0584723a6b343f8ed89977169222`
`Mrs. BOXER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I say thank you to Senator Inhofe. People 
see us tangling on a host of issues. I think it gives them a good 
feeling to know there are times when we see eye to eye. I would say, 
when those times occur, it should mean we can get our legislation 
through pretty quickly because we have worked hard to accommodate the 
views of both sides of the aisle.

I am pleased the Senate voted overwhelmingly to start the process of 
considering the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. I hope, in 
short order, we will find out we can actually move to the bill. We are 
technically on a motion to proceed to the bill, which is slowing us up 
a bit, but we think there are other issues causing that. We hope they 
will be resolved.

This important legislation authorizes projects and policies of the 
Civic Works Program of the Army Corps of Engineers and, as I said, it 
has tremendous support both from my ranking member, Senator Inhofe, the 
entire Environment and Public Works Committee--which runs the gamut of 
philosophies and geographies and all the rest.

Colleagues asked to see the substitute bill we worked so hard on, 
that has a very good score from the Congressional Budget Office--less 
than the House-passed bill; fiscally responsible. A good chunk of it is 
aimed at Hurricane Katrina--which both Senator Inhofe and I feel very 
good about. We believe certainly Louisiana is in desperate need of 
help, and we have answered their call in a very strong way. I would say 
about 25 percent of the bill is actually dedicated to making sure 
Louisiana is made whole and is protected in the future.

We hope our colleagues from Louisiana will feel good about this. If 
there are other things they want to offer, we ask them to come down and 
show us what they are. Senator Inhofe, Senator Isakson, Senator Baucus, 
and I have an agreement that unless the four of us agree on these 
amendments, we are going to oppose them. That is hard for us to do. We 
don't like to give up our freedom. But on this we are going to do it. 
Why? This bill is 7 years overdue--7 long years. There is enough blame 
to go around as to why it happened. We don't need to get into it. It is 
not important. Right now we have an opportunity to make up for lost 
time and get to where we are back on a track that makes sense. This is 
a great economy in this country. We need an infrastructure that matches 
our ambitions and our future dreams for a thriving business community, 
a place where workers can get good jobs. So we need this bill.

What we are saying to colleagues is, first of all, some of you want 
to see the bill. Of course. The bill is available to you.

The bill is available in both cloakrooms. The bill will be printed in 
the Record tonight. You have all been part of it. I think you all will 
be pleased with it. There is a CBO score that has been placed in the 
Record for you to see. There is huge support out here in America for 
this bill. We have letters coming in from disparate groups in this 
country which include farmers, which include workers' unions, 
contractors, all kinds of businesses. This is a very powerful message 
to the Senate to move forward. The House has passed the bill. Let's get 
to conference. Let's get a bill to the President's desk.

Again, I say thank you to Senator Inhofe. I will say this a lot. But 
it has been a pleasure to work with him and his staff. My staff feels 
the same way. We have made great progress. This bill is a project of 
commitment, of bipartisan and partnership.

I mentioned Senators Baucus and Isakson. They have been very 
important in terms of working with us on this package. Many members of 
the committee went to Louisiana to see the problem there. Senators 
Landrieu and Vitter were determined to show us their needs, and they 
did. Again, a lot of the work in this bill is directed toward 
Louisiana.

I do want to thank members of the staff. Sometimes chairmen wait 
until the bill is finished to do that. But I want to do it now: My 
staff director, Bettina Poirier, and my deputy staff director, Ken 
Kopocis; Jeff Rosato and Tyler Rushforth for all their work. On Senator 
Inhofe's staff, I wanted to thank Andrew Wheeler, Ruth Van Mark, Angie 
Giancarlo, and Letmon Lee. Additionally, I thank Jo-Ellen Darcy and 
Paul Wilkins with Senator Baucus and Mike Quiello with Senator Isakson.

We have had many late-hour, emergency, stressful phone calls getting 
to this stage. We hope those phone calls will not have been in vain and 
that we have come up with a product everyone will be proud of.

In so many ways this is the start of a new day because I believe we 
are now on track to restore the regular process of meeting the Nation's 
water resources needs as they arise. But we will not get done with this 
bill if colleagues do not come to the floor and let us see their 
amendments.

I echo what Senator Inhofe said. Let's not play hide and seek with


amendments. Let's get those amendments out. I have already been very 
open. I have told everybody there is an agreement with the big four on 
the committee; that we need to agree to them, to support them. It may 
well be there is an amendment on Senator Inhofe's side that he wouldn't 
vote for because one of us said it is not acceptable. The same thing 
could well happen on our side. That does not diminish anyone's right to 
offer these amendments. They have the right to do it. We support their 
right to do it because if they come soon, maybe we can work on these 
amendments together and get them included in the managers' package. So 
that would be the best of all worlds.

I thank Senator Feingold because he and I had a chat. He is going to 
offer an amendment I do not agree with on prioritization of Corps 
projects. But he is going to come over here at noon. He is going to 
take his time then, and then he is not going to talk about this anymore 
until we have a vote. And he will do it in 2 minutes on Tuesday so that 
we can get the debate on these amendments over with now.

So I ask other Senators with amendments, within the sound of our 
voices: Please come over with your amendments. We have all day, all day 
here with an open microphone for you. You can take as much time as you 
want. You can put your amendment out there. You can talk about it, and 
then Senator Inhofe and I can look it over, share it with Senators 
Isakson and Baucus.

We want to accommodate everybody. We really do. If you meet the 
criteria we have set out--I think the criteria is well thought out. We 
want to make sure every project in this bill can be defended. That is 
important because we have precious few dollars to waste. So we want you 
to come over with your amendments. We are going to try to help 
everyone. We have already done so much to help you. We want to do more. 
We both agree, Senator Inhofe and I, that WRDA is an important bill, 
and it is overdue 7 years--too long to wait for a bill that authorizes 
essential flood control, navigation, ecosystem restoration; 7 years of 
projects being ready to go and unable to begin because, for whatever 
reason.

Again, we did not--we could not get the political will, or we could 
not just push it over the finish line, as I like to say. So we had 7 
years of communities in your State and mine and Oklahoma and other 
places, people waiting to shore up their infrastructure needs, many of 
them vital to protecting homes and families from catastrophic flooding.

Believe me, I can tell you, in my State flood control is one of the 
major priorities of Senator Feinstein and I, as well as Governor 
Schwarzenegger. It is quite bipartisan in the State legislature as 
well.

So, yes, there are a lot of projects in the bill. It is the cost of 
waiting so long to act. So I think it is remarkable that given all the 
time that has gone on, we were able to put together a bill that is 
fiscally responsible. The bill before the Senate is less expensive than 
the bill passed by the House. The original bill had some ambiguous 
language that drove up the score. But I believe Senator Inhofe and I 
and others, we have corrected this problem. It was not easy. It took 
discipline, but we worked cooperatively in a bipartisan way.


We have a bill that meets our communities' and our Nation's acute and 
unmet water infrastructure needs. It does it in a fiscally responsible 
way. Let me tell you what the bill does. Title I would authorize 47 
projects consistent with completed chief of engineers reports. Now, 
that is very important because these reports lay out what we have to 
do, what the cost will be.

Those chief of engineers reports deal with flood control, navigation, 
and ecosystem restoration projects. These chief reports are the result 
of years of engineering science, economic analysis, environmental 
assessment, hours of Corps of Engineers work and expertise going into 
preparing these documents, concluding with the final review of the 
chief.

Title I would also authorize new locks on the upper Mississippi 
River, Illinois waterway system, and the concurrent ecosystem 
restoration plan for those waters. This project is important to 
waterway goods movement, particularly grains from the heartland of 
America. That is why the farmers support this bill. We have an amazing 
coalition of people supporting this bill.

If you cannot move goods, grain, from the heartland, we are in a lot 
of trouble. We will be in a lot of trouble if this bill does not get 
done. Senator Inhofe and I are committed to getting this done. We have 
our differences in this Chamber, and by the way, that is the way it 
should be. There are differences in this Chamber, but when it comes to 
this bill, it seems to me we have to set them aside. Those differences 
should be set aside.

Title I also includes authorization for the Louisiana Coastal Area 
Ecosystem Restoration Program, to revert wetland loss and provide 
hurricane and storm damage reduction benefits.

I will discuss this issue in depth at a later time. But we know the 
loss of wetlands is a major cause of flooding. Not even to get into the 
fact that our species need these wetlands, put that aside; the wetlands 
are flood control, natural flood control. We have lost so many wetlands 
that the Corps came to us and told us they believe it is a major cause 
of trouble now. We did not realize what we had until they were gone. So 
now we are restoring wetlands.

Finally, title I includes small projects for flood damage reduction, 
navigation, aquatic ecosystem restoration, under the continuing 
authority programs of the Corps.

Title II will make changes in Corps of Engineers authorities in how 
it carries out its programs. Title II contains the administrative 
provisions that are commonly referred to as Corps reform. These 
important provisions include updating the Corps' planning process, the 
water resources planning coordinating committee, independent peer 
review, and improvements to the Corps' mitigation program.

Now, a lot of this language was new to the last bill. I thank my 
colleague, Senator Inhofe. When he was in charge of the committee, he 
took the lead on this section, and we kept that section intact. We made 
progress with Corps reform. These provisions will help ensure the Corps 
does its job more effectively and soundly, require in many cases an 
extra pair of eyes on its projects.

Senator Inhofe worked with Senator Feingold and me and others. The 
language stands. We should be proud. Yes, there is Corps reform in this 
bill.

Now, I wanted to make it clear that Senator Feingold wants to do 
more. One of his ideas is prioritization. Frankly, I think it is off 
the mark, and we are going to have a debate about it to see where the 
chips fall on that particular amendment. But I thank him for his 
cooperation. He is going to come down in a little while. He is going to 
take his time. He is going to debate this bill. Senator Inhofe and I, I 
am sure, will have a response, and then we will be able to have a very 
short continuation of the debate just a couple of minutes per side, 
hopefully, on Monday or Tuesday, and we will finish this bill.

Title II also contains the authorization for the National Levee 
Safety Program, a new program that helps identify failing levees and 
provides Corps resources and expertise to help improve and repair those 
levees.

Title III includes provisions that would affect existing, ongoing, or 
completed projects. These sections include making modifications to 
project cost ceilings, modifying project purposes, changing project 
boundaries, extending authorizations for annual programs, and 
correcting original deficiencies. Why is this important? Because so 
much time has passed that these projects need another look. Sometimes 
there is new technologies that can come in and meet the needs. 
Sometimes there is new cost estimates that need to be reflected. So 
Title III affects existing, ongoing, or completed projects.

I have just about 3 more minutes or 4 more minutes, then I will have 
to yield to whoever would like to speak at that time.

Title IV includes authorizations for new project studies. It also 
makes modifications to ongoing studies. Title V includes modifications 
to the Estuary Restoration Act, an existing restoration program of the 
Corps. It includes programmatic authorities for regional approaches to 
water resources problems.

Title VI would deauthorize all or portions of 52 previously 
authorized Corps


projects. The deauthorization represents projects or portions of 
projects that are no longer supported by local interests. This does 
happen. Sometimes you have a plan, and after years and years people 
say: There is a better way to do it, or we don't need it. That is 
reflected here.

So that is a brief overview of the bill. But it only begins to 
express the bill's importance to our communities, our families, our 
Nation, our farmers, our workers, our businesses. The bill is about 
authorizing projects our communities need to help protect thousands of 
homes and millions of lives from catastrophic floods. The bill is about 
authorizing projects our communities need to help restore the great 
wetlands, estuaries, and rivers of our Nation. These are places in 
which wildlife thrives and our families can enjoy for generations to 
come.

Indeed, as hunting, fishing, boating, camping, and our outdoor 
industries boom, this bill is an important part of keeping America's 
recreation economy thriving.

The bill makes other very important contributions to our Nation's 
economy. It authorizes projects our communities need to help increase 
our port and waterway capacity and makes shipping easier, safer, more 
efficient.

It literally keeps America's economy moving. We are in a global 
economy. Ships come into port, and they go out of port. They move goods 
in, they move goods out. Workers are at the ports, businesses are at 
the ports.

I will tell you, when we get to our next highway bill, we have to do 
a lot more for our ports in terms of cleaner air and goods movement. I 
look forward to working with Senator Inhofe perhaps as early as next 
year, and the other colleagues who chair and rank on that subcommittee, 
to begin looking at that next bill that is so important to our goods 
movement.

But this is part of it. We need to pass this bill to keep America's 
economy moving because so much of our economy is dependent on our water 
resources. In just the next 2 minutes, I am going to give you a couple 
of examples of what I am talking about.

America's ports and harbors are our gateway to the world. Our 
manufacturers' goods, automobiles, computer chips, agriculture goods 
such as grains, wines, and fruit pass through our ports and harbors 
around the world. Goods worth $5.5 billion pass through our ports every 
day and more than 2.5 billion tons of trade move through our ports and 
waterways. That volume is expected to double over the next 15 years. In 
the next 15 years, goods movement is going to double in our country. So 
we have to get down passing this bill, because thousands of jobs are on 
the line. Many businesses are expecting us to take action, and our 
farmers want action. Five million jobs are at America's ports. WRDA is 
essential.

Outdoor recreation, I talked about that. The Corps of Engineers 
operates more than 2,500 recreation areas at 463 projects, and leases 
an additional 1,800 sites to States or locals. The Corps hosts 360 
million visits a year at its lakes, beaches, and other areas. It is 
estimated that 1 in 10 Americans visits Corps projects once a year, 25 
million people. We need to pass this bill. That generates 600,000 jobs 
to support visitors.

Public health and safety, economic growth, environmental protection 
are the goals of this bill.

This is the first bill--I think Senator Inhofe and I are very proud 
of this--that takes into effect ethics reform, even though the bill has 
not been signed into law. We have asked colleagues to submit letters 
answering the question: Do you have a conflict of interest in any of 
your projects? Those letters are open for the public to see. They are 
at the committee offices. We have printed in large print the results of 
those letters and each of the projects Members have asked for.

We are proud of that.

One of the lessons of Hurricane Katrina is we ignore water 
infrastructure at our own peril. We are going to be moving new WRDA 
bills right after this one. We are going to be looking at our levees. 
We are not resting after this bill passes.

I look forward to moving along on this bill. I know at this point we 
have a bit of a slowdown on the bill by my Republican colleagues. I 
understand their issues have nothing to do with the legislation. I 
respect that. It is a tool being used. But I urge both sides, let's put 
aside our differences on whatever they are. Whether it is judges, 
whether it is Iraq, God knows we have differences; they are tough. I 
respect those differences. Senator Inhofe does as well. But we need to 
move this legislation. This bill can't wait much longer.

Again, we are going to work in a cooperative way. We urge Members 
from both sides to get their amendments to the floor. Even though we 
can't at this point put those amendments in the Record, we can debate 
them today.

I yield the floor.