# WILLIAM ODOM'S ``VICTORY IS NOT AN OPTION''
## `442412dfa2478a42d6618f0346ebf18b`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, William Odom is one of the finest 
intelligence officers who have served in our military. Retiring at the 
rank of lieutenant general, his distinguished Army career culminated in 
his heading up the U.S. Army's intelligence division and the National 
Security Agency. He has worked tirelessly to help the country 
understand and deal with the challenges to its security and defense. I 
have known the general for decades, and, like many of my colleagues, I 
deeply value his judgment and insight.

That is why I read his opinion piece from last Sunday's Washington 
Post, ''Victory is Not an Option,'' with great interest.

General Odom lays out the truths and myths of the Nation's 
involvement in Iraq. Among the clear truths is that the dream of a real 
democracy gaining roots in that war-torn country is simply that, a 
dream. He rightly points out, too, that any Iraqi government is likely 
to be more anti than pro-American at the end of the day.

As for the myths, he sensibly lays out that it is pure fantasy for 
anyone to think that our presence is actually preventing the horrible 
carnage from unfolding or holding Iran back from gaining influence with 
its neighbor. It is similarly a flight of the imagination to think that 
our military presence is actually stanching--as opposed to 
encouraging--al-Qaida's involvement in the country. Finally, it is a 
myth to think that we must stay in Iraq ''to support the troops.'' In 
fact, he notes, many of our brave men and women in the country 
understand the cold realities that unfold there every day, and many of 
them believe that we should get out of Iraq.

General Odom makes some sensible suggestions for a new policy 
direction, something beyond the absurd ''surge'' that is only the same 
old repast of stay-the-course with a different seasoning. We should get 
out of Iraq and recognize that our presence there has become a source 
of instability for the whole Middle East. He smartly suggests that we 
should work with our international partners to seek order and 
stability, which will fundamentally alter the balance against the 
radicals who want to stir up even more strife.

I ask unanimous consent that General Odom's article, ''Victory Is Not 
an Option,'' now be printed in the Record. I urge my colleagues to read 
this article closely and truly think about what General Odom is saying. 
The logic is clear and sensible. I think it is incontrovertible.