---
---

# DEMOCRATS WORKING TO SOLVE AMERICA'S PROBLEMS
## `44266591949e82f5e83273bfa1369b67`
`Mr. ELLISON — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, I thank my good friend from the great 
State of Kentucky. He has been helping to lead our majority-maker class 
in this leg of our two-term service, and has been doing a fine job of 
it.

As I start, I want to invoke the memory of two young men, one Robert 
Dixon and another one, Quising Lee.



These are two young men who are from Minneapolis who were killed in 
Iraq. There have been 64 Minnesotans killed in Iraq, and Robert Dixon 
and Quising Lee are two gentlemen who lived in my district.

I'll never forget when I went to go see Quising Lee's family after he 
was killed. He went to North High School. He was 20 years old when he 
died, and he was killed in a roadside bomb in Iraq.

Robert Dixon was killed in a roadside bomb in Iraq as well. I wasn't 
able to go to see Robert Dixon's funeral. I was here. My wife went for 
me. Kim, thank you for doing that. And she sat there and listened to 
stories about Robert Dixon and his life and his service to our country 
and the things he hoped for and wanted.

But I did get a chance to visit the family and go to the funeral of 
Quising Lee. Quising Lee, 20 years old when he was killed, went to 
North High School, had his whole life in front of him. Only 20 years 
old.

It's in the memory of those two young men from Minneapolis that I 
offer remarks tonight, and on behalf of those 64 Minnesotans that have 
been killed, and on behalf of those 4,500-some individuals, Americans 
who've been killed in Iraq, and on behalf of those, probably as many as 
perhaps 600,000, perhaps even 1 million Iraqis who've lost their lives 
in Iraq.

That's the spirit in which I approach tonight, my fellow majority 
makers, because, as you know, tomorrow is the big day we're going to be 
voting on Iraq appropriation once again.

Just for the facts, I think it's important to point out this will be 
a three-tier vote. One will be on appropriation for Iraq. I'll be 
voting ''no.'' The second will be on certain terms and conditions to 
get out of Iraq. I'll be voting ''yes'' on that. And the third will be 
appropriations for GI bill and things like that, and I expect to be 
voting ''yes'' on that.

And so I want to just lay this out tonight because I think people 
that are listening should know that tomorrow is a big deal. Tomorrow is 
a big day. We're all going to be casting votes, votes, I pray, of 
conscience, votes that are not based on licking a finger and sticking 
it in the wind, votes that we earnestly believe in. No matter what you 
may conclude about how you should vote tomorrow, I pray that you do it 
based on your conscience, consistent with your conscience.

And as we sit here tonight, you know, I reflect on the fact that I've 
been to Iraq once, been to Afghanistan once, look forward to going 
back. I think it's the responsibility of every Member of Congress to 
see the place that we have these soldiers struggling to survive in. I 
don't think it's right to just send somebody there and then just expect 
that they're going to be fine. We should at least go there, eat with 
them, sit with them, listen to them, their hopes, dreams, aspirations, 
what they hope to do if they make it out of there.

I think it's important for us, as Members of Congress, to go to the 
VA hospitals in our local communities and here in Washington, DC.

I think that what we're dealing with is serious issues, life and 
death. And more importantly, perhaps most importantly for me, we're 
dealing with issues of how our Nation works in relation with other 
nations in the world.

I believe that the United States should aspire to be a good neighbor 
in the world. I believe that our country, blessed with tremendous 
economic power, blessed with tremendous democracy, meaning not just 
elections, but the power to respect minority rights, the power to 
respect religious diversity, ethnic diversity. In America, we're not 
saying that people don't discriminate, but it's illegal if you do it, 
and good people fought and even died to make it so.

So I hope that tonight, as we reflect upon our great Nation, we 
reflect upon our role in the world, reflect upon not only the hard 
power but the soft power of America; that we all reflect on the 
sacrifices that were made to make it that way; and that we say that 
American history is not written yet, and that greater things are left 
for us to do.

And the greatness of this country is not bound up in guns and bombs, 
but, my friends, it's bound up in the goodness of the people and our 
desire to say that we cannot rest on having a democracy at home, but we 
should model it for the world, but not impose it or inflict it upon the 
world; and that we are not the world's police officer, but we could be 
a good example for what people might want to emulate, and that we 
should use our power to beat swords into plowshares and make war no 
more.

I'll be voting ''no'' on that appropriation tomorrow. And so I just 
want to turn it back, as we reflect tonight, as I reflect on the lives 
of Robert Dixon and Quising Lee. I know my friends from Kentucky and 
Wisconsin have some young people, or not so young people who they're 
remembering tonight as well.

Thank you. I yield back.