---
---

# SSI EXTENSION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED REFUGEES ACT
## `442eccecc8164a996a027a9cc81453df`
`Mr. WELLER of Illinois — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. WELLER of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I include for the Record a 
letter signed by a large number of organizations throughout the country 
in support of the legislation that we have before the House today.


























June 28, 2007.



 Dear Representative, Representing a diverse cross-section 


 of organizations from across the country, we write to you 


 today to ask that you support H.R.2608--the ''SSI Extension 


 for Elderly and Disabled Refugees Act.'' This bipartisan bill 


 is a critical lifeline to thousands of elderly and disabled 


 refugees who are about to lose, or have already lost, their 


 Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits due to the 


 arbitrary seven-year time limit to which their eligibility is 


 limited.



 This bill, introduced by Representatives Jim McDermott (D-


 7th WA) and Jerry Weller (R-11th IL), Chair and Ranking 


 Member, respectively, of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on 


 Income Security and Family Support, will provide a two-year 


 extension of SSI eligibility for elderly and disabled 


 refugees, as well as a provision to cover those who lost 


 benefits prior to enactment of the legislation. The bill will 


 also ensure that refugees who are making efforts to become 


 citizens, but are caught up in the processing backlogs 


 through no fault of their own, are given additional time to 


 naturalize. H.R.2608 will provide vital relief to thousands 


 of refugees who have already fallen into extreme destitution.



 The number of people who are losing their life-sustaining 


 SSI benefits, in large part due to delays in the immigration 


 system beyond their control, is climbing. The Social Security 


 Administration currently projects that 50,000 elderly and 


 disabled refugees will face extreme hardship and destitution 


 by 2012 due to the suspension of their SSI benefits. These 


 individuals fled persecution or torture in countries such as 


 Iran, Russia, Iraq, Vietnam and Somalia, and now are too 


 elderly or disabled to support themselves.



 As more and more people begin to reach the end of their 


 seven-year eligibility period, the human impact of this 


 restrictive time limit has become increasingly dire and all 


 the more intolerable. Some will lose health insurance as 


 well, because SSI and Medicaid eligibility are typically 


 linked. Among those who have already lost SSI benefits is a 


 Jewish elderly couple from the former Soviet Union; the 


 husband is deaf and the wife suffers from heart disease. 


 However, this restriction does not affect only the elderly, 


 as illustrated by the case of a 16 year-old Iranian boy with 


 mental retardation, autism, seizures, and severe macrocephaly 


 who lost his SSI benefits and Medicaid health insurance due 


 to the seven-year time limit. These are only but two of the 


 thousands of heartbreaking stories that we will continue to 


 be confronted with unless Congress acts now to lengthen the 


 insufficient eligibility period for this extremely vulnerable 


 population.



 The crisis is already upon us. Each and every month, 


 elderly and disabled refugees are losing their lifeline of 


 support. With the exception of West Virginia, no state is 


 left untouched by this arbitrary time limit. Some 4,500 


 people will lose their SSI benefits in fiscal year 2007 


 alone. This bill enjoys bipartisan support, builds on similar 


 proposals in recent Bush Administration budgets, and contains 


 a savings provision that will cover the modest cost of the 


 extension. Given the urgency of the situation and the life-


 threatening consequences that these individuals face, we 


 strongly urge you to support the passage of H.R.2608 this 


 year. We are hopeful that Congress will act quickly and 


 decisively to prevent the unnecessary hardship that this 


 already-victimized population stands to suffer. Thank you for 


 your consideration.





 Respectfully,


















National




 American Academy of HIV; American Association of Homes and 


 Services for the Aging; American Association of Jews from the 


 Former USSR, Inc; American Association of People with 


 Disabilities; American Federation of State, County and 


 Municipal Employees; American Friends Service Committee; 


 American Jewish Committee; American Network of Community 


 Options and Resources; American Occupational Therapy 


 Association; Americans for Democratic Action, Inc.; Asian 


 American Justice Center; Asian Americans for Equality; 


 Association of Jewish Family & Children's Agencies (AJFCA); 


 Boat People SOS; Break the Chain Campaign; Campaign for 


 Working Families; Catholic Charities USA; Center for Civil 


 Justice; Disability Navigators Inc.



 EESA-Eastern European Service Agency; Gay Men's Health 


 Crisis; Hispanic Coalition; HIV Medicine Association; 


 HIVictorious, Inc.; Hmong National Development, Inc.; 


 Immigrant and Refugee Rights Program, Washington Lawyers' 


 Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs; Institute for 


 Peace and Justice; Institute for Social and Economic 


 Development (ISED); International AIDS Empowerment; 


 International District Housing Alliance; International Rescue 


 Committee; International Service Center; Jewish Council for 


 Public Affairs; Jubilee Campaign USA Inc.; Justice, Peace & 


 Integrity of Creation Office of the Wheaton Franciscans; 


 Living Room, Inc.; Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service 


 (LIRS); Lutheran Services in America; 9 to 5, National 


 Association of Working Women.



 National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good 


 Shepherd; National Asian Pacific Center on Aging; National 


 Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development; 


 National Council of Jewish Women; National Council on Aging; 


 National Immigration Forum; National Immigration Law Center; 


 National Korean American Service & Education Consortium 


 (NAKASEC); National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty; 


 National Priorities Project; National Senior Citizens Law 


 Center; National Women's Law Center; NETWORK: A National 


 Catholic Social Justice Lobby; New Sudan Generation; 


 Northwest Health Law Advocates; Northwest Immigrant Rights 


 Project; Progressive Jewish Alliance; Religious Action Center 


 of Reform Judaism; RESULTS.



 Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law; Sisters of 


 Mercy of the Americas; Southeast Asia Resource Action Center 


 (SEARAC); The AIDS Institute; The Arc of the United States; 


 The Coalition on Human Needs; The Leadership Conference of 


 Women Religious; The National Asian Pacific American Women's 


 Forum; The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children; 


 The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring; U.S. Committee for 


 Refugees and Immigrants; Unitarian Universalist Association 


 of Congregations; United Cerebral Palsy; United Jewish 


 Communities; United Methodist Church, General Board of Church 


 and Society; USAction; Wider Opportunities for Women; Women 


 of Reform Judaism; Women of Reform Judaism; World Relief; 