---
---

# RECOGNIZING WORLD WAR II VETERAN ROBERT WALTER DINGMAN
## `444107a1458c56588eac2037002d7261`
`Mr. WOLF — 20 April 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring the attention of the 
House to Robert Walter Dingman, a decorated veteran of World War II who 
was wounded in combat 62 years ago today, on April 20, 1945. Private 
Dingman was seriously wounded as he crossed an open field and laid 
paralyzed until a heroic medic rescued him under enemy fire.

Bob Dingman had just turned 18 when he was drafted into the Army in 
1944. After basic training at Camp Blanding, Florida, he was soon 
aboard a troop ship to Liverpool, England and then on to LeHarve, 
France, in early 1945. The French rail road took him and his fellow 
soldiers to Verviers, Belgium, where he was issued an M-1 rifle. He was 
soon taken across the Rhine River where he was assigned to Comp B of 
the 83rd Armored Reconnaissance Battalion of the 3rd Armored Division.

As a young soldier with a strong faith in God, Private Dingman was 
determined he would not hate his enemy and had occasions to show 
kindness toward captives, while carrying out his duties. Since those 
dark days 62 years ago, Bob Dingman has led a successful, active, 
inspiring and selfless life. After graduating from Houghton College in 
New York state, he began his career here in Washington as an employee 
of the U.S. Navy. He later went into the executive recruiting business 
and formed his own executive recruiting firm in California in 1978. He 
rose professionally and is recognized as one of the nation's top 
executive recruiters.

During his recruiting career, he repeatedly went out of his way to 
assist faith-based organizations in their searches for competent 
leadership, in addition to his broad array of commercial clients. Over 
the years he led the search projects for leaders of such organizations 
as World Vision International, Mission Aviation Fellowship, Young Life, 
numerous Christian Colleges, and many other church-related 
organizations. He also gave generously of his time and abilities by 
serving on the national boards of such organizations as the Salvation 
Army and Mission Aviation Fellowship and the local boards of Hospice 
and Whitworth College.

As a disabled veteran of World War II, he was awarded a 50 percent 
disability in 1951. As one who has experienced the physical and 
emotional pain of rehabilitation, Mr. Dingman is currently turning his 
attention to finding ways to help newly disabled veterans from the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.



I ask that the House join me today in recognizing Bob Dingman for a 
lifetime of service to his country and others, and for his example of 
determination, hard work and commitment to his faith.
