---
---

# None
## `444b1c8a5eeca61d04448c0cd59122ab`
`Mr. LEVIN — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I support the Improving America's 
Security Act of 2007 because it takes a giant step in implementing the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. Keeping America safe requires 
more than expensive weapons and war funding; it also requires a 
commitment to homeland security. This legislation shows that 
commitment.

We learned on September 11 and during Hurricane Katrina how important 
it is for our first responders to be able to communicate with each 
other. For years, I have been urging the Department of Homeland 
Security to establish a dedicated funding source for interoperable 
communications equipment. I am pleased that this legislation creates a 
grant program dedicated to improving operability and interoperability 
at local, regional, State and Federal levels.

I am also pleased that this legislation moves us closer to the 
equitable distribution of homeland security grant funding. For 5 years, 
the largest homeland security grant programs have distributed funds 
using a formula that arbitrarily sets aside a large portion of funds to 
be divided equally among the States, regardless of size or need. The 
current ''small State formula'' has severely disadvantaged States such 
as Michigan with high populations. In addition, it reduces the amount 
of funding that can be allocated to States with highest risks. Although 
I am disappointed that the Senate failed to pass two amendments that I 
supported that would have lowered the minimum funding level even 
further, the .45 percent minimum in the underlying bill is an 
improvement from the current .75 percent base funding amount.

The legislation also includes language that I authored that directs 
the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish international border 
community interoperable communications demonstration projects on the 
northern and southern borders to improve collaboration and help 
identify common frequencies for cross border communications. These 
interoperable communications demonstration projects will address the 
interoperable communications needs of police officers, firefighters, 
emergency medical technicians, National Guard, and other emergency 
response providers at our borders by identifying common international 
cross-border frequencies for communications equipment; fostering the 
standardization of interoperable communications equipment; identifying 
solutions that will expeditiously facilitate communications 
interoperability across national borders; ensuring that emergency 
response providers can communicate with one another and the public at 
disaster sites or in the event of a terrorist attack or other 
catastrophic event; and providing training and equipment for relevant 
personnel to enable those units to deal with threats and contingencies 
in a variety of environments.

Also included in the legislation is language that I authored that 
will require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a cost-
benefit analysis of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, WHTI, 
before publishing the final rule. The WHTI will require individuals 
from the United States, Canada, and Mexico to present a passport or 
other document proving citizenship before entering the United States. 
Although we all share the goals of the Western Hemisphere Travel 
Initiative to make our borders as secure as they can be, we need to 
make sure that we are achieving that goal in a way that will not cause 
economic harm to our States. I am also pleased that language was 
included in the bill that I worked with Senator Coleman on to require 
the Department of Homeland Security to sign a memorandum of 
understanding with one or more States to conduct a pilot project to see 
whether secure driver's licenses could be used as a form of 
documentation for travel between the U.S. and Canada under the WHTI. 
The amendment also provides that DHS must evaluate the pilot project 
and map out next steps, including an expansion if appropriate.

This legislation also takes important steps to shore up rail, transit 
and cargo security in the United States. The legislation establishes a 
grant fund for system wide Amtrak security improvements and much needed 
infrastructure upgrades as well as authorizes an existing grant program 
for improving intercity bus and bus terminal security. It establishes a 
grant program for freight and passenger rail security upgrades and 
requires railroads shipping high-hazard materials to create threat 
mitigation plans. It authorizes studies to find ways to improve 
passenger and baggage security screening on passenger rail service 
between the U.S. and Canada. The bill will hopefully move us closer to 
addressing something I have been trying to get implemented at our 
northern car and truck border crossings for years: establishing a 
preclearance system. The study is required to identify what exactly is 
needed to perform prescreening of rail passengers on the northern 
border.

I am pleased that the Senate retained language that will require that 
TSA screeners finally come under an unambiguous personnel system. A 
further amendment that I supported will finally give Transportation 
Security Administration screeners the whistleblower protections 
afforded to most other Federal workers, including law enforcement 
officers. It also gives them the right to appeal suspensions and to 
collectively bargain, just like their counterparts in the Border 
Control, FEMA and the Capitol Police.

The bill also requires studies on how to improve the safety of 
transporting radioactive and hazardous materials and shipments of 
explosives and radioactive materials on our highways. I am pleased that 
this legislation requires the screening of all cargo carried on 
passenger airplanes within 3 years.

The intelligence failures before the Iraq war were, to a significant 
degree, the result of the CIA shaping intelligence to support 
administration policy. The CIA's errors were all in one direction, 
making the Iraqi threat clearer, sharper and more imminent, thereby 
promoting the decision to remove Saddam from power. Nuances, 
qualifications and caveats were dropped. ''Slam dunk'' was the 
assessment.

Among the most important things we can do to keep this from happening 
again is to strengthen congressional oversight to ensure that 
intelligence community assessments are objective and uninfluenced by 
the policy judgments of whatever administration is in power. The 9/11 
Commission agreed, stating in its report that ''Of all our 
recommendations, strengthening congressional oversight may be among the 
most difficult and important.'' Section 1102 of S. 4 bill is directed 
at that goal.


Too often Congress is stonewalled or slow-walked by the executive 
branch in accessing intelligence information necessary to make policy 
and conduct oversight of the intelligence community. Section 1102 of 
this bill adds a new section 508 to the National Security Act that will 
ensure Congress has access to intelligence information critical to do 
its job.

Section 508 requires elements of the intelligence community to 
provide, upon request from congressional committees of jurisdiction, 
timely access to intelligence information. The requirement would apply 
unless the President certified that the requested documents were not 
being provided because the President was asserting a constitutional 
privilege. Requiring the


intelligence community to respond to requests for information from the 
vice chairman and ranking member of the Senate and House intelligence 
committees, respectively, will encourage rigorous oversight regardless 
of which party controls the Congress.

In addition to providing information in a timely manner, we expect 
the intelligence community to provide Congress its assessment of 
intelligence matters uninfluenced by the policy goals of the 
administration. However, an Office of Management and Budget--OMB--
memorandum directs executive branch agencies to clear, through OMB, 
legislative proposals, agency reports, and testimony on pending 
legislation. The memo also states that ''If agencies are asked by 
Congressional Committees to report or testify on pending legislation or 
wish to volunteer a report, similar clearance procedures are 
followed.''

Our intelligence agencies should not have to get permission from the 
OMB, or any other executive branch official to share their views with 
the Congress. Section 1102 of the bill adds a new section 508 (d) to 
the National Security Act that says no executive branch official can 
require the intelligence community to get permission to testify or to 
submit testimony, legislative recommendations or comments to the 
Congress. Section 508 (d) is based on authority that exists for 
numerous other executive branch agencies, including the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Housing 
Finance Board, and the National Credit Union Administration.

A CRS legal review of direct reporting requirements like the one 
created by section 508 (d) states that ''direct reporting provisions 
are well within the Congress's constitutional authority to inform 
itself in order to perform its legislative function which has been 
consistently acknowledged by Supreme Court decisions, and dates back to 
the early enactments of the First Congress in 1789.'' The CRS review 
calls Department of Justice objections to direct reporting requirements 
''without substantial merit.''

Finally, it is important for whistleblowers to know that they can 
come directly to Congress if they have evidence that someone has made a 
false statement to the Congress. And the Congress has a right to that 
information--even if it is classified.

Section 1102 of the bill adds a new section 509 to the National 
Security Act making it clear that intelligence community employees and 
contractors can report classified information directly to appropriate 
Members of Congress and cleared staff if the employee reasonably 
believes that the information provides direct and specific evidence of 
a false or inaccurate statement to Congress contained in an 
intelligence assessment, report or estimate.

Section 509 is substantively the same as section 225 of the Senate-
passed version of the intelligence reform legislation. Section 225 was 
stripped from the intelligence reform bill in conference. Section 509 
is also similar to a provision that passed the Senate twice previously. 
Once as part of the fiscal year 1998 Intelligence Authorization Act and 
once as a stand alone measure S. 1668, in the 105th Congress. S. 1668 
passed the Senate 93-1.

Section 509 is also consistent with congressional findings passed in 
the 105th Congress as part of the Intelligence Community Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1998 and incorporated by reference into the 
intelligence reform bill. Those findings state among other things that:




 Congress, as a co-equal branch of Government, is empowered 


 by the Constitution to serve as a check on the executive 


 branch; in that capacity, it has a ''need to know'' of 


 allegations of wrongdoing within the executive branch, 


 including allegations of wrongdoing in the Intelligence 


 Community; . . .



 (N)o basis in law exists for requiring prior authorization 


 of disclosures to the intelligence committees of Congress by 


 employees of the executive branch of classified information 


 about wrongdoing within the Intelligence Community . . .


I am pleased that the Senate will soon pass this legislation, for the 
families and friends of those we lost on September 11, 2001, and for 
the safety and security of our Nation.