# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `445c016b28da7570eb9232f07913dc54`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, first, I wish to express my strong 
appreciation to the Senator from Iowa, Mr. Harkin, and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania, Mr. Specter, for the work they have done on the Labor-HHS 
conference report. This appropriations bill is of enormous importance. 
Our national security gets attention, but so much of what makes a 
difference in the strength of our Nation is our investment in our 
people. When we talk about investment in our people, we are talking 
about education, we are talking about health care, we are talking


about job safety, job training programs which have been tested and 
tried, examined and evaluated. The Appropriations Committee has done 
just a splendid job in allocating resources to these priorities. They 
have done it in a bipartisan way.

Now as we see this whole process on appropriations moving forward, we 
know this will ultimately be decided this evening with a Senate vote. 
It will then go over to the House of Representatives and down to the 
White House to the President where he has indicated he is going to veto 
this legislation.

I wish to take a few minutes to go over this legislation so the 
American people and our colleagues, as we are looking at a variety of 
proposals that are coming at us at a furious pace in the Senate, have a 
very clear understanding and awareness as to exactly what this 
legislation is about and its importance to American families. This is 
family legislation, it is children's legislation, it is health care 
legislation. It is about our ability to compete in the future.

We hear much talk about the challenges we are facing globally, and we 
are facing serious challenges globally. This legislation deals with 
making sure American workers are going to have the kinds of skills 
which are necessary so they are able to compete.

Global competition is going to be a knowledge-based competition. That 
is why it is so important we invest in education. That is why it is so 
important we have a healthy population, and why it is so important we 
have individuals who have the skills so we can have a knowledge-based 
economy and be able to compete internationally. This legislation is the 
heart and soul of that effort in the Congress of the United States.

Again, I thank old friends and individuals who, for a long period of 
time, have been strongly committed to these issues on education, 
health, and training.

When we look over these particular items, it is important to know, 
since we are talking about priorities, a billion dollars--and a billion 
dollars is real money, that is true--we are talking about a total 
budget of over $2.8 trillion. The amounts we are talking about 
certainly are very modest, indeed, particularly when one looks at the 
total scope of our budget. And particularly when one looks at what we 
are spending in Iraq, the amounts we are spending in this bill are 
basically trivial. That is why it is so discouraging, I find, that the 
President of the United States believes we have to effectively pay for 
the war in Iraq by vetoing programs that make a difference in the 
quality of education, health care, and training of American workers.

Let's look at these items in some detail. How can we take this 
President seriously when he says he will leave no child behind, when he 
vetoes funding for education? How can we take the President seriously 
when he says he is for children's health, when he vetoes funding for 
children's health care? How can we take this President seriously when 
he announces a new food safety initiative such as he did yesterday and 
says he will veto funding for food safety? The President may have the 
wrong priorities, but in Congress, we have worked together, Democrats 
and Republicans, to pass responsible new investments in our schools, 
the health care systems, and our jobs.


Here is what is at stake if the President vetoes this important 
legislation, and the American people deserve to know which of their 
priorities will fall to the cutting room floor when he rejects this 
bill.

First and foremost, this bill before us today provides long overdue 
funding for education. Over the past few years, the White House and the 
Republican leadership in the Congress have neglected the urgently 
needed new investments for better teachers, stronger schools, and 
college affordability. In fact, under the Republican-controlled 
Congress, funding for the education of our children has actually gone 
down.

This chart goes back to the last time we had Democratic 
appropriations bills and we passed No Child Left Behind. One can see 
the dramatic falloff rather than an increase in commitment to children 
all over this country. We saw the reductions. This reflects the final 
results of these battles. We can see the gradual reductions in funding. 
The red lines are what the administration actually requested. Here is 
President Bush's request, a reduction of $2.2 billion; and in 2008, a 
reduction of $1.5 billion. This is the difference between a Democratic 
resolution and a Democratic conference report, $3.2 billion. We are 
coming back in terms of increases. It provides $3.2 billion in new 
funding for education compared to last year.

The core Federal education initiative for helping schoolchildren who 
fall behind is called the title I program. Despite all the hype from 
the administration about leaving no child behind, title I funding has 
languished since passage of that legislation. The education funding 
before us today changes all that. It includes the largest increase in 
the title I program since the No Child Left Behind Act was passed.

Again, these are the annual increases in title I, part A funding, 
2003. It was going down. In 2006, it was flat, 250. And now with this 
proposal, there is a significant increase, $1.85 billion, an indication 
of the Nation's priority of increased funding for title I.

Title I, as we all remember, goes back to 1965 when this country said 
we as a nation are going to make a priority the poorest children and 
neediest children in our society. We are going to give attention as a 
nation to do something about the poorest and neediest children in this 
country. That is what title I is all about.

We will have a chance to get into those in greater detail. We are all 
familiar with the challenges we are facing with school dropout and 
increased poverty among the neediest of children. We know money is not 
the answer to everything, but it is a pretty clear indication of a 
nation's priorities. And included in this legislation is title I 
funding.

Shamefully, we have seen the Pell grant stagnate as well. In the past 
5 years, students and families have struggled as college costs have 
skyrocketed. What we have also stated as a country--there was a great 
debate actually going back to 1960, and was passed in 1965 in the 
Higher Education Act, that we as a nation say that any young person in 
this country who has the skill and the ability to be admitted to a 
college, that they will not be denied that opportunity. If they do not 
have financial assistance, they will have at least some assistance from 
a Pell grant, named after our former colleague in the Senate, Claiborne 
Pell. With the explosion of the cost of education, we still saw flat 
funding for the Pell Grant Program, and now we are seeing a gradual 
increase. In this particular appropriations bill, we have an increase 
in the Pell grant that will be effectively eliminated if this bill is 
vetoed.

The President should recognize that this bill finally delivers on 
many of the promises we made some 6 years ago. He should embrace the 
progress and sign the bill. Instead, the President has threatened to 
veto the bill and deny the help our schools so desperately need.

The President rejected this bill because it includes an increase of 
$4.5 billion for education funding over what he included in his budget. 
He has requested $158 billion for the war in Iraq this year--that is 
$433 million today--$158 billion for the war in Iraq. All we are 
talking about is a $4.5 billion increase for education. Mr. President, 
$4.5 billion for education gets a veto; $158 billion for the war in 
Iraq gets his signature.

Let's look at the choices and compare the choices of American 
families which are reflected in the legislation before us.

This chart reflects trying to help struggling schools turn around. 
American families want to use these funds to help the 9,000 schools 
most in need of improvement, to strengthen education for all of the 
children in these title I schools. This represents 1 day of the war in 
Iraq, and the President says no.

The most important ingredient is the education of our teachers. 
Having good teachers, well-trained teachers, knowledgeable teachers, 
committed teachers who will serve in our public school system is one of 
the highest aspirations that we see reflected on our fellow 
citizens. We need to have good teachers in many of the underserved 
communities, and we need to provide help for those teachers. We need to 
give assistance to those teachers.



We have some $3 billion for the high-quality teachers. This would 
hire 30,000 teachers to help reduce class size and provide high-quality 
induction for 100,000 new teachers. This induction is assisting and 
familiarizing teachers in their classroom and in their homerooms. It 
has been enormously successful in the retention of high-quality 
teachers, these kinds of programs being included in this legislation. 
It provides high-quality professional development for 200,000 more 
teachers. Teachers want and need to have some time for their 
development, and this provides that help for their professional 
development.

Every other industrialized nation in the world provides this kind of 
assistance. Teachers need this kind of support. So we are providing 
important assistance to them. But, oh no, the President says, no, that 
will be vetoed.

We have $7 billion to help provide the high-quality early education 
through the Head Start Programs, which equals 16 days of failed policy 
in Iraq. We all know the importance of early intervention. Everyone 
should read ''From Neurons to Neighborhoods,'' the great book by Jack 
Shonkoff, who has done such an extraordinary amount of work pulling 
together these three great studies from the National Institutes of 
Health, which shows a snapshot of the child's early development, from 
birth to the very earliest years, and the difference in terms of 
cognitive skills and also social behavior. The earlier the investment 
we have in these programs, the better the results are.

We are not taking the time to reflect all that, but it is so. We have 
demonstrated it time and time again. But that $7 billion is going to be 
subject to the veto.

I wish to mention two very important areas. We are going through 
these areas quickly, but I wish to mention the area of health 
priorities. We have mentioned early education and education, but we 
strongly believe in the $4.9 billion in cancer research which would 
fund over 6,800 grants.

We are living in the life science century, with the extraordinary 
progress that has been made in DNA research and sequencing of the 
genes. The breakthroughs we have seen are absolutely mind-boggling. 
Over the recent years, we have effectively doubled the NIH research and 
the results coming through are extraordinary. At the same time, we are 
now finding that instead of taking advantage of these breakthroughs, we 
are beginning to cut back and cut back and cut back in terms of the 
opportunities in the areas of cancer and cancer research.

When you talk to families across this Nation about their priorities, 
No. 1 in the area of health care will be in the areas of cancer 
research. We have 550,000 who die every year from cancer. It touches 
every family in America either directly or indirectly. We know the 
challenges we are facing now with diabetes and the challenges with 
obesity. There is an explosion across the country in terms of diabetes.

We have $700 million for pandemic flu, to strengthen our health 
defenses. We know there are a variety of different strains that have 
been out there, both chemical and biologics, that could be enormously 
dangerous falling into the hands of the wrong groups and threatening 
American populations in a very significant and important way. We cannot 
be seeing a reduction in terms of our commitments to pandemic flu.

The Centers for Disease Control. Whenever we have a problem, look at 
the television news over the period of the last couple of weeks, what 
did we see when we had the problems over in the Far East and China? It 
is always the CDC that takes on the responsibility to go over and try 
to detect and find out what is happening in these areas. This is an 
enormously important health agency that has enormous capability and 
skill in terms of its personnel and commitment. We have all these 
various challenges--the increased amount of asthma that has effectively 
doubled over the period of the last 15 years, increasing obesity, and 
childhood immunizations. It is interesting there is a higher percentage 
of children in Iraq who are getting immunized for diseases like measles 
than there are in the United States of America. How do we justify that? 
Now we are seeing a reduction in terms of childhood immunizations.

The community health centers, which are the lifeline for some 15 
million low-income Americans, we are cutting back on those at a time 
when we are seeing increasing numbers of Americans losing their health 
insurance. These are all programs that are tried, tested, evaluated and 
all extremely effective and programs the American people support. 
Immunization, the challenges of research in terms of cancer and 
diabetes and obesity, the challenges we are facing in those areas, the 
importance of investing in terms of education, all of these are 
extremely important.

Finally, I wish to mention worker safety and health spending, which 
is a fraction of the Iraq cost. One week in Iraq, $3 billion. These are 
the total expenditures for protecting the $500 million in terms of 
OSHA. Since the passage of OSHA, we have reduced deaths in the 
workplace by more than half. We have increasing complexity for OSHA, 
because with new techniques and new toxins being used in the workplace, 
there are new challenges for OSHA. We need to make sure that in the 
United States of America we are going to have safe workplaces as well 
as workplaces where individuals can be demonstrating increased 
productivity.

We all know the challenges that mine health safety has faced, whether 
it has been out in Utah or West Virginia, this past year. We have $340 
million to try to ensure safety in the mines. But that is going to be 
vetoed. To demonstrate this isn't out-of-control spending, we have OSHA 
last year and OSHA this year, which is a 2.8-percent increase over the 
President's request and some 12 percent in the area of mine safety. 
These are basic and reasonable kinds of expressions by the Congress in 
areas of public concern. Nonetheless, we are hearing this 
administration is going to veto it.


Let me also say we have seen an administration that is, over the past 
years, increasing the reductions in terms of training programs under 
the Workforce Investment Act. The Workforce Investment Act was 
bipartisan legislation. Senator Kassebaum, myself, and others were 
involved in the development and shaping of that, coordinating a variety 
of different job training programs. We had strong bipartisan support, 
and we had support from the workers and from the business community. It 
has made an important difference. In my State of Massachusetts, at the 
end of last year, we had over 92,000 jobs that are out there waiting 
for people to be able to take them. Yet we had more than 178,000 people 
who are unemployed. You would think it would make some sense to get the 
skills to those individuals who can work, who want to work, so they can 
fill those jobs, become taxpayers and productive members of our 
society. That is what we are talking about in terms of workforce 
investment. That is what happens when we have good programs such as 
this.

Nonetheless, we are finding out that even though this legislation 
restores some $500 million to the cuts we have had these last several 
years, this President is now committed toward vetoing.

So these are some of the items that are front and center in terms of 
this appropriations bill. As I mentioned at the outset, this is an 
extremely important piece of legislation. It is basically about the 
sole well-being of our fellow citizens. It is about educating our 
young, ensuring the health and well-being of our fellow citizens, about 
ensuring we are going to be able to have the kind of skills necessary 
so we can have a productive, expanding economy to be able to offer the 
hope and opportunity that good jobs, with good wages and good benefits, 
means to working families. That is what this legislation is about.

The numbers that have been included represent the best judgment of 
Democrats and Republicans together. Compared to where we are in terms 
of the expenditures we have over in Iraq, all Americans, I believe, 
say: Why aren't we investing in Americans? Why aren't we investing in 
our children, in our families, in education, in health care, in 
training? Why aren't we doing the things which are going to make this 
Nation stronger in the future? Why are we going to face a veto by this 
President on these important priorities?

Make no mistake, it is a major mistake for this President to do so. I 
hope he will reconsider his position.



I suggest the absence of a quorum.