---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `445f79d1876838ab0a16c43d7e576e66`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, let's be clear of the purpose of today. We face a real 
test of what this House of Representatives stands for and who we, as 
Representatives, really are.

Do any of us really believe that the resolution in front of us today 
is a serious piece of legislation? Does it properly recognize all of 
America's military and other national security professionals who defend 
us day and night? What of the hundreds of folks in the Intelligence 
Community that are ignored in this resolution, who each and every day 
are working hand in hand with our Armed Forces trying to achieve 
success in Iraq?

Does this resolution discuss or force a debate on the really tough 
issues of who it is that hates America and others so much that they are 
willing to kill innocent men, women and children? Again, this 
resolution comes up short.

What is the threat, and how should America respond? That is the 
debate that we should be having on this floor. This resolution is all 
about staying the course. It says, Support our troops and don't engage 
in new tactics; just keep going down the same path. That is not good 
enough.

There are people who hate us enough to want to kill. I speak of 
militant Islam's hate for America, a hate that extends to others, 
including Muslims. And these militant Islamists kill, they kill 
violently and indiscriminately, but this resolution is silent on the 
threat that we face as a Nation, and it is silent on how we should 
respond.

Who are these radical Islamists, and what should America's response 
to this threat be? We face this on a global basis. What is America's 
response to jihadism? How will America win this war against this 
calculating enemy? And how will America lead the world once again in 
the face of such a ruthless threat?

The resolution that we are debating today simply asks, Do you support 
America's fighting men and women, and do you support or oppose a tactic 
in a battle that is only one front in the war with these military 
jihadists who are bent on the destruction of the infidel America and 
others around the world.

Let me say to my colleagues that I don't believe I am wrong in saying 
that this debate is really about whether or not America is a great 
Nation that leads in the face of difficulty. Nor do I believe that I am 
wrong to question what actually happens when this debate and vote are 
over. Have we really helped the American people understand the threat? 
What message do we send to our troops in harm's way? And what is it 
that the American public needs to understand so that it can better 
understand the challenges that we face? My own answer, Mr. Speaker, was 
that we need to understand the consequences of failure. We need to 
fully understand the nature of the threat that is posed now, and 
moreover in the future, if we fail in the larger war against militant 
Islam.

Mr. Speaker, let me outline some things about this very real threat 
to our very existence that needs to be known by the American public 
and, indeed, this body. This is not a global war on terror. I have 
never liked that term, I don't know why we keep using it. This is a 
global war with jihadists. We are not at war with a tactic, we are at 
war with a group of militant Islamists who hate us and who hate much of 
the rest of the world. What is a jihadist, other than someone or some 
group so full of hate that they are willing to kill?

I have a passion for understanding this threat. And thanks to a great 
deal of superb research done by many experts on the subject, in 
particular the author Mary Habeck, we have been enlightened as to who 
these individuals are, and perhaps also get an insight into the 
question of why do they hate, and why do they hate so much that they 
are willing to kill.

I can tell you that these militant Islamist jihadists are a fringe 
element of Islam who have very specific ideas about how to revive 
Islam, return Muslims to world power, and how to deal with their 
enemies. They are committed to a violent overthrow of the existing 
international system, and to its replacement by an all-encompassing 
Islamist state, the Caliphate.

Mr. Speaker, in studying this threat, this militant Islamic jihadist 
threat, we must also understand why Iraq is such an important element 
of their war against the West. This is where the letter from al Qaeda's 
number two leader, Zawahari, to the late al Zarqawi outlining the 
Islamic Caliphate that would stretch from Indonesia across the Middle 
East and Africa is instructive. In that letter, Zawahari outlines a 
four-stage plan to create this religious empire.

Stage one. ''Expel the Americans from Iraq.'' Expel them in defeat. I 
fear that this debate may be the first step in that process.

Stage two is to create an Islamic religious government in the old 
Mesopotamia, that is, Iraq, developing it and supporting it ''until it 
achieves the level of a Caliphate,'' until it fills the void stemming 
from the departure of the Americans.


Step three is to extend the jihad way to secular countries 
neighboring Iraq. The jihadists will attack heretic Muslims, as they 
define them.

And stage four is the clash with Israel, because Israel was 
established only to challenge any new Islamic entity.

Let's be clear about this. This jihad is about them. It is about 
their god, their religion, before it becomes anything about anyone or 
anything else. That's right, it is about them before it is about us.

The militant jihadists believe that Islam worked well for over a 
thousand years, spreading a true gospel, a unified society that 
followed the Shari'a, a law handed down by God. They believe that the 
modern world has forsaken that pure religious life, and they believe 
that only in a Caliphate governed by the Shari'a is the way to return 
to that pure life.

This is the world that they now want to recreate and force on the 
rest of the world. That is why they are fighting and that is why they 
are killing. They see today's world as one where unbelievers, the 
United States, Japan and others, dominate politically, culturally, 
militarily and economically. This directly assaults their religious 
beliefs, as in effect, much if not all of the world is controlled by 
unbelievers, unbelievers who must be destroyed, including secular 
Muslim states in the region.

To illustrate, let me quote from Osama bin Laden's Fatwa. Listen to 
what these people tell themselves and each other: ''There is no more 
important duty than pushing the American enemy out of the Holy Land, no 
other priority, except Belief, could be considered before it. There is 
no precondition for this duty, and the enemy should be fought with 
one's best abilities. If it is not possible to push back the enemy 
except by the collective movement of the Muslim people, then there is a 
duty on the Muslims to ignore the minor differences among themselves. 
Even the military personnel who are not practicing Islam are not 
exempted from the duty of jihad against the enemy.''

It should be clearly understood that a central tenet of jihadists' 
beliefs is the belief that God is one; he has no equals, he has no 
partners. This is important. If one believes that God is one and all 
that matters of rule giving or law making belongs to him, no human 
being, no government could make laws or alter the Shari'a laws of God. 
This would be, for all intents, setting oneself up to be the equal of 
God. Herein lies the problem that these militant Islamists have with 
the West and secular Muslim countries. This belief is applied equally 
to infidels and Muslim heretics.

The bottom line is that any government or order of law other than 
Shari'a is illegitimate. This belief, in their minds, justifies the 
killing of heretical


Muslims and non-Muslims alike. This is not recent thinking. A prominent 
early 20th century Egyptian Muslim ideologue named Hasan al Banna 
professed this point about Muslims and nonMuslim heretics. He stated, 
quote, we will not stop at this point, but we will pursue this evil 
force to its own land, invade its western heartland, and struggle to 
overcome it until all the world shouts the name of the Prophet and the 
teachings of Islam are spread throughout the world. All religion will 
be exclusively for Allah.

He went on to say that this violence would not be to avenge wrong 
suffered, nor to kill the unbelievers, but to save mankind from its 
many problems. Are we starting to get a picture of who the enemy may 
be? It is also important that jihadists' interpretation of Islam is 
they will reject any system of laws not based on Shari'a.

Democracy. Why do they hate us? Democracy, he claimed, is the 
ultimate expression of idolatry, giving reason for the hatred of 
Western values. This is about them, it is not about us.

Al Banna is not the only studied ideologue. Another name, Sayyid 
Qutb, wrote, ''Islam has a mandate to order the whole of human life, 
and that the Western idea of separation between religion and the rest 
of life is, quote, a hideous schizophrenia that would lead to the 
downfall of white civilization and therefore its replacement by 
Islam.''

Qutb maintained that political and religious ideology of the jihadist 
is derived directly from the Koranic argument that God, unique and 
without partner, is the only being of sovereignty. Therefore, the only 
role for national leaders is to implement God's laws. This gives the 
jihadists their belief that attacking secular or Muslim heretic 
societies is justified. Qutb basically justified all-out warfare on all 
of these societies.

Where does that leave us today? It leaves us with a discussion that 
should be much deeper than the resolution that is in front of us. The 
resolution in front of us is a shallow political document.

Let me return to Osama bin Laden's Fatwa against the West. Let me use 
his own words. In calling on all Muslims, he says, ''The explosions at 
Riyadh and Al-Khobar is a warning of this volcanic eruption emerging.''

To further his murderous goals, bin Laden then went on to outline the 
terrorist approach to his holy war to by saying, ''It must be obvious 
to you that due to the imbalance of power between our Armed Forces and 
the enemy forces, a suitable means of fighting must be adopted, i.e., 
using fast-moving light forces that work under complete secrecy; in 
other words, to initiate a guerrilla warfare where the sons of the 
nation, and not the military forces, take part in it. And as you know, 
it is wise, in the present circumstances, for the armed military forces 
not to be engaged in conventional fighting with the forces of the 
crusader enemy, unless a big advantage is likely to be achieved and 
great losses induced on the enemy side. That will help to expel the 
defeated enemy from the country.''

He goes on, ''Therefore, efforts should be concentrated on 
destroying, fighting and killing the enemy until, by the grace of 
Allah, it is completely defeated. The time will come, by the permission 
of Allah, when you will perform your decisive role so that the word of 
Allah will be supreme and the word of the infidels will be the 
inferior. You will hit with iron fists against the aggressors.''

The modern words of bin Laden alone do not adequately explain the 
current militant Islamic threat to the United States and its friends 
around the world. Again in their own words, this quote from a senior al 
Qaeda leader, quote, Islam became to be the only hope in jihad under 
the banner of Islam to become a solution for all of the enemies of 
America and of those weakened nations, even to the leftist and peace 
groups in the Christian world. Whoever follows the writings of some of 
the Western authors will find that some of them started to declare, 
through their writings, about the American tyranny, that there is no 
hope to face America other than through the armed Muslims. To the 
extent that in one of the demonstrations that included hundreds of 
thousands against globalization and war in Italy, the demonstrations 
carried a picture of bin Laden placing Che Guevara's hat on it, drawing 
him to be a Che Guevara look-alike. They wrote under his picture, 
''anti-American.'' Through this action they expressed that the symbol 
of today's Islamic jihad is the only solution to face America.



Mr. Speaker, here is the true threat to America and the West: this 
militant Islamic jihad, a jihad that spans the globe, including attacks 
in Bali; in Spain; the United Kingdom; in the Philippines; in Kashmir; 
in Kenya; in Jordan; Israel; Nigeria; and, yes, in the United States 
and Iraq. What is not being discussed is this global problem, this 
threat to peace and stability everywhere in the world. Why, I ask, is 
the focus so keenly on Iraq as the problem, the only problem for us to 
debate? Iraq is not the problem. It is but one front in this larger 
war. The American people are not being well served by our leaders and 
the media that are solely focused on the conflict in Iraq. This is but 
a single front in a much larger war.

Mr. Speaker, let me close with these final thoughts about the 
militant Islamic threat we face not only in the front in Iraq but, 
indeed, around the world, including here in America.

There is a fundamental clash of civilizations at work here. There is 
a fundamental belief by the jihadis that Islam must expand to fill the 
entire world or else falsehood in its many guises will do so. This 
belief includes their facts that democracy, liberalism, human rights, 
personal freedoms, international law, international institutions are 
illegal, illegitimate, and sinful. Democracy, and in particular the 
United States democracy, is the focus of their wrath because it is 
considered the center of liberalism. This is not an enemy with whom we 
can negotiate. We must contain them and defeat them.

Mr. Speaker, the resolution before us does not address this threat, a 
real threat to our very existence. We are at war, and I fear we don't 
even know that we are under attack. This myopic resolution does not 
recognize or address that threat.

I urge my colleagues and the House to vote ''no'' on this resolution.


 Moment of Silence Observed in Memory of the Honorable Charlie Norwood
