# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `4460cd332a821dbc6ef707bb6c3c410d`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Thank you, Congresswoman.

I am on the Armed Services Committee and we've had many, many 
hearings on this issue. It has become very clear to me that we need a 
plan to redeploy responsibly and to start it immediately.

First, let's go over some of the facts once again because it is a 
national security issue here. There were no Iraqis on the plane that 
day. 9/11, there were no Iraqis. But we were attacked by people who had 
been trained in Afghanistan in Osama bin Laden's group, and we needed 
to go there. We needed to go to Afghanistan. We still need to win in 
Afghanistan. But somehow or another we got diverted to Iraq, and we 
have paid the price, and the Iraqis have paid the price as well.

We are now spending $10 billion a month, that we acknowledge, in 
Iraq. We really don't know the cost. We borrow money from Communist 
China to pay for this.

I was a military spouse and so I'm feeling particularly protective of 
our troops. Our soldiers are exhausted. We send the same team in over 
and over again. This is an American problem, not a Republican problem 
or a Democratic problem. It's an American problem, and it calls for an 
American solution.

Let us talk about what it looks like in Iraq right now. And I have 
been there. What it looks like right now, and it was the independent 
Jones report that verified this, and I appreciated the report very 
much, retired General Jones and his commission. What they talked about 
was 2.2 million Iraqis displaced within the borders of Iraq. Every 
single month for the past 6 months, 100,000 Iraqis have moved. They've 
left their homes, their communities, their jobs, if they had jobs, and 
they have moved.

Now, why would 100,000 people move? Because it's not safe. It's as 
simple as that. We've had ethnic cleansing there. If you look at the 
maps that was in the Jones Commission, 2005, you could see in the 
neighborhoods in Baghdad that they were mixed, Sunni and Shiia living 
side by side. By 2007, the mixed neighborhoods are virtually gone. 
They've had ethnic cleansing. They have militias.

People say, well, you know, take a look at this. The Sunnis have 
joined with the United States to defeat al


Qaeda. No, not really. What it is is an enemy of my enemy is a friend. 
What has happened here is that the Sunnis have joined with the U.S. 
right now so they can rid themselves of their enemies.

We estimate that al Qaeda is maybe 7 to 10 percent of the violence 
there. But the reality is that most of this violence is still a civil 
war. It comes from within and it has not gotten better.

We know that 95 percent of the children are showing terrible signs of 
post-traumatic stress syndrome disorder. We know that they have dirty 
water. We know that they have 2 hours of electricity if they're lucky.

We know that in every way to measure standard of life, it has 
declined. Why are we still there? That's the question that all of us 
are asking. Why are we still in Iraq? And why does the President have a 
plan that says, stay. Stay for how long? Just stay. That is not 
acceptable to the American public anymore.

I yield back to you and I thank you very much for bringing this to 
the floor today so that we can tell the American people what has really 
happened, what we have heard from independent commissions, and what the 
reality is for the people of Iraq and the people of the United States.

I would like to add one more point which is important. Let's look at 
the American benchmarks and let's ask where America is now. Where are 
we on education? Where are we on health care? Where are we on jobs? 
Where are we on infrastructure? We have poured so much money into Iraq. 
What about American benchmarks?