---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `4462c4ec2f7469d0fc0a3fdb25041608`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, in the days ahead, this Congress and 
the President of the United States face a choice on the critical 
question of funding our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is a 
choice between brinksmanship and statesmanship, a choice between 
continuing to stalemate, largely along partisan lines, or uniting 
across partisan lines in support of our troops.

We all know what our most important responsibility is. Our forces in 
Iraq and Afghanistan are looking to us. They need the funding that only 
we in Congress can provide them. The money is running out.

I understand that many in this Chamber saw the supplemental 
appropriations bill as an opportunity to force a withdrawal of our 
troops from Iraq and that many of us argued vigorously against the 
amendments that attempted to do that. Each side has now had an 
opportunity to make its case. The result is clear: There are not enough 
votes in Congress to enact a mandatory date for withdrawal of American 
forces from Iraq. The time for having debates, therefore, and sending 
messages on this troop funding bill should be over. It is now time to 
get our troops the equipment, the training, the supplies they need--and 
without delay. We in this Chamber have a responsibility to make certain 
that no matter what disagreements and differences we have here in 
Washington, our men and women in uniform in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
not caught in the political crossfire.

Only a couple months ago, this Senate confirmed the new commander to 
implement a new strategy in Iraq, GEN David Petraeus. That new strategy 
is now being implemented, and it is achieving some encouraging, if 
early, signs of success. Indeed, progress has been won, even though the 
full complement of troops has not yet arrived in Iraq. Yet now many in 
Congress would pull the plug on this new strategy and thwart the work 
of our troops before they are given a fair chance to succeed.

I am aware public opinion has turned against the war in Iraq. The 
American people are deeply frustrated by the multiplicity of mistakes 
and errors that have been made. Progress has been too slow. The 
savagery of our enemy, which the American people witness on television 
every night, has been demoralizing. Many simply want to leave and wash 
our hands of what they perceive as a mess--a deadly mess. But 
leadership requires sometimes that we defy public opinion if that is 
what is necessary to do what is right for our country. In fact, at a 
time such as this, we are required to do what each of us believes is 
right, and that might not be what is popular.

What is right, I firmly believe, is that we cannot allow our Nation 
to be defeated in Iraq by the same terrorist enemy with which we are 
now engaged in worldwide conflict. The global war on terrorism which we 
are waging is a worldwide struggle against a barbaric totalitarian foe 
that is al-Qaida. And today, it is al-Qaida that we are fighting in 
Iraq. Al-Qaida itself has declared Iraq to be the central front of 
their larger war against our way of life.

So all of us who are privileged to serve this great country in 
positions of leadership have a very serious choice to make. Our 
judgment can be guided by the public opinion polls, and we can withdraw 
in defeat. We can rationalize our action with reassuring but, I 
believe, falsely hopeful words such as ''redeployment.'' No matter what 
we say, our enemy will know that America's will has been broken by the 
barbarity of their blood lust, the very barbarity we declare we are 
fighting but from which we would actually be running.


My main point is this: Now is not the time for delay, for prolonged 
legislative posturing and bargaining over this supplemental 
appropriations bill. It is the time to do our duty, to fund our troops, 
stand by our allies, and do everything we can to help them win the war 
against al-Qaida in Iraq, rather than inventing new ways to vent our 
frustration with the war in Iraq or with the President of the United 
States, by handcuffing General Petraeus and undermining his strategy. 
Let us give him and his troops our support as they and their Iraqi 
allies fight to win for us.

Thank you. I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.