# EXPRESSING APPRECIATION OF CANADIAN FRIENDSHIP AND COOPERATION
## `446ddcd185b073e120c8d59b2892236d`
`Mr. SMITH of New Jersey — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of House Resolution 519. I am 
happy to be one of the cosponsors, but it was introduced by my good 
friend and colleague, Bart Stupak, expressing appreciation to Canada 
for its long history of friendship with the United States and 
congratulating Canada on its celebration of Canada Day.

Canada Day, otherwise known as ''Canada's birthday,'' celebrates the 
1867 enactment of the British North America Act, which united Canada as 
a confederation of four provinces. One of our closest friends and 
allies, I would like to thank the people of Canada and the government 
for their friendship and steadfast support of this country over many, 
many years.

The relationship between the U.S. and Canada is among the closest and 
most extensive in the world. Our two countries maintain the world's 
largest trading relationship, exchanging the equivalent of $1.5 billion 
in goods each day. Canada is the single largest foreign supplier of 
energy to the U.S., including oil, uranium, natural gas, and 
electricity. In 2008, the U.S. imported energy from Canada worth $111 
billion, and every day about 300,000 people cross our shared border.

In both the First and Second World Wars, we fought on the same side 
against tyranny and fought for freedom and peace and against threats to 
international security. When the U.S. was faced with the horrors of 9/
11, Canada, who also lost lives in the attack, stood by our side. In 
Afghanistan, Canada is our key NATO ally and is the leading contributor 
of combat forces to the alliances' International Security Assistance 
Force. The friendship and partnership between the countries is warm and 
enduring, and this resolution tries to recognize that, so I thank Mr. 
Stupak for authoring it.

I yield back the balance of my time.