---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `4470ad1fca8e7ed7b9fa817218cd2502`
`Mr. REED — 5 February 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the bill that is before 
us, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. It is designed to save 
jobs, create jobs, and restore a sense of confidence and hope to the 
people of this country.

We have seen extraordinary deterioration of the economy in this 
country. This morning, job figures released revealed an additional--
over 600,000 jobless claims. In the last two months, we have lost 
500,000 jobs in each of the two preceding months. We have to act 
decisively, dramatically, and with a scale that will have an effect on 
the overall economy. That is I think inherent in the proposal President 
Obama has sent us.

I salute Senator Inouye, the Appropriations Committee chair, and the 
subcommittee chairmen and Chairman Baucus for their work in bringing 
this bill to the floor. We have to not only revitalize our economy but 
restore hope to the American people.

President Obama has set out a very ambitious goal. He wants to 
weatherize 2 million homes. It is not only to put people to work in 
America with the skills of craftsmen and craftswomen, but in the future 
it is going to save us money. So this is not only an immediate response 
to a problem, but it is a long-term increase in our productivity and 
our ability to be competitive in a very difficult world economy.

I have also introduced an amendment which I will not call up, but it 
would increase the weatherization funds and the LIHEAP funds and other 
funds, but I hope in conference we can raise those totals.

We need these investments. This is the most perilous economic 
situation a President has ever faced since the 1930s. This is the 
inheritance of 8 years of poor policy. This is the inheritance of a 
huge increase in our national debt in the last 8 years. Under President 
Bush we have seen our national debt explode. That is the legacy that is 
facing the next generation of Americans today, and unless we revive 
this economy, this situation will deteriorate, it will not stabilize, 
and it will not grow. That is our challenge. It is a more difficult 
challenge today than it has been at any time in the last several 
decades.

This is not a cyclical downturn. This is not an imbalance of supply 
and demand. This is not a situation where it will work itself out. We 
have to take decisive action, and that is a big part of President 
Obama's plan. Our crisis today has its roots in the last 8 years of 
mismanagement: an economic doctrine of tax cuts funded by deficit 
spending, skewed toward the rich, not toward working Americans; 
inadequate supervision of our financial markets; a lack of adequate 
risk assessment by financial institutions throughout not only the 
United States but the world; and the very difficult and costly and 
unfunded war in Iraq and operations in Afghanistan.

We have to focus our attention on the present, but it is important to 
understand how we got here. President Bush inherited a $236 billion 
Federal budget surplus. His first order of business was to cut taxes 
which benefitted proportionately the wealthiest Americans, enacting 
three major tax cuts between 2001 and 2003. These tax cuts added to the 
national deficit, reduced our capacity to make much needed investments 
in infrastructure, education, and health care, and exacerbated income 
inequality. The median family income actually fell $2,000 between the 
year 2000 and the year 2007. Families lost $2,000 of their income, 
despite strong productivity and growth. Americans were working harder, 
being more innovative, more creative, and yet average families were 
losing income.

In terms of jobs creation, the 2003 tax cut actually reduced job 
growth below the estimates the President was using to justify his tax 
proposals. As the wealthy thrived and corporate earnings skyrocketed, 
capital investments did not keep pace. Instead, many corporations 
decided to dole out handsome salaries and use their profits to buy back 
stock in pursuit of short-term boosts to share prices. This made the 
options these executives enjoyed that much more valuable.

Corporate profits grew by 66 percent between 2000 to 2006, despite 
the fact that annual national investment in nonresidential structures--
largely commercial structures such as factories and office buildings--
fell by $130 billion or more than 30 percent. Overall investment in 
buildings, equipment, and software grew by less than 6 percent.

Not only is there a fiscal deficit, there has been an investment 
deficit in the United States in the last 8 years.

Over the past year, we have witnessed the long-term consequences of 
these failed economic policies. Since the start of the recession, in 
December 2007, the number of unemployed individuals has grown by 3.6 
million, and the national unemployment rate has risen to 7.2 percent.

In Rhode Island, it is particularly difficult. We have an 
unemployment rate of 10 percent, second only to Michigan. We have lost 
a huge number of jobs. In fact, we have also seen a complementary 
increase in foreclosures; as people lose their jobs, their ability to 
pay their mortgages declines.

The lack of oversight in the financial markets in many ways fueled 
the subprime mortgage crisis and led to the failings of Wall Street. We 
saw rating agencies deficient and negligent in judgment and lacking 
independence, which in turn led to a poor assessment of bond rating 
risk. Investment banks took advantage of this system reaping windfall 
profits through the creation of complex financial instruments, such as 
collateralized debt obligations, which hid underlying risk. All of this 
financial engineering did not provide opportunities and hope for 
working Americans.

Throughout this process, where were the principal regulatory 
agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission? Simply put, 
they were asleep at the wheel.

The environment of lax oversight and poor lending practices created a 
bubble in housing prices. The collapse of that bubble resulted in home 
loan defaults and falling housing values. The companies that owned 
these assets saw their value plummet. All of this is contributing to 
the dilemma and the crisis we see today. We are in a very dangerous 
situation, with weak housing markets, stagnant wages, impaired consumer 
spending, which leads to further erosion of housing prices and further 
erosion of the economy. It is a vicious cycle and we have to break that 
cycle. We have to do it with this legislation.

We have seen a situation where Americans have to put off essential 
and important purchases, such as medicine, and they may have to defer 
education for their children. They have to make these very difficult 
choices. We have to make difficult choices. Spending on durable items, 
such as cars, appliances,


and furniture has plunged at a rate of 22.4 percent last quarter.

We have to get the economy moving again. We are in a situation where 
this is not only our problem, it is an international problem. The 
global economy is in uncharted waters. According to the IMF, in 2009, 
economic growth across the world will fall to 0.5 percent from 3.4 
percent in 2008--the lowest rate since World War II. It is a worldwide 
phenomenon.

In response, we have to act quickly and decisively to pass this 
legislation. It is estimated that with the plan President Obama has 
suggested, we can provide 13,000 additional jobs in Rhode Island. That 
will be good news.

With banks failing, automakers on the verge of bankruptcy, and 
pervasive unemployment, the American people are rightfully asking us to 
respond, and do so quickly and decisively. We have to also recognize 
that this action is integrally related to the financial markets, the 
banking system, the financial system, and without increased consumer 
demand and increased consumer confidence they will fall further and 
require additional help. In order to provide support to financial 
institutions, in addition to the TARP funds, we have to pass this 
legislation to get people back into the marketplace. We also have to 
recognize that as we get the economy moving, we have to modernize our 
regulatory system. Our regulators need to have the tools and resources 
to get the job done. We have seen the problems with the unregulated 
hedge funds, private equity concerns, and the lack of enforcement by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission. That has to be changed. The 
American people will not tolerate business as usual. The first act is 
to get our economy moving forward. This legislation proposed by the 
President will begin to do that.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 78 percent of the 
funding in this bill could be spent in the next 18 months. This is 
timely; it is responsive.

According to JPMorgan Chase economist Michael Feroli, the Recovery 
Act would add about 4 percentage points to the second and third quarter 
GDP growth. He recognizes that a lot of infrastructure projects we are 
proposing will take some months to get off the ground. The first major 
input will be the tax breaks, transfer payments, and State and local 
government aid. We will see a growth in terms of the GDP. We will also 
see the effect of this program taking hold in our economy. It is 
necessary to pursue this approach.

This bill gets the most ''bang for the buck,'' with funding to 
modernize unemployment insurance, increase unemployment insurance 
benefits, and extend the existing Federal unemployment insurance 
extensions on the books to cover those recently laid off. It will 
provide immediate help to unemployed Americans and provide an immediate 
boost to consumer spending.

Tax cuts comprise about one-third of this legislation. But unlike the 
Bush tax cuts, this legislation provides targeted relief to 95 percent 
of working Americans. An estimated 470,000 Rhode Islanders alone would 
receive tax relief. This is all extremely important.

We also are going to make improvements to a whole range of 
infrastructure--roads, bridges, highways, public housing. All of these 
programs will receive additional attention. We are going to bolster 
State and local governments, because if we don't provide them 
additional resources, they will begin to cut back vital programs and it 
will be contradicting what we are trying to do at the Federal level. If 
they cut back, that won't help us move the economy forward. This 
assistance to State and local governments is important.

Rhode Island is prepared to receive, under this legislation, $220 
million to help local school systems and communities pay for critical 
services, $46 million to improve local drinking water and sewer 
systems, and $132 million for road and bridge repairs. Right now, 
regarding the major interstate highways through Rhode Island all 
tractor-trailers are required to detour, get off the road, and drive 
miles out of the way through local streets and then get back on the 
highway; and at the same time it is required that the State provide 
State police officers in both directions 24 hours a day to ensure that 
they do that. That is inefficient. That is a waste of resources. If we 
can fix those roads and bridges, we can provide for a more efficient 
use of our highways and put the money more appropriately to generate 
jobs and productivity. That is one example.

Also, there is going to be strict accountability and transparency in 
this proposal. Part of this legislation will provide for hiring 
additional auditors to track where the funds are going. There will be 
public acknowledgment of what projects are funded and the process of 
the projects.

This legislation is absolutely essential. We have to do it. We have 
to move decisively, quickly, and I hope we can do that.

I yield the floor.