---
---

# None
## `4473a84e7e588b1462c2c4abf163e707`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. And when you think about that, and we had T. Boone 
Pickens in our caucus this week, he was on the Hill talking to both 
Democrats and Republicans--many people may have seen his commercials 
about his plan for transferring energy from being oil-based into some 
of these alternative energy fields, including wind, primarily, for 
him--but here's a geologist from Oklahoma University who is worth $4 
billion in the oil industry, kind of understands what's going on, 
telling us ''You can't drill your way out of this.''

But his main point was, not only that we're importing 70 percent of 
our oil, but there's a $700 billion transfer of wealth from the United 
States into these other countries. And what we're saying is that $700 
billion, that should be put to work here in the United States of 
America building windmills, building nuclear facilities, moving forward 
with a lot of these other alternative energy sources that are clean and 
renewable.

And you add to that what we're spending on the war in Iraq, $10 to 
$12 billion a month in Iraq. This is going to be a trillion dollar war, 
at the end of the day it's going to cost us $3 trillion when you factor 
in the cost of dealing with a lot of the veterans who have come back, 
who we have an obligation to take care of in order to honor their 
service. If that money was spent focusing on investments in alternative 
energy here in the United States 7 years ago, we would be so far down 
the path. We would have a green country. We would have green energy. We 
would have control of the lithium batteries that are being made. You 
would have plug-in cars. This all could have happened in the last 5 or 
6 years.

And so we need to get out of this mentality that somehow we're stuck. 
And I think for public officials to tell us that somehow, when you only 
have 4 percent of the world's oil reserves, you can somehow drill your 
way out of this problem is misleading. And Boone Pickens said that, 
''They mislead the public.'' This is what he said the other day when he 
was here, July 23, ''They mislead the public.'' The public thinks we 
can go and drill and they mislead it, and that we're going to get $2 a 
gallon in gas.

Let's have an honest conversation about how we can prevent us from 
getting into the same situation a decade from now, where you and I--
maybe here, maybe not here--that we're not having the same 
conversation.

And we have an opportunity to do that now. Speaker Pelosi, we've put 
hundreds of millions of dollars into research and development for these 
alternative energy sources, and some are starting to come online. But 
this should have been done 30 years ago, but especially 7 years ago.