---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `44751cdbafd9f7834605616520b14c10`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise to recognize the sacrifice of the 
thousands of men and women serving in harm's way overseas and to 
introduce legislation that will help these brave men and women when 
they return home.

I recently led a congressional delegation to Afghanistan. During my 
visit, I was deeply impressed by the service and dedication of our 
brave troops. These men and women work under the most difficult 
conditions.

They serve every day. Weekends, holidays, anniversaries, and 
birthdays. They serve 24 hours a days, seven days a week.

Our troops are some of the hardest working Americans. They patrol the 
mountains, fix trucks and fire artillery. They are not only warriors, 
but diplomats as well. They organize meetings known as shuras with 
local leaders and village elders. I was awestruck by our troops' 
professionalism, courage and tenacity.

Many of these troops are from Montana. Montanans volunteer for duty 
at among the highest rate in the country. Montana's military recruiting 
rates are roughly 50 percent higher than the national average. 
Tragically, Montana has the highest per capita rate of service members 
killed or injured fighting overseas since 9/11.

While in Afghanistan I met a young Army captain named Casey Thoreen. 
Casey commands an infantry company that is working to improve security 
in the Maiwand district of Kandahar Province.

A reporter recently wrote a piece about Casey that described him as 
the ''King of Maiwand'' because of his important efforts to improve the 
lives of those that live there.

Casey has developed close working relationships with the local 
district leader and other important power brokers. We couldn't dream of 
succeeding in Afghanistan without dedicated talented officers like this 
young man. Skilled efforts such as his are the lynchpin of our mission 
in Afghanistan.

My congressional colleagues and I have worked hard to give our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines all the tools necessary to 
succeed in combat. Now, more than ever, it is imperative that we give 
our troops the tools to succeed upon their return home.

President George Washington once said ''The willingness with which 
our young people are likely to serve in any war, no matter how 
justified, shall be directly proportional to how they perceive the 
veterans of earlier wars were treated and appreciated by their 
nation.''

President Washington's words are a serious reminder of our obligation 
to Casey and all of the brave men and women serving our country 
overseas. We have a solemn obligation to our veterans when they return 
home. And recent suicide statistics and veteran unemployment data make 
it clear that we have a long way to go.


For veterans between the ages of 20 and 24, the suicide rate is 
roughly two to four times higher than non-veterans the same age.

A recent survey found that only 13 percent of Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans ''strongly agreed'' that their transition home was going well. 
And just 9 percent ''strongly agreed'' the needs of their family were 
being met.

The unemployment rate among veterans who have served in the military 
since September 2001 far exceeds that of their peers. According to the 
American Legion, nearly 15 percent of post 
9/11 veterans are unemployed.

The rate of unemployment for veterans aged 18 to 24 is over 30 
percent--nearly double the rate for non-veterans the same age. These 
numbers are unacceptable.

I want to applaud my friend and colleague, Senator Patty Murray, for 
the important work she has done to address this problem. She recently 
introduced the Comprehensive Veterans Employment Act of 2010.

The bill seeks to allow the GI Bill to pay for on-the-job training 
and apprenticeships. I strongly support her efforts.

Senator Murray held a roundtable discussion on veterans' employment 
earlier this year. During the discussion she learned that some veterans 
were deliberately taking their military service off their resumes when 
applying for work. These veterans feared employers might think they 
suffered from post-traumatic stress due to time in combat.

This discussion is a telling sign that we need to do a better job of 
welcoming our troops home from war. I can't think of anything more 
important to readjusting to life back home than having meaningful 
employment.

Our veterans are national assets. The skills veterans have learned in 
the military are valuable in the civilian workplace and in communities 
across America.

History has proven this to be true. Just look to the boom years in 
the late 1940s and 1950s. America welcomed back millions of World War 
Two veterans into the workforce. The leadership and strength of our 
veterans fueled the unprecedented growth and strength of our Nation. I 
expect nothing less from this generation of veterans as well.

That is why Senator Grassley and I are introducing the Veteran 
Employment Transition Act of 2010. This legislation will reward 
employers that hire any veteran who has recently completed their 
service in the military with up to a $6,000 tax credit.

The bill simplifies the administrative process that currently exists 
for the Work Opportunity Tax Credit for hiring a recently discharged 
veteran. Any recently discharged veteran with discharge paperwork is 
eligible. This includes those men and women who were activated by their 
states as members of the National Guard.

Enacting this legislation is just first step. I want to ensure all 
veterans understand the benefits of this tax credit. That is I am 
working with the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, and other Veteran Service Organizations to help veterans 
use this tax benefit as a tool to find good paying jobs.

The day after this bill becomes law, the VFW will notify their 
members on how to use the credit. The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of 
America will post a webcast to their members to explain how best to 
take advantage of this benefit.

The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America will also publish a 
document online that a veteran can print and hand in with a resume when 
applying for a job. This document will explain to employers how they 
can take advantage of the credit if they hire the veteran.

Briefly, I want to thank my first Defenders of Freedom Fellow, Iraq 
veteran and Montana-native Charlie Cromwell. As a legislative fellow in 
my office, Charlie worked hard to create and advance this bill.

I created the Defenders of Freedom Fellowship so that Montana 
veterans could work on legislation that helps their fellow veterans. 
The legislation I am introducing today is the perfect example of what 
this fellowship was intended to accomplish.

I encourage all interested Montana veterans to contact my office for 
more information. It will take this kind of team work to provide the 
support our veterans need when they come home from war. It is an honor 
to introduce


this legislation and I look forward to its quick passage in the weeks 
to come.