# THE WOMEN OF AFGHANISTAN
## `447cca9b966b1af6fdc457fd7f360ef9`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 23 April 2009`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, I applaud the Obama administration for 
focusing on the human face of our Afghanistan policy. Rather than going 
with a policy based on military might alone, the administration is 
supporting an expansion of the surge of diplomats, of development 
officials, of humanitarian needs and experts.

The economic, political, and social needs are great in Afghanistan. A 
recent report released by Women for Women International found a ''bleak 
and frightening picture for life'' in Afghanistan. According to 
reports, Madam Speaker, 80 percent of Afghan women are affected by 
domestic violence, over 60 percent of marriages are forced, and half of 
all girls are married before the age of 16. Despite this focus on the 
needs of women and girls in Afghanistan, the situation remains grim.

Like many women in conflict, the drive for security and stability 
remains strong among the women in Afghanistan. Despite the fact that 
Afghan women are more likely to be impoverished, uneducated, and 
excluded from health service than men, polls indicate that Afghan women 
are optimistic about their future. Like women everywhere, they want to 
play a role in decision making at every single level of society.

Through the recent poll by Women for Women International, the voice 
of the Afghan woman can be heard. When asked what the biggest problem 
is that they face in daily life, the top response was lack of important 
commodities. Again, it's the basics, food and supplies, that Afghan 
women want for their families. When asked what the government should 
fix, they answered security and peace first. When asked what were the 
biggest health care and education problems, women overwhelmingly 
pointed to insufficient resources and funding. It's clear that the 
mothers, Madam Speaker, in Afghanistan want all that mothers want 
around the world: to provide for the basic needs of their families. 
They want their children to be well. They want their children to be 
well fed, well educated, and safe.

While I remain concerned about the increase in our military presence, 
I am hopeful that the administration's diplomatic surge can help the 
people of Afghanistan, particularly the women. Along with our 
international partners, we must work to address the pressing immediate 
needs of all Afghanis.

Madam Speaker, the use of smart power in the place of military force 
will send a clear message that the United States promotes diplomacy and 
humanitarian relief over war.
