---
---

# None
## `4490c9982875709037d2acec7f0e5446`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I wish to thank Senator Kyl for his 
hard work on these important issues. He is a superb lawyer who is a 
senior member of the Judiciary Committee, on which I serve, and he has 
been a member of the Intelligence Committee. He understands these 
issues and, thanklessly, he devotes hours of his time to try to 
research and study Supreme Court cases to try to make sure we do the 
right thing here.

The most important thing for us to remember is this, and Senator Kyl 
just said it, that the refrain we are hearing about restoring habeas 
rights to prisoners of war, even unlawful combatant detainees, is not 
so. We have not done that, and it is a matter that is quite clear.

The origin of the great writ--the writ of habeas corpus--can be 
traced back to the Magna Carta in the 13th century. It is truly a great 
writ. It is truly a powerful tool for any person who is being detained 
to demand that someone, somewhere come forward and tell the world why 
they are being detained. That is what totalitarian and Communist 
governments do all the time. These kinds of dictators and Communists 
and Nazis go out and grab people and put them in jail and never charge 
them, never announce where they are, even. So that is not what we want 
to do here. However, never in the history of the writ's existence has 
an English or American court granted habeas to enemy combatants held 
during a time of war. As early as 1793, the American courts--1793--
recognized that foreign prisoners held by the military during armed 
conflict have no inherent right to judicial review of their detention. 
They have no inherent right to that. You do have an inherent right by 
writ of habeas corpus if you qualify and meet the criteria.

So that year, in 1793, a district court in Pennsylvania said:




 Courts will not grant a habeas corpus in the case of a 


 prisoner of war because such a decision on this question is 


 in another place being a part of the rights of sovereignty.


In other words, national power.

The Supreme Court of the United States reaffirmed that position in 
1950 in a case called Johnson v. Eisentrager. In that case, the Supreme 
Court made expressly clear that U.S. constitutional protections do not 
apply to aliens who are detained outside the borders. It was the first 
case to deal with a habeas petition of enemy combatants detained 
outside the borders of the United States since the statute was 
originally enacted as part or the Judiciary Act of 1789. It is now 
codified as 28 U.S.C. Section 2241.

In that case, German nationals living in China during World War II, 
having never lived in the United States, were accused of violating the 
laws of war. They were tried by a U.S. military tribunal in China, 
convicted, and sent to Landsberg Prison in Germany, then an occupied 
sector of Germany, to serve their sentences. Some of the convicts, 
including Eisentrager, questioned the legality of their trials and 
filed for a writ of habeas corpus to the United States District Court 
for the District of Columbia, right here in DC, stating that the 
military's actions violated their rights as guaranteed by several 
portions of the U.S. Constitution, including article III of the fifth 
amendment. In denying habeas to these German nationals, the court 
expressly rejected the argument that enemy combatants detained overseas 
have a constitutional right to petition U.S. courts for habeas relief, 
noting that:




 Nothing in the text of our constitution extends such a 


 right.


It rejected the view that the U.S. Constitution applies to enemy war 
prisoners held abroad. The court claimed:




 No decision of this court supports such a view. None of the 


 learned commentators on our Constitution has ever hinted at 


 it. The practice of every modern government is opposed to it.

Where do we keep coming up with this idea that habeas is applicable 
to prisoners of war? I am baffled. The Court explained emphatically 
that such a constitutional entitlement would hamper the war effort and 
bring aid and comfort to the enemy.




 Habeas proceedings would diminish the prestige of our 


 commanders, not only with enemies but with wavering neutrals. 


 It would be difficult to devise a more effective fettering of 


 a field commander than to allow the very enemies he is 


 ordered to reduce to submission to call him to account in his 


 own civil courts and divert his efforts and attention from 


 the military offensive abroad to the legal defensive at home.


That is a pretty clear statement. How could it be otherwise? Congress 
authorizes a state of hostilities. We fund it. The President, as the 
Commander in Chief, the military commanders execute it, and now we have 
it in our heads somehow that the persons


our commanders are charged with reducing to submission have a right to 
sue us.

The Court further held--this is in 1950--that the fifth amendment is 
inapplicable to aliens abroad and, in reasoning fully applicable to the 
suspension clause, explained ''extraterritorial application of organic 
law'' to aliens would be inconceivable.

Writing for the majority, Justice Jackson, who was referred to by 
Senator Dodd and Senator Kyl--a great Justice on the Court--stated:




 The Constitution does not confer a right of personal 


 security or an immunity from military trial and punishment 


 upon an alien enemy engaged in the hostile service of a 


 government at war with the United States.


That is pretty plain language, wouldn't you say? I think that is the 
plain language of the Constitution. It does not give them immunity from 
military trial.

Even if, as opponents mistakenly argue, this amendment restores a 
statutory right to habeas, the Supreme Court has also held that 
Congress may freely repeal habeas jurisdiction if it affords an 
adequate and effective substitute or remedy. Essentially, if 
legislation strips habeas, according to the Supreme Court, the 
substitution of a collateral remedy which is neither inadequate nor 
ineffective to test the legality of a person's detention, does not 
constitute a suspension of the right of habeas corpus. In other words, 
if they provide some fair procedure for even prisoners of war that we 
decide is consistent with our military efforts and consistent with our 
sense of fairness, that does not confer and give a guaranteed right to 
a habeas corpus review.

The Military Commission Act of 2006 was drafted with these important 
Supreme Court precedents in mind. After careful negotiation among our 
Members and careful analysis of the Supreme Court's decision in Hamdan 
v. Rumsfeld, Congress went above and beyond what was required by the 
Constitution and the Geneva Conventions to ensure detainees, even 
terrorists, at Guantanamo Bay, had an adequate and effective substitute 
method to test the legality of their detention.

So we did that. We did not fail to respond. We did that. The MCA 
provides alien enemy combatants far more legal process than has ever 
been afforded by any country in the history of armed conflict.

I am not aware of a single country in the history of armed conflict 
that has provided more rights than our procedures that we have 
established under the Military Act that we passed and the President 
signed into law last October.

The Combatant Status Review Tribunal for detainees is more robust 
than those to which lawful combatants, honorable soldiers in organized 
militaries of a foreign nation, are entitled to under the Geneva 
Conventions.

Let me repeat that and drive home the importance of that concept. The 
Geneva Conventions were decided upon by a group of nations that came 
together and thought that during the course of military conflicts, too 
many things happened that are not justified and are not necessary and 
are damaging to people in ways that could not be justified. We wrote 
the conventions, the nations did, to try to ameliorate some of the 
problems in warfare. We said that if you have a lawful combatant, as 
part of the Geneva Conventions, a person who has signed up for his or 
her country, fighting for the country, who wears a uniform, who carries 
his weapons openly and does not act in a surreptitious manner, does not 
act in a terroristic manner but fight battles according to the laws of 
war--if captured, must be treated and afforded the protections of the 
Geneva Conventions.

That is a good standard of review and protection. Congress passed a 
law to provide for the people at Guantanamo, who are not lawful 
combatants but are unlawful enemy combatants and who have not 
historically been considered to have been covered by the Geneva 
Convention. We afforded them privileges that are not required even 
under the Geneva Conventions on how you handle detainees.

Let's talk about our present conflict, the war on terrorism. Former 
Attorney General John Ashcroft has made this point. If you think about 
it, it is worthy of our consideration. John Ashcroft is a great 
believer in American liberty, the rights of liberty, a key 
characteristic of the American people. But he points out we ought not 
to think about restraints that occur as some sort of a balancing test 
between liberty and control and domination. He says, when you engage in 
an action that is designed to protect us, the test should be not a 
balancing test, but the test should be: Does it improve liberty? In 
other words, if you go to the airport and have to go through one of 
those checking stations as I did today, the question is: Do you feel 
more free to fly, having had that inspection occur? Is your liberty to 
travel, is your liberty to fly safely and securely in an aircraft in 
America, enhanced because you take a couple of minutes to go through 
that line? Or not?

If it is, then that is a protection of liberty. We are indeed in a 
different world than we used to be, when threats fundamentally came 
from foreign nations. Now, even a few people with dedicated, malicious 
intent, with modern weapons of mass destruction and death can have 
tremendous impact on us. So what we are trying to do is execute lawful 
actions that improve our liberty, not deny liberty but to enhance 
liberty for all peace-loving and law-abiding American citizens.


I want to talk about Hamdi v. Rumsfeld. As part of the Judiciary Act 
of 1789, Congress conferred on the Federal courts jurisdiction to hear 
petitions for habeas corpus. Though the language has gone through minor 
changes since 1789, current law, now codified at 28 U.S.C. section 
2241, is essentially the same grant of habeas corpus as originally 
enacted. The statutory language has never referred specifically to 
enemy combatants because such a grant was understood not to apply to 
those individuals detained during a time of war. Congress understood 
that detention of enemy combatants during time of war is strictly a 
military decision, since we do not allow enemy combatants to continue 
their war against us through the judiciary, through litigation.

Though the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that habeas corpus does 
not extend to alien enemy combatants detained outside the United 
States, some argue that Justice O'Connor's plurality decision in Hamdi 
v. Rumsfeld changed this precedent. In that decision, Justice O'Connor 
said:




 All agree that, absent suspension, habeas corpus remains 


 available to every individual within the United States.


Proponents of this amendment that we are debating cite this statement 
by Justice O'Connor as proof that habeas relief is available to all 
those detained within the United States, regardless of whether they are 
an alien enemy combatant. Let me note that during World War II, there 
were 425,000 enemy combatants held within the United States, none of 
who were allowed relief through habeas petitions. Furthermore, reliance 
on that statement by Justice O'Connor is wrong, since the question in 
Hamdi was whether the executive had the authority to detain a U.S. 
citizen as an enemy combatant and whether that citizen detainee had 
habeas rights. Focusing on that narrow issue, the plurality referred 
specifically to the rights, in their opinion, the plurality opinion, of 
citizens, eight times in the opinion; and in the holding of the case--
and the holding of the case is limited to the circumstances of the 
cases itself--Hamdi was, after all, a U.S. citizen.

Regardless, some advocates maintain that Justice O'Connor's otherwise 
inconsequential statement, too tenuous to constitute dicta, reversed 
years of settled precedent and for the first time granted habeas rights 
to illegal enemy combatants detained overseas. That proposition flies 
in the face of the commonsense interpretive rule that one does not hide 
elephants in mouseholes. Had the Hamdi Court intended to extend habeas 
rights to all individuals in the United States, not just citizens, 
including suspected foreign terrorists detained outside U.S. territory, 
it most assuredly would have articulated such a consequential ruling 
with more clarity. But Hamdi did not present that question and the 
Court did not resolve it. Moreover, as the Court aptly noted, quoting 
Eisentrager:




 Such extraterritorial application of organic law would have 


 been so significant an innovation in the practice of 


 government that, if intended or apprehended, it could 


 scarcely have failed to excite contemporary comment.





Accordingly, had such a consequential holding been made in 
Eisentrager, it would have been met with prolific commentary from the 
legal community, from other Justices. It would have been an event, but 
that event did not occur--because it had no such meaning, of course, as 
evidenced by the lack of contemporary discussion. No decision 
subsequent to Eisentrager has reversed its holding that alien enemy 
combatants have no right to habeas protections guaranteed to American 
citizens by the U.S. Constitution.

Therefore, its holding remains governing law. Moreover, the issue 
now, if it ever could have been considered ambiguous, has been 
definitively resolved by the same judge who earlier granted Salim Ahmed 
Hamdan's habeas petition. Judge James Robertson, of the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Columbia, issued an opinion on December 13 in 
which he relied, in large part, on Eisentrager to justify his ruling 
that enemy alien combatants have no constitutional right to habeas 
corpus.

Judge Robertson, appointed to the bench by President Clinton, 
dismissed Hamdan's petition for habeas relief on the grounds that the 
MCA effectively denied his court's jurisdiction to hear the case; 
recognizing that Congress had removed Hamdan's statutory right to 
petition the D.C. Circuit Court for habeas relief.

Judge Robertson also held:




 Hamdan's connection to the United States lacked the 


 geographical and volitional predicates necessary to claim a 


 Constitutional right to habeas corpus.


Well, then, the Rasul case came along. Proponents of this amendment 
argue that they seek only to restore the right to habeas corpus as 
found by the Supreme Court in the 2004 case of Rasul v. Bush. Rasul 
took great pains to emphasize that its extension of habeas to 
Guantanamo Bay was based not on the Constitution, which clearly is a 
historic right we talked about on habeas, but it was based on some 
statute passed by Congress.

Some Justices may have wanted to make Rasul a constitutional holding, 
but there clearly was no majority for such a position. Supreme Court 
cases such as Eisentrager are still the governing law on the 
constitutional reach of habeas and the Congress's ability to limit its 
statutory application.

These precedents hold that aliens who are either held abroad or held 
here but who have no substantial connection to this country are not 
entitled to invoke the U.S. Constitution.

Rasul was an unprecedented decision which effectively and truthfully 
seemed to fly in the face of all previous Supreme Court and English 
case law. Several Justices in this case engaged in what I would submit 
to my colleagues is activism.

The Court extended the reach of the Federal habeas statute to 
Guantanamo Bay detainees. To my knowledge, this decision was the first 
time in recorded history that any court of any nation at war held that 
those whom its military had determined to be enemies had a right of 
access to its domestic courts and could sue the Commander in Chief to 
challenge their detention.

The Court based its analysis on the phrase, ''within their respective 
jurisdictions,'' as used in the Federal habeas statute and various 
decisions construing that particular provision.

Moreover, the Court expressly distinguished between the statutory and 
suspension clause holdings of Eisentrager and limited its analysis to 
only the statutory grant of habeas. The Court determined that the 
measure of the Guantanamo lease agreement between the United States and 
Cuba allows for the jurisdiction of habeas claims since the United 
States exercises plenary and exclusive jurisdiction over the land on 
which the naval base is situated, although it does not have ''ultimate 
authority.''

Furthermore, the majority, I think and others think, mischaracterized 
the congressional statute as meaning that the writ of habeas corpus 
could be issued if ''the custodian can be reached by service of 
process'' and not the detainee.

As Justice Scalia accurately pointed out in his dissent, the 
majority:



 springs a trap on the executive, subjecting Guantanamo Bay to 


 the oversight of the Federal courts even though it has never 


 before been thought to be within their jurisdictions and thus 


 making it a foolish place to have housed alien wartime 


 detainees.''


Furthermore, the decision opens a veritable Pandora's Box since it 
''permits an alien captured in a foreign theater of active combat to 
bring a section 2241 petition against the Secretary of Defense.''

This case was a clear-cut example of, I believe, Supreme Court 
overreach. They seemed determined to do something about this. They 
wanted to do something about it. Apparently, they did not like it. So 
in straining to grant U.S. courts jurisdiction over terrorists held 
outside the United States, the Supreme Court determined, for the first 
time in history, that a simple lease agreement brought Guantanamo Bay 
within the jurisdiction of the court.

Read broadly, the majority opinion could be used to bring U.S. 
military bases and detention facilities across the world within the 
jurisdiction of the U.S. courts. Fortunately, in that opinion, Justice 
Kennedy did limit the application of the holding to Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba.

Congress, however, addressed the issue because, remember, this was 
based on the Supreme Court's interpretation of a statute Congress 
passed and which Congress changed, not on the Constitution ratified by 
the American people.

So less than a year ago, Congress addressed the issue when it passed 
the Military Commissions Act, which precluded detainees from 
challenging their detention through habeas petitions.

Now, if the Court relied on the statute as we wrote it before, we can 
change that statute, and we did. In doing so, Congress adhered to 
Supreme Court precedent and created an effective and adequate 
substitute in the form of a Combatant Status Review Tribunals and 
allowing detainees an opportunity to challenge the determinations made 
by the tribunals, even in the district court in the District of 
Columbia.

So it set up a Combatant Status Review Tribunal so they can bring and 
make their argument, and if they do not like the military's 
determination on that, they can get to a Federal court. That is not 
habeas, but it is a pretty good procedure, more than ever has been 
given before to prisoners of war. So it seems we finally worked this 
thing out.


On February 20 of this year, the DC Circuit Court dismissed all 
pending habeas cases from the Guantanamo Bay detainees for lack of 
jurisdiction. Furthermore, on April 2 of this year, the Supreme Court 
denied a certiorari petition from the petitioners in Boumediene v. Bush 
and Al Odah v. United States, refusing to review their claims that the 
Military Commissions Act--that last year we passed--does not deprive 
courts of jurisdiction to hear their habeas corpus claims and that it 
would be unconstitutional to do so, for Congress to pass it. They 
rejected that.

The Court did not find it was unconstitutional, what Congress passed, 
and, in fact, found that Congress did what Congress intended to do, 
creating a substitute appellate process so prisoners could have a 
review of their detention but not give them the full panoply of habeas 
corpus rights provided to American citizens.

The Supreme Court, however, reversed itself on June 29 of this year 
and agreed to review both the Boumediene and Al Odah cases. This review 
could very well address the constitutionality of the habeas bars in the 
Military Commissions Act, and, much like this amendment, further 
undermine the executive's constitutional authority to detain enemy 
combatants in a time of war.

I hope the Supreme Court will not do that, but they have agreed to 
hear that case and give it one more final review. Certainly, as of this 
date, the case authority is clear, that the Constitution does not 
provide habeas protection to noncitizen enemy combatants on foreign 
territory not part of the United States.

I say that because people have come in on several points along the 
way and accused President Bush or the Attorney General or others of 
taking improper positions.

In most instances, the courts have ruled in favor of the executive in 
these cases, on a few cases they found those procedures not to be 
statutory or pass muster. But what I will say to you is, in these 
cases, in almost each instance


they have reversed previous law. So the executive branch and our 
military was operating under what they had every right to consider to 
be the settled law of the land.

So the Court comes in and changes that law. I do not believe our 
military should be condemned or criticized for taking action they felt, 
and had every right to believe, was legitimate when they took it.

Now, it is important to remember that the detainees at Guantanamo Bay 
are the most dangerous people who we have captured on the battlefield 
pursuant to executive war-making power. They have been determined to be 
''alien enemy combatants'' and the courts have absolutely no role to 
play, in my view, in trying to second-guess the wartime decisions made 
by the executive branch, especially where Congress has given their 
stamp of approval to the process. It is not the Supreme Court's role to 
micromanage this war by making decisions that fall outside the scope of 
congressional authority.

The decisions made by the Supreme Court have long-lasting effect and 
are not easily undone. If we are unhappy with present foreign policy, 
Congress can cut off funds for the war or people can vote the President 
out of office. I would note President Bush was reelected on a promise 
to continue to pursue with vigor the war against terrorism and the war 
in Iraq.

Supreme Court Justices are appointed for life and are supposed to 
adjudicate the constitutionality of laws passed by Congress, not to 
legislate from the bench or to set foreign policy. This setting of 
foreign policy and conducting military operations are powers squarely 
within the purview of the executive branch not nine individuals with 
lifetime appointments sitting on a Court with black robes.

It is not within the court's jurisdiction to decide on war-making 
decisions but simply the constitutional power. It is important to note 
the Justices lack the knowledge, in many cases, to address the matter, 
or have any experience to make these decisions. Have any of them ever 
served on the frontlines during war, or if they have, have they ever 
served in a war on terrorism or been a JAG officer or been a company 
commander, someone who captured enemy prisoners?

A Court's opinion or personal views about this are not a matter that 
is impressive to me. We expect them to rule and to find Congress's 
statutes--we expect them to enforce the Constitution. But just to flip-
flop around and try to decide that they do not like the way something 
is done at Guantanamo, and to issue an opinion, would be troubling to 
me. Hopefully, we will not get to that.

It has to be clear, as I have shown, that if we apprehend enemy 
combatants in the theater of war, it is within the executive branch's 
power to detain them until the hostilities are over. This is a 
separation of powers issue, and the courts should recognize that. 
Congress has already addressed what should be done with those detained 
at Guantanamo Bay. Last October, we granted those detainees 
unprecedented rights that have never before been provided to prisoners 
detained during war.

Under the current system that we have provided them, detainees have 
essentially five layers of protection when challenging detention or 
determinations made by the Government. All of this is already covered 
by current law. It was never the intent of Congress, however, to endow 
the statutory guarantee of habeas corpus to alien enemy combatants held 
during a time of war.

So if we proceed with the amendment that is before us, we are not 
restoring the right of habeas corpus; we are effectively overturning 
800 years of legal authority and precedent in this area. To quote the 
distinguished ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, I submit that 
800 years of American and English court history certainly constitutes 
''super duper'' precedent.

Allowing terrorists to challenge their detention through habeas 
petitions filed in the DC Circuit courts would undermine military 
decisions made by the Executive and essentially put wartime decisions 
regarding the detention of those apprehended while engaged in 
hostilities toward this country in the hands of judges who are not 
qualified to make the decisions. They are not empowered to make the 
decisions. This is exactly why the Founders vested the Executive with 
this type of decisionmaking authority--decisiveness and ability to act 
quickly--and to undermine this power would be to trample on the 
Constitution we are sworn to defend.

Voting in favor of this amendment would be undermining the Executive 
authority in times of war by making it virtually impossible for the 
military to detain dangerous terrorists affiliated with al-Qaida and 
with the Taliban during the war on terror and allowing Federal judges 
to force the release of detainees whom the military have determined to 
be extremely dangerous. It is just that simple.

I am disappointed the Senate is proceeding forward with this 
amendment. I do not believe it is the right thing. It would result in 
an unprecedented grant of constitutional protection to those suspected 
of being terrorists.

This further indicates to me that our Congress is not in full 
comprehension of the seriousness of the war we are engaged in and the 
determination of those who are determined to kill us. It shows this 
body is, frankly, often unable to execute a military operation. We 
cannot get 535 people to execute a military operation and decide who 
ought to be detained and who ought not to.

The military could go out and conduct a raid, and a firefight could 
break out, and eight people be killed and eight people captured. Thirty 
seconds before, they could have killed all 16. Now, if we detain them, 
we have to bring soldiers from the war field, present evidence of some 
kind, gather evidence to try to justify the detention. We all know 
quite a large number of those who have been released from Guantanamo 
have reappeared and been captured again on the battlefield trying to 
kill us. That is a fact. We are not making that up.

I wish these people in Guantanamo were the kind of people who would 
not go back to the battle. I wish they were all wrongly held so we 
could let them go home. But what if their determination is to continue 
to attack American soldiers, and it is your son out there, your 
daughter out there on the battlefield, and somebody says in the U.S. 
Congress, ''We don't think you have enough evidence to hold them''? 
What do we know about what happened?

We have given that power to the executive branch to conduct the war. 
That is who is supposed to be making those decisions. That is who is 
required to preserve and protect the security of the American people. I 
do not think that makes sense. It is not a little matter. It will set a 
precedent for future times. We are eroding the ability of the 
leadership of this country to execute and carry out a military 
operation, which by its very nature involves death and destruction of 
an enemy.

So I have to say to my colleagues, we need to think this issue 
through. This may be a political deal now that we can use to beat up 
President Bush, but let me say to my colleagues, you had your victory 
in the last election, if not in 2004. We will have a new President 
soon. We need to get away from this personal and political perspective. 
We need to be thinking about the long-term history of the United 
States. We need to be thinking about other wars we may be involved in 
in the future. We need to be asking ourselves: Are we creating a 
circumstance in which a devious, skillful, malicious enemy can utilize 
our very laws to destroy us, place at risk our own soldiers, place at 
risk American citizens, place at risk our people serving in military 
bases around the world?

Let's be careful about that. We have provided them, by statute last 
year, a procedure to contest their detention. Large numbers of those 
who have been detained have already been released, and quite a number 
of those have been recaptured on the battlefield attempting to destroy 
America and what we stand for, attacking our own sons and daughters.

I urge my colleagues to be careful. To say we need to restore the 
right of habeas corpus is not correct. We have never provided habeas 
corpus to enemies of the United States, for heaven's sake. I share 
again the overall concept that we are in a difficult new world. The 
Constitution provides for reasonable searches and seizures and such 
things as that.



Our country is threatened, and our people's liberties are threatened. 
Liberty is important. Freedom is important. We in Congress do not need 
to be curtailing significantly liberty in America. We certainly do not 
need to be eroding constitutional protections that are provided to 
American citizens. We are not doing that. The Supreme Court has never 
held the Constitution provides protection in this fashion to enemy 
combatants. So we are not eroding the Constitution.

What we have come up with is a realistic process that will, in the 
end, provide more liberty, more freedom to American citizens than if we 
were subjected to a system by which we are releasing terrorists again 
and again who are out to kill and destroy us. That is all I would say 
on the fundamental question of liberty and freedom and law.

Let's get our thinking straight. Let's look at this issue carefully. 
Let's be sure we know that no country has ever provided such 
protections to enemy combatants. The fact that 50 out of 400,000 German 
prisoners who were tried after the war in Nuremberg had certain legal 
provisions and rights provided them in no way whatsoever should be 
construed to say we provided habeas rights to other prisoners during 
the course of a war. They were not provided to the 400,000 German 
prisoners held in the United States, that is for sure.

Mr. President, I thank the Chair and yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.