---
---

# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `44969419ecf786d0f1b1b77c82548223`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Thank you, Mr. Ross.

Mr. Speaker, it is a great honor to have the chance to speak here 
again in the House.



Almost $9 trillion in debt. I just came back from a month in my 
district, as Mr. Ross had indicated, going to see constituent after 
constituent, talking about issues of critical importance to them. And I 
met a good friend of mine named Jim Fleming from LaPorte, Indiana. And 
Jim's company makes defense aerospace products. And he said, Joe, we 
try everything we can. We employ hundreds of people. We work 
extraordinarily hard. And, Joe, we get beat out by China on bid after 
bid. Not even competitive with our prices but below our cost of 
production. And, Joe, what saddens me so much, Mr. Fleming said, is 
that we have over $1 trillion in debt to China. So I know when it is 
time for you to stand up, it is only made more difficult because of the 
debt that we have, a debt that we assumed because it was easier to do 
than to make the hard choices like the PAYGO system that we put in.

We look at Iraq now. We have lost $12 billion that came in in 
currency in a plane, shrink wrapped, Mr. Davis, on pallets, never to be 
seen again once it came off of that plane. Think of what $12 billion 
could have done in help creating the Hoosier Heartland Highway in my 
district.

We paid a gentleman Ahmed Chalabi and his group, the Iraqi National 
Congress, $300,000 every month for information that they basically made 
up in the back room over a Coca-Cola.



Just one more example: instead of probing and finding the answers, we 
just threw money away. And, Mr. Ross, think of what $300,000 could do 
in your district every month, or to my good friend, who you will see, 
Mr. Michael Arcuri, in his district in Utica. $300,000 could provide 
health care for an incredible amount of Americans.

So we have come to this Congress to try to make sure, through our 
PAYGO system, that the debt goes no higher, that we start to reduce it, 
that in Iraq we get answers, answers that, instead of letting $12 
billion disappear, that those funds be used either in our district, or 
to provide up-armored Humvees and MRAP vehicles that will save our 
soldiers lives. Appropriate armored vests, the kind of things that will 
protect our soldiers, not feather someone else's nest.

Mr. Ross, I'm proud to stand here with you tonight and have this 
opportunity.