# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `44b72c14616ef399e5746008d77b83b7`
`Mr. CRAMER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. CRAMER. Madam Chair, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2082, 
and I want to compliment the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, 
the ranking member of the Intelligence Committee, and my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle that I have worked with for a number of years 
to make sure that we give the intelligence agencies the resources and 
the balance that they need to do the job that we want them to do.

I am sorry that my colleagues from across the aisle can't support 
this bill.

I am proud to represent an area of the country that has given much to 
the defense of this country including to the intelligence agencies. My 
district is the home of the Missile and Space Intelligence Center, 
known as MSIC, and MSIC is a key DIA facility that helps our country 
understand and prepare against the threat from missiles from foreign 
nations.

Now, this bill today, H.R. 2082, is a well-crafted bill. It 
strengthens our national security by authorizing the largest amount of 
funding ever for the intelligence community. Let me say that again. 
This bill authorizes the largest amount ever for the intelligence 
community.

But it is not just the amount that is important. We have got to make 
sure that we perform oversight of the agencies that we give these 
resources to, make sure that the distribution is balanced between the 
needs to be addressed today and the needs that will be faced in the 
future.

Specifically, this bill provides our intelligence professionals with 
the resources to deal with the immediate threats that we face in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, as well as the emerging challenges from dangerous 
regimes around the world, particularly in Iran and North Korea.

I also support this bill because it recognizes that simply giving the 
intelligence community considerable resources and hoping for the best 
is not enough. Congress must conduct effective oversight, and this bill 
accomplishes that.

Now, Chairman Reyes, as you know, we have worked hard to make sure 
that we continue the bipartisan approach that this committee has a 
history of being the best at, and I think this bill is a product of a 
bipartisan effort to fund our intelligence priorities and strengthen 
our oversight.

To the ranking member, in the last Congress, we established, I 
believe, set up, the Oversight Subcommittee that Mr. Thornberry chaired 
and I was the ranking member of. I think that subcommittee did an 
excellent job, drafting reports, holding informal hearings, making 
visits out in the field both in this country and out of this country, 
to make sure that together we got off to a better start of performing 
oversight. And I think this bill today continues with that effort.

We drafted a report on the standup of the DNI in the last Congress. 
We made sure that we let them know that we were there to give them the 
resources that they needed but to hold them accountable for what they 
did as well, and I think this bill strikes that appropriate balance 
between strengthening national security and performing effective 
oversight.

I urge support of the bill.