# STUDENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE DURING A WAR OR OTHER MILITARY OPERATION
## `44b84478d010243b8616dde29028027d`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of permanently extending the 
Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of 2003, or 
HEROES. This extension will ensure that all of our men and women 
serving in the military will always receive the flexibility they need 
in dealing with their student loans and post-secondary education 
commitments.

Mr. Speaker, I have championed this act since coming to Congress, and 
support for this legislation has always transcended party lines. I 
appreciate that Members on both sides of the aisle have joined together 
once again this year. I would like to thank senior Republican Member 
McKeon and Chairmen Miller and Hinojosa for their continued support for 
higher education and this legislation. And I extend my


personal thanks to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sestak) with 
his many years of distinguished naval service for joining me in this 
effort to protect the higher education interest of members of the Armed 
Forces.

The HEROES Act will ensure support for military personnel by 
continuing to allow the U.S. Secretary of Education to provide the 
appropriate assistance and flexibility to men and women in uniform as 
they transfer in and out of post-secondary education during time of 
war. I must say, this has worked very well and successfully, giving the 
Secretary the flexibility, but we in Congress need to provide that 
flexibility.

Throughout our involvement in this war on terrorism, many thousands 
of men and women who serve our Nation in the Reserves or National Guard 
have been called to active duty. Many of these men and women are also 
college and university students who are called away from their 
families, class work and studies to defend the Nation. Unfortunately, 
due to a number of restrictions in the Higher Education Act, these 
individuals are at risk of losing financial assistance and educational 
credit as a result of their service. Such a scenario is clearly not 
acceptable.

The HEROES Act provides assurance to our men and women in uniform 
that they will not face education-related financial or administrative 
difficulties while they defend our Nation.

This bill is specific in its intent to insure that, as a result of a 
war or military contingency operation or national emergency, our men 
and women in uniform are protected. By granting flexibility to the 
Secretary of Education, the HEROES Act will protect recipients of 
student financial assistance from further financial difficulty 
generated when they are called to serve, minimize administrative 
requirements without affecting the integrity of the programs, adjust 
the calculation used to determine financial need to accurately reflect 
the financial condition of the individual and his or her family, and 
provide the Secretary with the authority to address issues not yet 
foreseen.

I think all of us recognize the absurdity of a young man or woman 
being deployed to a foreign shore, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Horn of 
Africa, while they are a student and getting in financial difficulties 
because of that service.

I am pleased to offer this legislation which provides a permanent 
extension of the HEROES Act. By permanently extending this act, we not 
only send a strong message of support to our troops, but we also 
provide them with the peace of mind that this program will continue 
throughout the duration of their current or any subsequent deployment.

The legislation before us today is an indication of Congress's 
commitment to our military, our students, our families and our schools. 
I urge my colleagues to stand in strong support of the HEROES Act and 
join me in voting ''yes'' on H.R. 3625.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.