---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `44d845249973effdf79429583e86b37a`
`Mr. SMITH â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I wish to say to the senior Senator from 
Arizona how much I admire him. In recent days, because of my difference 
with Senator McCain on the way forward in Iraq, many members of the 
press, particularly in my home State, have asked me how can I continue 
to support Senator McCain. I would like to answer that publicly for the 
Senate Record.

I support Senator McCain for more than just the fact that he is a 
colleague, for more than just the fact that he is a genuine American 
hero, for more than the fact that he is a man of unbreakable 
principle. I support him still because he is my friend. When friends 
have differences, you don't walk away from a friend. I don't. You 
weather the bumps in the road, and you do what Senator McCain has done 
with me; and that is to talk civilly and to counsel, and when there is 
a disagreement, that it is discussed as gentlemen, that it is discussed 
as friends.


But I come to the floor to speak for the Levin-Reed amendment. I am 
the original Republican cosponsor of this proposal. I am proud to 
cosponsor this amendment because it calls for what I have been stating 
for 7 months. It sets up a timetable to draw down our troops.

The amendment instructs the Secretary of Defense to transition U.S. 
forces starting approximately 4 months from the enactment of this 
legislation through the spring of 2008. Further, this amendment 
explicitly outlines the role of the U.S. military in Iraq as threefold. 
An appropriate amount of troops will remain to protect our diplomats, 
our military installations, and infrastructure. We will continue to 
train, equip, and provide logistical and intelligence support to the 
Iraqi security forces, sharing intelligence with them. Then, the third 
and most important point: We will be there to turn over every rock, 
every crevice, and seek out every al-Qaida killer who wishes to harm 
Americans.

Al-Qaida is our mortal foe. This is the war on terror, for want of a 
better term. It is a war from which we cannot retreat.

Over the past 7 months, when I spoke out pleading for a new course in 
Iraq, there has been a great cacophony of noise about how to go 
forward. Some of my colleagues have said to just cut off the funding. I 
have believed that to be dangerous and dishonorable. President Bush has 
said stay the course, and I find that troubling. What ''stay the 
course'' means is, we will continue to spend $12 billion a month. We 
will lose roughly three American soldiers a day. In addition to that, 
there will be countless wounded and maimed for life, for which I don't 
have a number.

Underpinning the current course and the argument of many of my 
colleagues on this side of the aisle is the hope, the predicate, that 
at the end of the road there will be an Iraqi government that will 
govern effectively and democratically. I believe President Bush's 
formulation, that we will stand down when they can stand up, is 
backwards. I come to that conclusion, based on numerous trips to Iraq, 
that they will not stand up until we begin standing down.

Like Senator McCain and many of my colleagues, I recently was in 
Iraq. To be with our troops is to be inspired, to be humbled in their 
presence because of the remarkable work they are doing and the cause 
for which they are fighting. As inspiring as that is, it is equally 
depressing, then, to meet with Iraqi political leaders, democratically 
elected, whom we think ought to be focused on reconciliation. What I 
have found is they are focused on revenge. What I have learned 
firsthand is that Americans have no comprehension of the complexity, 
the factionalism, and the intensity of hatred that exists in some parts 
of the Middle East. On top of the factionalism, there are ancient 
sectarian strifes which produced a low-grade civil war that we cannot 
win, and


which is not ours to win. It is theirs to win.

As I said 7 months ago, there is no good option for how we come home, 
but it does seem to me that Senator Levin and Senator Reed best express 
my own conclusions. That is why I cosponsored their amendment, and that 
is to recognize al-Qaida is our mortal foe. We must take them on where 
we can. But, ultimately, we have to get capable and effective Iraqi 
political leaders, too, so that they are pressured to do the most basic 
kinds of governing: establishing an oil revenue-sharing law, 
debaathification, setting up local elections, allowing the processes of 
democracy to work, establishing a rule of law that gives people 
confidence, spending their oil revenue money for the restructuring and 
rebuilding of their own country. All of the money from the oil we are 
helping them pump sits in bank accounts, stuck by their Parliament.

My fear is that what our presence and current posture are doing is 
simply keeping a civil war at a low-grade level. Civil wars end in one 
of two ways: one side wins and the other loses, or they fight it out 
until they figure it out. My fear is that we delay the day for them 
figuring it out with our current posture. I would love to be proven 
wrong. I pray that President Bush is right. But I believe it is our 
obligation to have this debate to help change the course and the policy 
of the U.S. Government and to help change the course and policy of the 
Iraqi Government. We cannot want democracy more for them than they want 
it for themselves, and what they seem bent on is an ethnic cleansing of 
their neighborhoods, a religious division. Ultimately, those are their 
decisions, not ours. But as long as we say we will take the bullet 
first, they will let us.

I believe the Levin amendment provides a way forward with a 
responsible division of labor. Let the Iraqi forces that we have 
trained and equipped handle their security in Baghdad and in other 
communities. Let us help them by taking on al-Qaida. The amendment 
envisions a much smaller American footprint. Our forces are trained and 
equipped in a way to handle that kind of mission, but as we speak, we 
are straining our military capacities and our personnel to a breaking 
point. I don't believe we should just abandon it, irrespective of 
consequences. That is why I urge my colleagues to look seriously at the 
Levin amendment, to consider it as the way forward that is both 
responsible as it relates to the Middle East and effective as it 
relates to the defense of the American people.

So as a Republican, I am for the Levin amendment. I urge its 
adoption.

I yield the floor.