---
---

# None
## `44ed1a86d1d62bbbf28fa6fd004cc41e`
`Mr. SKELTON — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SKELTON. I thank the gentleman from Florida for yielding.

I appreciate the fact that we will be again having a rule taken up in 
the Rules Committee. I look forward to the second rule for tomorrow.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, in favor of the rule. This is an excellent bill. 
It is, of course, the annual defense authorization bill, bipartisan I 
should say, very bipartisan in nature because the vote on final passage 
out of our committee was 61 Members to none. And I cannot be more 
pleased with the work that our committee has done, the ranking members, 
the subcommittee chairmen who really did yeoman's work, and I want to 
thank them for all their excellent and successful efforts.



I might mention at the outset that this defense authorization bill, 
which is for 2009, is named in honor of former chairman, now ranking 
member, who will not be returning to us next year, the gentleman from 
California, Duncan Hunter. That is certainly fitting and proper that we 
do so to recognize his efforts on national security through the many 
years he served on the committee, as well as the leadership positions.

This bill authorizes $531 billion in spending for the defense and 
national security functions of the Department of Energy. It also 
authorizes a $70 billion bridge fund, which will be considered shortly.

The pay raise to the troops, 3.9 percent, is five-tenths of a percent 
more than the administration recommended. And it rolls back the 
administration's proposed fee increases on health care as well as 
pharmacy costs. It increases the size of the military, something I have 
been urging since 1995. It increases the size of the Army by 7,000 and 
the Marines by 5,000. They're overburdened and they're strained, and 
this is one step towards relieving that strain.

A major problem today is that of readiness, or a lack of readiness. 
We restore a great deal of readiness to the military in this bill in 
various manners, essentially in training and equipment.

There is $800 million in National Guard and Reserve equipment; $650 
million to upgrade military barracks for those trainees that are coming 
through. It improves our efforts in Afghanistan. It bans permanent 
bases in Iraq. It requires Iraq to do more for itself in the 
reconstruction area, establishing a formula by which they, with their 
oil surplus, will have to contribute toward that end.

There are additional steps regarding contractor oversight.



Regarding nuclear nonproliferation, we increase the funding by $245 
million. That's a very major step. The European missile defense effort 
was cut by $370 million. It does a great deal toward national security.

I want to take this opportunity to support the rule, and of course 
when the time comes, to support the bill itself. Hopefully we will have 
some excellent amendments that will be considered tomorrow. And we will 
send this on to the Senate and hopefully have an excellent bill at the 
end of the day.

The young people in uniform, of whom we're so very, very proud, 
deserve the best. This is one way we in Congress can make sure they get 
the very best through this defense authorization bill.