---
---

# None
## `44ed0faf0b8f3e588c07abdd97a1a009`
`Mr. BIDEN — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, with regard to the first amendment, No. 
383, which I am not going to take time to speak to today, is an 
amendment that allows cities and States to reroute hazardous material 
around their cities. In a nutshell, and I know no one knows this better 
than the Chair, and I mean that sincerely, these are 90-ton chlorine 
gas tank cars that go rolling through Newark on their way down through 
the corridor into my State and across my State.

I once asked, not too long ago, the Naval Research Institute to give 
me an analysis of what would happen if one of those were to blow up in 
a metropolitan area. They said that 100,000 people would die--100,000 
people would die. Yet this administration has opposed and we have not 
committed to allowing cities to reroute this hazardous material around 
their major metropolitan areas.

That is one amendment which I will come back to at another time.

At this moment I want to now speak to an amendment that is much 
broader, Amendment No. 384.

We often say that September 11 changed everything. Well, it changed 
everything except it didn't change our behavior. It changed everything 
except


when we look at the budget of this administration in the last 6 years, 
or 4 years since then, and if we look at our tax policy since then, we 
look at what hasn't changed.

My dad used to have an expression, Mr. President. You probably heard 
me say it before: Show me your budget, I will tell you what you value.

Tax cut after tax cut, overwhelmingly tilted to those who were at the 
highest end of the tax bracket, is what this outfit has valued. The 
truth is, we seem not to value protecting our cities, our homeland. The 
truth is, as the Presiding Officer knows better than anyone, living on 
the east coast in a State such as mine, only much larger, you know what 
the costs of the 9/11 Commission recommendations are. You know how few 
dollars we have spent implementing the recommendations. Literally from 
your home county, you could see the buildings collapse, the World Trade 
Center towers collapse. Thousands of people from your State were 
significantly affected, many were killed.

We all ripped out our hair about how this was so terrible; we were 
going to not let this happen again. We went out there and took a real 
good look at what needed to be done when the 9/11 Commission came 
along. Precious little was done. Yet during the same period of time we 
made sure to help people earning more than a million dollars a year. I 
am not picking on them. I am happy. I hope my grandkids make over a 
million dollars a year. I hope everybody in America can. I have no 
problem with anybody making hundreds of millions of dollars.

One of the things we forget on the Senate floor is that those folks 
are just as patriotic as poor folks. Those folks are just as patriotic 
as middle-class folks. They didn't ask for these massive tax cuts. They 
are prepared to give some of them back in order to make the country 
more safe, but we don't ask anything of them. So what happens? Just for 
this year, for households making more than $1 million a year, to put 
this in perspective, they are going to get a tax cut of $45 million. If 
you look at it from 2008 to 2017, that aggregate tax cut, if you are at 
an income where you make more than a million dollars a year, is going 
to be $739 billion. Households with incomes of that magnitude obviously 
take a big chunk of what are the fiscal priorities of this Nation.

We just had a long discussion here about the grant programs and how 
we allocate funding to the various States. We debated that. But it is 
like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic unless there is actual 
money dedicated to provide for these needs. What we have not done is we 
have not ensured a funding source. We have not provided the money 
needed to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations.

I say to my colleagues that we have money to fund these programs. 
When I raised this last year and I talked about how much money was 
needed, as my friend from New Jersey has, they said: Oh, we can't 
afford it.

Give me have a break. We can't afford it? We can afford over $700 
billion in tax cuts for people making over $1 million a year, and we 
can't afford it? I will point out that it comes to about a $50 billion 
price tag over 5 years to implement all the 9/11 Commission Report. 
Can't afford it?

Let me point out that the Congressional Budget Office recently 
released a study indicating H.R. 1, the House counterpart to this bill, 
will cost $21 billion, but the Senate bill we have here only costs $17 
billion. There are a few comprehensive estimates of what all the 9/
11 recommendations would cost, but I did what you did, I say to the 
Presiding Officer, and what others did--I went to a bunch of very smart 
people. I have been involved in this, as you have, from day one. We 
went in and costed it out, what it would cost for the main 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The truth is, we are easily 
able to fund it. It is a lot more than that; it is $50 billion over 5 
years, roughly.


In addition we are not prepared in terms of homeland security 
relating to local cops, sheriffs--local police. If there is going to be 
somebody who is trying to put sarin gas into a complex in your State or 
mine, it is not going to be some brave special forces soldier in 
fatigues wearing night-vision goggles who is going to figure this thing 
out; it is going to be a local cop riding behind the arena and seeing 
someone getting out of a dumpster. If we are going to break up these 
rings, it is going to be intelligence, but also it will be a local cop 
walking a beat in Newark, NJ, or Wilmington, DE--or Newark, DE. ''By 
the way, those three apartments that have been vacant for the last 7 
years, there are lights on in the window.''

What have we done? We slashed spending for local law enforcement. We 
slashed it $2.1 billion a year since this President has become 
President.

Show me your budget, I will tell you what you value. It is a little 
bit like taking care of veterans. Show me your budget, I will tell you 
what you value.

In addition, the study by the U.S. Conference of Mayors found that 75 
percent of the cities in America do not have interoperable 
communications--75 percent. This is a disgrace. What do we need? We had 
Hurricane Katrina, we had 9/11--what else do we need to demonstrate 
that it is useful to have a local cop be able to speak to the National 
Guard that is called in, to be able to have somebody in the command 
center who can talk to everybody? Yet 75 percent of the cities do not 
have interoperable communications capability--one of the strongest 
recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission.

As I said, while there is not a comprehensive assessment, I have 
spent a lot of time talking to experts and found that roughly for an 
additional $10.3 billion a year, we can implement all of the 9/11 
recommendations--all of them, including provisions in this title--and 
do other commonsense things we know will make us more safe, such as 
reinvesting in local police.

The bottom line is this: If we simply commit to taking back a small 
fraction of the cuts for those making over $1 million a year, we can 
pay for all the security upgrades we need. Here is how it would work. 
My amendment simply puts the Senate on record calling for the Finance 
Committee to report legislation to provide $53 billion in funding for 
homeland security to be placed in the homeland security trust fund. It 
is called a Homeland Security and Neighborhood Safety Trust Fund. From 
this trust fund, we require that spending be dedicated toward 
initiatives and grant programs authorized in this legislation, 
including the Urban Area Security Initiative, the State Homeland 
Security Grant Program, emergency management performance grants, and 
rail and transit security grants. It would reinstate the COPS Program, 
the FIRE Act grants, SAFER grants, and the Justice Assistance grants, 
which provide essential support to State and local police, allowing 
them to coordinate with the Federal Government. It would be funding 
enhancements in interoperable communications, improve port security, 
including working toward 100 percent scanning of cargo containers, and 
upgrade and better prepare the Nation's public health sector to respond 
to acts of bioterrorism and nuclear terrorism.

I ask all my colleagues in earshot of my voice, go to the largest 
cities in your States and go to the emergency rooms in your hospitals. 
Ask how many times they have to close down their hospitals. They send 
out to all the ambulance drivers in the entire region that would be 
serviced by them a statement saying: We can't take any more today. What 
in God's name are we doing to prepare these hospitals and 
infrastructure for a terrorist attack?

We also have to upgrade and develop new scanning technology to detect 
dangerous substances. That is what this money would be allowed to be 
used for.

When I introduced this legislation last year and got a vote, I 
explained how I would allocate the $10.3 billion. I put $1 billion in 
here for interoperability, I put in $1 billion to promote 100 percent 
cargo container scanning, $500 million to bolster the public health 
infrastructure, and $100 million to improve government-wide information 
sharing. In order to leave what should be left--I took out these 
specific allocations in order to give to my colleagues on the 
Appropriations Committee and the Homeland Security Committee more 
discretion on how to spend the additional money in the outyears. I 
withheld the specifics. It is just an order to the relevant committees 
to come up with how to spend that money.



Any way you slice it, this will leave the most fortunate among us 
still very fortunate but will take, from over $736 billion, $52 
billion. No one in this Chamber can tell me that there is anyone out 
there who is going to say that is not fair. No one can tell me that 
will have a scintilla of a negative impact on the economy. No one can 
argue, I respectfully suggest--and I invite them to do it--that, in 
fact, these things are not needed, what I am talking about here. These 
were all talked about by various Senators.

The numbers are clear. Those who need the least help are getting the 
most from the current tax cuts, and those fortunate Americans are twice 
blessed. They are blessed by our efforts in this bill, and they are 
blessed by the fact that they are doing very well through their own 
hard work.

I have said before, of the many opportunities squandered since 9/11, 
the most tragic opportunity squandered by this administration is the 
failure to call our country together, to give all of us a part to play 
in response to the new threats we face, not just middle-class folks who 
are sending their husbands, wives, sons, and daughters to Iraq and 
Afghanistan to try to protect us.

But despite the rhetoric that calls upon the proud recollections of 
our national purpose in conflicts such as World War II and the Cold 
War, on this floor there has been an incredible vacuum of leadership. 
Those Presidents asked something of the American people. What has been 
asked except forfeit commitments to health care, education, and energy 
security? And where does that burden fall? It falls on working women 
and men.

Let me just say as my time begins to expire that I know those who are 
very well off. I know they are willing to do this. I had an opportunity 
to speak to a group of 50 people advertised to me as among the most 
wealthy people in the nation. It was a group of investors. I spoke 
before them, and I said to them that this is what I wanted to do. I 
said: Does anybody in here disagree with that? It was advertised to me 
that a significant portion of these people were actually billionaires. 
When I raised that question, there was silence in the room, and finally 
one guy honestly put his hand up.


He said: I am not too sure I am. I am not too sure you won't go out 
and waste the money.

I said: Will you support it if I come forward and do what I did in 
the crime bill I wrote years ago, I drafted years ago--set up a trust 
fund, and the money we take from this tax cut to get this $50 billion-
plus will be put into a trust fund, and it can only be used for 
homeland security and neighborhood safety? Would you support it then?

I got an ovation, literally an ovation, mostly a standing ovation, I 
say to you, Mr. President, from these extremely wealthy people. The 
wealthy are ready to commit just as the middle class and poor are.

Mr. President, I end where I began. As my dad used to say, don't tell 
me what you value, show me your budget. Don't anyone on this floor 
presume to tell me, in the years I have spent here, that this country 
cannot afford to spend, over the next 5 years, $10.2 billion a year to 
make this Nation safer. Please don't anyone suggest that it is not 
possible to pay for this when, in fact, you have a tax policy that is 
so out of whack that even the people who are benefiting the most from 
it are willing to contribute to our national security. If we ask the 
sons and daughters, husbands and wives, mothers and fathers in each of 
our towns and cities to send their children, their husbands and wives 
to protect us abroad, we sure in the devil can ask the people making 
over $1 million a year--a total tax break of over $736 billion over the 
next several years--to contribute $10.2 billion a year out of that tax 
cut. I am confident they are ready. They just need to be asked.

I hope, when the appropriate time comes, my colleagues will favorably 
consider my amendment.

I yield the floor.













Amendments Nos. 316 and 342
