# None
## `44f24f0019cca15e7779ecec5444a331`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. You know, there are students of history, our 
esteemed Speaker in the Chair is a former college professor, and he 
certainly knows that the origin of this country was one where our 
Founding Fathers and the people that came before them that colonized 
this nation were escaping from tyranny, essentially, were escaping so 
that they could be free, so that they could be free from one individual 
telling them how their lives would be run, so they could be free from 
persecution about their religious choices that they made, so they could 
be free from taxation without representation, so that they could be 
free. And the reason that our democracy was set up as it is, with a 
Commander in Chief, with an executive as well as a legislative and 
judicial branch, was so that there would be a system of checks and 
balances.

I am baffled by our friends on the other side of the aisle when they 
seem to be saying that the Congress weighing in with binding 
legislation, with benchmarks, and with a time line so that we can 
ensure that there is not a never-ending commitment and a blank check 
being written to folks fighting a civil war in another country, our 
friends on the other side of the aisle seem to be saying that we should 
only care about the opinion of one person, the person in the White 
House, that the decisions that the executive of this Nation makes are 
the only ones that matter.

Well, if you go back to the origin of this Nation, Mr. Meek, you go 
back to the origin of this Nation, that is why our power was diffused. 
That is why our Founding Fathers created three branches of government, 
because they experienced the tyranny of one individual. They had 
decisions forced on them by a king, by a monarch, who told them exactly 
what was going to happen. And there was no place to turn, there was 
nowhere to go. Well, the American people and our men and women in 
uniform can turn to us because they have a Congress, they have a 
representative body that can rescue them when the executive makes the 
wrong decision, and that is what has happened here.

That is also what has happened with our veterans, Mr. Meek, because 
it is incredibly important that we emphasize that, while we have made 
some very important, significant and essential decisions about the 
direction that we are going to continue to go in this war in Iraq, we 
also made some significant decisions to help our veterans, the ones 
that have already fought and have come back and have been left behind, 
have been forgotten, the ones that this administration and the 
Republican leadership before us had callous disregard for.

And we are always about third-party validation in the 30-Something 
Working Group, so people just shouldn't take it from me or take it from 
you. Let's just walk through what happened before and what has happened 
leading up to today with the vote that we cast on this floor.

So, Mr. Speaker, before I got here, Mr. Meek, you were here, but 
before I got here, this is right when you got here, in January 2003, 
the Bush administration cut off veterans health care for 164,000 
veterans. That is right in the Federal Register. It is documented on 
January 17, 2003.

In March of 2003, the Republican budget, crafted then by this 
Republican Congress at the time, cut $14 billion from veterans health 
care that was passed by the Congress with 199 Democrats voting against 
it.

In March of 2004, the Republican budget shortchanged veterans health 
care by $1.5 billion, and that was passed by a Congress with 201 
Democrats voting against it.

Fast forward to March of 2005. President Bush shortchanged veterans 
health care by more than $2 billion in 2005 and cut veterans health 
care by $14 billion over 5 years, and that had 201 Democrats voting 
against it.

But that is not all. Mr. Speaker, in the summer of 2005, after 
Democratic pressure, the Bush administration finally acknowledged, when 
I got here, Mr. Speaker, the Republican administration was denying, Mr. 
Meek, you remember this, they were denying there was a shortfall in the 
Veterans Administration budget, repeatedly denying it. There were 
articles about the dispute. The Veterans Administration insisted there 
wasn't a problem; but finally in the summer of 2005, after constant 
pressure from the Democrats in the minority, they finally had to 
acknowledge that the fiscal 2006 shortfall in veterans health care 
totaled $2.7 billion. We had to fight all summer to fix that.



We had to do an emergency supplemental during that summer to make 
sure that we could fund that shortfall.

I remember when we were doing the 30-Something Working Group during 
that time, I remember Mr. Meek put the picture of the Secretary of the 
Department of the Veterans Administration up on that table there 
because what seemed important to the Secretary of the VA at the time 
was that his picture be hanging in every building run by the VA, and he 
was all the while denying there was a shortfall in his budget, and he 
couldn't adequately provide for the veterans under his care; but he was 
going to make darn sure his picture was hanging in every building.

In March of 2006, President Bush's budget cut veterans' funding by $6 
billion over 5 years, and that was passed by a Republican-controlled 
Congress.

Finally, after November 7, 2006, and the American people voted for a 
new direction, the Democratic Congress increased the veterans' health 
care budget by $3.6 billion in the joint funding resolution. And in the 
supplemental legislation we passed, we provide an additional $1.7 
billion to fund veterans' health care and to address the significant 
problems we have at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, which were also 
denied and not acknowledged until the Washington Post exposed the 
travesty. We have since had heads roll, the Secretary of the Army, the 
general that headed up Walter Reed and numerous


others. The only reason we had accountability there, finally, is 
because we have a check and balance. We have oversight and hearings 
going on. Congress is asking questions. We are not allowing one person 
to make all of the decisions and impose them on the people that he 
represents. Finally.