# None
## `44f33329311a641bd05453f9c4d8a83d`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Madam Speaker, you don't negotiate with the barrel of 
a gun, but that seems to be the President's strategy with respect to 
Iran. That is why the House must legislate to ensure that the President 
cannot unilaterally start another war in the Middle East, this time 
with Iran.

The President has lost all credibility, and the world worries that 
another war will be waged in Iran in the name of regime change. It has 
been over a quarter of a century since the U.S. tried constructive 
engagement instead of destructive isolationism in dealing with Iran.

Foreign policy under this President has played a role in pushing 
Iran's leaders to the fringe. The Iranian President appears 
intransigent and willing to use strident rhetoric to drive a wedge 
between the United States and other nations. What is our response? 
Showdown and confrontation are the diplomatic skills of this White 
House, a repeat of the spin cycle to foment a march to war against 
Iraq. Today it is economic sanctions against Iran, but what about 
tomorrow?

Presidential advisers like the Vice President continue to encourage a 
policy of aggression. The President says one thing, but the Vice 
President says all options are on the table. The Secretary of State 
says one thing, but then we read what is going on behind the scenes 
from an investigative reporter, Seymour Hersch. The world is weary over 
the war in Iraq, and the world is worried about the President's 
intentions regarding Iran.

The other day the Asia Times raised these concerns in the section 
entitled ''Dispatches From America.'' The Times published an article by 
Tom Engelhardt called ''A Bombshell That Nobody Heard,'' and I will 
enter it in the Record. The article considers the troubling information 
revealed by Seymour Hersch, especially the disclosure of U.S. military 
planning for a first strike capability targeting Iran, and ready to go 
on one day's notice.

Despite official denials, we see and hear the Vice President chill 
the world by saying a military option against Iran has not been ruled 
out. Having seen it before in this administration, one troubling 
thought comes to mind: Bullets and bluster are more likely to produce 
bloodshed than peace.

That is why the House must exert its constitutional duty when it 
comes to the President's intentions with respect to Iran. We have got 
to chart a new course in the Middle East, and it has to be based on a 
commitment to stop the bloodshed, not guarantee the flow of oil. And we 
cannot hope to achieve peace or stability in Iraq or Iran without 
addressing the Palestinian-Israeli issue openly, honestly and urgently.

The issues of the Middle East are inextricably interconnected, and no 
one understands that better than Speaker Pelosi. At a time when the 
White House prefers to choose sides, our distinguished leader prefers 
to pursue peace in the Middle East, demanding diplomacy aimed at 
achieving peace through social and economic justice for all.

It is the kind of vision the whole world has passionately embraced 
before when the world believed the United States could stand taller 
than any problem and person in the region.

So one has to wonder, what were they thinking the other day when some 
Members of AIPAC, the American Israeli Public Affairs Committee, rudely 
booed during a keynote address as the Speaker spoke very plainly on 
this issue. She said the Iraq war has not made America safer, has not 
made Israel safer, and has not made peace in the Middle East much 
easier to achieve.

That is the truth. What is wrong with speaking the truth? Leaders 
speak the truth because they have a deep and abiding faith in the 
strength of people everywhere to see the truth for what it is and to 
use it to lay a foundation to build a better world.

Today, America has a Democratic leader willing to see the world as it 
is, but unwilling to leave it that way. These are difficult times and 
we face difficult decisions just ahead. We need a strong commitment to 
get our soldiers out of Iraq and the strength to prevent another 
military misadventure in Iran.

The path to peace should be littered with pages and pages of 
negotiation, not booby trapped by inflammatory rhetoric and people 
unwilling to listen.

Madam Speaker, I include for the Record the materials referred to 
earlier







 [From the Asia Times: Dispatches From America]











 A Bombshell That Nobody Heard














(By Tom Engelhardt)




 Let me see if I've got this straight. Perhaps two years 


 ago, an ''informal'' meeting of ''veterans'' of the 1980s 


 Iran-Contra scandal--holding positions in the Bush 


 administration--was convened by Deputy National Security 


 Adviser Elliott Abrams. Discussed were the ''lessons 


 learned'' from that labyrinthine, secret and illegal arms-


 for-money-for-arms deal involving the Israelis, the Iranians, 


 the Saudis, and the Contras of Nicaragua, among others--and 


 meant to evade the Boland Amendment, a congressionally passed 


 attempt to outlaw US administration assistance to the anti-


 communist Contras.



 In terms of getting around Congress, the Iran-Contra vets 


 concluded, the complex operation had been a success--and 


 would have worked far better if the Central Intelligence 


 Agency (CIA) and the military had been kept out of the loop 


 and the whole thing had been run out of the vice president's 


 office.



 Subsequently, some of those conspirators, once again with 


 the financial support and help of the Saudis (and probably 


 the Israelis and the British), began running a similar 


 operation, aimed at avoiding congressional scrutiny or public 


 accountability of any sort, out of Vice President Dick 


 Cheney's office. They dipped into ''black pools of money'', 


 possibly stolen from the billions of Iraqi oil dollars that 


 have never been accounted for since the US occupation began.



 Some of these funds, as well as Saudi ones, were evidently 


 funneled through the embattled, Sunni-dominated Lebanese 


 government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora to the sort of 


 Sunni jihadist groups (''some sympathetic to al-Qaeda'') 


 whose members might normally fear ending up in Guantanamo and 


 to a group, or groups, associated with the fundamentalist 


 Muslim Brotherhood.



 All of this was being done as part of a ''sea change'' in 


 the Bush administration's Middle East policies aimed at 


 rallying friendly Sunni regimes against Shi'ite Iran, as well 


 as Hezbollah, Hamas and the Syrian government--and launching 


 secret operations to undermine, roll back or destroy all of 


 the above. Despite the fact that the administration of 


 President George W. Bush is officia1ly at war with Sunni 


 extremism in Iraq (and in the more general ''global war on 


 terror''), despite its support for the largely Shi'ite 


 government, allied to Iran, that it has brought to power in 


 Iraq, and despite its dislike for the Sunni-Shiite civil war 


 in that country, some of its top officia1s may be covertly 


 encouraging a far greater Sunni-Shi'ite rift in the region.



 Imagine. All this and much more was revealed, often in 


 remarkable detail, just over a week ago in ''The 


 redirection'', a Seymour Hersh piece in The New Yorker. Other 


 revelations included news of US military border crossings 


 into Iran, new preparations that would allow Bush to order a 


 massive air attack on that land with only 24 hours' notice, 


 and a brief window this spring when the staggering power of 


 four US aircraft-carrier battle groups might be available to 


 Bush in the Persian Gulf.



 Hersh, the man who first broke the My Lai story in the 


 Vietnam era, has never been off his game since. In recent 


 years, from the Abu Ghraib prison scandal on, he has 


 consistently released explosive news about the plans and acts 


 of the Bush administration.



 Imagine, in addition, that Hersh went on Democracy Now!, 


 Fresh Air, Hardball with Chris Matthews and CNN's Late 


 Edition with Wolf Blitzer and actually elaborated on these 


 claims and revelations, some of which, on the face of it, 


 seem like potentially illegal and impeachable offenses, if 


 they do indeed reach up to the vice president or president.



 Now imagine the response: front-page headlines; editorials 


 nationwide calling for answers, congressional hearings, or 


 even the appointment of a special prosecutor to look into 


 some of the claims; a raft of op-ed-page pieces by the 


 nation's leading columnists asking questions, demanding 


 answers, reminding us of the history of Iran-Contra; bold 


 reporters from recently freed media standing up in White 


 House and Defense Department press briefings to demand more 


 information on Hersh's various charges; calls in Congress for 


 hearings and investigations into why the people's 


 representatives were left so totally out of this loop.



 Uh . . .



 All I can say is: if any of this happened, I haven't been 


 able to discover it. As far as I can tell, no one in the 


 mainstream even blinked on the Iran-Contra angle or the 


 possibility that a vast, secret Middle Eastern operation is 


 being run, possibly illegally and based on stolen funds and 


 Saudi money, out of the US vice president's office.



 You can certainly find a few pieces on, or reports about, 


 ''The redirection''--all focused only on the possible buildup 


 to a war with




 Iran--and the odd wire-service mention of it; but nothing 


 major, nothing earth-shaking or eye-popping; not, in fact, a 


 single obvious editorial or op-ed piece in the mainstream; no 


 journalistic questions publicly asked of the administration; 


 no congressional cries of horror; no calls anywhere for 


 investigations or hearings on any of Hersh's revelations, not 


 even an expression of fear somewhere that we might be seeing 


 Iran-Contra, the sequel, in our own moment.



 This, it seems to me, adds up to a remarkable non-response 


 to claims that, if true, should gravely concern Congress, the 


 media and the nation.



 Let's grant that Hersh's New Yorker pieces generally arrive 


 unsourced and filled with anonymous officials (''a former 


 senior intelligence official'', ''a US government consultant 


 with close ties to Israel''). Nonetheless, Hersh has long 


 mined his sources in the intelligence community and the 


 military to striking effect. Undoubtedly, the lack of 


 sourcing makes it harder for other reporters to follow up, 


 though when it comes to such papers as the Washington Post 


 and the New York Times, you would think that they might have 


 Washington sources of their own to query on Hersh's claims.



 And, of course, editorial pages, columnists, op-ed editors, 


 congressional representatives and reporters at administration 


 news briefings don't need to do any footwork at all to raise 


 these subjects. (Consider, for instance, the White House 


 press briefing last April 10, where a reporter did indeed ask 


 a question based on an earlier Hersh New Yorker piece.) As 


 far as I can tell, there haven't even been denunciations of 


 Hersh's report or suggestions anywhere that it is inaccurate 


 or off-base. Just the equivalent of a giant, collective shrug 


 of the U.S. media's rather scrawny shoulders.



 Since the response to Hersh's remarkable piece has been so 


 tepid in places where it should count, let me take up just a 


 few of the many issues his report raises.















''Meddling'' in Iran




 For at least a month, the U.S. press and television news 


 have been full to the brim with mile-high headlines and top-


 of-the-news stories recounting (and, more rarely, disputing) 


 Bush administration claims of Iranian ''interference'' or 


 ''meddling'' in Iraq (where U.S. military spokesmen regularly 


 refer to the Iraqi insurgents they are fighting as ''anti-


 Iraq forces'').



 Since Hersh published ''Plan B'' in The New Yorker in June 


 2004 in which he claimed that the Israelis were ''running 


 covert operations inside Kurdish areas of Iran and Syria'', 


 he has been on the other side of this story.



 In ''The coming wars'' in January 2005, he first reported 


 that the Bush administration, like the Israelis, had been 


 ''conducting secret reconnaissance missions inside Iran at 


 least since'' the summer of 2004. Last April in ''The Iran 


 plans'', he reported that the administration was eager to put 


 the ''nuclear option'' on the table in any future air assault 


 on Iranian nuclear facilities (and that some in the Pentagon, 


 fiercely opposed, had at least temporarily thwarted planning 


 for the possible use of nuclear bunker-busters in Iran).



 He also reported that U.S. combat units were ''on the 


 ground'' in Iran, marking targets for any future air attack, 


 and quoted an unnamed source as claiming that they were also 


 ''working with minority groups in Iran, including the Azeris, 


 in the north, the Balochis, in the southeast, and the Kurds, 


 in the northeast. 'The troops are studying the terrain, and 


 giving away walking-around money to ethnic tribes, and 


 recruiting scouts from local tribes and shepherds,' the 


 consultant said. One goal is to get 'eyes on the ground' . . 


 . The broader aim, the consultant said, is to 'encourage 


 ethnic tensions' and undermine the regime.''



 In ''The redirection'', he now claims that in search of 


 Iranian rollback and possible regime change, ''American 


 military and special-operations teams have escalated their 


 activities in Iran to gather intelligence and, according to a 


 Pentagon consultant on terrorism and the former senior 


 intelligence official, have also crossed the [Iranian] border 


 in pursuit of Iranian operatives from Iraq.''



 In his Democracy Now! radio interview, he added: ''We have 


 been deeply involved with Azeris and Balochis and Iranian 


 Kurds in terror activities inside the country . . . and, of 


 course, the Israelis have been involved in a lot of that 


 through Kurdistan . . . Iran has been having sort of a series 


 of back-door fights, the Iranian government, because . . . 


 they have a significant minority population. Not everybody 


 there is a Persian. If you add up the Azeris and Balochis and 


 Kurds, you're really 30-some [%], maybe even 40% of the 


 country.''



 In addition, he reported that ''a special planning group 


 has been established in the offices of the Joint Chiefs of 


 Staff, charged with creating a contingency bombing plan for 


 Iran that can be implemented, upon orders from the president, 


 within 24 hours'' and that its ''new assignment'' was to 


 identify not just nuclear facilities and possible regime-


 change targets, but ''targets in Iran that may be involved 


 in supplying or aiding militants in Iraq''.



 Were there nothing else in Hersh's most recent piece, all 


 of this would still have been significant news--if we didn't 


 happen to live on a one-way imperial planet in which Iranian 


 ''interference'' in (American) Iraq is an outrage, but secret 


 U.S. operations in, and military plans to devastate, Iran are 


 your basic ho-hum issue.



 America's mainstream news purveyors don't generally 


 consider the issue of the United States' ''interference'' in 


 Iran worthy of a great deal of reporting, nor do U.S. pundits 


 consider it a topic worthy of speculation or consideration; 


 nor, in a Congress where leading Democrats have regularly 


 outflanked the Bush administration in hawkish positions on 


 Iran, is this likely to be much of an issue.



 You can read abroad about rumored U.S. operations out of 


 Pakistan and Afghanistan aimed at unsettling Iranian 


 minorities such as the Balochs and about possible operations 


 to create strife among Arab minorities in southern Iran near 


 the Iraqi border--the Iranians seem to blame the British, 


 whose troops are in southern Iraq, for some of this (a charge 


 vociferously denied by the British Embassy in Tehran)--but 


 it's not a topic of great interest in the U.S.



 In recent months, in fact, several bombs have gone off in 


 minority regions of Iran. These explosions have been reported 


 in the U.S., but you would be hard-pressed to find out what 


 the Iranians had to say about them, and the possibility that 


 any of these might prove part of a U.S. (or Anglo-American) 


 covert campaign to destabilize the Iranian fundamentalist 


 regime basically doesn't concern the news mind, even though 


 history says it should.



 After all, many of the United States' present Middle 


 Eastern problems can be indirectly traced back to the 


 successful CIA-British-intelligence plot in 1953 to oust 


 prime minister Mohammad Mossadegh (who had nationalized the 


 Iranian oil industry) and install young Mohammad Reza Pahlavi 


 in power as shah.



 After all, in the 1980s, in the anti-Soviet war in 


 Afghanistan, the CIA (with the eager connivance of the 


 Pakistanis and the Saudis) helped organize, arm and fund the 


 Islamic extremists who would some day turn on the U.S. for 


 terror campaigns on a major scale.



 As Steve Coll reported in his superb book Ghost Wars, for 


 instance, ''Under ISI [Pakistan's Inter-Services 


 Intelligence] direction, the mujahideen received training and 


 malleable explosives to mount car-bomb and even camel-bomb 


 attacks in Soviet-occupied cities, usually designed to kill 


 Soviet soldiers and commanders. [CIA director William] Casey 


 endorsed these despite the qualms of some CIA career 


 officers.''



 Similarly, in the early 1990s, the Iraq National Accord, an 


 organization run by the CIA's Iraqi exile of choice, Iyad 


 Allawi, evidently planted, under the agency's direction, car 


 bombs and explosive devices in Baghdad (including in a movie 


 theater) in a fruitless attempt to destabilize Saddam 


 Hussein's regime. The New York Times reported this on its 


 front page in June 2004 (to no effect whatsoever), when 


 Allawi was the prime minister of U.S.-occupied Iraq.



 Who knows where the funding, training and equipment for the 


 bombings in Iran are coming from--but, at a moment when 


 charges that the Iranians are sending into Iraq advanced 


 improvised explosive devices, or the means to produce them, 


 are the rage, it seems a germane subject.



 In the U.S., it's a no-brainer that the Iranians have no 


 right whatsoever to put their people, overtly or covertly, 


 into neighboring Iraq, a country that, back in the 1980s, 


 invaded Iran and fought a bitter eight-year war with it, 


 resulting in perhaps a million casualties; but it's just 


 normal behavior for the Pentagon to have traveled halfway 


 across the planet to dominate the Iraqi military, garrison 


 Iraq with a string of vast permanent bases, build the largest 


 embassy on the planet in Baghdad's Green Zone, and send 


 special-operations teams (and undoubtedly CIA teams as well) 


 across the Iranian border, or to insert them in Iran to do 


 ''reconnaissance'' or even to foment unrest among its 


 minorities. This is the definition of an imperial world view.
















Sleepless nights




 Let's leave Iran now and briefly take up a couple of other 


 matters highlighted in ''The redirection'' that certainly 


 should have raised the odd red flag and pushed the odd alarm 


 button in the U.S. far more than his Iranian news (which did 


 at least get some attention).



 Iran-Contra redux: Does it raise no eyebrows that, under 


 the leadership of Elliott Abrams (who in the Iran-Contra 


 period pleaded guilty to two counts of unlawfully withholding 


 information from Congress and was later pardoned), such a 


 meeting was held? Does no one want to confirm that this 


 happened? Does no one want to know who attended?



 Iran-Contra alumni in the Bush administration at one time 


 or another included the late president Ronald Reagan's 


 national security adviser John Poindexter, Otto Reich, John 


 Negroponte (who, Hersh claims, recently left his post as 


 director of national intelligence to avoid the 21st-century 


 version of Iran-Contra--''No way. I'm not going down that 


 road again, with the NSC [National Security Council] running 


 operations off the books, with no [presidential] finding''), 


 Roger Noriega, and Robert Gates.



 Did the vice president or president sit in? Was either of 


 them informed about the ''lessons drawn''? Were the vice 


 president's right-hand men, I. Lewis ''Scooter'' Libby and/or 


 David Addington, in any way involved? Who knows?



 In the Iran-Contra affair, the Reagan administration drew 


 together the seediest collection of freelance arms dealers, 


 intelligence agents, allies and--in the case of ayatollah 


 Ruhollah Khomeini's Iranian regime--




 sworn enemies in what can only be called ''amateur hour'' at 


 the White House. Now, it looks as if the Bush administration 


 is heading down a similar path and, given its previous 


 ''amateur hour'' reputation in foreign policy, imagine what 


 this is likely to mean.



 Jihadis as proxies: Using jihadis as U.S. proxies in a 


 struggle to roll back Iran--with the help of the Saudis--


 should have rung a few bells somewhere in U.S. memory as 


 another been-there, done-that moment. In the 1980s--on the 


 theory that my enemy's enemy is my friend--the fundamentalist 


 Catholic CIA director William Casey came to believe that 


 Islamic fundamentalists could prove tight and trustworthy 


 allies in rolling back the Soviet Union.



 In Afghanistan, as a result, the CIA, backed by the Saudi 


 royals, who themselves represented an extremist form of Sunni 


 Islam, regularly favored and funded the most extreme of the 


 mujahideen ready to fight the Soviets. Who can forget the 


 results? Today, according to Hersh, the Saudis are reassuring 


 key figures in the Bush administration that this time they 


 have the jihadis to whom funds are flowing under control. No 


 problem. If you believe that, you'll believe anything.



 Congress in the dark: Hersh claims that, with the help of 


 Saudi National Security Adviser Prince Bandar bin Sultan 


 (buddy to the Bushes and Cheney's close comrade-in-arms), the 


 people running the black-ops programs out of Cheney's office 


 have managed to run circles around any possibility of 


 congressional oversight, leaving the institution completely 


 ''in the dark'', which is undoubtedly exactly where Congress 


 wanted to be for the past six years. Is this still true? The 


 non-reaction to the Hersh piece isn't exactly encouraging.



 To summarize, if Hersh is to be believed--and as a major 


 journalistic figure for the past near-40 years he certainly 


 deserves to be taken seriously--the Bush administration seems 


 to be repeating the worst mistakes of the Reagan 


 administration and of the anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan, 


 which led inexorably to the greatest acts of blowback in U.S. 


 history.



 Given what we already know about the Bush administration, 


 Americans should be up nights worrying about what all this 


 means now as well as down the line. For Congress, the media 


 and Americans in general, this report should have been not 


 just a wake-up call, but a shout for an allnighter with 


 NoDoz.



 In my childhood, one of the Philadelphia papers regularly 


 ran cartoon ads for itself in which some poor soul in a 


 perilous situation--say, clinging to the ledge of a tall 


 building--would be screaming for help, while passers-by were 


 so engrossed in the paper that they didn't even look up. Now, 


 we have the opposite situation: a journalist in essence 


 writing bloody murder in a giant media and governmental 


 crowd. In this case, no one in the mainstream evidently 


 cares--not yet, anyway--to pay the slightest attention.



 It seems that there's a crime going on and no one gives a 


 damn.
