# None
## `44f5166afff8342478f33af6403efe32`
`Mr. RANGEL — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the 
exceptional contributions of Americans of Caribbean descent during the 
celebration of Caribbean American Heritage Month. I also recognize the 
special ties between the nations of the Caribbean and the United 
States, a relationship that will be manifest and renewed later this 
month in a dialogue between Heads of Government of the Caribbean and 
our own national leadership, led by President Bush and including 
members of his cabinet and the Congressional leadership as well, on 
June 19-21 in Washington, DC.

While the significance of Caribbean Americans to the building and 
advancement of America cannot be fully expressed, I will acknowledge 
several contributions they have made to the very fabric of our Nation.

People from the English speaking Caribbean have helped shape this 
great land as the earliest and largest source of Black immigrants to 
the United States. Caribbean Americans such as Virgin Islander Edward 
Blyden, along with West Indian Americans George Padmore, Marcus Garvey 
and Claude McKay influenced the course of civil rights in America. The 
contributions of these individuals alone comprise over one hundred 
years of writing, empowering, and engaging the policies and values that 
serve as the cornerstones of this country.

The founder of Chicago, Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, was born in 
Haiti, and Shirley Chisholm, the first African-American woman elected 
to Congress, is also of Caribbean ancestry. Colin Powell, the first 
African-American Secretary of State, is of Jamaican heritage.

Today, Caribbean Americans continue to serve as catalysts for change 
by serving in local, State and Federal Government, among which include 
Congresswoman Barbara Lee, who introduced the legislation in the House 
to recognize Caribbean American Heritage Month and Congresswoman 
Yvette Clarke, who served as the first Director of Business Development 
for the Bronx Empowerment Zone.


Caribbean-Americans have fought to protect and defend our Nation 
during times of war. In the struggle for American Independence, over 
500 Haitians joined colonial troops against the British at the Siege of 
Savannah. In response to President George W. Bush's current efforts to 
assist a young and fragile democracy, hundreds of Caribbean-Americans 
fight in the U.S. Armed Forces to bring stability in Iraq.

In business, education, law enforcement, entertainment, sports, 
religion, and public service, the force of Caribbean-Americans has 
energized the Nation to achieve superiority in the international 
community. I invite my colleagues to join with me in celebrating the 
contributions of people of Caribbean descent and in support of H. Res. 
418 commending the Caribbean Community (CARlCOM) for holding the 
Conference on the Caribbean in Washington, DC, from June 19 to 21.
