---
---

# THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `44f71dc3a2b1d432a55898acfb602a9f`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Let's look not only at the supplemental but with 
the budget the President presented. We, the Democratic budget, 
increases the Pell Grant to at least $4,600 from a little over $4,000 
now. As you said, we are constrained by the $3 trillion of debt that 
was created over the past 6 years by our friends in the Republican 
party.



But this Democratic budget rejects all of the things that the 
President recommended. Here is what the President wanted to do for 
higher education. He wanted to eliminate the Perkins loan program. He 
wanted to eliminate the Federal supplemental opportunity grants, and he 
wanted to eliminate leveraging education assistance partnerships. He 
wanted to completely eliminate them.

Now, we are competing with 1.3 billion people in China and over 1 
billion people in India. The key component to economic growth in 
America in the next decade or two or three or four or probably for the 
existence of this country is to invest in education, and when you look 
at what the Democrats have done in the first 100 hours, we cut student 
loan interest rates in half for both parent loans and student loans, 
and here we are in our budget and we raised the Pell Grant in the CR as 
well, and here we are raising again the limit for the Pell Grant to 
$4,600. That is investing in education.

When you look at the billions of dollars we are going to put into 
children's health care to make sure that every kid in the United States 
of America has access to health care, those are investments that are 
going to pay off in the long term, and that is going to lead to a 
strong America, a strong economic growth.

Now, our friends on the other side, and I do not want to talk too 
much about this, but it has been levied against us that the Democratic 
budget is somehow going to raise taxes. We have the Brookings 
Institute, we have the Center for Economic Policy, and we have the 
Concorde Coalition, three independent folks who have said we are not 
raising taxes; and I am going to tell you why we are not raising taxes 
right now.

We are going to fix the alternative minimum tax. It has been creeping 
into the middle class, and we are going to provide 23 million Americans 
with a tax cut because we are not going to allow the AMT to go in and 
creep into their tax levels.

Not only does the budget not raise taxes; we include tax relief where 
the child tax credit stays on, marriage penalty relief stays on, 10 
percent bracket tax deduction stays on, and a deduction for State and 
local taxes all in this bill.

I want to say one further thing on the tax issue, that the same 
people claiming that the Democrats are raising taxes are the same 
people that said that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. 
They were the same people that said that it would only cost us $50 
billion in Iraq, and we are already to the $500 billion mark. They were 
the same people that said we would be greeted as liberators. They were 
the same people that said they would be handing roses out to the 
Americans. Same people, same President that said mission accomplished, 
you know, same person that said we are in the last throes, the Vice 
President's comments on the war.

So they are the same people saying that we are raising taxes, and all 
I want to say to the Members is this, the American people can reserve 
judgment on whether or not this budget does it. We know it does it, but 
they can reserve judgment. Keep your 2006 tax returns, keep your 2007 
tax returns, make a copy of them, and next January and February, March, 
April, when you get your taxes back, you compare your 2008 tax returns 
to your 2006 and your 2007, and you will see that there is absolutely 
no difference.

Then you can add those comments that we have been getting here over 
the past couple of days, you can add that to the column of weapons of 
mass destruction, and last throes and mission accomplished. Just take 
that comment on its axis and put it in the column with the list of all 
the other issues that have been in some ways misrepresented here on the 
House floor and across the country.

So I am proud of this budget. I am proud that the Democratic budget 
invests $50 billion to cover children. I am glad we are investing in 
veterans health care, and those are things that need to be done. Those 
are not things that individual families can do. Those are the things we 
can only do collectively as a society, as a community.

I am so proud that you have had the opportunity to come down here and 
lead this debate, as we are beginning to wrap up. I think it is 
important to say that the Democrats have heard the call from the 
American people in the November election. The country wanted to go in 
another direction, and that is really what we have done.