---
---

# IN HONOR OF U.S. ARMY SPECIALIST ROGER LEE
## `450ef9dedb6bc501ea30e4a1b42c4085`
`Mr. FARR — 21 July 2010`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness that I rise today 
to mourn the loss of a soldier constituent, U.S. Army Specialist Roger 
Lee, 26, of Monterey, California. He was a brave soldier who fought 
valiantly for our freedom. More importantly, he was a proud father, a 
loyal husband, a caring brother, and a devoted son.

Roger Lee was born and raised in Monterey, California. He came from a 
loving family that followed the American Dream by starting a family-
owned business on California's Central Coast. Roger graduated from 
Monterey High School and later went to the Arizona Automotive Institute 
in Glendale, Arizona where he met his wife, Elvina Lee.

In 2005, Roger and Elvina Lee celebrated the birth of their daughter 
Jazmyne Lee. Shortly after, in 2007, Roger made the decision to enlist 
in the United States Army, both to fulfill his lifelong goal of serving 
our country and to build a better life for his wife and daughter. 
Specialist Lee served in United States Army 1st Battalion, 4th Infantry 
Regiment based in Hohenfies, Germany.

On July 6, 2010, insurgents attacked Specialist Lee's vehicle near 
Qalat, Afghanistan, with an improvised explosive device. He ultimately 
perished from the wounds inflicted by that attack. For his actions and 
service to our county, Roger was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star 
Medal.

Madam Speaker, I know that I speak for the whole House in offering 
our deepest sympathies to Specialist Lee's family and friends. Our 
nation extends its deepest gratitude for Specialist Lee's service to 
the United States of America.
