---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `451e18ced4cf5943927f1d2e346c7544`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 17 February 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Madam President, the first reason to vote no on this 
motion to proceed is that we have no ability to amend or an alternative 
that would be allowed by the majority to reflect a different point of 
view. When I hear people on the other side say don't let the minority 
thwart the efforts of the majority, what the majority is saying is we 
only want one resolution, our resolution. Whatever happened to 
amendments? Whatever happened to the ability to have alternative 
resolutions?

This is the tenth time in this very short period that this Congress 
has been in session that cloture has been used to stifle minority 
rights. It is unprecedented in this body. I hope we will go to a time 
when the Senate will be able to work together in a bipartisan way, 
agree and disagree civilly, have the ability to exercise minority 
rights, and then have a majority vote. We don't have to have only one 
procedure that allows for one view but does not allow for alternatives 
and amendments. That is not the way the Senate is supposed to operate.

The second reason to vote no on this motion is the resolution itself. 
The resolution says we support the troops who are there now and the 
troops who were there in the past but not those who will come in the 
future. Presumably the majority is saying that we will not support 
future troops because they don't support the President's plan. But 
troops who are rotating in to replace troops leaving would also not be 
supported. Since when do we select which members of the armed services 
we will support and which ones we will not in the middle of a mission? 
It is untenable on its face. We should never allow this flawed 
resolution to go forward without any alternative and without any 
amendments.

The third reason we should use every procedural avenue to derail this 
resolution is, we are undercutting the Commander in Chief and the 
troops who are on the mission right now. This is a rare departure for 
the Senate to undercut a mission of our military while troops are in 
harm's way performing the mission with a nonbinding resolution. The 
purpose of doing this can only be to undercut the Commander in Chief to 
the rest of the world because it will not stop the mission itself.

As was said earlier today, there is not a Member of the Senate who 
doesn't believe this is a risky proposition. It is. We are all worried 
about it. I have talked to General Petraeus about it, as have many of 
my colleagues. How, General Petraeus, do you see this working? He is 
the commander and he is the one who is putting this proposal together 
to fight a type of war we have never had to fight before, with an enemy 
that is willing to kill themselves in order to kill Americans and 
innocent Iraqis.

We have had to adjust; there is no doubt about it. I don't think 
anybody is saying that we believe we are in a good situation in Iraq. 
But the idea that we would pass a nonbinding resolution which undercuts 
our troops who are valiantly performing the mission is something I 
cannot remember that we have ever done.

I will quote from the Senate Armed Services hearing when Senator 
Lieberman asked General Petraeus if such a resolution, a nonbinding 
resolution condemning the strategy, would give the enemy encouragement, 
some clear expression that the American people were divided. General 
Petraeus answered: ''That is correct, sir.''

Yes, the American people are divided. It is a very different matter 
for the Senate to pass a resolution with no alternative that says we 
support the troops who are there now and the ones who served in the 
past but not those who will be coming after the resolution is passed. 
It is unthinkable.

I hope we will come to our senses. I hope we will be able to talk 
freely, to debate but not to pass a resolution that says to the world, 
to our enemies, as well as our allies, we do not have faith in those 
who would go to perform a mission going forward, faith in the military 
who created this plan.

I hope the Senate doesn't pass this. I hope we will have an agreement 
that will allow alternatives, as we have always done since I have been 
in the Senate, and many years before me. I hope our leaders will be 
able to sit down and craft a resolution that opens the process so that 
everyone will have a voice, not just a few in the majority. Maybe it is 
51. Maybe it is 52. Maybe it is 53. But we should have 41 Senators 
standing up for an alternative resolution that would allow other people 
to have the ability to vote for the support of our troops, whether they 
are there now, whether they were there in the past, or whether they 
will be there in the future. That is the difference between this 
resolution the majority is trying to get passed without any alternative 
or any amendment, and what we would put forward, which is to say: We 
will support all the troops today or tomorrow, and we will win this 
war, for there is no substitute for victory, if our children are going 
to live in freedom.

I yield the floor.

(Disturbance in the Visitors' Galleries)