# CONDEMNING ASSASSINATION OF FORMER PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER BENAZIR
## `452788c94ea112ff225c0b3f03526ed7`
`Mr. PENCE — 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I want to rise again to express my strong support of this resolution 
and urge as near a unanimous adoption of this resolution as this 
Congress can muster.

I want to commend the gentleman from New York (Mr. Ackerman) for his 
swift and sympathetic and thoughtful legislative workmanship on this 
measure. As I said before, I think, given the tragic events of 27 
December 2007, it is important that this Congress be heard on a 
resolution condemning this assassination, and it is important that it 
be the first substantive measure that this Congress takes up. And I 
commend Mr. Ackerman, the chairman of the committee Mr. Lantos, and 
Speaker Pelosi for facilitating that, as I do my colleagues on the 
committee in the minority.

This resolution condemns in the strongest possible terms the 
assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. It 
supports efforts by Pakistan to bring to justice those who have 
perpetrated this cruel and cowardly act. It welcomes the provision of 
assistance by the government of the United Kingdom, and it commends the 
government of Pakistan for accepting such assistance.

In addition, it urges the people and the government of Pakistan to be 
relentless in their pursuit of a democratically elected government, 
including the holding of free and fair elections at the earliest 
possible opportunity. It urges support for a free media.

And perhaps in the seventh paragraph, as I close, Madam Speaker, it, 
this resolution, which I hope and trust will be unanimously adopted 
today, reaffirms the commitment of the United States to assist the 
people of Pakistan in combating terrorist activity and promoting a free 
and democratic Pakistan.

I quote again the words of the late and, no one would argue, great 
Benazir Bhutto who said just this fall in an American magazine, ''It's 
only now that America has awakened to what we were already fighting, 
Islamic jihadists.''

I believe the greatest legacy that Benazir Bhutto could leave is not 
only a legacy of a democratically elected government in her country, 
but it would be a legacy of a further awakening in the world to the 
threat that free societies and those that seek to be free face from 
radical Islamic jihadists. If her legacy can be not only progress for 
her people toward democracy, but progress in the free world to renewing 
our determination to confront those who oppose our way of life with 
violence, both in support of the Pakistani Government and in places 
like Afghanistan and Iraq, if I might add, then that would be a 
powerful and meritorious legacy indeed.

I urge support of all of my colleagues for this important resolution.

I yield back the balance of my time.