# RECOGNIZING CARLOS K. HAYDEN
## `452bab6e1a8f9dd9df9f83f28c9924a3`
`Mr. POE — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, Elmer Davis once said ''this nation will 
remain the land of the free, only so long as it is the home of the 
brave.'' Standing as a testament to Mr. Davis' statement are courageous 
Veterans like Atascocita resident Carlos K. Hayden. Born into a family 
with generations of soldiers, he always harbored aspirations to serve 
his country. Throughout his 35 year military career, Carlos K. Hayden 
bravely fought to uphold the liberties that we are able to today as a 
Nation hold dear.

Hayden was commissioned as a second lieutenant on June 17, 1941. Just 
a week later, he was on active duty with the 1st Armored Division, 68th 
Field Artillery Battalion. While fighting in Tunisia under the command 
of General George S. Patton he served as a forward observer. He even 
had the fortune of meeting Gen. Patton while overlooking a battlefield. 
During WWII he served 5 years of active duty, 3 in North Africa, and 2 
in Italy.

When Carlos K. Hayden retired from the military in 1976 he had 
attained the rank of Brigadier General. The evidence of his brave 35 
year career is illustrated through his many commendations. They include 
the Purple Heart, the Silver Star with Oak Leaf Cluster, a Bronze Star 
with Valor, a Presidential Unit Citation and Six Battle Stars. The 
Battle Stars were awarded for his service in Tunisia, Naples, Foggia, 
Rome-Arno, Anzio, North Apennines and the Po Valley. He also received 
the Texas DAR Metal of Honor, and the Ohio State University 
Distinguished Service Award. As a result of Hayden's impressive 
vocation; he was inducted into the Army ROTC hall of fame.

Now at the age of 90, Carlos continues to serve the community and 
commemorate his time as a military serviceman. He returned to the 
battlefields in Tunisia on the 50th anniversary of its liberation. With 
other members of the 1st Armored Division, they retraced their 1940's 
route. In 2008, Hayden is serving his third term as the president of 
the 1st Armored Division's national association. For the Military Order 
of the Purple Heart, he is also the senior Vice Commander of chapter 
782.

Abiding with the generational service to their country, Carlos K. 
Hayden's Grandson Army Captain Jeff Sharpe recently returned from a 
second tour in Iraq. Evidence that America is still ''the home of the 
brave.''

And that's just the way it is.
