---
---

# None
## `453d89d53d57b538887b38e2fb28e893`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, losing kids? We are losing 47-year-old 
Reservists. We are losing granddads in some instances that are still 
serving our country, Mr. Speaker, in the Guard, in the Reserve, active 
duty.

When you look at this, again, the Iraq government must meet the Bush 
benchmarks for reform.

Mr. Speaker, once again, this is not what the Democratic Congress put 
benchmarks on the Iraqi government for. The President of the United 
States of America, the Commander in Chief, marched down this aisle, 
walked that way and went up there to that rostrum right under where you 
are standing, Mr. Speaker, and said if they don't meet the standards 
and do X, Y and Z, then we are not going to be there forever. What is 
wrong with following the leadership, especially when you talk about 
accountability?

What is different this time, Mr. Speaker, is when the President has 
made those statements in the past, he had a rubber stamp Congress 
willing to do anything that he wanted them to do. But now you have a 
Congress that put forth legislation that will allow Members of the 
minority party, the Republican Party, Mr. Ryan, to vote with Democrats, 
for accountability, there is that word again; oversight, there is 
another word we use all the time; and to head in a new direction as it 
relates to Iraq. We have said that 100 times.

I think that is important, making sure that strategic redeployment of 
U.S. troops in combat by 2008, and reforming military efforts on 
Afghanistan and the fight on terrorism. What is wrong with all of that?

If I can, Mr. Ryan, I want to just talk about how the American people 
are way ahead of the Bush administration on this issue and the reason 
why we had this big transition in leadership here in the Congress back 
in September.

Nearly six out of 10 Americans want U.S. troops to withdraw from Iraq 
by 2008 or sooner. That is a CNN poll of 3-13-07.

Fifty-two percent think the United States should set a timetable for 
withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. That is a CBS-New York Times poll 
on 3-12-07.

Sixty-seven percent of those polled by NBC-Wall Street Journal 
disapprove of the way the President is handling the situation in Iraq. 
That is an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll, 3-9-07.

I can go on and on and on, Mr. Ryan, of how the American people are 
with us as it relates to making sure that we do the right thing.

When we are in Congress and we are here, we are not generals, we are 
not in a forward area, Mr. Speaker. We have Members that have never 
worn a uniform, not even in school when they were coming up. We are not 
in the Armed Forces. Some of us are. Some of us are Reservists. Some of 
us are Guardsmen, Guardspeople, women, what have you.

But we have been elected to be Members of Congress to carry out the 
things that we talked about, oversight, accountability, being fiscally 
responsible, moving the country in a new direction, coming and voting 
on behalf of our constituents and the American people.

So, brave speeches on the floor about how Members support the troops. 
No, I support the troops more than you. No, I have a tattoo on my arm 
saying I support the troops. No, I have raised money back home.

That is fine. That is all good and dandy. Come to the floor and say 
what you want to say.

But when it comes down to it, where are the benchmarks as it relates 
to over $500 billion that has been spent on the war and $100 billion-
plus that is going to be authorized sometime in the very near future? 
Where are the accountability measures? They are there to make sure you 
meet the benchmarks.

I know you can go further into that. But the 97 hearings to date, it 
is unprecedented in the past Congress and the Congress before that, Mr. 
Ryan. We have been here for the last two Congresses, and I can 
guarantee you that 97 hearings at this point in the Congress did not 
happen.
