---
---

# None
## `454c57366c7ab56a6984215db95805e7`
`Mr. HOYER — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding.

Let me first of all say at the outset that I agree with Mr. Murtha. 
We're not fighting this war. There's nobody in the Congress of the 
United States that's paying more taxes to pay for this war. There's 
nobody who's saving on metal to fight this war. There's nobody who's 
saving on rubber to fight this war. There's nobody whose gasoline is 
being rationed to fight this war. Our troops are fighting this war, 
their families are fighting this war, but this Nation is not at war.

There is nobody in this Congress, not one of the 435 Members of this 
Congress, who wants to lose this war. There is nobody in this House who 
does not want to defeat al Qaeda. Nobody. Everybody wants to protect 
this country. Nobody wants to lose another American. Everybody 
understands that the fight against terrorism will require risks. But, 
Mr. Speaker, this House deserves more than this game playing of 
offering motions that we are then going to vote against. In effect, 
this is a motion to reconsider the vote by which the previous bill was 
adopted. It couldn't be made now, but that is effectively what it is. 
And those who voted against that bill will vote against this motion. 
The public needs to understand that a serious motion could have been 
made here to change the policy, but that is not what was done. This is 
an attempt to try to politically get people in a vote that is going to 
be characterized as surrender.

Let me call my colleagues' attention to June 24, 1997. Our troops 
were deployed in Bosnia stopping genocide, seeing a dictator arrested 
and sent to The Hague and tried for genocide. He died before the trial 
was over. But let me call your attention to that vote, because that 
vote was about setting timelines. It was offered by Mr. Buyer, who is 
now the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee. Mr. Buyer 
offered that motion and we debated it. I was opposed to it. We hadn't 
lost a single troop in Bosnia, not one. We had spent a pittance 
compared to what we have spent here. We have lost


10 percent of the troops we have lost in the last 120 days.

Bob Gates said this policy was failing. He's our Secretary of 
Defense. Or let me put it this way: he didn't say that; he said we were 
not winning. That's a different way of saying it more accurately. I'm 
sorry.

But on June 24, 1997, that came to a vote about setting timelines on 
an effort that was extraordinarily successful, brought peace to the 
Balkans, or at least a lack of genocide, a lack of ethnic cleansing. 
But Mr. Buyer said we need to come home. We weren't losing troops, it 
wasn't costing us that much money, and we certainly were not losing.

On that timeline, Mr. Boehner voted ''yes,'' after 18 months in 
Bosnia. Not 4 years, 4 years and 1 month. After 18 months, you wanted 
to set a timeline. Mr. Boehner, your leader, voted ''yes.''



Mr. Blunt, your whip, voted ''yes.'' Mr. Hastert, your former 
Speaker, voted ''yes.'' Mr. Hunter, the ranking member of the Armed 
Services Committee, setting timelines, voted ''yes.'' Mr. Hyde, who was 
then chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, voted ''yes.'' Mr. 
Hoekstra, who spoke earlier tonight, voted ''yes'' on setting 
timelines.

And yes, let me remind Mr. Lewis, you voted ''yes.'' You voted 
''yes'' on a timeline where we had lost no troops, where we had stopped 
genocide in its tracks, where we were not threatened with loss of life. 
All we were threatened with was coming home and not keeping the peace, 
keeping the stability, trying to make sure that we were successful.

I urge every one of my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on this Republican 
motion. They don't mean it, but to reiterate to the American public 
that we were serious, that we want to make sure, as Bob Gates has said 
and been quoted by Mr. Obey and others, this was a useful effort for us 
to make.

Why? Because what we want to do is make sure the Iraqis at least are 
fighting this war, making sure that the Iraqis meet the criteria and 
benchmarks set by whom? By President Bush, not by us. President George 
Bush, the Commander in Chief, said they need to meet these benchmarks. 
But if the message we send them is, we're there forever, why meet the 
benchmarks? Why put their people at risk? If we're all prepared to 
simply have our men and women at risk in lieu of Iraqi soldiers and 
police at risk? Why indeed?

We need to expect accountability and participation by those whose 
country it is. We deposed their dictator and declared some few months 
later that our mission was accomplished. Unfortunately, because of the 
flawed policies that were pursued, we have not yet succeeded.

I voted to give the President authority and I disagreed with the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania when he said in November of 2005, let's get 
out, not immediately, but consistent with the safety of our troops. But 
I agree with the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Obey and the 
overwhelming majority of the American public, some 70 percent, who say 
it is time to let the Iraqis know that it is their fight, that we have 
supported them, we will train them, we will protect our troops on the 
ground, we will protect our diplomatic missions, and we will give them 
assistance in arms, but this is their fight now. We are there to help 
them, but it is their fight.

That's what this says, and it says 15 months from now, not tomorrow. 
To characterize this as any kind of a surrender is not honest debate, I 
suggest to you. Because if it is, then your June 24, 1997, which almost 
all of you voted for, was a cry for surrender. I didn't believe it 
then, don't believe it now. You had a difference of view as to what 
would best resolve the situation in Bosnia. Now the issue is Iraq.

My colleagues on my side of the aisle, we took a position with which 
the overwhelming majority of the American public agree. They are ahead 
of us on this. Let us once again sustain that position. Nobody on this 
side of the aisle was not being serious. Nobody on this side of the 
aisle did not give this very serious, thoughtful, prayerful 
consideration. And when you voted, you voted for America. When you 
voted, you voted for our troops. When you voted, you voted for success 
in our foreign policy and in our fight against terrorism.

Our friends on the other side of the aisle have offered a motion 
which they are not for. They could have offered, I suggest, some 
serious alternatives. They did not.

I urge my colleagues, vote ''yes,'' reaffirm the policy statement 
that we need a new direction in Iraq. Staying the course has not 
worked. Let's make a change. Vote ''yes.''