---
---

# THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `454ef2dff04921838fbe288bea18fd6f`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the Speaker so very much 
for the opportunity for presenting once again before the House of 
Representatives. I want to thank my leadership for allowing me to head 
up and chair this hour that is a Special Order hour. It is an 
opportunity for us in the minority party to come and try to shed some 
light on some issues that frankly don't get a whole lot of attention 
here on the floor of the House of


Representatives, and so I appreciate that opportunity once again.

Madam Speaker, most of us go home every weekend and visit our 
district, talk to constituents. It is a wonderful time to be able to go 
back and get grounded, go back to that touchstone and those people that 
supported us as we came to Washington, to try to assist in moving our 
country in the right direction.

And I have been struck over the last couple of months as I go home 
every weekend and talk to my friends and neighbors and fellow church-
goers in my Sixth District of Georgia on the north side of Atlanta, I 
have been struck by their concern about what appears to be from their 
standpoint a continuing decrease in the level of civility here in 
Washington.

I am in my second term, initially elected in 2004, and one of the 
things that I thought I would hopefully be able to have some effect on 
would be to affect positively the level of rhetoric and the level of 
discourse here in Washington, and the level of frustration that my 
constituents tell me they have regarding what's going on here in 
Washington continues to increase.

So one of the things that I and some other Members of our conference 
have tried to do is to come to the floor, try to do it at least once a 
week, sometimes we're not able to do that, but talk about issues in a 
light that is hopefully more positive, hopefully respects the history 
of our Nation in a way that allows us to kind of glean the role that we 
ought to play as the House of Representatives and as Congress and to 
hopefully chart out or to define a path that will continue to allow our 
children and our grandchildren to live in the finest Nation on the face 
of the Earth.

In so doing, what we have tried to do is to talk about truth, to talk 
about facts. So often in the world of politics, in fact we have heard 
it just within the last few moments, Madam Speaker, the issue of 
politics over policy. So often when folks come to the floor of the 
House they talk more about politics than they do about policy, and I 
understand that. People have to get elected and I appreciate that, but 
when you're talking about things that are so incredibly important to 
the future of this Nation, it would behoove us as a House of 
Representatives to endeavor as much as we can to work together and to 
try to come up with the best solution for our Nation.

All of us come from different backgrounds. I happen to come from a 
profession of medicine. I practiced medicine for over 20 years, and 
medicine is a little different endeavor than politics and legislating. 
In taking care of patients what we try to do is try to work together, 
all for a common goal, which is to get the patient well obviously. So 
it is a collegial activity. It tends to be an activity where we share 
information and support one another.

Would that were the case on the floor of this House of 
Representatives, Madam Speaker, because I share my constituents' 
frustration with much of the partisanship that goes on here and much of 
the sniping and the politics over policy that makes it so very 
difficult, very difficult to move our Nation forward.

So we have developed a group that we call The Official Truth Squad, 
and its desire, as I mentioned, is to try to shed some light on issues 
here before our Nation. We have a number of individuals that we like to 
point to as heroes over the history of our Nation. Many of our former 
Presidents were certainly individuals who sought the truth and sought 
to guide this Nation in a positive and an uplifting direction.

One of the individuals that I like to quote is Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan. Mr. Moynihan was a Senator from the State of New York, and he 
had marvelous quips and marvelous phrases that he would use. One of 
them was this one right here. It says, ''Everyone is entitled to their 
own opinion but they are not entitled to their own facts.'' Everyone's 
entitled to their own opinion but they are not entitled to their own 
facts.

So I was struck by that, Madam Speaker, just last week as I was 
working here late in the Capitol one evening, happened to run into a 
couple who was in the hallway, obviously tourists, and they were 
stopping at some of the statues here in the Capitol. They were 
interested in finding where the gallery to the House of Representatives 
was, and so I pointed them in the right direction and happened to see 
them up in the gallery.

I had some friends from home who were visiting as well, and I got a 
chance to talk to them in the hallway. This young man was a physician. 
Come to find out he was a doctor who was serving in our military, and 
in 2 days or 3 days from last week when I met him, he was on his way to 
Iraq. He was on his way to try to help our men and women who are 
standing in harm's way and trying to protect our liberty and our 
freedom to make certain that they were given the finest care they 
possibly could be given in a difficult situation. He shared with me his 
frustration about the lack of not just civility but about the lack of 
attention to urgent problems.

One of the things that we briefly talked about was the responsibility 
that this Congress has to make certain that our men and women who are 
defending liberty, defending us, making certain that our children and 
our grandchildren can live in this great Nation for generations to 
come, and the frustration that he had with the inability of this 
Congress to make certain that the resources, the money that's needed to 
be able to allow our military men and women to protect themselves and 
to protect us has not been forthcoming, and I shared my frustration 
with him about that same event.

Madam Speaker, tomorrow I believe will be 100 days, 100 days since 
the President of the United States has sent to Congress his request for 
money, resources, for our fighting men and women in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, and if there was anything that demonstrated politics over policy, 
it has been this last 100 days. Very frustrating, Madam Speaker, 
frustrating for me, and I know that it is concerning and frustrating 
for our constituents all across this Nation, because what has happened 
has been a length of time that was played out to just apparently get 
headlines, it appeared to be.

And then there was a supplemental bill that was brought to the floor 
of the House, and it had in addition to the money that had been 
requested to allow our troops to defend themselves, it had in addition 
to that a peculiar set of directions, benchmarks, timelines, for our 
men and women and our generals on the ground, so much so that they 
said, look, there isn't any way that we can accomplish what we need to 
accomplish if you, Congress, adopt this bill, adopts this piece of 
legislation.

Many individuals on both sides of the aisle said, well, you're 
absolutely right, that sounds ridiculous. And so then what happened was 
that in order for the majority party apparently to pass this piece of 
legislation, they kept adding money on to it. So money in Washington 
does not start with an M. It starts with a B. So they kept adding 
billions and billions and billions, over $20 billion, to the bill in 
order to allow for folks on either side of the aisle who had concerns, 
enough of them to be able to say, okay, well, I can justify my vote for 
that bill if I am going to get those kinds of resources.

And so that bill passed the House with a very slim margin and passed 
the Senate, was sent to the President, the President promptly vetoed 
it. It came back to the House of Representatives and was delayed for 
another 4 or 5 days by this majority, Madam Speaker. The only reason 
that anybody can determine was for, again, politics over policy.

And just last week, another bill was then adopted which had a 
peculiar arrangement that would allow for some money to go for a while, 
and then if the Congress still agreed, within a month or two then there 
would be more money forthcoming. It was what many of us have called war 
on the installment plan, which is actually a worse plan than the 
majority party came up with initially.



Now, those are the facts. So that bill is passed, and we are waiting 
to see what happens from the Senate.

But I get back to the point of that young man who shared his 
frustration and his concern with me about why Congress can't act on 
things that are so pressing for the security of our Nation and for 
those men and women who are serving in harm's way. It just, it is very, 
very concerning to men and


women across this Nation, that we, as a legislative body, the United 
States House of Representatives, can't put politics aside and work for 
the good of the Nation and work for the benefit and the security of our 
men and women who are defending our liberty and defending our freedom.

So I just offer that as what I am hearing from home. I suspect it's 
what many of my colleagues are hearing from home as well. I am hopeful 
that we will be able to move forward with a clean bill, a bill that 
provides money for our men and women who are defending liberty and 
defending themselves in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We have got a number of folks who will be joining us today, I hope. 
We will talk about a number of issues, the war supplemental, the budget 
and some other items, I hope.

But I am pleased to be joined by my good friend and colleague from 
Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland) and look forward to your comments. I yield 
to you.