# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `4566d6edbf9fab8b578567936b57fced`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, The following provides 
information about earmarks which I have secured through the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 as reported out of the 
House Armed Services Committee and which will be considered by the 
House of Representatives on May 21-22, 2008.

Requesting Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Other Procurement, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Kentucky Army National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: Boone National Guard Center, 100 
Minuteman Parkway, Frankfort, KY 40601.

Description of Request: Authorize $1,500,000 for the Virtual Convoy 
Operations Trainer (VCOT). During FY 09 the Army National Guard will 
begin fielding the VCOT, which is an upgraded version of the previous 
HMMWV and Tactical Truck Convoy Trainer. VCOT fielding is the Army 
National Guard's number one priority for convoy training procurement. 
The VCOT has been enhanced to allow convoy soldiers to leave their 
vehicles and conduct independent dismounted operations that will 
greatly assist training in the identification and disposition of IEDs 
on the battlefield. Also, the VCOT allows training on several types of 
vehicles and with various types of weapons. Without this program, our 
soldiers will continue to have fewer trainers than needed to train 
counter-IED drills, immediate action drills and convoy operations.

This authorization will allow the KYANG to purchase a VCOT.

During current operations in Iraq, more soldiers have been killed or 
wounded during convoy operations than at any other time. The VCOT 
provides the best convoy training available, and it includes training 
in dismounted operations and combat actions on virtual terrain that 
includes Baghdad, Tikrit, Samarra, Kabul, and Kosovo.

Requesting Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Other Procurement, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7375 Industrial Road, Florence, KY 
41042-2911.

Description of Request: Authorize $2,200,000 for procurement of 
Multi-Temperature Refrigerated Container Systems (MTRCS). MTRCS is the 
follow-on generation of refrigeration systems. It provides the 
capability to transport and store both refrigerated and frozen products 
in a single container. It consists of an insulated 8' x 8' x 20' 
International Organization for Standardization shipping container with 
an engine-driven refrigeration unit that will allow operation on the 
move. The two compartments are separated by a moveable partition 
varying proportions of refrigerated versus frozen products resulting in 
maximum loading of the container.

MTRCS is used principally by subsistence units. It will also be used 
by medical units for transport and storage of refrigerated medical 
supplies, including blood products.

The benefit to DOD is more efficient space utilization and reduced 
transportation requirements. Fewer vehicles will be required to 
transport food on the battlefield, reducing the number of soldiers 
exposed to danger from IED's, etc.

The Army Acquisition Objective for MTRCS is 4432 systems, but only 
1050 are funded in


the FY08-13 Future Years Defense Plan. This earmark would authorize 
procurement of an additional twenty systems.

Requesting Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ashland Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 50 E. River Center Blvd, Covington, KY 
41012-0391.

Description of Request: Authorize $300,000 to develop advanced, 
environmentally-friendly, nano-based rust-corrosion-UV protective spray 
coatings based upon the Lotus Effect. Such coatings could prevent 
moisture and associated oxygen from getting to a surface and causing 
rust or corrosion. These surface-protective coatings would be comprised 
of materials that are environmentally-benign and durable.

The U.S. military owns vast amounts of equipment and vehicles that 
see considerable amounts of storage time. This equipment must be either 
stored indoors or chemically-treated for protection in outdoor storage. 
Even treatment of equipment for indoor storage adds a significant level 
of added protection for long-term storage that is non-climate-
controlled. Typically, the chemicals used to protect equipment in 
outdoor storage are not highly-durable thus requiring maintenance and 
are also typically environmentally noxious or even highly toxic.

Approximately, $200,000 is for development of the Nano-particle 
Protectant Systems and $100,000 is for development of the Dispersion 
and Delivery systems. A nano-particle protectant ''system'' is a 
combination of chemicals that work together to provide the desired 
protective coating. A dispersion and delivery system is the liquid 
dispersing system (mixture of liquids) needed to disperse that 
combination of chemicals. A key element is the equipment to spray the 
coating on the equipment surface.

Requestinig Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ashland Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 50 E. River Center Blvd, Covington, KY 
41012-0391.

Description of Request: Authorize $2,200,000 to continue development 
of advanced coolant and lubricant systems utilizing nano-particle 
systems to enhance the capabilities of military ground vehicles and 
simplify supply logistics. FY09 will be the third year of this project. 
The focus will be on transition to commercial production and final 
testing of stable nanofluids with improved cooling and lubrication 
properties while meeting all environmental requirements and making 
these processes commercially scalable.

Approximately, $400,000 will be used to transition production from 
development to commercial scale; $1,000,000 will be used for engine and 
vehicle dynamometer testing; and $800,000 is for field demonstrations. 
A dynamometer is a device that absorbs the power of an engine in the 
absence of a vehicle to move. The test engine to be used is the new 
production engine for the HMMVW that has been the engine of choice for 
that vehicle for the past several years. A test cell is a physical 
container or room that is properly outfitted for housing an engine-
dynamometer combination for controlled and safe operations. Field 
testing of the nanofluids will occur through use of the HMMWV vehicle 
with the Optimizer 6500 Turbo-Diesel engine under extreme arctic and 
desert conditions.

Military vehicles are designed to meet exceedingly strict and arduous 
cooling, lubrication and overall performance requirements. One of the 
goals of the Tank Automotive Command is to increase the performance and 
durability of engines, power trains and their component parts to 
support Army transformation in the areas of system mobility, 
durability, reliability and survivability and may ultimately serve to 
reduce the logistics cost burden for the Objective Force.

Requesting Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: STARCON.

Address of Requesting Entity: 11631 U.S. Route 23; Catlettsburg, KY 
41129.

Description of Request: Authorize $1,000,000 to develop the Cyber 
Forensics and Tracking Capability (CFTC) tool to support the Department 
of Defense cyber security operations for protecting digital forensic 
data for computer and network systems to counter emerging adversary 
threats. The primary objective of CFTC is preventing emerging cyber 
adversary techniques, called counter-forensics, whereby the criminal 
disguises and removes any trace of his illicit and potentially 
destructive network and computer activities. The CFTC will be 
demonstrated and tested through field exercises, technology 
demonstrations and other initiatives. CFTC is envisioned as an 
important part of the arsenal of cyber security solutions to thwart, 
track and prosecute adversaries.

CFTC operates in a network-centric environment using existing 
conventional computing platforms. CFTC is another cyber asset to 
protect critical systems and networks against increasingly 
sophisticated adversaries.

Requesting Member: Congressman Geoff Davis.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Operations & Maintenance, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: TiER1 Performance Solutions, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6 East 5th Street, Suite 400, 
Covington, KY 41011.

Description of Request: Authorize $3,000,000 for the Engineering 
Training and Knowledge Preservation System (ETKPS). The Air Force is 
facing significant turnover in its senior technical personnel. The Air 
Force Materiel Command (AFMC) could lose as many as sixty percent of 
its top engineers over the next three to five years.

Preserving the knowledge base is essential to AFMC and will be a 
massive undertaking requiring processes and tools to capture 
operational, technical, and critical thinking knowledge. Integrating 
the ability to capture, store, align, and transfer knowledge to the 
next generation workforce through a single, secure Web-based knowledge 
and training portal is necessary. Functionality of this solution must 
include the ability to track an individual's skills across competencies 
throughout his/her career; evaluate all existing training and compare 
the cost-benefits of competing training approaches; allow experienced 
personnel to easily create new training and knowledge content in 
accordance with pre-defined standards; plug into existing defined 
competencies and skill requirements and capture knowledge from subject-
matter-experts to address these; link novices to experts in real-time 
through a virtual Web Center; categorize, organize and search all 
knowledge and information across the enterprise; deliver assessments to 
determine skill proficiencies; deliver information in a variety of 
ways--through distance learning, on-line reference systems, technical 
manuals, job aids, mobile devices and other tools. FY 09 will be year 
four of this ongoing project.

Approximately, $50,000 will be used for requirements analysis; 
$125,000 will be used for functional design; $225,000 will be used for 
enhanced feature development; and $250,000 is for USAF system 
integration; $450,000 is for user acceptance testing; and $1,900,000 is 
for USAF selected site development. Requirements analysis is an ongoing 
rigorous process to ensure the product meets the very specific needs of 
the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). Functional design results in a 
document used to inform and gain agreement that what is being developed 
will satisfy the AFMC user requirements. Enhanced feature development 
results in a prototype developed per the functional design which is 
presented to AFMC for testing and feedback. USAF system integration 
establishes proper interfaces between the ETKPS system and existing Air 
Force IT systems. User acceptance testing is used to evaluate the 
quality and usability of the product. USAF selected site development 
will result in the deployment of ETKPS to six Air Force bases insuring 
consistency across all bases.

These system capabilities will enable AFMC to organize and align 
information to support on-going training and development of its total 
workforce. Funding for this effort is critical to AFMC for maximizing 
the effectiveness and efficiency of retaining existing knowledge 
capital and for building effective training programs that support the 
development of new personnel.
