# DEMOCRATS WORKING TO SOLVE AMERICA'S PROBLEMS
## `456d14b90b85bd05001fa7c0b4fc33be`
`Mr. KAGEN — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you for yielding, and thank you for carrying on for 
the first few minutes before I was able to attend. Our Committee on 
Transportation just ended its subcommittee meeting at 9:20 this evening 
where we were hearing some testimony about the possible merger between 
Delta and Northwest. And it was a very educational seminar, to say the 
least.

But it's still an example of how we are working hard to gain 
oversight over these mega mergers, and taking a look at big business 
and big insurance and big corporations and the big war machine that's 
now costing Americans millions and millions of dollars every day.

And if you like numbers, my friend, it's $14 million an hour that 
we're spending in Iraq instead of here at home. It's $338 million per 
day, $2.4 billion per week, and $10 to $12 billion per month that we 
have our hard-earned tax money going over to the sands of Iraq and not 
investing here at home in our own infrastructure, in our roads and our 
bridges, in our schools and in our social system.

Now, if you like numbers, and I like numbers, I've got a head for 
numbers. I'll give you the number 300, 200 and 13. 300 percent is the 
increase in the gasoline price since the current administration took 
office in 2001; three times as much as what you're paying at the pump 
as when they started.

Now, my friend, Mr. Ellison, the right honorable sir, mentioned Iraq 
and some Iraq tragedies. On Mother's Day I had the occasion, in 
Wisconsin, to dial up and wish a happy Mother's Day to a fallen 
soldier's mother, and I spoke


with Donna Opicka. She had lost her son, Dean. And in her words, quote, 
''It's not working.''

She's been against our involvement in Iraq from the start. She has 
two sons that are there. And we will always support our troops, but not 
a failed policy. And in her words, ''It's just not working.''

They told us oil prices would go down. They've gone up 300 percent.

The Number 200, it's 200 percent, the increase in fuel oil that many 
people in Northeast Wisconsin rely on to heat their homes. And it was a 
long winter this year.

And what about the number 13? 13 percent increase in your cost for 
groceries. Your food went up 13 percent.

My friends, if the cost of our food went up 200 and 300 percent, we'd 
see a revolution in this country. And so earlier today we passed a farm 
bill that will fundamentally and dramatically change the way we're 
feeding ourselves. This farm bill determines what farmers will plant, 
what they're going to grow and, ultimately, what we're going to eat and 
what we're going to look like.

That farm bill had the overwhelming support of over 300 Members of 
Congress, and it's a very good example of how Congress really ought to 
work, in a bipartisan way, Republicans and Democrats together putting 
their minds together and working out a way in which we can feed not 
just our own families but continue to feed the world.

Now, as this increase in energy for food and energy for oil has gone 
skyrocketing, the food prices have held their own until recently, when 
the energy cost has crept into our food supply.

At the same time as these costs are going up, your income is going 
down. The median income went down 2 percent since 2001. So at the very 
same time that middle class Americans are having a hard time keeping 
their head above water with the escalation in the cost for energy, both 
food and oil, their income is not going up.

And so I think people watching tonight have to ask a fundamental 
question. Whose side are we on? Are we on the side of big business? Are 
we on the side of big insurance, big oil companies? I think not. We're 
not sitting in a boardroom. We're standing on the people's floor here 
in the House. And I'm very honored to work with my Class of 2006, the 
class I brand America's hope for a real positive and a new direction; 
not just in our farm policy, not just in our foreign policy, but our 
domestic policy as well, as we pay attention to and continue to work 
hard for the American people to give them a fair shake in our future.

And I yield back.