# PAUL WELLSTONE AND PETE DOMENICI MENTAL HEALTH PARITY AND ADDICTION  EQUITY ACT
## `456ee95c59e48874ac25a83806f814f5`
`Mr. DURBIN — 23 September 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, something happened on the floor of the 
Senate moments ago which was a long time in the making. We passed a 
bill, the mental health parity bill, that has been debated in this 
Chamber for 10 years or more.

The reason I come to the floor today, after its passage, is to note 
one of the Members of the Senate who was an inspiration for this bill. 
His name was Paul Wellstone. Six years ago, he died in a plane crash, 
running for election in the State of Minnesota. He used to sit in the 
back row over here and at a corner desk. He had an especially long cord 
for his microphone, and he used to wander all up and down the aisle 
talking. It was a sight to behold--a short, little fellow, and because 
of his passion for college wrestling, his back was all beat up and he 
kind of hobbled around. But he had a heart of gold, and he was one of 
these people you loved to be serving with because he brought out the 
best in you.


The last time I ever saw him was here in the well of the Senate on 
the night of the vote authorizing the war in Iraq. He was one of 23 of 
us who voted against it.

I knew he was going home to Minnesota to face a tough election, and I 
said to him: I hope this doesn't cost you the election, Paul.

He said: It is all right if it does. This is what I believe. This is 
what Minnesota expects of me. And whatever happens, I am all right.

That was the last conversation I had with him. Within days, he died 
in a plane crash.

When we returned after a memorial service and a lot of heartfelt 
expressions of sympathy for him and his wife Sheila, who died, as well 
as members of their staff, there was always a question about, what is a 
fitting tribute to Paul Wellstone for a great, inspiring legislative 
career? Those of us who knew him knew the last thing in the world he 
would ever want is a statue or a bridge named after him or a post 
office--just not the kind of thing that would mean anything to Paul. 
But this bill, the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health 
Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, is the tribute Paul Wellstone 
would have wanted.

I thank Senator Pete Domenici, who was his partner in this effort for 
this mental health parity bill, for agreeing to allow Paul Wellstone's 
name to be the lead name on this legislation. It will be the Wellstone-
Domenici bill for all of us, and both of them deserve praise for all 
the work they did. But when Pete Domenici said: Put his name first, it 
meant a lot to many of us. This was the fitting tribute we were hoping 
for for Paul Wellstone.

What does it mean? It means for Paul Wellstone's family and the 
families of millions of Americans that mental health will now be 
treated differently in their health insurance plan. For the longest 
time, we have languished in ignorance over mental health. We have fed 
our prejudices instead of learning about this illness. We have treated 
it not as an illness but a curse, and we have basically said that we 
officially give up on finding cures for mental illness.

That is just plain wrong on every count. Mental illness is an 
illness. For the vast majority of Americans, it is a curable illness. 
What those suffering from mental illness need is professional 
assistance and the right medication, and many of them will lead 
absolutely normal, happy, productive lives. But the health insurance 
companies refused to cover mental illness--most of them--so many people 
with family members who were suffering from mental illness had no place 
to turn, and many times they could not afford the medications, and many 
times their lives were compromised as a result.

Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici said a long time ago that is just 
unfair and America is a better place. Thanks to their hard work and 
inspiration, thanks to the hard work of Teddy Kennedy, who should have 
been here today voting for it--his name belongs in this pantheon as 
well when it comes to mental health parity--Tom Harkin, and Max Baucus, 
who put this in this package to make sure it passed--I just want to say 
it is a great day for America, a great day for us to give so many 
millions of Americans who struggle with mental illness or have a member 
of their family struggling with mental illness a fighting chance. That 
is what this gives them: a fighting chance that their health insurance 
policies will cover this, for the first time in many instances. It is 
long overdue, and this tribute to Paul Wellstone is long overdue. But 6 
years after he left this Chamber, 6 years after he died, we finally 
gave the right tribute to a great man who served us so well.

Mr. President, today is an important day for the U.S. Senate and the 
Nation.

With the passage of the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental 
Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, the Senate not only 
acknowledges the struggle for civil rights in our country, but also the 
fight of one man never neglected that struggle.



In 1992, the late Senator Paul Wellstone worked with Senator Pete 
Domenici to introduce the Mental Health Parity Act to correct the 
unfair burden placed on American families living with mental illness 
without access to mental health services.

For his entire public service career, our friend Paul fought 
valiantly for equal rights for all, regardless of their race, religion, 
socioeconomic status, or health status. He fought for parity as he 
fought for all civil rights--he fought to end discrimination against 
people with mental illness and addiction in insurance coverage.

For over a decade, the Wellstone name has been synonymous with the 
Democratic effort to push mental health parity.

Finally, with the passage of mental health parity legislation, we are 
assuring millions of Americans that mental illness deserves equal 
treatment as physical illness.

But we also honor our dear friend and his lifelong commitment to 
seeing parity enacted.

I only wish that Paul Wellstone could have lived to see this day.

Although Paul himself could not be here, his memory lives on in his 
two sons, David and Mark.

Paul would be proud of his sons and the great work of Wellstone 
Action, a national center for training and leadership development for 
the progressive movement with a mission to honor the legacy of Paul and 
Sheila Wellstone by continuing their great work.

And Paul would be proud of all of us for moving this important bill 
forward.

As Paul said, ''Politics isn't about big money or power games; it's 
about the improvement of people's lives.''

I am pleased to support this bill, in honor of Paul and Sheila, and 
the millions of people living with mental illness whose lives will 
hopefully be improved by its enactment.

I ask unanimous consent to have David Wellstone's written comments 
printed in the Record.