# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `457e6b67b0505905b34ef9638617c5ab`
`Mr. BERMAN â€” 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Translators and interpreters have been crucial to our efforts in 
Iraq, serving as a critical link between our troops and the Iraqi 
population. Because of their work for U.S. forces, many of these people 
have risked their lives and the lives of their families to assist our 
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Now they are under serious threat. These translators and interpreters 
who


serve bravely alongside our troops need our immediate assistance. 
Singled out as collaborators, many are now targets by death squads, 
militias and al Qaeda.

In Mosul, insurgents recorded and circulated the brutal execution of 
two interpreters, a stark warning to others who have assisted U.S. 
forces in the country. U.S. soldiers and embassy employees who have 
attempted to help their interpreters flee from violence have had to 
stand by hopelessly as their Iraqi colleagues went into hiding. Often 
leaving their families behind simply in order to survive.

Congressman Jeff Fortenberry came to me with the idea, and I agreed, 
and we introduced broad, far-reaching legislation on this issue. We are 
taking up the bill before us today because the Senate already passed 
this by unanimous consent, and the urgency of the situation requires us 
to act now.

This legislation will help quickly address this crisis by authorizing 
up to 500 special visas for Iraqis and Afghanis who put their lives at 
risk by working with the U.S. military and the U.S. embassy in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

We all realize this is not a partisan issue, and I am pleased to have 
worked with the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee on helping to 
get this bill before us today. The original special visa legislation 
included in the 2006 Defense Authorization Act has proved wholly 
inadequate, authorizing only 50 visas a year, creating a backlog 
estimated to take 9 years to clear at the current rate.

As of last week, nearly 500 Iraqis and Afghanis have gone through the 
requisite background checks and have been approved for the visa. 
Because of the backlog, they are stuck in limbo waiting for a visa that 
may never come. These people need us to act. The Senate passed this 
legislation over a month ago, and the administration is supportive of 
taking this action.

Paula Dobriansky, Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global 
Affairs recently said, ''We are committed to honoring our moral debt to 
those Iraqis who have provided assistance to the U.S. military and 
embassy.'' Clearly, we owe these people a debt of gratitude. They have 
risked everything to help us out in Iraq and Afghanistan and the least 
we can do is help deliver them out of harm's way.

But I tell my colleagues, the magnitude of the broader refugee crisis 
in Iraq far exceeds anything this bill attempts to resolve. We need to 
address the wider refugee issue, which has forced over 4 million Iraqis 
from their homes.

The gentleman from Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer) has legislation on this 
subject, and I think will be speaking to that broader issue. No one 
should take our efforts to do this now as a notion that that satisfies 
our obligation on something that we played a part in, creating the 
situation that led to this.

Let me just add, I see this as an emergency effort. It can't be the 
last word on this matter. We must do something to deal with the larger 
refugee issue in Iraq, as I said, and it's very possible that the visas 
we are discussing in this bill will prove inadequate for this need. 
Still, I think we need to act now so that the visas are available.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.