---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `457f4aa5a962f3f003b7a02ca8df9fac`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 20 July 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 2956, the 
so-called ''Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.'' This legislation 
is short-sighted, dangerous, and will not bring our Nation closer to 
success or Iraq closer to security. The only likely result would be to 
appease the anti-war activists and damage the national security of the 
United States.

Throughout this country, Americans are growing weary with this war. 
No one likes war, and every loss pains us. Unfortunately the arguments 
from the anti-war activists are becoming persuasive. These activists 
have been able to shape the debate on the war by focusing on the number 
of U.S. military casualties and the level of violence in Iraq. I do not 
trivialize these issues. Every soldier's death is a horrendous tragedy 
for our Nation and a family. In the 4th District of Kansas we have lost 
11 young men in the Global War on Terror, and we must never forget 
their sacrifice.

However, focusing solely on these grave issues does not address the 
most basic question facing our Nation in Iraq. The fundamental question 
of Iraq is, ''what are the consequences of success and failure?'' 
Unfortunately, the consequences of losing this war are rarely 
discussed, and I fear this legislation will likely be passed by this 
House. The Democrats are fond of saying that we have ''lost'' in Iraq. 
While I do not agree with this assessment, I think they need to answer 
who we lost to. If we lost, who won? Can the Democrats answer this 
question, and if they do, can the American people live with the answer? 
The reality is that this ill-advised approach will have dire 
consequences on Iraq and the United States.

With the premature withdrawal of American Forces from Iraq this 
legislation accomplishes the first step in al Qaeda's four-prong plan 
in Iraq. Starting with forcing the U.S. military out of Iraq and ending 
with the use of Iraq and the wider Middle East to launch additional 
attacks on Western governments and the U.S. homeland, al Qaeda has a 
clear plan for global terrorism. Unfortunately, the Democrats only 
provide the American people with a clear plan for defeat.

Throughout the Iraq War, the President and his military commanders 
have continually altered both strategy and tactics to meet the changing 
threats posed by our enemy. The latest strategy, called a ''New Way 
Forward,'' was outlined by the President at the beginning of this year. 
This strategy included an additional 21,500 American troops in order to 
achieve a six-part strategy, which involves letting the Iraqis lead, 
isolating extremists, and create space for political progress.

This new strategy acknowledges that the Iraqis must ultimately take 
responsibility for the security and stability of Iraq while 
understanding that the Coalition Forces have an integral role in 
helping to provide security for the country in order to allow the Iraqi 
government and military to succeed. Since January, steps have been 
taken to fully implement the New Way Forward plan, and only in the last 
month have all additional forces finally been put into place.

There is still much work to do, but coalition forces are seeing some 
early signs of progress from this approach. Sectarian murders in 
Baghdad are now down from January, and because U.S. and Iraqi forces 
are living among the people they secure, many Iraqis are now coming 
forward with information on where the terrorists are hiding. Progress 
is being made at the local level, including more tribal sheiks joining 
the fight against al Qaeda, citizens forming neighborhood watch groups, 
young Sunnis signing up for the army and police, and more Shia 
rejecting militias.

Although progress is being made, it is certainly not moving at the 
speed I, nor the American people, want. However, the reality is that 
the ''New Way Forward'' strategy has only recently entered full 
implementation. It has not had a chance for success or failure. To 
change course at this time will only resolve us to defeat, while not 
providing us an opportunity to succeed. We must give the ''New Way 
Forward'' a chance, and not just resign America and its military to 
failure and Iraq to civil war and a potential genocide.

The Democrats may not understand the dangers of a withdrawal 
approach, but the Iraqis do. Hoshyar Zebari, the Iraqi foreign 
minister, recently said of the dangers of a premature U.S. military 
withdrawal, ''The dangers vary from civil war to dividing the country 
or maybe to regional wars. In our estimation the danger is huge. Until 
the Iraqi forces and institutions complete their readiness, there is a 
responsibility on the U.S. and other countries to stand by the Iraqi 
government and the Iraqi people to help build up their capabilities.''

Madam Speaker, this is a delicate and dangerous issue. It is 
essential that we have all the available facts before making decisions 
on how to move forward towards success. This is why I am looking 
forward to the September report from General David Petraeus, the U.S. 
Commander in Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker. The 
progress report will provide essential information on the current 
situation so Congress and the President can make an informed decision 
on the next steps in Iraq.

The Democrat plan has real consequences: the likely collapse of the 
Iraqi state and the creation of terrorist havens. It will embolden the 
terrorists and endanger the security of our homeland. Now is not the 
time for knee-jerk reactions. Now is the time for thoughtful 
consideration, examination of the options and consequences, and 
creating solutions that will make America more secure, not less. 
Although patience is not the word Americans want to hear, the 
consequences are too high to make uninformed decisions prior to 
reviewing the September progress report. For if we bring the troops 
home prematurely, we also risk bringing the war home.

Therefore, I ask my colleagues to join with me in opposition to this 
legislation.
