# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `4588d1d53e0818f055877de5d33c2da1`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. I thank Mr. McKeon and Chairman Skelton for 
allowing our amendment to be a part of this en bloc amendment. 
Congresswoman Napolitano and I introduced this amendment, and we have, 
I think, 57 or 58 cosponsors. And I'd like to tell the Members why this 
is such an important amendment.

Last summer, a 25-year-old Hoosier Army specialist on his second tour 
of duty in Iraq named Chancellor Keesling died by suicide in Baghdad. 
His mother and father went to Dover Air Force base, and they received 
their son. He got a full military honor burial and a 21-gun salute. The 
family received all kinds of letters of condolence from the Secretary 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs and a three-star general, but 
they did not receive any kind of a comment or letter of condolence from 
the President of the United States, the Commander in Chief. And I think 
it's very important that this policy be changed.

It's been the policy for a long time that if a person dies by suicide 
in the military, the Commander in Chief does not send a letter of 
condolence to the family. But the family's the one that's really 
suffering. And right now with members of the military serving one, two, 
and maybe even three tours of duty in Afghanistan or Iraq or around the 
world, there's tremendous pressure on them. Tremendous pressure. And a 
lot of them succumb to the pressures and commit suicide.

Now this is not an isolated case. In 2008, there were 260 suicides, 
140 in the Army; 41 in the Navy, 38 in the Air Force and 41 in the 
Marines. In 2009, it was 160 in the Army, 47 in the Navy, 34 in the Air 
Force and 42 in the Marines. And so far this year, 71 young men and 
women have committed suicide in the military.

And I think it's only fitting and proper that the Commander in Chief, 
the President of the United States, who sends these young people into 
combat for extraordinarily long periods of time, ought to understand 
that the


grieving families, like the Keeslings, deserve a letter from the 
Commander in Chief saying we understand the pressure that your son or 
daughter was under. We understand that they served their country well, 
and we want to express condolence to you for your loss and for the 
service they gave their country. After all, they voluntarily joined the 
service. They voluntarily served in combat and in combat areas. And 
because they couldn't handle the pressure, over months and months and 
sometimes years, they succumbed to that pressure. They should still 
receive condolence from the Commander in Chief.

And I want to thank once again the ranking member and the chairman of 
the committee for supporting this, and I hope that the President, after 
this resolution is passed en bloc with the other amendments, will see 
fit to send letters of condolence to every young man and woman's family 
who died in the service of their country, whether they died in combat 
or by their own hand.