---
---

# None
## `4591170ee8f879c2bf499b7de5fa8f87`
`Mr. ELLISON — 7 May 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, this month marks a special opportunity to 
pay tribute to the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific 
Islander Americans. In our community, we have a great opportunity to 
recognize this dynamic force of creativity in our Nation, and I welcome 
the opportunity to do so and I thank my colleague Mike Honda for 
hosting this special order tonight.

An estimated 180,000 Asian Pacific Islanders representing a diverse 
community of backgrounds and cultures and experiences make their homes 
in Minnesota, with an estimated 32,000 in the Fifth Congressional 
District alone. Minnesota serves as home to one of the Nation's largest 
Hmong population, estimated at nearly 80,000. In Minnesota, we boast 2 
members of our State legislators who have Hmong American heritage, 
Senator Mee Moua and Representative Cy Thao. The Hmong American story 
in Minnesota is quintessentially Minnesotan and we are proud of our 
Hmong community.

The Hmong story is quintessentially an immigrant story as well, a 
story coming from their land to a new one to make success here in 
America, overcoming the many difficulties, struggling, persevering, 
while retaining love for their land of origin, finding tremendous love 
and loyalty in their new home as well.

The Asian American and Pacific Islanders make a valuable contribution 
to every aspect of American life and Minnesota life, from business, 
education, to arts to military. We will always remember Qixing Lee, a 
young man who graduated from North High School of Hmong American 
heritage who lost his life in this conflict in Iraq. Their 
contributions and unique additions to our life have enhanced the moral 
fabric and character of our State and our great country.

As we celebrate the many contributions of the Asian American-Pacific 
Islander community, let us not lose sight of the cornerstone of their 
contributions and to the very foundation of this country, immigration. 
Immigration has played a vital role in the entire making of America, 
whether the immigrants are from Europe, Africa, whether they are from 
Asia, or Latin and Central America. But immigration no doubt has played 
a vital role in the creation and success of our country, and must be 
looked at as a vital American strength as we look forward in this 110th 
Congress.

As the Democratic-led House leads the way on immigration reform, I 
believe that we must look at comprehensive reform, not shock radio 
sound bites. Reform that fully recognizes the contribution of 
immigrants have made and continue to make to our Nation is as equally 
important as security on the border. Fair comprehensive immigration 
policy must work to protect and unite families. Right now, an estimated 
1.5 million Asian and Pacific Islanders face an immigration backlog 
that has forced many families to live separated from their loved one 
for years. This is a shame and must end.

As we celebrate the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific 
Islanders to our Nation, let us use this occasion to take our great 
country in a new direction and to higher heights, and to meet the 
challenges facing all Americans, including Asian American and Pacific 
Islanders. As we have in the first 100 days, let us take further steps 
to change the way we do business in Washington and defend our country, 
grow our economy, care for all children and families, protect our 
planet, and restore accountability. Together, we can make the American 
dream a reality for all Americans.
