---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `45a1e1cc81257b419bc52d566f6f1a3f`
`Mr. BOND — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on behalf of the 
Foreign Operations bill, and I thank the managers of the bill for 
putting forward an excellent measure.

I have a couple of areas I wish to speak about at some length, but 
let me give the framework in which I will talk about it. I come to the 
floor a lot--I spoke this morning about military action, but I come to 
the floor to talk about intelligence. We are, at least in my thesis, in 
a worldwide war against those who have declared us to be their enemy. 
It is an ideological war. I think, by any stretch of the imagination, 
most people realize that a war against this kind of enemy is only 20 
percent kinetic, it is 80 percent economic/educational.

What we are doing in this bill some people object to--spending money 
on foreign operations--because they think, oh, it is do-gooderism; it 
is trying to make us feel good, helping people in the world. Well, 
clearly we are carrying out an important mission to help less developed 
countries throughout the world. That is certainly one of the areas 
where America's generosity has always shown through. Our private 
charities are even more robust than what we do through government.

I continue to hear people back home saying: If we just cut out 
foreign aid, we could do this and we could do that. But foreign aid is 
minuscule. I, frankly, think it ought to be more. If we are going to 
turn the tide against those who are committed to radical views, to 
misusing and misinterpreting their religion to declare war on us, we 
have to


deal with them not only kinetically when they pick up arms or when they 
threaten to bomb us, but we have to help create the conditions in those 
countries where people are not driven to earn a small amount of money 
for planting a roadside bomb or an IED or even get a little more for 
their family by committing suicide in a terrorist attack.

There are some things we can do through this bill that I think are 
very important to connect with those countries which view us with 
suspicion. We can help change the attitude--not of everybody; not of 
the committed mufsidoon. Those are people who, in the name of Islam, 
kill innocents, men and women, fellow Muslims. They are too often 
called jihadists. They are not for jihad. Jihad is a legitimate self-
fulfillment and improvement by Muslims. They commit hirabah, which is 
the terrible form of violence these Muslims commit. We need to show 
people in the countries from which they come that America can be a 
force for good.


There are a couple of things that are very important. No. 1 is 
establishing and improving educational exchanges. No. 2 is economic 
assistance to help them build their economy. I will talk about that 
later. No. 3 is getting Americans on the ground.

I have traveled to a lot of countries, and I have spent a lot of time 
in Southeast Asia. They keep telling me that the best emissaries the 
United States has are Peace Corps members, the Peace Corps members who 
have been here, and those in other volunteer organizations--if they 
come with a church, if they come with a charity or a nongovernmental 
organization, if they come with the volunteers in the financial 
services program. When Americans come, even as tourists, they can make 
a difference.

I wish to talk just a minute about the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps, 
as I said, is one of the important weapons we have, not only to help 
them understand us but to help us understand them. At no other time in 
this Nation's history has the work of the Peace Corps and its 
volunteers been more vital or valued. Peace Corps volunteers are the 
good face of America in the developing world. They provide practical, 
hands-on experience while spreading compassion and good will, which is 
vital in winning the hearts and minds of people all over the world. The 
United States is no longer the only game in town, and we can no longer 
take for granted that countries will line up to want to support the 
United States.

China, for example, with over 1 trillion U.S. dollars, is 
aggressively engaging in courting countries all over the world on 
economic, diplomatic, and cultural fronts, frankly shutting us out, 
moving us out of the game by establishing what the Chinese call their 
Confucius Institutes, thus promoting their language and culture through 
internationally affiliated institutes. The Chinese Ministry of 
Education estimates that by the year 2010 there will be approximately 
100 million people worldwide learning Chinese as a foreign language. 
And it plans to set up 100 more. They will be learning Chinese, not 
English.

I ask, why are we reducing and not increasing our efforts to promote 
American values, our culture, our way of life? As I said, to fight the 
war on terror, our efforts are 20 percent kinetic, 80 percent public 
diplomacy--international exchanges, education, aid, and community 
development. In other words, I believe that putting more sandals on the 
ground will prevent having to put boots on the ground in the future to 
fight militarily what we could have won economically with education and 
diplomacy beforehand.

Only about 20 percent of Peace Corps volunteers are serving in 
predominantly Muslim countries. There are far too few. In key areas, 
there are just not enough. Why? We just do not have the money. The 
money stayed stable, and costs have gone up. We have been declining in 
Peace Corps participation. Why is it important to have them in Muslim 
countries? Because they provide alternatives to the Wahabist view of 
life, financed too often by our Saudi Arabian friends. They are too 
often promoting the Salafists' radical agenda--barbaric ideologies, 
trying to reach impressionable Muslims.

Numerous accomplishments have been achieved over the past 6 years by 
our American volunteers, and the Peace Corps is poised to meet not only 
the growing demands from interested countries but from thousands of 
Americans who want to serve as well. I believe the Peace Corps should 
obtain its full request in 2008 in order to expand opportunities to 
enter these countries, vitally important countries in Southeast Asia 
and elsewhere, and I hope we will get a more robust request from the 
administration next year. It should not be hindered in expanding the 
number of volunteers in countries where the Peace Corps already exists 
and is advancing American ideals and building good will. Budget 
tightening has already occurred at many posts, and program closures are 
likely without additional funds.

Many of our diplomats and host country officials say that the Peace 
Corps is the most effective and cost-efficient U.S. agency in getting a 
better view of America.

I look forward to working with my colleagues in the conference 
committee. I hope we will be able to restore the President's full 
request for the Peace Corps. It is an investment in an effort vitally 
important to improving the lives of those in the developing world.

I also wish to talk about another initiative. I have been on the 
floor talking about it a long time; that is, effective grass roots 
development for agriculture in Afghanistan. Agriculture is the main 
building block of the Afghan economy, but it has suffered from 
disinvestment and neglect. Over 70 percent of Afghans live in rural 
areas and derive their income from agriculture. Yet the public and 
private support infrastructure for agriculture is yet to be rebuilt.


I talked to some Missouri farmers--I will discuss it more later--who 
were over there with our National Guard. They tell us that they believe 
the Afghans could move a tremendous leap forward if we got them 19th 
century, not 21st century, not 20th century, but 19th century tools and 
equipment because they are that far behind.

I thank the managers of the bill. They have used in this bill $20 
million for USAID to set up and develop a nationwide agriculture 
extension system. It would establish and execute a strategy through a 
consortium of U.S. land grant universities, integrating the program 
into Afghanistan institutions, guided by local councils, comprising 
community, private sector, and government education leaders. Our U.S. 
education extension service transformed American agriculture over the 
last hundred years, and it can do a lot to improve the livelihood of 
the people in Afghanistan and counter the other influences, such as the 
cultivation of poppies for the drug trade.

Unfortunately, we have given money to USAID in the past, and it has 
been largely ineffective. USAID has refused to set up an extension 
system in Afghanistan. They continue to rely on large, DC-based 
contractors who apparently have had no impact. They lack that expertise 
and capacity-building know-how and expertise which will create 
sustainable development.

Over 5 years and hundreds of millions of dollars later, after USAID 
has been spinning its wheels, Afghanistan now accounts for 92 percent 
of the world's opium supply. I recognize USAID and the Department of 
State are large bureaucracies that cannot operate as effectively as the 
military can in places such as Iraq and Afghanistan. However, the 
community development efforts they are tasked with are paramount to 
establish a strong economy that will allow the Afghan farmers and the 
Afghan people an alternative to opium production. When I was in Iraq, 
for example, I observed our warfighters taking action and picking up 
the mantle where State and USAID's hands were tied.

In Ramadi, we saw the marines, after they had pacified Ramadi, went 
in and rebuilt the Blue Mosque, the absolutely central Sunni mosque for 
that entire region. There was a tremendous amount of goodwill created, 
showing them we supported their religion.

In Afghanistan, a member of my staff, a month ago, returned from 
Nangarhar Province with members of the Missouri National Guard. As a 
result of my working with the Guard and what we saw on the ground and 
the fact that the President, Hamid Karzai, had asked for extension 
service assistance but USAID was not able to produce it,


I asked the National Guard to send an agricultural development team 
over to see what could be done. They came back with a very promising 
response.

The team and subsequent others we hope will be established by the 
Department of Defense through the National Guard will be composed of 
citizen soldiers who come, in their civilian lives, from farming, 
agribusiness, and construction trades. Each AG team will have extension 
service experts--whether it is in soil or meat technology or other 
things that have been identified as pressing needs. They are going to 
focus on more efficient use of irrigation, crop rotation, cold storage, 
harvesting, processing, and agribusiness. They will not just be giving 
farmers seeds, they will be building real, long-term relationships and 
capacity-building that will sustain agriculture in Afghanistan, to 
bring it into the 19th and even into the 20th century. They will be 
doing so in a place where building trust with the populace is 
paramount.

From my time as Governor, I have always been impressed with not only 
the capacity and the ability and dedication of our National Guard 
throughout the United States but their flexibility. The National Guard 
structure, capabilities, and the skill-set of the citizen soldiers in 
the Army are uniquely positioned to execute a position that many others 
are incapable of fully executing. I hope the USAID and State Department 
will follow the lead of its Department of Defense cohorts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. As I said, 80 percent of the war on terror is nonkinetic--
agricultural development, education exchanges, Peace Corps volunteers, 
and public diplomacy. If USAID continues to rely on giving large chunks 
of money to cumbersome contractors in its foreign aid, it will fail, 
and I will see if I can convince my colleagues to choose another route.

Efforts in Afghanistan, like the land grant extension initiative and 
the agricultural development teams, are models for how we should be 
conducting the nonkinetic war we must fight against those who vowed 
continuing war against us and the way of life we espouse.

I yield the floor.