---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATION  ACT, 2008
## `45a5d6accca9c7687950a9551da0df1a`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 7 November 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
this conference report, including the Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education appropriations bill and the Military Construction/Veterans 
appropriations bill.

I am here to represent the 4th district of Minnesota--that's my job. 
And my district has made it very clear to me that investing in our 
communities is a priority.

In fact, most members of the House of Representatives have said they 
support both of these bills. But there has been a lot of complaining 
about the process.

I'm a former civics teacher. Part of my work was to teach my students 
about the separation of powers between the legislative and executive 
branches of our government.

For those watching today, I want to be very clear about the issues in 
this debate and the procedure that got us here.

We are in this position because the Administration has adopted a ''my 
way or the highway'' approach to governing. The President has 
steadfastly refused to recognize the constitutional role of Congress in 
setting our Nation's budget priorities.

And he has ignored the clear message sent by the American people in 
the last election.

Democrats disagree with the President's priorities. The President 
proposed to cut education funding. His budget cut special education, 
teacher training, and Head Start. It also


eliminated several programs targeted for at-risk students.

Democrats have rejected those cuts and proposed a modest increase in 
order to keep our students competitive in a global economy.

The President's budget cut funding for health care. We do not agree 
with reducing opportunities to find life saving cures through research 
or reducing access to quality care for American families.

The President proposed cuts to job training and vocational education. 
Democrats understand that our economy is changing, and that investing 
in our greatest resources--working families (including veterans)--is 
important today and tomorrow.

Madam Speaker, the amount of money that separates the President's 
budget and the Democrats' proposal is approximately what we spend in 1 
month in Iraq--and all of that is on a credit card.

In addition, this bill includes the largest increase in veterans' 
health care since the beginning of the Veterans Administration.

If we say we value families and communities--and veterans--in 
America, then surely we can agree that a modest investment in our 
future is reasonable.

Let's put politics aside, let's listen to the American people, and 
let's pass this bill. Let's do our jobs.
