# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `45b163a7be5d645ac36990cdf8fcb622`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, in closing, we have heard a 
lot of excellent presentation points today. I might just clarify the 
fact that the study group did recommend a surge in one part, and the 
President has eliminated the rules of engagement that we had laid on 
our troops over there, so we have a way to make this thing really 
happen.

I really want to know, if the Democrats insist they are supporting 
our troops, why they would not let me introduce my measure that 
mandates that Congress would support and fully fund the men and women 
in uniform.

I am positive that Democrats will attempt to cut funding as soon as 
the spending bills come up this spring, and maybe earlier, because 
there was a press conference earlier today that indicated exactly that.



I fear what that means for our troops on the ground, for their 
morale. The reality is that President Bush realized he needed to change 
the course in Iraq, and that is why he worked with folks on the ground 
in Iraq to hear fresh ideas and came up with a new plan.

The President wants change and that is why he changed the rules of 
engagement, enabling our guys to shoot at any suspected terrorists. The 
President wants change. That is why he removed political protections of 
all insurgents, so all of the bad guys could be brought to justice 
regardless of who they knew or who they worked for.

These ideas are huge breakthroughs and real solutions. These ideas 
represent fresh starts and new plans. What is the Democratic plan to 
move forward and win? They do not have one. Thirty-six hours of 
political grandstanding, nonbinding resolutions and petty posturing, 
they are not proposing solutions. They are not even encouraging new 
ideas. In fact, they stop them like when they squashed my amendment.

Many hope that the troop surge is the beginning of the end. We should 
all want that if it gets the job done. Yet the Democrats just say no. 
You know, the time will come when you can put the money behind these 
nonbinding resolutions. You better believe we will be watching and 
calling for those funding cuts loud and clear. America needs to know, 
cutting funds for our troops in harm's way is not a remedy. It is a 
ruse.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and yield the 
balance of my time to the next moderator, Mr. Saxton.