# FILIBUSTERS AND DELAYS IN THE SENATE
## `45b82437421ee06db57f2514a9e1431f`
`Mr. REID — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, in the entire history of the country, no 
matter what has been going on in this country--and we have been through 
some difficult times--the most filibusters we ever had were 61 or 62 
during a 2-year period of time, during an entire Congress. But now, in 
the first year of this Congress, they broke that record--stalling, 
slowing things down so we cannot legislate the people's business. That 
is because they are protecting the status quo.

Can you imagine filibustering a bill that is correcting technical 
mistakes made by the two Houses in passing this legislation previously? 
They are filibustering that--commas, semicolons, dotting an ''i,'' 
crossing a ''t,'' that is what we are doing, that is what this 
legislation is all about, technical corrections--supported by the 
ranking member, Senator Inhofe, and the chairman, Senator Boxer. They 
are filibustering this, making us use all the time.

Some may ask why they are doing this. The main reason is they are 
protecting the status quo. Time after time, Republicans seemed intent 
on obstruction only for obstruction's sake. They pursued this course on 
legislative matters large and small. It doesn't have to be, as they 
have done many times, stopping us from moving forward on matters 
relating to Iraq--many times. Let's consider that a big issue. But 
let's consider what we are doing today a small issue--technical 
corrections on a bill.

Look what is going on in the country today. Look what is going on in 
the world today. We listen to the news or find it in the newspaper. 
Today in Iraq--scores of people killed in Iraq. Bombs here, bombs 
there, two American soldiers killed in Iraq yesterday. We have learned 
2.7 million people are displaced in Iraq. That is Iraqis. The 
population is only 25 million people to begin with and 2.7 million of 
them are wandering around trying to find a place to live in Iraq. About 
3 million have left the country. They have blocked us from doing 
anything about that.

We had General Petraeus talk about what is going on in Iraq. He 
didn't answer the question: Are we any safer now than we were before 
this Iraq war started, before the surge started? No answer to that. 
When are we going to get our troops home? No answer to that. They have 
even gone forward on tactics delaying matters on legislation they 
ultimately came to support--stalling for time.

The most unfortunate aspect of Republican strategy is real people 
suffer because of it. Why do I say that? There are a lot of things we 
need to do as a country. We have, now, a big merger that took place 
making big business even bigger. Delta Airlines has joined with 
Northwest. They will have 75,000 or 80,000 employees. Now there is talk 
of United joining with other companies. We have heard Southwest 
Airlines--they were flying airplanes that were in bad shape, but they 
did it anyway.

We have learned in recent weeks the Federal Aviation Agency is 
protecting the airlines and not the consumer. We have a bill we need to 
do, FAA reauthorization. We need to do that bill. We would like to 
bring up that bill, but we cannot because we are being stalled on a 
technical corrections bill--only stalling for time.

Veterans health care--Senator Akaka has asked for months: Why


can't I bring up my bill? Every time, I say to him: Senator Akaka, we 
are doing our best, but they stalled us on this and they stalled us on 
that. That is something we want to do this work period, as we do the 
FAA legislation.

There is an important piece of legislation--genetic 
nondiscrimination. A lot of things are happening in medicine. We have 
the ability to look at people and find out what their genes are going 
to forecast for the future. But we don't want, as a result of advances 
in medical care and treatment in this regard, to have someone who may 
be prone to getting some disease 10 or 15 years from now be 
discriminated against in the workplace. This is an important piece of 
legislation, and it is being held up; we can't get to that.

Flood insurance--we want to be able to do this. It is important to 
the American people. We hear a lot about the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency. What they deal with more than anything else--more 
than earthquakes, tornadoes, fires--is floods. Flooding is the most 
devastating natural disaster we have every year in America, and we want 
to do something to have the flood insurance program in this country 
mean something. We saw the never-ending litigation in Louisiana and 
Mississippi and Alabama as a result of Katrina. One of the reasons for 
that litigation is the legislation was not clear. It was not good 
legislation. We need to change that.

Food safety? My friend from Illinois has been working for a long time 
to do something about food safety--what can we do to make it better, so 
that when you go to a fast-food restaurant, you don't get salmonella; 
if you get a steak, it is OK. Has it been inspected? We have not been 
able to legislate in that regard.

It is disheartening to recognize and realize what we are not able to 
do, as a result of the Republicans wanting to maintain the status quo. 
Why can't we go through this piece of legislation, let Senator Boxer 
move forward on completing it, and then go to one of the other matters. 
There are a lot of other matters we need go to. I have only mentioned a 
few of them.

When I go home, people ask: Why aren't you getting more done? I tell 
them the Republicans are stalling, they want the status quo. Here is a 
perfect illustration, I say to my friends who have asked that question. 
Why are we being asked to waste valuable Senate time--that is all we 
have is time--valuable Senate time on something that is so unnecessary. 
We are waiting here. We came in at 10. The Republicans say we can't go 
to the bill; they want to go to their caucus and discuss what they want 
to do on the technical corrections bill.

I hope that my friends on the other side of the aisle, the 
Republicans, would let us start legislating. After we passed the 
stimulus bill for housing, I thought we could enter into a program 
where we would start doing that. I do not know what they could talk 
about in their caucus about how difficult this particular technical 
corrections bill is. I said we are not going to fill the tree, which 
means they can offer amendments. Let them offer amendments. We invite 
them to offer amendments. But let's move forward on this legislation.

The Republican filibusters of this Congress, 65, is recordbreaking. 
They should be proud of that. We invoked cloture on more than 65 of 
those issues. We are still counting. Today is one of those counts that 
continue. I am very disappointed that we are being stalled again on 
something as insignificant as a technical corrections bill on highways.