# FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `45c52c3e9905965eac0e596b9b8640a4`
`Mr. KAGEN — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Foreclosure 
Prevention Act on which would address today's crisis in the housing 
market and help many American families work out their financing to 
avoid foreclosure, although it comes a little bit too late for the 
gentleman I talked to in Green Bay an hour ago who will be losing his 
home.

As we are all aware, foreclosure rates have risen, Housing prices are 
declining, and too many families nationwide, including many veterans 
who served us with bravery, honor, and courage in Iraq and Afghanistan 
are overwhelmed with their monthly mortgage payments, many having 
fallen into the trap, the adjustable-rate mortgage trap.

For these reasons, I commend Chairman Frank for graciously including 
a provision I offered that would provide funding in fiscal years 2008 
and 2009 for grants to be administered to the Neighborhood Reinvestment 
Corporation for mortgage foreclosure and credit counseling for veterans 
recently returning from active duty. The mounting mortgage 
delinquencies and defaults pose a serious economic threat to our 
economy, to say nothing of what it does to affected families and their 
communities.

Preventing foreclosures for our veterans will benefit all 
communities, and more importantly, by providing additional counseling, 
resources to veterans, it will enhance their ability to make sound 
financial decisions during these challenging times. Our soldiers need 
our help now, and toward that end, I'm pleased that the Foreclosure 
Prevention Act would also assist returning soldiers to avoid 
foreclosure by lengthening the time a lender must wait before starting 
the foreclosure process from 3 months to 1 year following a soldier's 
return from military service.

This act is not a handout. It is a hand up. And I urge my colleagues 
to support passage of this very important legislation.