# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `45e1065374e729ff1b641d11beacf340`
`Mr. CARDIN — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, last November the American people voted 
for change. I think it is appropriate today, as we are considering the 
conference report on the budget, which is the blueprint for our Nation, 
and we also celebrate the 100th day of Barack Obama's Presidency and 
his administration--I think it is time to reflect where we have been in 
these last 100 days and the changes that have occurred. But first it is 
important to point out the mess President Obama inherited.

The United States is engaged in two wars. We have the worst economic 
crisis since the Great Depression inherited by this administration. We 
have record deficits inherited by this administration. The 
international reputation of the United States is badly damaged.

In 100 days, the Obama administration, working with us in Congress, 
has an impressive record of accomplishments. I think it is important to 
point out that the No. 1 priority, as all my constituents tell me on a 
daily basis, is to fix our economy. Our economy is in deep trouble. The 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act put the recovery of our economy 
first by creating jobs. We need more jobs, to save jobs, create jobs. 
The Obama administration put that as their top priority.

But they also invested in America's future in education, in health 
care, and in energy; protecting our essential services for America's 
most vulnerable people; and providing tax cuts to help restore consumer 
confidence in our economy.

That was the first priority. That bill has passed and its impact is 
now being felt in our country. But in the Congress, under the 
leadership of President Obama working with us, other things were 
accomplished in a very short period of time.

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Equity Act was passed, guaranteeing we 
have an enforceable right for equal pay.

We passed the Children's Health Insurance Program that now covers 4 
million more children with health insurance. I am particularly pleased 
that law includes dental care so children will be able to see a 
dentist.

We passed legislation protecting public lands and protecting our 
environment for future generations.

We passed the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, for Americans to 
be able to engage in volunteer service to their country throughout 
their lifetime.

The Obama administration, working with this Congress, has restored 
America's international leadership. We have made it clear from the 
beginning that this Nation will not permit the use of torture, focused 
our missions in both Iraq and Afghanistan of going after the 
terrorists--which is what we should do to make America safe--and 
prepared to join the international community in combating global 
climate change.

We have done a lot during the first 100 days--quite a record. Today 
we are on the verge of passing the budget conference report which will 
provide a new blueprint for America's future. What are the priorities? 
The priority first, is the economy. Again, we have to get out of this 
recession. This budget allows us to invest in creating new jobs. It 
will do it in a fiscally responsible way and will invest in health 
care, energy, and education.

President Obama, as I pointed out earlier, inherited quite a fiscal 
mess. President Bush, during the 8 years of his Presidency, started 
with a surplus. Let me remind you, 8 years ago we had a surplus, a $236 
billion surplus in 2000. The current year's deficit is $1.75 trillion. 
This was the fiscal recklessness of the Bush administration that has 
been inherited by the Obama administration. It has cost us jobs. We are 
losing half a million jobs each and every month. That is what was 
confronting the President back when he took office.

We have a housing crisis, people losing their homes. They are still 
losing their homes today. We have to pay attention to that. We have got 
to give confidence so that people can keep their homes. It is important 
for individuals, it is important for our communities, it is important 
for our economy.

Banks are not lending money. They still are not lending money. We 
have got to get our financial system working the way it should so that 
America can grow. We have got to help small business. That is the 
growth engine of America in order to create jobs and move forward with 
innovation.

What we need to do is have a budget that puts our priorities on 
America's future. Well, the budget President Obama has that we are 
about ready to pass does that. It helps our economy but does it in a 
fiscally responsible way. It puts us on a glide path to reduce the 
Federal budget by two-thirds by the year 2014.

We are working on the economy, working on creating jobs, but we are 
also working on fiscal responsibility to get out from this deficit. 
Because we not only have a moral obligation to our children and 
grandchildren to pay our bills, it is critically important for the 
fiscal strength of America that we get our budget back into balance. So 
as we come out of this recession, as we create the jobs that this 
budget will allow us to do, we also put us on a glidepath toward fiscal 
responsibility.

But the budget recognizes another essential point. We are not going 
to do things the way we have done them in the past. We have an 
administration that is prepared to tackle the tough problems. It is one 
thing to get out of this recession and to try to balance the budget and 
get our budget balanced, but we have got to deal with the underlying 
problems that America confronts. We have got to fix a broken health 
care system, because it is too expensive and drains our economy.

We have got to become energy independent, because that drains our 
economy and our budget. And we have got to invest in education. Our 
children are our future. We have got to put our resources with our 
children.

The budget recognizes that for America to be able to have a strong 
budget in the future, we need to fix our health care system. We talked 
about this for a long time. We have talked about fixing it. Well, we 
now have a President who has said the only option that is not on the 
table is the status quo. I agree with President Obama, we have got to 
fix the system. Why?

First, it is way too expensive. Not only is it a drain on Federal 
taxpayers but to every person in this country. Our health care system 
is twice as expensive, per capita, than the next most expensive system 
in the world. And yet we have seen, during the Bush years, the 8 years 
of his Presidency, the number of uninsured grow from 40 million to 47 
million. There are 47 million Americans who do not have health 
insurance. And we do not have the health care results that would 
warrant such a large expenditure of our Federal economy in health care. 
We should have better results. We do not have those results, so we have 
got to fix our health care system.

What does this budget resolution do, the conference report that is 
before us--that will shortly be before us for a


vote? What this budget resolution does is allows us to move boldly 
toward universal health coverage, toward universal coverage. Why is 
that so important? Well, you see, someone who has no health insurance 
today enters a health care system in a very expensive way. They use our 
emergency rooms for primary care, to the extent that they get primary 
care. They do not have prevention. And they enter our system in a much 
more costly way. Illnesses that could have been detected early are left 
untreated. They enter our system in a very expensive way.

Many times people without health insurance do not pay their bills. 
But they get paid. Guess who pays them. The taxpayers of this country. 
Those who have insurance pay more for their premiums and doctors and 
hospitals because of people who have no health insurance.

It is in our national interest to get everyone covered by insurance. 
This budget conference report will allow our committee to bring in a 
bill to fix our health care system to provide universal coverage that 
will provide better quality care and save us money.

This budget allows us to save money in the health care system by 
investing in preventive health care. If we get more people tested for 
early detection of diseases, it will save us money. We invest in health 
information technology so we can eliminate a lot of the waste in our 
health care system, the administrative costs. Not only will it 
eliminate costs, unnecessary costs, but you will have better management 
of care. Doctors and hospitals will be able to communicate with each 
other. They will understand the complexities of your own individual 
health history and be able to build health protocols to give you more 
cost-effective, quality care. That is using technology. This will help 
us.

We need to deal with the disparities in health care. We know there 
are gaps across racial and ethnic lines. We need to narrow that, pay 
attention to that. This budget allows us to move in that direction to 
eliminate these disparities.

The budget allows us to reform our own Medicare system. Medicare is 
the largest insurance program in our country. Our elderly and disabled 
depend upon our Medicare system. But our Medicare system needs to be 
changed and reformed. Ask any physician about the sustainable growth 
rate methodology for reforming, for paying their fees every year. We 
have got to change that. We have got to eliminate this physical therapy 
and rehab cap. It makes no sense at all.

This budget resolution allows us to reform the Medicare system to 
make it more cost effective, and the budget resolution provides for the 
backup of budget reconciliation instructions.

What does that mean? I want to give you my interpretation. That 
allows us to use regular order to get this issue dealt with, to get 
health care dealt with. We have been talking about it for years. It is 
time to act. It is time to fix our health care system. And this is not 
a partisan issue. It is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. 
This is an issue that affects our country. It is an American issue. We 
need to work together on it. But it is not regular order to use a 
filibuster to prevent this body from taking up these issues. And that 
is what the budget reform process was all about many years ago.

I hope every Member of this body will work together so we can fix 
this health care system. That is what we need to do. Nobody has a 
monopoly on the best ideas. President Obama has reached out and said: 
Look, I know what we need to accomplish. You know what we need to 
accomplish. Let's work together and get it done so we can make health 
care more accessible, and people can get quality care in a much more 
cost-effective way, saving the taxpayers of this country money, helping 
our economy grow, making American companies more competitive 
internationally. If we fix the health care system, all of that is 
possible if we get it done right.

I want to compliment--I see the Chairman of the Budget Committee is 
on the floor, Senator Conrad. I want to thank him for his leadership on 
these issues. You now have a budget that will allow us to deal with 
these priorities. But the budget resolution also recognizes that for 
America to be strong, we also need to become energy independent. And 
the budget resolution allows us, our committees, to do that. We need to 
become energy independent for the sake of our economy.

We saw the impact on our economy when energy prices went up and down, 
and we had very little to do with it. But if we get the energy policy 
right, we are going to create green jobs, more jobs in America. This is 
about our economy. This is about helping America grow. So smart energy, 
energy independence, is the right thing to help our economy. By the 
way, it is also important for national security. We should not be 
challenged to fight wars because we need imported oil. Let us become 
energy independent for the sake of our national security, and, yes, let 
us become energy independent using good green technology, because it is 
good for our environment and we can do something about global climate 
change, working with the international community.

But the budget goes further and says, look, if we are going to be a 
strong nation, if we are going to get our future budgets in balance, if 
we are going to be competitive internationally, if our economy is going 
to grow, and the American standard of living is going to grow, we are 
going to invest in education. Education has got to be our top priority.


We can do a much better job at pre-K through 12 and quality 
education. Every child should have access to a quality school. This 
budget resolution allows our committees to move in that direction, and 
to bring down the cost of higher education for the typical family. Too 
many families today are being denied the opportunity to send their 
child to college because they simply cannot afford the cost of higher 
education. We have increased Pell grants. It is another great record of 
this Congress. We increased the Pell grants. This budget resolution 
allows us to go further to bring down the cost of higher education.

The budget resolution recognizes that we have to empower families to 
be able to afford and to participate in our economy. So tax relief to 
middle-income families is extended and expanded in this budget 
resolution.

The budget resolution recognizes that small businesses are the 
driving force behind job creation. Most of our jobs are going to be 
created by small businesses. Innovation comes from small companies. So 
this budget resolution allows us to continue the incentive so that 
small companies can get the credit they need, can get the help they 
need to be able to not only survive this economic downturn but to turn 
it around and create new jobs.

I particularly thank the conferees for continuing to include the 
increases, the 2-percent increases, in the Small Business 
Administration, an agency that was decimated under the prior 
administration. I offered an amendment in the committee that was 
adopted that increased that appropriation to $880 million. We want the 
SBA to be the advocate for the small business community, to fight 
Government agencies to make sure they make contracts available to small 
companies, to help mentor small companies so they have a business plan 
that can get a loan from a bank. That is what we want the SBA to do. 
And now with this budget support, the SBA should be able to build and 
help our small businesses in America.

Last November America voted for a change. We are delivering on that 
expectation. This budget resolution that has come out of the conference 
committee allows our committees, working with President Obama, to 
tackle the challenges confronting our Nation. The conference committee 
gives us the blueprint we need by focusing on different areas for 
helping in tax relief, for bringing our budget better into balance, 
helping working families, and investing in universal health care and 
educational opportunities and energy independence.

I urge my colleagues to support the work that has been done by our 
conferees. Let's work together to refuel and revitalize our Nation.

I yield the floor.