# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `45e391da062590def6b9fc46ae062a9a`
`Mr. LEVIN — 1 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, every day across our Nation, families, 
friends, and entire communities mourn the loss of fallen soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines. Michigan has lost 130 heroes in the wars 
in Iraq an Afghanistan. One of the most powerful ways we can honor 
those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country is to fly 
the flag they fought under at half-staff.

At times during the course of these wars, governors around the 
country have issued proclamations for State agencies and residents to 
lower our Nation's flag to honor fallen service members from their 
States. Many Federal agencies in those States comply with such 
proclamations, but some have not. To a family member, the effect can be 
that the Federal Government appears not to be paying the proper respect 
to their loved one.

Today, I am introducing legislation that would prevent this situation 
by giving governors the explicit authority to order the Nation's flag 
lowered to half staff when a member of the Armed Forces from their 
State dies while serving on active duty. It would also require Federal 
agencies in that State to lower their flags consistent with a 
governors' proclamation. Congressman Bart Stupak is introducing 
identical legis1ation in the House of Representatives.

One of my greatest honors as the chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee is to spend time with our troops, and they are as 
courageous, honorable, and capable a fighting force as the world has 
ever known. These men and women have made a commitment to protect our 
Nation. We need to make an equally strong commitment to honor them when 
they make the ultimate sacrifice for our country. We owe our fallen 
soldiers, their families, and their communities a unified showing of 
respect.