---
---

# IRAQ
## `45f1039325860ca6d6cedb9c27a5976a`
`Mr. WEBB — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. I believe very strongly that we should leave our military 
people out of these political debates. I am not using these figures to 
advance the Democratic Party's point. I believe it is inappropriate for 
the other party to use our military people in a way that might insulate 
them from criticism over the woeful failures of this administration's 
policy. The American people's confidence in this administration is at 
rock bottom. Many rightly believe they were misled on the reasons for 
going to war.

The administration's credibility has suffered--rightly so--also with 
respect to its intentions for dealing with Iran. I do not believe one 
can speak of our responsibility on these immediate issues without 
stating clearly our concerns about the entire region, and especially 
the administration's position regarding its constitutional authority to 
use military force outside of Iraq.

The administration's view of its Presidential authority to conduct 
unilateral military action against other


countries, and particularly with Iran, was documented in President 
Bush's signing statement accompanying the original authorization for 
the use of force against Iraq in October 2002. I urge my colleagues to 
examine this language. In part, it states:




 My signing this resolution does not constitute any change 


 in the long-standing positions of the executive branch on 


 either the President's constitutional authority to use force 


 to deter, prevent, or respond to aggression or other threats 


 to U.S. interests.


In other words, if one were to read that carefully, this 
administration is stating that it has the authority to use force to 
respond to threats to our interests. What is an ''interest''?

I have raised this language with the Secretary of State, as well as 
with the Deputy Secretary. My question was whether this administration 
believes that it possesses the authority to conduct unilateral military 
activity against Iran in the absence of a direct threat and without the 
approval of the Congress. I have not received a clear answer from 
either of them on that point. That is troubling.

This administration and its supporters must understand the realities 
that are causing us, as a Congress, to finally say enough is enough. 
After 5 years of misguided policy, ineffective leadership, and 
diminished U.S. stature around the world, the Congress must show the 
way to reclaiming the moral high ground and exert its proper oversight 
role more forcefully.

For these reasons, I support the pending Iraq resolution before us, 
and I will vote for cloture. I urge my fellow Senators to do the same.

I yield the floor.