---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `45f359d7c9e405770af3eb05631df8e0`
`Mr. REED — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I commend Senator Warner, Senator Nelson, 
Senator Levin and others who have worked so hard on this resolution. I 
do believe, like my colleagues, that this measure and an alternative 
measure deserve an up-or-down vote by the Senate. That is what the 
American people want, and that is what they should receive.

We embarked on this effort in Iraq more than 4 years ago. From the 
very beginning I thought this was not a response to an imminent threat 
to the United States or even to the region. It was based upon highly 
speculative and, it turns out in many cases, flat wrong intelligence. 
It represents, in my view, a flawed strategy because the approach the 
President has taken in Iraq fails to recognize that the major regional 
threat was not Iraq but Iran and failed to recognize the huge amounts 
of resources that will be necessary to successfully occupy and 
stabilize a country the size of Iraq with the cultural and historical 
issues that are inherent in that country.

The strategy, as I said, I think was flawed. Strategy, to me, means 
having a clear objective and putting forth the resources necessary to 
achieve that objective. The objective in Iraq shifted from the WMD 
allegations, to terrorist connections allegations, to creating a 
transformative oasis of democracy and free enterprise in a country that 
has not seen that in many years. And the resources were never adequate 
for the task.

One of the most important resources in a strategy is public support. 
I think one of the major problems with the President's last address a 
few days ago when he talked about Iraq and his so-called new strategy 
is that, I believe, he squandered significantly the willingness of the 
American public to support any proposal made. Without that public 
support, it will be very difficult to sustain our activities in Iraq.

I think the proof of this failed strategy is evident. Today Iran is 
in an enhanced strategic position vis-a-vis the United States and is 
being much more difficult to deal with, with respect to the region and 
to its aspirations of nuclear technology. We have compromised our 
efforts in Afghanistan and in Pakistan where real significant threats 
exist to the world and to the United States. We have diverted our 
attention from North Korea and from the Iranian aspirations for nuclear 
technology.

According to many experts such as Hank Crumpton, who is leaving as 
the Assistant Secretary of State for Counterterrorism:




 We have made it more likely this country will be struck by 


 terrorists, not less likely.


Of course, we can talk at length about the incompetent execution of 
these policies in Iraq, but I want to go right to the heart of what the 
President is talking about. He suggests that we have a changed 
strategy. I would suggest that perhaps we are changing our tactics; we 
are taking American units and putting them in the heart of Baghdad. But 
it seems that this surge is more of the same, more of the clear hold 
and build, more of involvement in the existing conflicts of the Iraqi 
people and not essential to our national security, which would be to 
protect ourselves from terrorists there, to stabilize the country so it 
doesn't disintegrate, and also to go ahead and to train, continually 
train the Iraqi security forces.

Many have criticized this surge on purely military grounds. Too few 
troops. The doctrine calls for more than 120,000 troops to cover the 
city of Baghdad. We will be lucky to muster 50,000 to 60,000 to 70,000. 
Including Iraqi security forces.

There is a lack of unity of command. There is uncertain leadership by 
the Iraqis. Their commanding general is a virtual unknown who has been 
plucked by Maliki to lead this effort, probably more for political 
reliability than for tactical skill. And the rolling start, the gradual 
buildup has already led many Iraqis in Baghdad to suggest that our 
efforts have further compromised their security, as evidenced by the 
bombing just a few days ago of a marketplace in a Shia neighborhood in 
Baghdad.

The strategy we have to pursue is a complementary and reinforcing 
strategy involving military, political, and economic steps, together 
with regional and international diplomacy. It rests fundamentally on 
the capacity of Iraq and non-DOD, nonuniform military advisers to carry 
the day. Frankly, the Iraqi Government is in too many cases 
dysfunctional and incompetent, and elements outside of our uniformed 
military personnel--our State Department officials, our Agriculture 
officials, our Justice officials, our AID officials--have not been in 
Iraq in sufficient numbers and in sufficient quality to deal decisively 
with these issues. There is nothing in this plan which suggests that 
situation will change.

I think we are also at a point where we have been informed by the 
National Intelligence Estimate of the true nature of the struggle in 
Iraq. It is a sectarian battle between Shia and Sunni, with insurgents 
who, according to the NIE, accelerate the violence between these two 
sectarian groups. It is an existential battle where the Shias feel 
insecure because they have labored for many years under the yoke of the 
Saddam Hussein regime, and they don't want to go back there. It is 
existential from the Sunni position because they see themselves 
entitled to rule.

I think our best course is outlined in the Warner resolution, clearly 
stating our disapproval and disagreement with the augmentation as the 
resolution describes, and focusing ourselves on reconciliation, on both 
military efforts, but scaled back, and also concentrating on diplomacy 
and economic activities. I would hope that at least we could get a vote 
on it and, frankly, I think it will pass.

I yield the floor.