---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4604d591589f4becf76f18d0caca2dbd`
`Mr. ROSS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. The gentleman is correct. I mean, we talk a good game when 
it comes to our veterans, but then we saw the truth about what was 
really going on at Walter Reed. And tomorrow there will be a hearing 
with the Armed Services Committee that is a follow-up to a series that 
NBC News did about whether or not our men and women in uniform are 
really getting access to the very best body armor on the market today.

I don't care who makes it. I don't care where it comes from. I would 
prefer for it to come from America. I believe that is important. But if 
our Nation is going to continue to send $12 million an hour, $12 
million an hour of your tax money to Iraq, I believe it is time to tell 
the Pentagon and this administration and the Iraqis that it is time for 
them to be accountable for how this money is being spent. And part of 
that is ensuring that our brave and dedicated men and women in uniform 
and, yes, my brother-in-law is in his 18th year in the Air Force, and I 
am very proud of him. My first cousin is in the Army and getting ready 
to go back to Iraq for a second time.

We all have been affected by this war. We all know someone who has 
been to Iraq. Unfortunately, too many of us know people who have been 
injured or have died; and I question this government on how many of 
those deaths and life-changing injuries could have been avoidable had 
we ensured that our men and women in uniform were properly equipped.

So this hearing tomorrow is going to be about body armor. And, again, 
I don't care who makes it. I don't care where it comes from. I want it 
to come from America. But just because our men and women were receiving 
the very best body armor when the war began in 2003 does not 
necessarily mean that in 2007 that that is still the very best body 
armor on the market.

And John Grant, I want to thank John Grant from Pearcy, Arkansas, in 
Garland County, the father of a soldier in the 39th Brigade of the 
Arkansas National Guard. His son has been to Iraq once. You know the 
deal with the Guard. You are supposed to go once every 5 years, but the 
President did that waiver thing, and now they are headed back again.



They haven't even been home 3 years. It is my understanding that by 
Christmas, or shortly thereafter, they will be back for a second tour 
of duty. These are not full-time military, these are members of the 
Arkansas National Guard, 39th. John Grant wants to ensure that his son 
and all soldiers, not just the 39th, but all soldiers in Iraq are 
receiving the very best body armor possible.

This hearing tomorrow before the Armed Services Committee tomorrow 
will be very important. I am committed, as are some 42 Members of 
Congress that signed a letter with me to the Pentagon, in ensuring that 
our brave men and women in uniform are provided the very best in 
equipment and the very best in body armor so that we can ensure their 
safe return.

I yield to the gentleman from Indiana.