---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `460918ab732313b484ad231599f92e9a`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 29 March 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

It is really important that Americans hear every side of the budget 
argument. That is why I am proud to rise today to bring before the 
House the Congressional Progressive peace and security budget 
alternative.

The peace and security budget balances by the year 2010, which is 2 
years ahead of the Democratic budget, 2 years ahead of the Republican 
substitute, and light years ahead of the administration's budget, a 
budget that doesn't balance anywhere in a 10-year horizon.

This chart, Madam Chairman, shows the Progressive budget, it shows 
the Congressional House budget, and it shows the President's budget. 
Very clear, indeed. This is about domestic spending, and we will get to 
that later.

Now, let's look at exactly what happens when we meet our deficit and 
when we go into balance.

This is the Progressive budget. This is the President's budget. Here 
we are. Here he is. We are light years ahead of the President's budget, 
and 2 years ahead of the Democratic budget.

The peace and security budget cuts defense spending by $108 billion 
below the President's budget, all the while keeping America safe. 
Actually, the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget spends $395 
billion on defense. That is a lot of money. At the same time, the CPC 
alternative increases domestic discretionary spending to $483 billion, 
and this is this chart. Our spending is $89 billion over the President, 
$58 billion over the Democrats, and if you can believe this, it is $33 
billion more than the social justice groups have been asking for.

So here you are. We have the President's budget spending on domestic 
funding, we have the Democrats, and we have the Progressive Caucus.

How do we get there? It's not as hard as you may think. You can vest 
in domestic programs if you aren't spending precious tax dollars on a 
misguided occupation of another nation. Because of this, we assume an 
end to the occupation of Iraq by the end of 2007. This will save us 
hundreds of billions of dollars in the next year alone.

We also roll back the Bush tax cuts for the top 1 percent of income 
earners. That's people who make over $1 million a year. And we target 
waste, fraud and abuse at the Department of Defense, including savings 
of $60 billion a year by eliminating and reducing Cold War era relics 
that are still being produced in this country. With these savings, we 
are able to put money where it is most needed.

The peace and security budget keeps its promise to a strong public 
education by fully funding No Child Left Behind, title I, which would 
expand services about $30 billion a year, and it also fully funds our 
commitment to special education, to IDEA.

Our substitute moves us closer to the promise of a universal health 
care system by putting $75 billion over 5 years into SCHIP to cover all 
eligible children.

We support a leaner, smarter and more effective national security 
program by investing in emphasizing greater diplomacy and less combat. 
Our budget makes the veterans health care an entitlement, including 
mental health services.

The progressive budget invests $30 billion a year over 10 years to 
completely transform our energy policy to ensure that our children and 
our grandchildren will have clean and renewable energy sources.

And, finally, we increase spending for domestic priorities like HIV/
AIDS, section 8 housing, and Community Development Block Grants.

Madam Chairman, it is time we stand up and challenge what is possible 
in a Federal budget. The alternative prepared and brought here today by 
the Congressional Progressive Caucus does that and does it boldly. It 
puts money where we need it, it cuts programs that have for so long 
been sacred cows, and it says to our country, we want to take your tax 
dollars and invest them in the people of this Nation.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.