# STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `460b3bcb09210959d25299165cecb9cd`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, the stimulus bill is the subject of 
discussion. There are some things we know about it and some we don't. 
We know, for example, it is a massive amount of money, almost $800 
billion. These are numbers we throw around. But according to the 
Politico newspaper last month, this is more than we spent on Iraq, more 
than we spent on Afghanistan, more than we spent going to the Moon in 
today's dollars, and more than the Federal Government spent in the 
entire New Deal in today's dollars. It's a massive amount of money. It 
is not like some of the money we were authorizing to be spent in 
October and November, when we were giving the Department of the 
Treasury, in effect, a line of credit to help financial institutions 
begin to lend again so people could get auto loans. This is money we 
are spending. It goes out the door. We have to pay it back. It adds to 
the national debt. It took from the founding of our country all the way 
to the late 1970s to accumulate a national debt as large as the amount 
of money we are spending in this bill. We have been moving rapidly on 
this legislation. It is not only spending. The amount of money spent 
for education is such that it may be the largest Federal education bill 
we have ever passed in terms of dollars. The amount of money spent for 
energy is enough that it will be one of the largest Energy bills. The 
amount of money spent for Medicaid in the House and Senate bills, 
nearly $90 billion over 2 years to the States, may completely distort 
the discussion we are about to have on national health care policy. 
These are all topics that normally we would take weeks to consider.

For example, if we are going to add $40 billion to a Department of 
Education that only spends $68 billion today, we would ask the 
question: $40 billion for more of the same, or do we have some better 
ideas about how we might reward outstanding teachers or give teachers 
more discretion or parents more choices of schools?

I ask the assistant Republican leader from Arizona, this is one of 
the most important, massive bills. Republicans want a stimulus package. 
We have made clear we think we ought to start by fixing housing first, 
letting people keep more of their own money, and confining the spending 
to only those projects that create jobs.

I ask the Senator from Arizona, where are we? Has he had an 
opportunity to read the legislation to know how much is being spent, 
how much is actually targeted for jobs, and how temporary that 
targeting might be?