# None
## `460d8b41e1245816731e851d9ae2c2e9`
`Mr. STARK — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, as the dean of the California delegation, 
it's my privilege, my honor and distinct pleasure to introduce the 
newest member of our California delegation, Laura Richardson, elected 
to California's 37th Congressional District in a special election held 
just recently. Laura Richardson is a passionate critic of the war in 
Iraq, a supporter of universal health care, and a welcome addition to 
our delegation.

After three terms on the Long Beach City Council and several years as 
director for Lieutenant Governor Cruz Bustamante, Laura was elected to 
the California State Assembly last November. And less than a year 
later, she won a special election to succeed our dear departed 
colleague, Juanita Millender-McDonald, and joins us here. It is a 
distinction that she is one of the few people in the history of this 
country to serve both in a local, State and Federal post within 1 year. 
She worked for Juanita as a field deputy, and she will continue her 
important work to ensure that all Americans can participate in a fair 
and free electoral process.

Laura's career has many highlights. While on the city council, she 
was responsible for bringing Long Beach's inner city its first job 
training center for working families; she championed economic 
development and improved upon transportation services. And dear to my 
heart, she helped open the first new bank in the city's central area 
since the 1992 riots.

In the assembly, she became the first African American woman to serve 
as the Assistant Speaker pro tempore. In the House, she will keep 
California's Democratic delegation a majority female; of our 34 
members, 18 are women.

She is a member of the International Association of Machinists and 
Aerospace Workers, and she joins us as an effective voice for working 
families in Congress. I look forward to working with her to improve 
health care for everyone and address the disparities in our health care 
system, issues I know are important to her and should be to all of us.

At this time, I yield to my distinguished colleague and senior Member 
from the Republican delegation of California.