---
---

# PROTECT THE POWER OF THE PEOPLE
## `4610674b226d55ca0133c4144e599c3b`
`Mr. BYRD — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, in the late hours last night, I took to the 
floor to decry some Senators who wish, if I may put it in this 
language, to sabotage the ethics reform legislation with a dangerous 
and unconstitutional line-item veto proposal. What is happening is 
little more than political blackmail, and the American people--those 
people out there who are watching through the lenses above the 
President's chair, the American people--should be outraged. I have been 
around here a long time. I have spoken on this subject many times. This 
so-called line-item veto is an assault on the single most important 
protection that the American people have against a President, any 
President, who wants to run roughshod over the liberties of the people 
prescribed in the Constitution. Today I am talking about the 
congressional power over the purse. The congressional power that is 
right here, and over on the other side of the Capitol, the 
congressional power over the purse.

Weaken the power of the purse and one weakens strong--the word 
''strong'' is too weak--one weakens oversight, for example, on this 
bloody nightmare of a war in Iraq. Get that? Weaken the power over the 
public purse and we weaken the oversight over this bloody war in Iraq. 
That is just one example. One weakens the power of the purse and one 
weakens the checks on a President who wants to tap into personal 
telephone calls or pry into bank accounts or tear open the mail. 
Without congressional power over the purse--money--there is no 
effective way to stop an out-of-control President who is bent on his 
way, no matter the price, no matter the repercussion. Make no mistake--
hear me, now. The Roman orator would say, ''Romans, lend me your 
ears.'' Make no mistake, this line-item veto authority would grant 
tremendous--I say tremendous and dangerous--new power to the President.

There are new Members of this body. Perhaps we ought to have some 
discussions about the line-item veto. The President would have 
unchecked authority to imperil congressional power over the purse, a 
power that the constitutional Framers felt was absolutely vital to 
reining in an overzealous President.

Eight years ago, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the line-
item veto--hear me, Senators; you may be watching your boob tubes. Hear 
me. Eight years ago, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the 
line-item veto was unconstitutional. I said at the time that the 
Supreme Court saved the Congress from its own folly. But now, it seems, 
memories in this Senate are short and wisdom may be even shorter in 
supply. Here we are, on the heels of 6 years of assault on personal 
liberty, 6 years of a do-nothing Congress all too willing to turn its 
eyes from the real problems of the Nation, 6 years of rubberstamps and 
rubber spines--here we are, all too ready to jettison the single most 
important protection of the people's liberties: the power of the purse.

Let's review the record. We have a President--I say this in all due 
respect.


I respect the President of the United States. I respect the Presidency; 
I respect the Chief Executive. We have a President who already has 
asserted too much power while refusing to answer questions:




 I am the commander--see, I don't need to explain--I do not 


 need to explain why I say things. That's the interesting 


 thing about being the President. Maybe somebody needs to 


 explain to me why they say something, but I don't feel like I 


 owe anybody an explanation.


Those are the words of our President, the very President who some in 
this body are all too willing to allow to dominate the people's branch, 
this branch, your branch--the people's branch of Government.

This President claimed the unconstitutional authority to tap into the 
telephone conversations of American citizens without a warrant, without 
court approval. This President claimed the unconstitutional authority 
to sneak and peek, to snoop and scoop into the private lives of you, 
the American people. This President has taken the Nation to a failed 
war--yes, to a failed war that we should have never entered into--based 
on faulty evidence and an unconstitutional doctrine of preemptive 
strikes, a doctrine that is absolutely unconstitutional on its face. 
More than 3,000 American sons and daughters have died in Iraq in this 
failed Presidential misadventure.

What is the response of the Senate? To give the President even more 
unfettered authority? Give him greater unchecked powers? It is 
astounding. We have seen the danger of the blank check. We have lived 
through the aftermath of a rubberstamp Congress. We should not continue 
to lie down for this or any other President.

Of course, this President wants to strip Congress of its strongest 
and most important power, the power of the purse. Congress has the 
ability to shut down the administration's unconstitutional practices. 
Congress is asking tough questions and demanding honest answers. 
Congress is taking a hard look at finding ways to bring our troops home 
from the President's misadventure in Iraq that has already cost the 
lives of more than 3,000 of the American people's sons and daughters. 
Of course, the President wants to control the Congress. Some Presidents 
have wanted to do this before--silence the critics, ignore, if you 
will, the will of the people seriously cripple oversight.


Strip away the power of the Congress to control the purse strings, 
then you strip away the power of the Congress to say ''No more, Mr. 
President;'' strip away the single most important power granted to the 
people in this Constitution. That is the White House demand. I, for 
one, will not kowtow to this President or to any President. I, for one, 
will not stand quietly by while the people's liberties are placed in 
jeopardy. No Senator should want to hand such power to the President. 
No American should stand for it--not now, not today, not tomorrow, not 
the day after tomorrow, not ever.

Just a few weeks ago, Members of the Senate took an oath, ''I do 
solemnly swear that I will support and defend. . . .'' This is in our 
oath, my oath, that I have taken several times.




 I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the 


 Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 


 foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and 


 allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, 


 without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and 


 that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the 


 office on which I am about to enter: So help me God.


That is the oath I take: ''So help me God.''

If our Republican colleagues want to stop the Senate's efforts to end 
the scandals that plagued the last Congress, that is their right. If 
our Republican colleagues want to stop the first increase in the 
minimum wage in the past decade, that is their right. But I, this 
mountain boy from the hills, will not stand with them. And the American 
people will see through this transparent effort to gut ethics reform.


I, as one Senator with others, if they will stand with me, will do my 
very best to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. 
Yet I will bear true faith and allegiance to this Constitution and to 
the people of this great Nation, defying an effort to weaken the power 
of the purse.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.