---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `4625c1ada6000311f300ecb458087335`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, the issue before the House today is 
straightforward. Do we think the President's Iraq policy is working so 
well that we should give him another $200 billion to continue it, or do 
we need a fundamental change in direction?

I truly believe we need to change an Iraq policy that is simply not 
working. From the beginning, the Bush administration has been wrong 
about the war in Iraq. If you set aside the administration's rhetoric, 
the reality is that the surge has not worked. The goal of the surge was 
to give the Iraqi Government breathing space to make the political 
decisions necessary to reduce the violence that is tearing Iraq apart. 
But 11 months into the troop surge, progress on political 
reconciliation continues to be all but nonexistent. Meanwhile, 2007 has 
already been the deadliest year for American troops since the start of 
the war in Iraq.

There is a clear choice before us. If you are satisfied with how the 
Bush administration has been conducting the war for the last 4/1/2/ 
years, you should oppose this bill. If, on the other hand, you believe 
the administration's strategy isn't working and want to require the 
President to change course, you should vote for this legislation.

Whatever small chance there is of the Iraqi factions coming together, 
it will not happen as long as the U.S. military commitment in Iraq 
remains open-ended. We need to change course.