---
---

# IRAQ
## `462af6da935c66b47c3be123f7d93079`
`Mr. KYL — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, speaking to this resolution, I wish to be 
clear that it had been my intention to cast a ''no'' vote to proceeding 
to this nonbinding resolution. The majority, of course, has to muster 
60 votes in order to proceed on that particular resolution.

I believe my time will be more productive fulfilling a commitment I 
have made to lead a trip to Iraq. Without disclosing when or precisely 
where we will be in the Middle East, I will tell my colleagues that I 
will be able to personally deliver a message not only to our troops of 
support of the American people for their mission but also hopefully to 
deliver a message directly to the Prime Minister of Iraq that we expect 
him to continue to fulfill the commitments he has made to carry out 
this new strategy, which has signs of success already, and to learn 
directly, firsthand from our commanders and troops on the ground, their 
assessment of how this new mission is proceeding. What the Congress 
needs to do is to provide assistance and to be able to bring home a 
report unfiltered through the media of precisely where the conditions 
stand right now.


While I would have voted no, in effect, I will be voting no by my 
presence in Iraq.

There are three reasons I oppose the resolution to move forward with 
this particular nonbinding resolution. First of all, we have been 
debating almost nonstop this subject of Iraq, now, for several weeks--
both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. So there has 
been no lack of debate.

Rest assured that Republicans are committed to continuing this debate 
for as long as the American people believe it is productive. We welcome 
debate. We also welcome something else: The opportunity to express 
ourselves in a meaningful way, not simply on a nonbinding resolution. 
We have no objection to voting on this nonbinding resolution as long as 
we can also vote on something that is actually more meaningful than 
that, and that is a resolution that demonstrates we will not withdraw 
support for our troops. We aim to support them in their mission.

Having been precluded, blocked, for being able to have a vote on that 
resolution, what we are saying is that we should move forward with the 
debate, but until the majority leader is willing to provide Members a 
vote on the resolution for support of the troops, we should not be 
voting on other resolutions.

I think this is time for Democrats to take a stand. Either you 
support the troops in the battlefield or you don't, none of this sort 
of slow bleed and nonbinding resolution debate. The nonbinding 
resolution obscures your true position. It seems to me, if you merely 
seem to tell the President you don't like what he is doing, you have 
plenty of opportunities to do that, but a resolution can have a very 
deleterious effect on the morale of our troops, on our enemies who see 
it as a sign of weakness, and perhaps on our allies who wonder if we 
see the mission through.

If you are serious about stopping this effort because you believe it 
has failed or cannot succeed, obviously you need to do what Congress 
has the ability to do and that is vote no on the funding of the troops.

Instead, what we have been told is that in the House of 
Representatives, after this first step of the nonbinding resolution, 
there will be a second step, this slow-bleed strategy, a concept that 
says Congress will begin to micromanage how troops are deployed in the 
field and around the world and equipment provided to them, and that 
will determine whether any will receive Congress's continued support.

We cannot condition our support for the troops. They need to know 
that when we send them into harm's way, they will have everything they 
need from reinforcements to equipment. This sort of slow-bleed strategy 
that has been announced over in the House of Representatives is 
extraordinarily dangerous and deleterious to our mission.

First of all, it seems to me there are some signs of success. This is 
the first reason I would have voted no on the resolution. We do need to 
give the new strategy the President has announced a chance to succeed.

There are plenty of stories, and I will have them printed in the 
Record at the conclusion of my remarks, about some initial successes--
the Shiite militia leaders appearing to leave their strongholds in 
Baghdad in anticipation of our plan to increase our activities there.

The powerful Shiite cleric, Moqtada al-Sadr has left Iraq, spending 
his time in Iran away from the danger that might await him if he stayed 
in Baghdad.

In Al Anbar Province in the west, the tribal sheiks have now 
significantly begun to align themselves with the United States, as a 
result of which we have been able to recruit hundreds more police 
officers who were not possible to recruit in the past.

A real sign is the fact that Sunni and Shiite Arab lawmakers have 
announced plans to form two new political blocs in Iraq. The Iraqi 
military is taking a significantly, more robust role, now ordering tens 
of thousands of residents to leave homes--these are the so-called 
squatters--that they are occupying illegally, and, instead, saying they 
will have the original owners of those homes come back. This is 
important because the people who have been displaced or dispossessed 
primarily are Sunnis. The Shiite militias came in and kicked them out 
and allowed squatters in their home.

It is highly significant the Iraqi Government has said, through a LTG 
Aboud Qanbar, who is leading this new crackdown, that they are going to 
close the borders with Iran and Syria, they are going to extend the 
curfew in Baghdad, set up new checkpoints and reoccupy the houses that 
have been occupied by the illegal Shiites.

Another significant change, they actually raided a Shiite mosque 
which was a center of illegally armed militias, kidnapping, torture and 
murder activities and a place where a good deal of weapons had been 
stored. This, in the past, had not been done. But it is now being done, 
all as a part of Maliki's commitment to change the rules of engagement 
and to commit himself to support politically the victories that had 
been occurring on the ground militarily but which were fleeting because 
when you capture people and put them in jail, if the politicians get 
them out of jail the next day, you have gained nothing. We need to give 
it a chance.


I referred to former Representative Hamilton of the Hamilton-Baker 
Commission, who said in testimony:




 So I guess my bottom line on the surge is, look, the 


 president's plan ought to be given a chance. Give it a 


 chance, because we heard all of this. This that you confirmed 


 . . . the day before yesterday, this is his idea. He's the 


 supporter of it. Give it a chance.


Second, we need to support this mission and oppose the nonbinding 
resolution opposed to it because it would send a horrible message not 
only to our troops and military leaders but to our allies and to our 
enemies.

General Petraeus, whom I mentioned a moment ago, at his confirmation 
hearing got this question from Senator Lieberman.




 Senator Lieberman: You also said in response to a question 


 from Senator McCain that adoption of a resolution of 


 disapproval . . . would not . . . have a beneficial effect on 


 our troops in Iraq. But I want to ask you, what effect would 


 Senate passage of a resolution of disapproval of this new way 


 ahead




 that you embrace--what effect would it have on our enemies in 


 Iraq?



 Lieutenant General Petraeus: Sir, as I said in the opening 


 statement, this is a test of wills, at the end of the day. 


 And in that regard . . . a commander of such an endeavor 


 would obviously like the enemy to feel that there's no hope.



 Senator Lieberman: And a resolution--a Senate passed 


 resolution of disapproval for this new strategy in Iraq would 


 give the enemy some encouragement, some feeling that--well, 


 some clear expression that the American people are divided.



 Lieutenant General Petraeus: That's correct, sir.


Soldiers believe the same thing. From ABC News, on February 13, they 
asked Army 1SG Louis Barnum what they thought of the resolution. They 
had strong words. Here is what one said:




 Makes me sick. I'm a born and raised Democrat--it makes me 


 sad.


On the NBC nightly news, January 26, interview of three of our 
soldiers.

SPC Tyler Johnson said:




 Those people are dying. You know what I am saying? You may 


 support--'oh, we support the troops' but you're not 


 supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what 


 they believe for, what we die for. It just don't make sense 


 to me.


SSG Manuel Sahagun:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops but they don't support the war. If they're 


 going to support us, support us all the way.


There was in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, February 15, a poignant 
communication from an Army sergeant whose name is Daniel Dobson. He 
said:




 The question has been posed to me recently what 


 congressional resolution hurts troops morale the most. No 


 doubt we would be happy to come home tomorrow. But the 


 thought is bittersweet. Most servicemembers will tell you the 


 same thing: There is no honor in retreat . . . and there is 


 no honor in what the Democrats have proposed. It stings me to 


 the core to think that Americans would rather sell their 


 honor than fight for a cause. Those of us who fight [for 


 peace] know all too well that peace has a very bloody price 


 tag.


The American people believe this as well. FOX News, according to an 
opinion dynamics poll in the last couple of days, 47 percent of the 
American people say it is more likely to encourage the enemy and hurt 
troop morale compared with 24 percent who think it would make a 
positive difference to the policy of the United States toward Iraq.

So we better be careful what kind of message is sent through a so-
called nonbinding resolution. It would not change the course of what we 
are doing on the ground in Iraq, but it can certainly affect our enemy 
and the morale of our troops and our allies.

I conclude by saying it seems to me it would be a huge mistake to 
proceed to vote only on a resolution which is acknowledged by its 
proponents as being merely a first step toward a second step of 
reducing and ultimately removing support for the troops whom we have 
sent into harm's way. Far better it would be for us to continue this 
debate at the conclusion of which we would vote on another resolution 
which would explicitly express our support for our troops and their 
mission.

To expound in further detail, I oppose this resolution and would vote 
''no'' on taking it up without considering other resolutions first, 
because it would put a halt to the progress which has begun to occur in 
Iraq since the President announced new strategy. Some examples:












shiite militias leave sadr city




 Shiite militia leaders already appear to be leaving their 


 strongholds in Baghdad in anticipation of the U.S. and Iraqi 


 plan to increase the troop presence in the Iraqi capital, 


 according to the top U.S. commander in the country. ''We have 


 seen numerous indications Shia militia leaders will leave, or 


 already have left, Sadr City to avoid capture by Iraqi and 


 coalition security forces,'' Army Gen. George W. Casey, Jr. 


 said in a written statement submitted to the Senate Armed 


 Services Committee as part of his confirmation hearing today 


 to be Army chief of staff.












 moqtada al-sadr living in iran




 The powerful Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has left Iraq 


 and has been living in Iran for the past several weeks . . . 


 With fresh American forces arriving in Baghdad as part of the 


 White House plan to stabilize the capital, officials in 


 Washington suggested that Mr. Sadr might have fled Iraq to 


 avoid being captured or killed during the crackdown.











 sunnis battle al qaeda in al anbar




 Before tribal sheiks aligned themselves with U.S. forces in 


 the violent deserts of western Iraq, the number of people 


 willing to become police officers in the city of Ramadi--the 


 epicenter of the fight against the insurgent group known as 


 al-Qaeda in Iraq--might not have filled a single police 


 pickup. ''Last March was zero,'' said Maj. Gen. Richard C. 


 Zilmer, the Marine commander in western Iraq, referring to 


 the number of men recruited that month. With the help of a 


 confederation of about 50 Sunni Muslim tribal sheiks, the 


 U.S. military recruited more than 800 police officers in 


 December and is on track to do the same this month. Officers 


 credit the sheiks' cooperation for the diminishing violence 


 in Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province.








sunnis and shiites move away from sect-arianism




 Sunni and Shiite Arab lawmakers announced plans [January 


 31] to form two new blocs in Iraq's parliament they hope will 


 break away from the ethnic and religious mold of current 


 alliances and ease sectarian strife. But though both blocs 


 said they hoped to eventually draw in members of all ethnic 


 and religious groups, one initially will be made up entirely 


 of Shiite Muslim politicians and the other of Sunni Muslims.











iraq military taking a leading role




 The Iraqi government on Tuesday ordered tens of thousands 


 of Baghdad residents to leave homes they are occupying 


 illegally, in a surprising and highly challenging effort to 


 reverse the tide of sectarian cleansing that has left the 


 capital bloodied and balkanized. In a televised speech, Lt. 


 Gen. Aboud Qanbar, who is leading the new crackdown, also 


 announced the closing of Iraq's borders with Iran and Syria, 


 an extension of the curfew in Baghdad by an hour, and the 


 setup of new checkpoints run by the Defense and Interior 


 Ministries, both of which General Qanbar said he now 


 controlled.










iraqi security forces raid shiite mosque




 A U.S. military spokesman on Thursday hailed a joint 


 American-Iraqi raid on Baghdad's leading Shiite Muslim mosque 


 as proof that the Baghdad security plan is being applied 


 evenly against all sides of the country's sectarian divide. 


 In a statement released Thursday, the U.S. military said the 


 mosque was raided ''during operations targeting illegally 


 armed militia kidnapping, torture and murder activities.'' It 


 said the mosque had been used ''to conduct sectarian violence 


 against Iraqi civilians as well as a safe haven and weapons 


 storage area for illegal militia groups.'' Sunni Muslims have 


 reported being held and beaten in the mosque, but little had 


 been done about it before. The Supreme Council's armed wing, 


 the Badr Organization, has been accused of kidnapping and 


 torturing Sunnis. The statement said U.S. forces guarded the 


 area around the mosque while Iraqi soldiers entered it with 


 the cooperation of its security guards.


baker and hamilton have urged the senate to capitalize on this progress




 Hamilton: So I guess my bottom line on the surge is, look, 


 the president's plan ought to be given a chance. Give it a 


 chance, because we heard all of this. The general that you 


 confirmed 80-to-nothing the day before yesterday, this is his 


 idea. He's the supporter of it. Give it a chance.



 Baker: And let me . . . read from the report with respect 


 to this issue of the surge, because there are only two 


 conditions upon our support for a surge. One is that it be 


 short-term and the other is that it be called for by the 


 commander in Iraq. President Bush said this is not an open-


 ended commitment. Secretary Gates said this is a temporary 


 surge and . . . General Petraeus is the guy that's to carry 


 it out and he was the person that originally recommended it.

I also oppose this resolution because I believe it would send a 
horrible message to our troops and our military leaders, our allies and 
our enemies.

The majority leader has said that he doesn't think the resolution 
''matters'' substantively, and that the politics are all that is 
important. He said:




 Well, it doesn't matter what resolution we move forward to. 


 You know, I can count. I don't know if we'll get 60 votes. 


 But I'll tell you one thing: There are 21 Republicans up for 


 reelection this time.


I believe, contrary to the opinion of the Majority Leader, that the 
non-binding words in this resolution do matter. Here's why.

General Petraeus Believes the resolution hurts his Mission.

This is from Petraeus' confirmation hearing:




 Senator Lieberman. You also said in response to a question 


 from Senator McCain that adoption of a resolution of 


 disapproval, . . . would not . . . have a beneficial effect 


 on our troops in Iraq. But I want to ask you, what effect 


 would Senate passage of a resolution of disapproval of this 


 new way ahead that you embrace--what effect would it have on 


 our enemies in Iraq?



 Lieutenant General Petraeus. Sir, as I stated in the 


 opening statement, this is a test of wills, at the end of the 


 day. And in that regard . . . a commander in such an endeavor 


 would obviously like the enemy to feel that there's no hope.



 Senator Lieberman. And a resolution--a Senate-passed 


 resolution of disapproval for this new strategy in Iraq would 


 give the enemy some encouragement, some feeling that--well, 


 some clear expression that the American people were divided.



 Lieutenant General Petraeus: That's correct, sir. Soldiers 


 believe the resolution undermines them.



ABC News, Feb. 13:



 ABC News recently asked Army sergeants in Ramadi what they 


 thought of the resolution, and they had strong words.



 ''Makes me sick,'' said First Sgt. Louis Barnum. [I'm] born 


 and raised a Democrat--it makes me sad.''



 ''I don't want to bad mouth the president at all. To me[,] 


 that is treason,'' said SGT. Brian Orzechowski.


From NBC Nightly News, January 26:


Specialist Tyler Johnson:




 Those people are dying. You know what I'm saying? You may 


 support--''Oh, we support the troops,'' but you're not 


 supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what 


 they believe for, what we die for. It just don't make sense 


 to me.


SSG Manuel Sahagun:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops but they don't support the war. If they're 


 going to support us, support us all the way.

SPC Peter Manna:




 If they don't think we're doing a good job, everything that 


 we've done here is all in vain.

From Fort-Worth Star Telegram, February 15, 2007:

Army SGT Daniel Dobson:




 The question has been posed to me recently what 


 congressional resolution hurts troop morale the most. No 


 doubt we would be happy to come home tomorrow. But the 


 thought is bittersweet. Most service members would tell you 


 the same thing: There is no honor in retreat . . . and there 


 is no honor in what the Democrats have proposed. It stings me 


 to the core to think that Americans would rather sell their 


 honor than fight for a cause. Those of us who fight for 


 [peace] know all too well that peace has a very bloody price 


 tag.


 The American Public Believes That The Resolution Undermines The Troops


From FOX NEWS quoting an opinion dynamics poll:




 47 percent say it is more likely to encourage the enemy and 


 hurt troop morale, compared with 24 percent who think it 


 would make a positive difference to U.S. policy toward Iraq.


Finally, this resolution is but the first step in a ''slow bleed'' 
strategy, and should be rejected for that reason as well.

Democrats claim that they just want an up or down vote on this 
resolution to send a message to the President, but I fear that the real 
plan is much more expansive. If this resolution passes, votes to cut 
off support for our troops and micromanaging the war won't be far 
behind.

In the other Chamber, Representative Murtha has made it clear that he 
intends to bleed our troops of support for their mission in Iraq. 
Speaking about his resolution, Murtha said: ''They won't be able to 
continue. They won't be able to do the deployment. They won't have the 
equipment, they don't have the training and they won't be able to do 
the work. There's no question in my mind.''

Speaker Pelosi essentially endorsed this slow-bleed strategy, 
according to reports in The Poltico this morning.

Those who believe that this vote is a simple gesture, and that it 
will be the last word on the ''surge'' from this body, then why did 
Senator Feingold say on the floor just this morning that the Warner 
resolution is a ''first step''? Please listen to these additional 
quotes from some of my Democratic colleagues:

This is from the Foreign Relations Committee, January 24, 2007:




 Senator Biden: But there's also one other thing, and I 


 commit to everyone today, and I will end with this: that 


 unless the President demonstrates very quickly that he is 


 unlikely to continue down the road he's on, this will be only 


 the first step in this committee. I will be introducing--I 


 know Senator Dodd may today introduce and another may--I know 


 Senator Obama, Senator Kerry, probably all of you have 


 binding, constitutionally legitimate, binding pieces of 


 legislation. We will bring them up.


On ''Meet The Press,'' January 28, 2007:




 Mr. Russert: Do you believe that it's inevitable Democrats 


 will cut funding for the war off?



 Senator Schumer: Well, we'll certainly ratchet up the 


 pressure against President Bush. The bottom line is that this 


 escalation, for instance, is so poorly received, not just by 


 Democrats, but by all of the American people. Our first step 


 will be this sense of the Senate resolution. But it's only 


 the first step.


From Speaker Pelosi, February 13, 2007:



 A vote of disapproval will set the stage for additional 


 Iraq legislation which will be coming to the House floor.


If our Democratic colleagues don't intend to make this resolution the 
''first step'' in a campaign to cut off funding for our operations in 
Iraq, then why won't they allow a vote on the Gregg resolution?

In summary, debate? Yes. But votes that are meaningful--not just on a 
critical non-binding resolution but on a commitment of support for our 
troops and their mission as well.