---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `462c8f6fb38068635f58e48115ddf5d3`
`Ms. CLARKE — 22 September 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. I thank the gentleman from Chicago, Illinois for his 
eloquence and for the sharing of his insights based on the constituency 
that he represents and based on the years of knowledge and on the years 
of experience that he has had here in Washington in dealing with these 
matters.

This is truly an unprecedented time, but we have got to look back a 
bit to really get a sense of how we got here. Follow me on this chart 
over here. It's building a wall of debt.

When you look back at the year 2001, our debt was at $5.8 trillion. 
Fast forward to 2009, and it is projected that our debt will have 
basically doubled in that time. Then let's also recollect the 
philosophy of the Bush administration and of the Republicans of this 
body. There was a great proclamation about the ownership society. That 
is, we want to make sure that this Nation is underpinned by the need 
and by the capacity and by the ability to own.

Well, at the end of the day, what we see is that we own a whole lot 
of debt. On top of this debt, we're going to be owning $700 billion in 
poor assets, in assets that no one else was able to leverage to create 
profit. There were all of those loans that were given to those who 
wanted to be a part of the ownership society. In their hearts, they 
knew it was the best thing to do, but they were seized upon by 
unscrupulous individuals who provided a product that was basically a 
pipe dream.



We were all part of the ownership society, all right. And in the 
words of Colin Powell, you broke it, you own it. And I just find it 
quite interesting that everyone is getting on TV, particularly those 
who were responsible because of their lack of stewardship, because of 
their breaking of the public trust, to say, you know, no one is to 
blame here. Well, when you pursue policies that create such damage to 
American finance, American households and communities, the American 
psyche, well, I think you need to own that too.

So today we are talking more about some of the proposals that are 
coming before us. I just want to put in a word about the fact that in 
this whole ownership society there was also a lack of discipline, and 
discipline can be shaped up in a number of different ways.

The way I like to discuss it, it has to do with regulation. I find it 
ironic that there are people in the financial world, real bigwigs, who 
have not been able to come to grips with the fact that their joyride is 
over, that happy days are not here again, but that they have driven our 
economy into the ground, and they are all lining up right now to want 
to be part of the solution, without regulation, without accountability.

Those days are over. I can tell you that the members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, the members of the Democratic Caucus, the 
Members of the new Congress are not going to sit by idly have false 
proclamations made without substantiation.

We have back in March of 2008 when we spoke about the issue of 
regulation and the need for regulation, our own President saying, ''I'm 
deeply concerned about law and regulation that will make it harder for 
the markets to recover, and, when they recover, make it harder for this 
economy to be robust.''

Well, Mr. President, the markets failed with no regulation. 
Regulation was not a part of the equation here.

Then you have our nominee in the Republican Party, Senator McCain, 
who says, ''I am always for less regulation. I would like to see a lot 
of the unnecessary government regulations eliminated.'' March of this 
year. Now, everyone knew. Everyone knew this was coming down the pipe, 
and they are now the ones calling for regulation.

Well, now that the horse is out of the barn and the crisis has hit, 
it is easy to make that determination, because hindsight is 20-20. But 
when reasonable people pleaded, held hearings to talk about the need to 
regulate what was going on, when we saw predatory lending becoming a 
cancer, a gangrene in communities of color, when we saw the subprime 
foreclosure market just eat communities alive, there was no mercy. 
There was a wink and a nod, and the feeding frenzy continued.

Then it spread to the prime market, and the feeding frenzy continued. 
It continued so much so that in many of these financial institutions 
folks were almost delusional about the condition that their companies 
were in. Overnight it seemed, all of a sudden everything came cascading 
down.

You know, for the average American, we don't get bailouts. We get 
reprimanded. We get marginalized. We get being told that we are 
irresponsible. Yet I hear none of that terminology for all of these 
folks who have not only upset the U.S. market, their reckless behavior 
has upset the world market. The world market.

We have an over abiding obligation in the United States of America. 
We are looked to around the world for our excellence, for our ability 
to handle our affairs, and that has been eroded to nothing under the 
Bush administration. Not in one area can we say that we have held to 
the American ideals, and this economic crisis marks that.

Let me also share with you something you already know, and this has 
to do with our economy, it has to do with the loss of jobs. Back when 
Bill Clinton was President of the United States, as you can see, our 
economy was robust and we were on a path to prosperity with respect to 
job growth and development.

Under the Bush administration, in just 8 years we have brought so 
many families, so many communities into poverty. The number of new jobs 
needed per month to keep pace with the growth in the working age 
population, 150,000. And look at the performance of the Bush 
administration.

This says it all, folks. We are in an economic downturn. Individuals 
are unemployed, health care costs are skyrocketing, energy costs are 
through


the roof, financial markets are crashing. All of this, all of this did 
not happen overnight. It certainly hasn't happened since the new 
Congress. This was a building process.

And for individuals to stand up and say that it was the Democratic 
Congress that caused this to happen, it is insulting the intelligence 
of the American people. It started during a period of time where the 
philosophy was in place that anything goes in the free market. It 
started when there was a philosophy in place that said that the 
ownership society is one that does not need to be regulated. It started 
and continued on a path of destruction under the leadership of the Bush 
administration.


Compounding that is the continued war in Iraq. Compounding that is 
the cost of health care, that grows exponentially each month. 
Compounding that is the loss and the hemorrhaging of jobs. So Wall 
Street has now caught up and our economy is so fragile that meetings 
are taking place throughout Capitol Hill in every nook and cranny to 
save, to save, our financial well-being.

When we say our financial well-being, it is truly our financial well-
being, because we have known in urban communities for quite some time 
when the unemployment rate was rising that something was wrong. It was 
an indicator. When people began losing their homes, filing for 
bankruptcy. When folks who had formerly been middle-class had quickly 
in the blink of an eye become part of the working poor or homeless, no 
one shed a tear. And now every news media outlet is crying the woes of 
the financial giants.

Well, I guess this is the day of reckoning, and this is the time 
where the great equalizer is making things happen in real time, because 
this Congress has an obligation, and I certainly will not be voting for 
any bailout that does not include a bailout of the people that I 
represent.

When the Bush administration took office in 2001, it inherited a 
projected surplus for 2008 of $651 billion, $651 billion when they took 
office from the Democratic President Bill Clinton. The unemployment 
rate as we know it today continues to increase, from 4.7 percent to 6.1 
percent, and shows no sign of slowing down. We are truly, truly being 
governed by an administration that has moved in the wrong direction, 
and our economy is a reflection of those policies.

So what is the House of Representatives being asked to do? Well, this 
week we will begin going over a number of proposals. The package that 
has been talked about so much in the press puts limits on executive 
compensation and sets the economic structure in a way in which we will 
advocate help for homeowners from foreclosure so the crisis will not 
cripple our communities.

We are calling for oversight. Oversight. The Government 
Accountability Office needs to monitor the progress of any proposed 
programs. We are granting the Treasury Department way too much power as 
estimated and as called upon by many of you out there in our 
communities, and there needs to be much more transparency.

The anything-goes Bush administration policies have been 
irresponsible. The non-regulation of financial institutions has led to 
this crisis, let there be no mistake about it. There is a lot of spin 
going on out there. There are a lot of folks who want to sugarcoat what 
has been in my estimation a dereliction of duty.

We need to move in a new direction, with responsible regulation and 
safeguards for middle-class folks, for folks who live in urban centers 
who have been paying for all of these bailouts. We will also launch an 
investigation of the regulatory failures and mismanagement that has 
treated our financial system as a cash cow for some. And, most 
importantly, we will build a future of financial security for those who 
are hurting in our Nation right now, in particular those who are in the 
working and middle-class.

It is clear that the administration has requested that Congress 
authorize in very short order very sweeping and unprecedented powers 
for the Treasury Secretary to confront a financial crisis of what 
people are saying are epic proportions. Well, that is going to come at 
a price as well. This administration has not demonstrated that it can 
be charged with the responsibility of managing the affairs of this 
Nation in a way in which harm is not done to its people. So, good luck 
with that one.

In working with the administration, we will strengthen the proposal 
by ensuring that the government is accountable to taxpayers in any 
future action under this broad grant of authority.

Now, we don't want to make this seem as though we are not going to 
work in a bipartisan manner. We are. But we are not going to have 
shoved down our throats policies that promote more of the same bad 
behavior. That behavior is gone, it is in the past, and we are saying 
that if you want to collaborate, we are willing to work with you, but 
there has to be a recognition of the failures so that we don't repeat 
them in the future.



When the Bush administration took office in 2001, there was a 
projected surplus of $651 billion. Today we stand on the advent of 
having to bail out the financial institutions of this Nation to the 
tune of $700 billion.

While people say that, well, this is not going to impact the budget 
because we are seeing this really as an investment as opposed to an 
expenditure, well, we have to expend it first, and we have to create an 
environment that encourages the purchase of what has been bad business. 
How we shape that is really up to those in the financial sector to come 
to the table.

But I can tell you, the American people will not be left holding the 
bag here. They will not be left holding the bag for those who decided 
that they were going to treat this country like their own personal ATM 
and that they were going to bankrupt us at a time when we should be 
experiencing great prosperity.

The debate has begun, the conversations are being had throughout the 
Capitol across party lines. As we concern ourselves about our financial 
instability, we reflect on those who live in our communities, who are 
senior citizens, who could have been hoodwinked into partially 
privatizing their Social Security and the proposals that are coming out 
of the Republican party to partially privatize and invest for health 
care.

If we had pursued those policies, can you imagine the hysteria in so 
many parts of our community where people have invested their lives, 
their well-being in a scheme that benefited the most wealthiest sectors 
of our Nation?

Can you imagine that under the Bush administration the tax cuts that 
were given to this same class of folks, the wealthy, and you look at 
the rising of the deficit, and you look at all of these indicators of 
greed, of free-market greed, you have to ask yourselves, do we and can 
we trust, again, an administration and a party that would be so 
derelict of duty, that would be so frivolous as to cause the type of 
hardship that we are all digging deep to endure right now?

Well, in this new Congress, under the Democratic leadership of 
Speaker Pelosi, that type of behavior has come to an end. As we debate, 
as we go over all of the proposals, as we vet every line, every comma, 
every period of what is being proposed for legislation, I assure you 
that the members of the Congressional Black Caucus, under the 
leadership of Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick, will keep their finger 
on the pulse of what is happening and what has happened and what must 
never be allowed to happen again within our communities, within 
communities across this Nation that have had to bear the brunt of this 
feeding frenzy, have had to shoulder the burden of economic crisis way 
before Wall Street met its day of reckoning.

We will be there to make sure that there is some parity for those who 
are struggling each month to keep up with that mortgage payment, for 
those who are concerned about how to juggle the mortgage payment with 
the home heating oil payment and the health care costs, for those who 
are still caught in the credit crunch and their child's tuition bill is 
coming up, to those who are just trying to get by and do their part as 
Americans. You are not forgotten in this new-direction Congress.

We stand with you, as a part of you, as we struggle through this 
debacle in our financial sector. I assure you, at the end of the day, 
we will come out of this process much stronger, much wiser, and 
certainly understanding


that the days of free-for-all feeding frenzy, unregulated financial 
markets in the United States are over. By extension, we will be setting 
an example for how business will be conducted around the world.

I thank you for being a wonderful Speaker pro tempore and for being 
there as we have our conversations during our CBC hour to open eyes and 
ears about the challenge that we will face this week. We will face it 
with all courage and dignity.
