---
---

# None
## `46321aa53ce35537ae44eb3891739e2c`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to address two comments made 
earlier by the Senator from Texas. He referred to the possibility of an 
all-night session in the Senate as a so-called Senate slumber party. 
Trust me, that is not what this is about. What we are facing on the 
Republican side of the aisle is an objection to an up-or-down vote, a 
majority vote, on the Levin-Reed amendment. That amendment is the only 
amendment which establishes a time line and a timetable for ending this 
war responsibly and beginning to bring our troops home within 120 days. 
It is the only amendment before us that will achieve that. Other 
amendments are interesting. None of them have the power of law.

The Levin-Reed amendment has the power of law. The President will 
have to follow it or veto it. Those are his choices. That is why it is 
so serious. That is why the Republican leadership has opposed our 
having a majority vote on this in the Senate. They are filibustering 
it, trying to stop us from getting to a vote on that amendment.

Ordinarily, when you filibuster something, it is so sanitized and 
civilized, you don't even know it is happening. Members of the Senate 
file a cloture motion and go out for dinner and say: We'll see you in 
the morning for the vote. Tonight they will stick around. If they want 
to filibuster this amendment that will change the policy in Iraq, they 
will have to stay and debate it. It will be a real filibuster. If they 
believe this is still right, we will see if they feel that way at 4 
a.m. tomorrow morning. That is what this is about. It is not a slumber 
party.

The Senator from Texas said, ''We are ready to vote.'' Therefore, I 
ask unanimous consent to vote on the Levin-Reed amendment No. 2087 at 6 
p.m., with the time between 3:05 and then equally divided in the usual 
form.