---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `4632c95a7e500ae90dc634caf512073b`
`Mr. McCAIN — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in 2004, General Casey said:




 My view of winning is that we are broadly on track to 


 accomplishing our objectives . . . with Iraqi security forces 


 that are capable of maintaining domestic order and denying 


 Iraq as a safe haven for terror, and I believe we are on 


 track to get there by December of 2005.


In September of 2005, General Casey said:




 We have a strategy and a plan for success in Iraq, and we 


 are broadly on track in achieving our goals.


Time after time, the American people were told that things were going 
fine, and they were not.

I wish to emphasize again that I believe General Casey has served 
this Nation honorably. I think he and his family have made great 
sacrifices for this country. I have nothing but respect. But to reward 
failure is going to send a message all around the military that I don't 
think is a healthy one. I don't support promotion and I don't support 
medals for failure. I support people being held responsible, and I 
regret that those who are responsible on the civilian side have not 
been held more responsible, although, as we speak today, the American 
people, by their opinions as reflected in the polls, are certainly 
reflecting their judgment about the performance and responsibility of 
our civilian leaders.

I hope we can move forward and obtain successes in Iraq under this 
new strategy. I am not sure right now that General Casey completely 
supports it, and I don't think that it enhances our chance for 
succeeding in Iraq. I urge my colleagues to vote against this 
nomination and select a leader, of which there are many, who is far 
more capable, in my view, of carrying out the new strategy in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time, as I see the 
majority leader here on the floor.