# PRODUCT SAFETY
## `463699a1e79f9776f29e59dc215ea6f6`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, let me take 2 minutes. My colleague is a 
distinguished member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, but I want 
to observe this point because it is important. We will certainly have 
an Iraq discussion late this week or next week. It will be, I hope, a 
discussion that represents the best of what both sides have to offer 
rather than the worst of each. When we get the best of both, the 
country has benefited. I hope and expect that will be the case. But I 
do wish to make this point: The training camps have already been 
reconstituted. Last week, I was on the floor of the Senate describing 
in three different pieces of evidence that Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-
Zawahiri, and others have already reconstituted training camps, which 
represents a problem. Last week in Denmark, they picked up terrorists. 
Guess where they were trained. Partly in Afghanistan but mostly in 
Pakistan. And the expectation is they were trained in those training 
camps which have been reconstituted because the leadership of al-Qaida 
does, in fact, have a safe haven.

I have great respect for my colleague, and I do not want to pursue a 
lengthy debate, but I want to say that the leadership of al-Qaida has 
largely been given safe haven. We took our eye off the ball. There was 
a period of time when it didn't matter where they were. They have 
reconstituted their training bases, and we are starting to see the 
bitter fruits of that effort, and we will see more. It is why I say I 
believe it is very important, as a matter of national strategy, to 
fight the terrorists first.

I will speak later about the question of what was in Iraq when we 
went there. At this point, I think all of us as a country believe that 
if that is the greatest terrorist threat to our country, the leadership 
of al-Qaida, the elimination of that leadership and the elimination of 
any safe and secure haven must be the most important goal for this 
country.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.