# None
## `464239359a8c7899592fb13527d100fa`
`Mr. INHOFE — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. That is correct.

Let me reclaim my time and expand on that a little bit.

There is still a continued troop presence in Bosnia, in Kosovo, and 
other places. There always is a troop presence. And after this is 
over--depending on what the outcome is--I would assume there will 
always be a troop presence there regardless of how we vote on any 
resolution today.


Now, let me say a couple other things that were stated on the floor. 
I was sitting here at about at 5:15 or 5:30 this morning, when 
statements were made by the junior Senator from Massachusetts as to our 
troops who have been involved with IEDs, who have lost their lives, and 
that nothing changed after that, nothing was accomplished after that. 
That is another way of saying they have died in vain.

Let me tell you, I have been in the AOR of Iraq, not always in Iraq, 
but this AOR, 14 times. I probably have talked to more troops, gotten a 
better feel as to what people are about over there than any other 
Member. I think to even suggest that someone has died in vain is 
totally outrageous.

Now, one of the things that has been stated over and over again that 
I do agree with by the opposition over there is we have a problem with 
our equipment. We have a problem with the funding of the military.

Let me suggest to you, in America, this is the only democracy where 
if people at home want to know how their Member of Congress--from the 
House or the Senate--is voting on issues, they can find out. I suggest 
to you that the worst way to find out how someone is voting on issues 
is to ask them. You do not want to do that.

But if you are concerned, for an example, as to how we are voting on 
a tax issue--if you are for tax increases, you do not ask the guy, you 
do not say, Senator Salazar, are you for tax increases? No, you do not 
want to do that. But you can look at the ratings. We have ratings on 
every conceivable subject. The National Taxpayers Union will tell how 
each Member votes in terms of tax increases.

Are you conservative or liberal? Well, I suggest to you the ACLU 
loves the liberals. The ACU loves the conservatives. I am proud of my 
rating. It happens to be No. 1 out of 100 Senators. So people will 
know. They do not have to ask me.

If you are concerned about how a Senator is voting in terms of 
supporting small business, the National Federation of Independent 
Business rates all Democrats, Republicans, House and Senate, on those 
issues.

If you are concerned--this is what I am getting around to now--if you 
are concerned about who is supporting the military, there are groups 
that do that. The Center for Security Policy, for example, says the 
average Democrat supports the military 17 percent of the time, the 
average Republican 79 percent of the time.

Now, if you question that, let me show you the chart I have in the 
Chamber.

For Democrats to stand on this floor and talk about the problems of 
the strained military, the problems of overdeployment, the problems we 
are having, look at what has happened. I do not think there was a month 
that went by back during the 1990s, during the Clinton administration--
when they were cutting the military, cutting our force strength, 
cutting money out of our military--when there wasn't this euphoric 
statement: Oh, the Cold War is over, so we do not need a military 
anymore. That actually was floating around these Chambers. So what 
happened during the 1990s?

If you take what the benchmark was in 1993, fiscal year 1993--that 
would be this black line shown on the chart--and do nothing but 
consider inflation, then this goes up here. In other words, if we get 
nothing except maintaining what we had in 1993, this would be the black 
line.


President Clinton's budget request came in at this red line. You see 
the


difference between the red line and the black line: $412 billion less 
than just maintaining the status quo.

Now, it was during that time that I was making statements on the 
floor: We have very serious problems in terms of our modernization 
program. We are going to have to do something about this. I was so 
proud of GEN John Jumper, and this is before he was the chief. He stood 
up as, I believe, a lieutenant general at that time and he made this 
statement. He said: Our potential adversaries have equipment that is 
better than ours. He was talking about strike fighters. He was talking 
about China having bought, I believe it was 240 of the SU-30, SU-35 
series that the Russians were making and saying that they are actually 
better in many respects than our F-15s and F-16s.

Back in the 1990s, we were cutting back on the modernization program. 
We were not moving forward with the modernization and going toward the 
F-22s and the F-35s and the future combat system and things we are 
doing today. This is what happened, and our troop strength went down, 
our ships went down from 600 to 300. It is the downsizing that we have 
been paying for. Now what happens? This President came in, and 9/11 
took place in 2001. When this happened, all of a sudden we are faced 
with a situation where we had a downsized military. We had to start 
reembarking on our modernization program. But all of this we had to be 
paying for.

We have had amendment after amendment that says we are going to have 
to do something about our deployments. Yes. Our deployments are 
unreasonable at this time, but it is because we went through this cycle 
back in the 1990s. I think it is very important that people understand 
where we came from and how we got in this position we are in today.

Now, a lot of things have been lost in this debate. I think the other 
side--the Democrats, the liberals--would like to have us believe that 
this is just the United States. They have completely forgotten or 
disregarded the global nature of this problem, this war which is out 
there. It is global. Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, the United States, 
France, Morocco, Turkey, Spain, Indonesia, Great Britain, Jordan, 
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Philippines, Algeria, Yemen, and Tunisia are just 
a partial list of the countries which have had terrorist attacks.

The National Counterterrorism Center reported that approximately 
14,000 terrorist attacks occurred in various countries during 2006. 
Now, they say that half of those were in Afghanistan and Iraq. That 
means 7,000 terrorist attacks happened all over the world outside of 
Iraq and Afghanistan. We remember just in the last 30 days the 
terrorist attacks. A car bomb exploded outside Somalia's Prime 
Minister's residence, killing six people. These are all in the last 30 
days. A bomb exploded in front of a crowded tea shop in Thailand, 
killing a woman and wounding 28; an explosion outside the Ambassador 
Hotel in Nairobi, killing a man and injuring 37 others. A bomb exploded 
outside a clothing shop in Istanbul and more in Peru and other places. 
So it has happened all over. The suicide bombers drove an SUV into the 
Glasgow Airport, injuring six people, just 2 weeks ago. A suicide 
bomber drove into a convoy of Spanish tourists, killing nine people. 
That was just last week. This is the global nature of this war.

What has this President been doing after 9/11? People don't realize 
what has happened and the results, the very positive results of these 
things that took place. We passed the PATRIOT Act, which broke down the 
walls between Federal law enforcement and intelligence communities, 
created the Department of Homeland Security, created a position of 
Director of National Intelligence, created the National 
Counterterrorism Center, and worked with all of the intelligence 
systems.

My predecessor--when I came over from the House to the Senate--was 
David Boren, Senator David Boren, who is now the president of Oklahoma 
University. After I was elected, he said he wanted to talk to me about 
a problem which he had been unsuccessful in resolving. You might 
remember that he was the chairman at that time of the Senate 
Intelligence Committee. He said: We have a problem, a serious crisis in 
our intelligence system. He said: We have, the NSCA and the CIA and the 
DIA and all of these people, but they are not talking to each other.

It is a crisis we started approaching, and it wasn't until this came 
along--the efforts of this President--that we got our intelligence act 
together to a much greater degree. What kind of results are we having? 
Well, the President made a statement, and I think it is worth 
repeating: The terrorists only have to be right once; we have to be 
right 100 percent of the time.

Have we avoided, because of all of these efforts the President has 
made, a disaster here in this country? I really believe we have. We 
captured an al-Qaida operative named Ali Saleh al-Marri in the United 
States who was targeting water reservoirs, the New York Stock Exchange, 
and the U.S. military academies. We broke up two other post-9/11 
aviation plots, one targeting the Library Towers in Los Angeles and the 
other targeting the east coast. Four men were indicted for an alleged 
plot to attack the John F. Kennedy International Airport by blowing up 
the jet fuel supply. We disrupted a plot by a group of al-Qaida-
inspired extremists to kill American soldiers at Fort Dix. We have 
worked with the Brits and other countries. Together, we successfully 
broke up a plot in the U.K. to blow up passenger airlines going to 
America which could have rivaled the tragedy of 9/11. Of course, we 
know what happened down in Piccadilly Circus in the theater area, the 
plot, the terrorist plot that was planned there that we stopped.

So I guess what I am saying is we know these things were going on. 
There is no way to say for sure that thousands of Americans are alive 
today because of the efforts of this administration, but I believe it, 
and everything I have mentioned here is all documented in terms of 
plots against this country that perhaps we would not have been able to 
defend ourselves against prior to that time.

It does bother me when we talk about how this isn't a surrender 
resolution, this isn't a cut-and-run resolution. Sure, it is. We see 
al-Qaida--they see the victory in Iraq as a religious and strategic 
imperative, something they have to do. This is not something which is 
optional for them; they have to do it. In fact, Osama bin Laden called 
the struggle in Iraq a war of destiny. This is Osama bin Laden. That is 
how he characterized it. It reminded me, when I heard that, of one of 
the great speeches of all time. It was given by Ronald Reagan way back 
before he was even Governor of California. It was called ''A Rendezvous 
With Destiny,'' using the same words--the characterization of Osama bin 
Laden when he talked about the ''war of destiny'' that is taking place. 
''A Rendezvous With Destiny.'' I have often said it should be required 
reading for all schoolkids.


Every time I see the Senator from Florida, the junior Senator from 
Florida, Mr. Martinez, I think about his trip from Cuba over to this 
country, and it reminds me of the speech Ronald Reagan made when he 
said ''a rendezvous with destiny.'' He talked about the Cuban who had 
escaped from Cuba, and as his small craft floated up on the shores of 
Florida, a woman was there, and this Cuban started talking about the 
atrocities of Communist Cuba and of Castro and the problems that were 
over there, and she said: I guess we in this country don't know how 
lucky we are. And he said: How lucky you are? We are the ones who are 
lucky because we had a place to escape to. What he was saying is that 
we have been this beacon of freedom in this country for so many years.

I can remember--and the occupant of the chair was there at the same 
time I was, in the other body, back during the war in Nicaragua. At 
that time, the Communists were trying to take over. One of the great 
things Ronald Reagan did was to kill communism in Central America at 
that time, and that endured for some 20 years afterward. But at that 
time, in Nicaragua, I was going down there quite often because we were 
watching Daniel Ortega and we were watching the Sandinistas and we knew 
what was happening down there. So we would go down to see these brave 
people who were fighting for their freedoms.

I can remember going to a hospital tent in Honduras, just across the 
border from Nicaragua. I went down there several times. I would just 
look and


marvel at these young kids. Keep in mind, at that time, those who were 
defending their freedom against communism were young people because all 
the older ones had been killed already. They had a hospital tent. I 
remember the hospital tent was about half the size of this Chamber. All 
the way around the peripheral of this hospital tent were beds. In the 
middle was an operating table with no shield or anything up, and they 
were operating on these young kids as they came back and getting them 
ready to go back into battle to fight for their freedom against 
communism in Nicaragua.

I remember going around the room and talking to these individuals in 
their language and saying: You know, I admire you so much. You are just 
fighting against impossible odds. How can you keep driving yourself to 
go back? I remember getting the answers as I went around the room.

I came to a little girl. Her name was Maria Elana Gonzalez. She was a 
little bitty girl. She might have been 90 pounds. It was her third trip 
to the hospital tent. She wouldn't be going back into battle because 
that morning they had amputated her right leg and the blood was oozing 
through her bandage. She looked up at me after I had asked that 
question and she said: Es porque han tomado los campos, han tomado las 
casas, han tomado todo de lo que tenemos. Pero, de veras, ustedes en 
los Estados Unidos entienden. Porque tuvieron que luchar por su 
libertad, por lo mismo que estamos luchando ahora.

What she said was: How can you ask that question? We are fighting 
because they have taken our farms, they have taken our houses, they 
have taken all that we have. But surely you in the United States 
understand this because you had to fight against the same odds for your 
freedom.

That little girl couldn't read or write. She didn't know her history. 
She didn't know if our Revolutionary War was 10 years ago or 200 years 
ago. But she knew we were the beacon of freedom, the beacon of freedom. 
I wonder what is happening to that beacon of freedom.

We are looking at this war now, the serious nature of this war.

Winston Churchill said--and I quoted this several times on this 
floor, but I think it is worth repeating. He said:




 Never, never, never believe any war will be smooth and 


 easy. Always remember, however sure you are that you could 


 easily win, that there would not be a war if the other man 


 did not think he also had a chance.


That was just as true in World War II as it is today.

So we are facing an enemy today that is adaptive. He is willing to do 
anything. You can't negotiate with him. It is not a country. In a way, 
it is more dangerous. We compare this war and certainly some of the 
terrorists who are running the other side with Hitler and with Stalin. 
Those things in some ways were not as dangerous because they were more 
predictable. This is not predictable. You can't defeat a country and 
say the war is over because it is not over. As I mentioned, this is 
global, the attacks that are taking place. Any plan to leave Iraq 
before we have had a chance to understand the outcome of the troop 
surge does two things: It tells the enemy that they have been 
successful and their methods worked, and secondly, it gives them the 
patience to wait us out.

One of the things I learned in my many trips over there is the 
culture of the people is different. They don't think of today and 
tomorrow or next week; they think of long periods of time. Oh, we are 
not going to be there 2 years from now? Oh, fine. We will just go into 
hibernation. We will wait for 2 years. Everything is going to be fine. 
We will just wait until that happens. You can't win by--they can only 
win by attacking our resolve.

When we talk about the resolve, I wonder about that beacon of 
freedom, when that little girl in the hospital tent looked at America. 
What has happened to it since that time? You look at our resolve that 
has been lost in Somalia. It wasn't until they dragged the naked bodies 
of our troops through the streets of Mogadishu that finally we didn't 
have the stomach for it, and so that beacon of freedom went out. We saw 
it in Vietnam, in Lebanon, in the Khobar Towers.

I recognize, and everyone recognizes, there have been mistakes in 
this thing. The President recognized this in his speech on January 10. 
He said a lot of things that I think were very profound observations at 
that time that I will address in just a minute. But when you look at 
the consequences of a premeditated withdrawal, when the enemy knows 
what we are going to be doing in the future--one of the great generals 
of our time is General Maples. He was actually the commanding general 
down in Fort Sill in Oklahoma at one time. He is now the DIA Director. 
He said:




 Continued Coalition presence is the primary counter to a 


 breakdown in central authority. Such a breakdown would have 


 grave consequences for the people of Iraq, stability in the 


 region, and the United States strategic interests.


John Negroponte and General Hayden both agree with that.

It is not too late to avoid this. I don't think it is time to start 
cutting our losses and just hope that all this goes away. If we can 
assist the Iraqis and reach that point of sustainable self-governance, 
then we can bring defeat to our enemies and stability to the region. We 
all want this. All those who have not personally seen the changes, the 
visible changes that are taking place in Iraq, seen the girls who can 
now get an education and seen that they can now have weddings in the 
streets without the fear of having troops come in there and kidnap all 
the girls and rape them and bury them alive--people have forgotten 
already how bad things were at that time in Iraq.

So I just have to say this: Regretfully, I have been sitting here 
since 5 o'clock trying to get on the floor, and now we are running out 
of time. But I would say this, and I think it is something which is 
very significant; that is, the President, in his speech on January 10, 
talked about the necessity for victory in Iraq, but he used a term that 
nobody heard and nobody remembered and nobody listened to, and it is 
called from the bottom up. A ''bottom-up victory'' is what he wanted. 
This President is talking about it with the people.

Let me tell you what has happened. On my last trip--keep in mind, I 
have made some 14 trips to the AOR, and the last trip was after the 
surge was announced. We saw a number of things. First of all, it didn't 
go unnoticed by the people over there that there are some resolutions 
like the one we will considering at 11 o'clock today, and consequently 
that got their attention. I think some good came from that. But that, 
along with David Petraeus going over there as commander in chief, along 
with the surge, has really had some results. For the first time over 
there, I saw changes.

A few minutes ago, one of our Republicans was talking about the 
change in Ramadi. It was the senior Senator from Utah. In Ramadi, if 
you remember a year ago, that was getting ready--or, as we say in 
Oklahoma, that was fixing to be the terrorist capital of the world. It 
is now secure. In Fallujah--this is just less than a month ago, in 
Fallujah--it is secure, and it is secure by our security force--by the 
Iraqi security force and not by ours. In other words, they are taking 
care of their own over there. The joint security stations where our 
troops, instead of coming back to the Green Zone, will stay over there 
and bed down with the Iraqi security forces, develop intimate 
relationships with them, and learn to love each other--this is what is 
happening right now.

I was mistaken. All these years, we have been talking about Maliki 
and all the political leaders. I am beginning to think really that the 
successes that are taking place and the bottom-up success right now 
after the surge are actually coming from the religious leaders. We 
monitor--and we do this as a matter of course--all of the mosque 
ceremonies. I think they meet once a week like most churches do, and up 
until December, 85 percent of the messages that were by the clerics and 
by the imams in the mosques were anti-American. They started dropping 
off until in April of this year, there wasn't one anti-American 
message. The results are there. As a result of that, we are having many 
of the citizens, just on their own, as the Senator from Utah 
mentioned--because he was there a short time after I was there, and he 
said they are doing things now that they haven't done before.

Just as we have, in Tulsa, OK, and in all of our cities in Oklahoma 
and here


in Washington, DC, a Neighborhood Watch Program where the neighbors 
volunteer to go out and watch, this is happening in Baghdad, Fallujah, 
Ramadi, all throughout Iraq right now.

These are people who are going out and risking their lives with spray 
cans, spray-painting circles around undetonated IEDs, and it is being 
done successfully. I think there is a level of panic setting in on 
those individuals who have gone over there and seen that the surge 
appears to be working.

I don't think we should be cutting and running at this stage. We have 
a huge investment there. We have taken out a ruthless leader, one who 
would rival Hitler in the atrocities he has committed. Now that we have 
an opportunity to do that--to have a different form of government in 
the Middle East--and people who say it wasn't Iraq all this time, sure, 
it was Iraq. There were training centers in Iraq training people to do 
different things. In the town of Salman Pak, they were training 
terrorists how to fly airplanes into targets. Did they train the 9/11 
terrorists? There is no way of knowing that. Nonetheless, the training 
camps are not there anymore. We have had successes.

I know people want to talk about the failures, but I will say to you 
this is a very critical vote. If we vote at 11 o'clock today to leave 
before the job is done, that would be a crisis and a slap in the face 
for our troops over there fighting so bravely for our freedom back 
here. I am a product of the draft of many years ago, and I believed you 
would never be able to have an all-volunteer force and have it with the 
quality we had in the draft. I realize now that I was wrong all those 
years ago, that we have the finest young people in the world in our 
military. They understand what the mission is. They understand the 
threat facing them. The first thing they asked me is: Why is it the 
American people don't understand, or the media? They don't ask that 
question now because they have the benefit of having talk radio. They 
have FOX instead of depending on CNN International, and they realize 
the American people are by their side.

So this is critical. Is it worth staying up all night for? I think it 
is. I look forward to defeating the effort of the Levin-Reed amendment 
taking place at 11 o'clock today.

I yield the floor.