# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4656f48324b4478fd6bf4983080f4376`
`Mr. EMANUEL â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, we gather today to consider a question that 
is profoundly simple: Do we support the President's plan to further 
escalate America's involvement in Iraq, or not? After 4 long, painful 
years in which we have seen so many young lives lost, are we now 
willing to put even more of our brave heroes in harm's way, or will we 
acknowledge that the current course is failing, that doubling down on 
the status quo while hoping for a better result would be foolish.

There are those who oppose this resolution because they say it would 
hurt the troops' morale. Hurt morale? Our leaders promised them they 
would be greeted as liberators. Instead, we have put them smack in the 
middle of a shooing gallery, policing someone else's civil war, backing 
an Iraqi government that refuses to stand up for itself.

We have sent our soldiers back time and again. We have sent many of 
them without the life-saving equipment and armor they needed, and now 
they say this resolution would hurt troop morale? To suggest that more 
of the same just won't do.

They have done their duty with courage and discipline. Now it is time 
for Congress to do its duty. They deserve not to be sacrificed in the 
furtherance of a policy that failed for the last 4 years.

From the beginning, this war has been a saga of miscalculations, 
mistakes and misjudgments for which America will pay in many ways for 
years to come. Let us not compound those bad judgments by ratifying 
another.

The President assures us that this escalation of war is the most 
promising path to a more peaceful Iraq. For the


past 5 years we have accepted the President's assurances on Iraq, only 
to learn that the facts on the ground belied his aggressive assertions 
and rosy rhetoric. We accepted his assurances about the presence of 
weapons of mass destruction and Saddam's links to al Qaeda. We 
authorized a war on that basis, only to learn that much of what we were 
told simply wasn't true.

Against stern warnings, we accepted his assurances and those of the 
Vice President that a post-Saddam Iraq would welcome our presence and 
overcome deeply engrained sectarian differences. It simply wasn't true. 
We accepted their assurances when they told us General Shinseki was 
mistaken when he said we needed far more troops to stabilize Iraq than 
the administration planned, and that the cost of this war would be 
minimal. It simply wasn't true. We accepted their assurances when they 
told us the insurgency was in its last throes. It simply wasn't true.

Each of the last three troop surges has been countered with a surge 
in violence. It is for that reason that a bipartisan group of House 
Members and the American public oppose the forth troop increase. More 
troops doing more of the same is not a policy, it is not a strategy, it 
is not a tactic, it is the status quo plus.

The time is past for accepting this administration's assurances at 
face value. The human cost of its repeated assurances is too great.

Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago I asked permission to establish a temporary 
memorial to the fallen in Iraq in Statuary Hall. The leadership at that 
time refused, so I began posting the pictures of the young soldiers we 
have lost outside my office. I have watched as that grim line of photos 
has grown past my doorway to fill the corridor. More than 3,000 dead, 
more than 20,000 wounded. When I walk by those photos, I see the 
purpose, I see the pride, and I see the promise in their young faces. 
They were sons and daughters, husbands and wives, mothers and fathers 
who will never see their kids grow up.

I ask you, how long must this grim line of photographs grow before we 
acknowledge that this policy is not working? How many corridors must 
these memorials fill before we we say, not on my watch? How many more 
lives must we lose? How many more hearts must be broken?

It is time for this Congress to tell President Bush that his 
assurances are not enough. This escalation does not mean stability in 
Iraq, it will mean more loss and more photographs in the corridor.

I urge you to vote ''yes'' on this resolution.