---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `46772239baaec722219ca6c028b2ce33`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate that. And it is time to wrap it up. 
And I think as we were home over the July 4th break and as we were 
meeting with our constituents and going to parades and getting out and 
about and reconnecting with our district, one of the issues we heard, 
obviously, is gas but also just the squeeze that families are feeling 
now. And one of the reasons we need to get Iraq wrapped up and get our 
troops back home is because it is costing us $12 billion a month in 
Iraq. And if we continue to go down this road with supplementals of 
$180 billion and continuing to go down that road, those are investments 
that we can't make here in the United States.

And I think a lot of people would say, Mr. Meek, that we have got to 
make investments back here in the United States of America so that we 
can build roads and bridges here in the United States as opposed to 
roads and bridges in Iraq. And that's one of the key issues here.

I know the gentleman from Connecticut wants to say a few words. But I 
think it's important for us to realize there is a direct connection 
between what we are doing in Iraq and what we are unable to do because 
of the budget.

One of the issues that we're talking about too is what has happened 
to our budget here in the United States. And just a few short years ago 
in 2000, January of 2001, we had a $5.6 trillion surplus, and after 
President Bush got sworn in up until today, we have a $3.2 trillion 
deficit. That's an $8.8 trillion swing, and that is part of the reason 
we have a weak dollar, and that is part of the reason that oil is so 
expensive. So we've got to get our house in order here.

So we talk about the war in Iraq and about how we need to finish it 
and honor our troops and support our veterans and make sure we have 
health care and whatnot, but we have got to balance the budget here in 
the United States and make those investments here, put people to work 
here in the United States building roads, bridges, infrastructure, 
water lines, sewer lines, septic tanks, broadband.

I yield to my friend from Connecticut.