# IMPACT OF THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `4682b7edca312a900bd1eef2db98fab6`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this morning and in the days leading up to 
today, we have seen and heard a great deal of discussion, particularly 
by the media, describing the issue of the President's speech tomorrow 
evening and all of the discussion in the political system as a 
political tug of war about Iraq. It is not that. This is not a 
political tug of war. It is a serious moment for this country to try to 
evaluate what to do about something that overlays almost everything 
else we are considering these days; that is, the current war in Iraq. 
What do we do about what is happening there? It is about the lives of 
our soldiers. It is about our country's future. It is about how to make 
change in Iraq, how to create the kind of change that will give us the 
opportunity to do the right thing.

I intend to listen carefully to what the President says in his speech 
to the nation tomorrow night. I am not going to prejudge what he says, 
but let me suggest what I think the President has to answer for us, for 
me, for the American people.

There is considerable discussion about the fact that the President 
will likely call for a surge or an increase in American troops going to 
Iraq. There is also discussion that perhaps he will call for additional 
funds that would be sent to Iraq for reconstruction or other things 
Americans would contribute.

One point the President will have to explain is the testimony that 
was given less than 2 months ago before the Senate by General Abizaid, 
the top military commander in Iraq. I am talking about the top military 
commander of American troops in Iraq. Here is what General Abizaid said 
in November, less than 2 months ago. He said:




 I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the 


 corps commander, General Dempsey. We all talked together. And 


 I said, ''In your professional opinion, if we were to bring 


 in more American troops now, does that add considerably to 


 our ability to achieve success in Iraq?'' And they all said 


 no. The reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It 


 is easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


This is testimony before a congressional committee of the top U.S. 
military commander in Iraq saying he has asked all of his top 
commanders, if we were to bring in more American troops now, does it 
add considerably to our


ability to achieve success in Iraq. He said:




 They all said no.


That is something I believe has to be reconciled. Has that changed? 
Has something changed in 2 months?

With respect to the amount of money that is sent to the country of 
Iraq, I observe this: This country has spent hundreds of billions of 
dollars on the Iraq war. Between Iraq and Afghanistan, we are now 
approaching $400 billion. We appropriated separately roughly a $20 
billion pot of money for reconstruction in Iraq. That is in addition to 
the reconstruction which has been done by American soldiers. That $20-
plus billion was pushed out the door--a massive amount of money--in a 
short time.

I held a good number of hearings as chairman of the Democratic Policy 
Committee on that issue: contracting in Iraq. I think it is the most 
significant amount of waste, fraud, and abuse this country has ever 
seen. Let me show one poster that describes a part of it, which was 
shown at our hearing and we discussed this:




 A $243 million program led by the United States Army Corps 


 of Engineers to build 150 health care clinics in Iraq has, in 


 some cases, produced little more than empty shells of 


 crumbling concrete and shattered bricks cemented together 


 into uneven walls.


A company called the Parsons Corporation got this money. They were to 
rehabilitate, I believe, 142 health clinics in the country of Iraq. 
Twenty were done, and the rest didn't happen at all. The money was 
spent. All the money is gone. The American taxpayers found that all 
their money was gone, but the fact is that the health clinics were not 
rehabilitated.

There was a doctor, a physician from Iraq, who testified. He said: I 
went to the Health Minister of the new Government of Iraq. I said: I 
want to see these health clinics that were supposed to have been 
rehabilitated for which some $200 million was appropriated by the U.S. 
taxpayers, by the U.S. Government. I want to see these health clinics.

He said the Health Minister of the new Government of Iraq said: You 
don't understand, they don't exist. They are imaginary clinics.

Well, our money is gone. This is an example of the waste, fraud, and 
abuse in contracting.

The Halliburton corporation, Custer Battles corporation--it is 
unbelievable--the stories. This photo shows some American officials 
with $100 bills wrapped in Saran Wrap the size of a big brick. This 
fellow testified at a hearing I held, this man in the white shirt. He 
said: Look, we told contractors in Iraq: Bring a bag, we pay cash. He 
said it was like the Wild West: Bring a sack, we pay cash.

This $2 million in $100 dollar bills wrapped in Saran Wrap actually 
went to Custer Battles corporation. Custer Battles corporation got over 
$100 million in contracts. Among other things, it is alleged they took 
forklift trucks from the Baghdad Airport, took them over to a 
warehouse, repainted them, and then sold them to the Coalition 
Provisional Authority, which was us. It is a criminal action at this 
point.

My point is this: Whatever we do in Iraq, I want to be effective. We 
owe it to the troops, we owe it to the men and women who wear America's 
uniform.

At this point, we have America's troops in the middle of a civil war. 
Yes, most of this is sectarian violence. We see the reports. January 7: 
30 dead in Baghdad, bodies hang from lampposts. The Government said 
Saturday that 72 bodies were recovered around the city, most showing 
signs of torture. We see these day after day after day. Our heart 
breaks for the innocent victims of this war. The question for us now 
is, Should American troops be in the middle of that civil war? Should 
we send additional troops to that circumstance? If so, for what 
purpose? And if so, why do we do it less than 2 months after General 
Abizaid said the commanders do not believe additional troops will be 
effective?

We have done what is called a surge in Baghdad starting last July. I 
believe it was somewhere around 15,000 additional troops were sent to 
Baghdad. The fact is, the violence increased, more soldiers died.

I am going to listen to President Bush's speech. This ought not and I 
hope will not and should not be political. It is about all of us, 
Republicans and Democrats, the President and the Congress working 
together to find a way for the right solution for this country to 
support our soldiers, make the right judgments for them, make the right 
judgments for our country's long-term interests.

Yes, we have a fight against terrorism that we must wage, and we must 
do it aggressively, but most of what is going on in Iraq at this point 
is sectarian violence, and it is, in fact, a civil war. The question 
is, What do we do now?

It seems to me that if we are going to keep American troops in Iraq 
for any length of time, we ought to consider partitioning so at least 
we separate the combatants and the sectarian violence. It only seems to 
me, in a civil war, that works. But I will listen intently tomorrow 
with my colleagues to hear what the President's new plan is. I hope we 
can work together in a way that begins to do what is in the best 
interest of this country. I am very skeptical about this issue of 
deciding that we are going to surge additional troops into Iraq, even 
as the top military commanders in Iraq say that should not be done.

I mentioned Iraq first because it overwhelms most of the other agenda 
here, but there are so many other issues with which we must deal. Let's 
deal with Iraq and get that right, support our troops, do what is 
necessary, do what is best for our country. Let's work together, 
Republicans and Democrats, let's work together, the President and the 
Congress, and find the right solution and do what is right for our 
future. Then let's turn to other issues.

How about energy? It is interesting, we are held hostage by foreign 
oil. Over 60 percent of the oil that runs the American economy comes 
from off our shores. When we talk about energy independence, we need 
energy independence, and I support fossil fuels. We are going to use 
oil, coal, and natural gas. We always have and we always will, and I 
support that. But let me say this: In 1916, this Congress put in place 
tax incentives for the production of oil, long-term, robust, permanent 
tax incentives to incentivize the additional production of oil.

Think how different it is with what we have done with renewable 
energy. We decided about 20 years ago to give some tax incentives to 
incentivize renewable energy development, but they were temporary, 
short term. The production tax credit for the production of wind and 
other renewable energy has been extended five times because it has been 
short term. It has been allowed to expire three times. That is not a 
commitment to this country. This is not a commitment to renewable 
energy. This is not a commitment to energy independence. The fact is, 
we are just babystepping our away along in all these areas. We didn't 
do that with oil. We made a robust, long-term commitment in 1916, and 
it remains today, that said: Let's produce. How about doing the same 
thing for renewable energy? Yes, the biofuels, but also wind energy and 
hydrogen fuel cells and all the other ways that can make us more secure 
from an energy standpoint. Let's stop babystepping. Let's have a 10-
year plan. We cannot do this with a 1-year plan or a 2-year plan. We 
need to deal with that issue.

We need to deal with the issue of health care costs. I wanted to, but 
I don't have the time this morning, to respond to my colleague from 
Iowa who twice has come to the floor to talk about why our Government 
shouldn't be allowed to negotiate drug prices in the Medicare Program. 
It is preposterous that we have a provision in law that prevents the 
Federal Government from negotiating lower drug prices, especially 
because our consumers in this country pay the highest prices for 
prescription drugs in the world, and that is unfair. I relish that 
debate, and I wait for that debate.

Jobs and trade--the fact is, we have lots of issues we need to sink 
our teeth into. I am going to come back and speak about many of these 
issues at great length. First, we have to deal with this situation in 
Iraq. That is very important. That is about the lives of men and women 
who wear America's uniform. But it is more than that as well. It is 
about what we are doing around the world. It is about, yes, our lives 
and our treasure, and we need to get that right.

I mentioned when I started that I think the press, if one listens to 
all the


programs, tend to portray this as a political tug of war. It is deadly 
serious, much more serious than a political tug of war. It is about 
trying to get this right for our country's future.

I hope that in the coming several weeks, we can come to a conclusion 
about this very important issue--yes, the war in Iraq, the larger war 
on terrorism, deal with some of these issues, such as homeland 
security--and then move on to begin to address the issues I just talked 
about as well; that is, the issue of energy security, health care 
costs, jobs, trade, and a series of issues that are important for this 
country's future.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.