# None
## `46961e5d5288afcd08c42feb876b9b26`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, a young President, a veteran of 
the Greatest Generation, once reminded the world that Americans would 
pay any price, bear any burden in order to assure the survival and the 
success of liberty. His, the generation of John F. Kennedy, understood 
that all Americans had a moral obligation to support those who have 
paid the greatest price and borne the heaviest burdens of war--our 
troops, our veterans, and their families. That's why the original GI 
Bill was passed in 1944. Today, 64 years later, with the strong 
leadership of Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey, Congress is renewing 
its moral commitment to those who have served our Nation in uniform.

Amendment No. 2 in this bill includes a 21st century bill of rights, 
a GI Bill of Rights that will open the doors of our colleges and 
universities to our troops, our veterans, and their families. We also 
commit $396 million to improve VA polytrauma centers, which are 
providing critical care to the most severely wounded troops.

With respect to health care needs of our troops and their families, 
we fund $863 million in amendment No. 2 to begin a desperately needed 
modernization of outdated military hospitals. No service man or woman, 
not one, Mr. Speaker, should ever have to face the degrading conditions 
our soldiers saw last year at Walter Reed Annex 18.

Amendment No. 2 also respects the unsung heroes in our Nation's 
defense, our military spouses and children, by providing funding for 20 
new military child care centers with a focus on those bases bearing the 
burden of multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. For our 
youngest heroes, the 18, 19, and 20-year-olds who have just signed up 
to serve our country, we provide $75 million, again, improving woefully 
inadequate training barracks. Those who choose to serve deserve decent 
housing.

Supporting our troops, our veterans, and their families is what we 
Americans do, it is who we are. Since our Nation's founding, shared 
sacrifice during time of war has been a quintessential American value, 
a promise to keep. I thank Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey for seeing 
that we keep that promise. It is the right thing to do.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and to vote ''yes'' on 
amendment No. 2.