---
---

# HONORING SERGEANT DONALD LAMAR, USMC
## `46a6f69f73cbb9091e387cd61b4fd046`
`Mr. WITTMAN — 22 June 2010`

---


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and remember a 
United States Marine who serves as an example of courage and patriotism 
to us all. Sergeant Donald J. Lamar II, of the United States Marine 
Corps, recently gave the last full measure of devotion and sacrifice 
for our beloved nation while supporting combat operations in the 
Helmand Province of Afghanistan. Men such as Sergeant Lamar epitomize 
the core value of selfless service that we all hold so dear in the 
United States, and especially in the United States Marine Corps.

Sergeant Lamar grew up in Stafford County, Virginia, and graduated 
from Stafford High School in 2004. There, he was known by his teachers, 
coaches, and friends as a well-rounded leader who excelled in sports, 
particularly wrestling and football. After graduation, Sergeant Lamar 
joined the Marine Corps and was assigned to the First Battalion, Second 
Marine Regiment, Second Marine Division, of the Second Marine 
Expeditionary Force at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Although already 
among America's elite fighting force as an infantryman, Sergeant Lamar 
chose to be part of an even more exclusive group--Marine Sniper. He 
stood out at every opportunity and always gave his utmost.

Sergeant Lamar's awards at the time of his deployment included the 
Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global 
War on Terrorism Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, and Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal. To add to his list of accolades, he was recently 
meritoriously promoted to Sergeant, a unique and fitting distinction 
for a combat-proven leader of Sergeant Lamar's caliber.

A man of character and fortitude, Sergeant Lamar bravely served two 
combat tours in Iraq. He was most recently serving his third combat 
tour in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan, where fierce fighting was 
taking place daily during 2010. Tragically, on May 12th, 2010, Sergeant 
Lamar exhibited the ultimate sacrifice for his country, family, and 
friends while engaged in combat operations there. His leadership in the 
Marine Corps and his local community will not be forgotten.

I extend to Sergeant Lamar's entire family my sincere condolences and 
deep appreciation for their sacrifices and service to our nation. He is 
survived by his wife, Stephanie Lamar, and daughter, Madison; his 
parents, Don and Coleen Lamar; and two younger brothers. The liberties 
and freedoms we enjoy here in the United States are in place because of 
brave and courageous men such as Sergeant Lamar who routinely answer 
the call to duty and place sacrifice above self. We are eternally 
grateful to him and his family for their service to our nation.



