---
---

# None
## `46a9b02534bc8933e22af7f804f97056`
`Mr. POE — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Thank you, Judge Carter. Thank you for an opportunity to 
make some comments on this important issue.

It has taken less than a week for the American public and this 
Congress to find out what was taking place at Walter Reed Hospital. It 
is one of the premier hospitals in the world for treating the injured. 
But yet there were some problems and those problems, rather than being 
overlooked, are being dealt with, and that is very, very good.

A couple of observations that I would like to make about this whole 
episode. As you mentioned, Judge Carter, American troops if they are 
found after an injury within a few minutes, the likelihood of their 
survival is in the 90 percent range. That is a tremendous percentage of 
recovery for these individuals to live if they are wounded. And they 
live from wounds that just years ago, even back in Vietnam days, they 
would have died from. But because of medical science, expanding as it 
has, they will recover from those wounds, although they will have, many 
of them, lifetime recovery periods. And that is where we must make sure 
that we take care of our military, that the recovery for many of these 
individuals is going to be a long, long time. Sometimes the rest of 
their lives.



An observation I would like to make about this situation at Walter 
Reed is that the American public expects us to take care of our 
soldiers. I think this is good. I think it is good that the American 
public is upset about the fact that some of our troops are not being 
taken care of the way they should be because our people in this Nation, 
regardless of how they feel about Iraq or Afghanistan, the issue of 
taking care of the wounded is not a political issue. It is an American 
issue, and Americans expect the best care for our troops. And that is 
important that the American public support our military in the recovery 
process.

To try to illustrate how the American public supports our wounded 
warriors, I had the opportunity to go to Landstuhl Military Base in 
Germany where wounded Americans come from Afghanistan and Iraq, many of 
them with severe injuries, and they are treated there before they are 
even brought back to the United States because of the critical care 
facilities they have at Landstuhl.

And when I found out I was going to be able to go over for this short 
trip with about 3 days' notice, I notified my two district directors in 
Texas to see if we could get some kids from local schools to make some 
cards to take over and give to the wounded. They met me at the airport 
with two suitcases full of handmade cards from third, fourth, and fifth 
graders of the Second Congressional District of Texas, and a little 
over 6,000 cards. I checked one of the suitcases. The smaller one I 
took on the plane with me, and I started reading them as I was flying 
over. The person next to me wanted to know what I was doing and I told 
him. And so he wanted to see them. He started reading the cards. Next 
thing I knew, the whole plane was reading. The cards were going up and 
down the aisle, and there were a few tears in the background.

But the point being that the American public supports our military, 
supports our military even when they are wounded, and cares a great 
deal about them, to the tune of 6,000 handmade cards from a bunch of 
kids in Texas. Of course the troops were very grateful for those cards. 
But it is a sign and observation that the American public will always 
support our troops when they are wounded and expect us in the Congress 
to make sure they have the care that they deserve.

The President acted very decisively and quickly, and I congratulate 
him for that because when things go bad at a hospital like it did at 
Walter Reed, the person in charge of the hospital needs to be removed. 
They need to get somebody over there that will take care of business 
and make sure that we don't have problems with our military.

How we treat our warriors in aftercare really defines us as who we 
are as a Nation.

One other comment I would like to make is it goes back to something 
that is tradition with our United States military, has been for a long 
time through many wars. The American fighting man always has the role, 
the obligation, the duty to never leave anyone behind on the 
battlefield. People in other cultures do not understand why Americans 
are so relentless in making sure we take care of not only our wounded 
but those that have fallen on the battlefield. They don't understand 
why we do that. We do that because we are Americans.

One way that we leave no one behind is to make sure we don't leave 
them behind in the hospitals, we don't leave them behind in aftercare. 
We take care of them for as long as necessary, and if it means taking 
care of them the rest of their lives, so be it, because that is what we 
do in this country: we leave no one behind.

So I commend you, Judge Carter, for this Special Order and bringing 
awareness of this whole plight of hospital care and the care of our 
warriors to the American public.