---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `46acfd6b10aab9c24e03aa1b36fec735`
`Mr. HAGEL — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Madam President, I rise to express my sympathy over the 
loss of U.S. Army Chief Warrant Officer Chris Allgaier of Omaha, NE. 
Chief Warrant Officer Allgaier, an Army helicopter pilot, was killed on 
May 30 while conducting combat operations in Helmand Province, 
Afghanistan. He was 33 years old.

Chief Warrant Officer Allgaier attended Creighton Prep High School, 
where he graduated with highest honors in 1991. He earned a bachelor's 
degree in aeronautical administration from Saint Louis University in 
1995 and a master's degree in aeronautical science from Embry-Riddle 
Aeronautic University in 2001.

After graduating from college, Chief Warrant Officer Allgaier joined 
the Army to pursue a longtime interest in flying. He served with the 
Army's 82nd Airborne Division, based out of Fort Bragg, NC. This was 
his second tour in Afghanistan. Chief Warrant Officer Allgaier also 
served a year-long tour in Iraq. We are proud of Chief Warrant Officer 
Allgaier's service tour our country, as well as the thousands of other 
brave Americans serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

He is survived by his wife Jennie and three children, Natalie, Gina, 
and Joanna, of Spring Lake, NC; his father Bob Allgaier of Omaha, and 
siblings Rob and Sharon, also of Omaha.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring Chief 
Warrant Officer Chris Allgaier.












 Specialist William Bailey III


Madam President, I also rise to express my sympathy over the loss of 
U.S. Army National Guard Specialist William Bailey III of Bellevue, NE. 
Specialist Bailey died on May 25 when an explosive device struck his 
vehicle near Taji, Iraq. He was 29 years old.

Specialist Bailey had been serving in Iraq since November with the 
755th Chemical Reconnaissance/Decontamination Company. Specialist 
Bailey was also a volunteer with the Bellevue Volunteer Fire Department 
for 5 years. He was buried with full military honors and traditional 
fire department honors. His funeral procession included 35 firetrucks 
from several departments across Nebraska.

Specialist Bailey is remembered as a devoted husband, father, son, 
and brother, as well as a committed member of the community. He was an 
avid hunter and outdoorsman, and he loved motorcycles.

We are proud of Specialist Bailey's service to our country, as well 
as the thousands of other brave Americans serving in Iraq.

He is survived by his wife Deanna and five children.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring SPC 
William Bailey III.
