# UNITED STATES-POLAND PARLIAMENTARY YOUTH EXCHANGE PROGRAM ACT OF 2007
## `46b951c0a250d56178aa973094b4f6e5`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
bill and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me first thank our distinguished chairman of the committee, the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos), and our senior ranking member, 
the gentlelady from Florida, for their support and for their leadership 
in bringing this bill before the floor.

And let me thank our eminent colleague in the other Chamber, the 
distinguished Senator from Indiana (Senator Lugar) for his leadership 
on this important issue. It is exemplary of his sage leadership on so 
many foreign affairs matters.

Madam Speaker, in 1777, while serving the American cause in Paris, 
Benjamin Franklin discovered a brilliant Polish military tactician. His 
name was Casimir Pulaski. A leader in Poland's bitter campaign to beat 
back Russia, the nobleman Pulaski sacrificed his status in Europe to 
join the American revolution in the New World. It did not take long for 
George Washington to recognize the great talent he had on his hands. He 
promoted Pulaski to brigadier general, placing him in charge of four 
horse brigades.

Pulaski's prowess and strategic skill during the Revolutionary War 
became renowned. So dedicated was he to our cause that when funding ran 
low among the colonials, he used some of his own money to purchase 
equipment for his men.

General Pulaski, who eventually went down in the history books as the 
father of the American cavalry, is just one of the many important 
Polish figures who have contributed greatly to the United States and to 
the world. The relationship between the people of our two countries has 
flourished in recent years since the fall of communism, but it actually 
dates back centuries to the founding of our Nation.

Today, this Congress aims to help the people of Poland rear the next 
generation of productive, inventive and standout individuals. This bill 
authorizes an educational exchange program between our two nations that 
promises to be mutually beneficial and strengthen the alliance between 
our two nations.

This program will be identical in its structure and operation to the 
successful Congress-Bundestag exchange that was launched in 1983. Over 
the last quarter century, thousands of young Americans and Germans have 
seized the opportunity to spend an academic year living and studying 
with their foreign peers.

As a result, these secondary school students have gained a better 
understanding of each other's way of life and have begun developing 
into citizens of the world. With the authorization and funding of the 
bilateral initiative before us today, we will extend the same 
opportunities to our young friends in Poland.

Cross-cultural exchange is the most powerful way of creating harmony 
among nations. And study abroad programs represent the most powerful 
type of exchange because they foster understanding and education about 
other nations at an early age. The country of Poland is one of our most 
important allies in Europe, has supported us in our fight against 
terrorism, and stood with us by contributing troops to Afghanistan and 
Iraq. The Polish people have made great strides since the fall of 
communism liberalizing their economy, joining NATO in 1999, and 
becoming a Member of the European Union in 2004.

It is high time that we recognize and advance Poland's place in the 
world, as well as our special relationship with that nation, by 
initiating a robust educational exchange program.

Madam Speaker, I wholeheartedly support this proposed bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.