# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `46cf199ac15d9adf31b90c8f3c968c11`
`Mr. PENCE â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this Iraq supplemental bridge 
fund. While no one is declaring victory in Iraq, the tide is turning. 
But nothing changes here on Capitol Hill. And here we go again, by some 
estimates, the 41st effort by the majority to come to this floor and 
force a precipitous and reckless withdrawal of forces from Iraq, 
another Democrat plan for redeployment from Iraq tying $50 billion in 
necessary combat funds for our troops to a Democrat plan for 
withdrawal.

With unambiguous evidence of progress on the ground filling the 
newspapers of America, the Democrats in Congress seem to have decided 
to add denial to their plan of retreat and defeat in Iraq. And the 
newspapers speak for themselves.

The Washington Post last week wrote, ''The number of attacks against 
U.S. soldiers has fallen to levels not seen since before the February 
2006 bombing of a Shia shrine in Samarra that touched off waves of 
sectarian killing.'' The death toll of American troops in October fell 
to 39, the lowest since March 2006.

And on Thursday last, The New York Times noted, '' 'American forces 
have routed al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the Iraqi militant network, from 
every neighborhood in Iraq,' a top general said today, 'allowing 
American troops involved in the surge to depart as planned.' ''

The Washington Times would say, ''Responding to the good news, 
Speaker Pelosi has unveiled her newest legislative strategy to damage 
the war efforts. House Democrats this week,'' they wrote, ''will try to 
enact a bill calling for immediately beginning to withdraw U.S. troops 
from Iraq. The surrender language will be attached to a 4-month, $50 
billion funding.''

''The contrast could hardly be more striking,'' they said. ''American 
soldiers performing heroically and successfully, risking their lives on 
the battlefield in Iraq, Speaker Pelosi and the Democrat leadership by 
contrast look for ways to advertise American weakness to the enemy.''

And I say from my heart, with great respect to the good and patriotic 
Americans with whom I differ on this point, I urge my colleagues to 
reject this Democrat plan for withdrawal. But I also urge my countrymen 
to give our soldiers a chance. I know things have not always gone as we 
had all hoped in Iraq.

In my role as the ranking member of the Middle East Subcommittee and 
before, I have traveled to this war-torn country five times over the 
last 4/1/2/ years. I have seen success and I have seen less than 
success. I have seen advance and I have seen failure. But today, we are 
seeing hope spring. Freedom and stability are beginning to take hold in 
Iraq. And I say from my heart, we cannot lose faith in ourselves. We 
cannot lose faith in freedom. We must reject this latest plan for 
retreat and defeat.