---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `46e288c56f098a3252d9f5fce50168c3`
`Mr. HONDA — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HONDA. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague, the gentlewoman from 
Northern California (Mrs. Tauscher).

Like so many of my colleagues, I stand here today in opposition to 
President Bush's surge in Iraq.

We should not have attacked Iraq in the first place, and we 
definitely should not escalate things further. The initial evidence for 
the war was flimsy at best, and realizing that, I voted against the 
authorization for war.

The most recent evidence that the President has presented in support 
of this surge is even less credible, and I urge my colleagues to 
prevent the President from throwing more gasoline onto a fire that is 
already burning out of control.

When I speak to veterans of the Iraq war, I become infuriated by 
their tales of the destruction that this President's policies have 
wrought in that country. Nor can they fathom why their Commander in 
Chief insists on squandering the strength of the greatest fighting 
force in the history of the world.

While Iraq under Saddam Hussein's rule was a rogue state and an 
affront to American values, today Iraqi citizens are forced to endure 
even more severe and deadlier situations.

There is no indication that Iraq was a center for international 
terrorism prior to President Bush's adventure there. Now, as a result 
of his irresponsible actions, it undeniably is.

Over 3,000 brave American service men and women have lost their lives 
in Iraq in addition to the 100,000 or more Iraqis who have been killed; 
25,000 American soldiers have been injured.

For what, Mr. President? For what? You have yet to answer this simple 
question, and I suspect this is because you do not have an answer. 
There is not, nor can there be, a credible answer to this utter folly.

Each Member of this House has tales of constituents whose lives will 
never be the same because of the Iraq war.

In the aftermath of 9/11, one of my constituents joined the Army out 
of a deep sense of patriotism. One day while on patrol in Iraq, his 
tank drove over an explosive device, sending the vehicle 10 feet in the 
air. He survived but suffered severe brain and spinal injuries. For his 
bravery, he was awarded the Purple Heart, multiple commendations and 
other medals.

After completing a service to his country, he returned home to resume 
his life with his wife and newly born triplets.

Upon returning to work, however, he found that he had difficulty 
concentrating as a result of his head injury. He was diagnosed with 
traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder.

As a result of the strain that the President's policies are placing 
on the Veterans Administration, he, like so many of my constituents, 
was unable to receive a change in his benefit allowance in a timely 
manner. So that he could continue to live in dignity, local officials 
and media had to put out a call for donations to pick up where his 
government failed him.

This brave man expected that his sacrifices would be repaid with the 
generosity that America promises to our veterans. Instead, he 
encountered a system that is overextended and ill equipped to help him 
when he needed it. Other constituents have told me that when they try 
to call the Veterans Administration they have to wait on hold for over 
2 hours before they can talk to a human being.

Is this how we should treat those who put their lives on the line for 
our country? The Veterans Administration recently testified that it 
needs a 13 percent increase in funding to address rising costs and 
increased demand, but the President's budget proposes less than half of 
that.

And now the President wants to further escalate the strain on our 
already over-extended system by sending more soldiers off to Iraq? I am 
outraged and I cannot mince my words. This is a national shame. This is 
not how America repays its valiant heroes.

Madam Speaker, we must stop this madness. This surge, this escalation 
will fail just as past surges have.

This conflict requires the diplomatic and political solution, not 
just simply sending more troops into the fight. We cannot allow this 
President to shatter the lives of more of our best and brightest. It is 
time to bring our troops home.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
