---
---

# None
## `46f4fb201c31d007fe5d1d9b6329500a`
`Mr. McCAIN — 26 February 2008`

---

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I strongly oppose, as I have 
before, the legislation offered by the Senator from Wisconsin.

This bill would mandate a withdrawal of U.S. combat forces from Iraq 
and cut off funds for our troops 120 days after enactment. The one 
exception would be for a small force authorized only to carry out 
narrowly defined missions. If this latest attempt sounds familiar, it 
should--the majority has thus far engaged in no less than 40 
legislative attempts to achieve this misguided outcome. And, just like 
the 40 votes that preceded this one, the result of this effort will 
undoubtedly be the same.

The reason is clear. To pass such legislation would be to court 
disaster, and to set a date certain for the withdrawal of U.S. forces 
from Iraq, regardless of the conditions on the ground or the 
implications for our national security, would be tantamount to setting 
a date for surrender. Should we ignore the signs of real progress in 
Iraq and legislate a premature end to our efforts there, the Congress 
would be complicit in all the terrible and predictable consequences 
that would ensue.

The Senate, in facing this choice time and again over the past year, 
has voted against legislated surrender in Iraq. Instead, we have 
decided to build on the clear successes of our new strategy and to give 
GEN David Petraeus and the troops under his command the time and 
support they have requested to carry out their mission. The interests 
of America, the future of the Iraqi people, and the stability of the 
Middle East are the better for it.

But the Senate has come to this conclusion only after repeated 
attempts to do what the proponents of this bill would have us do 
today--bring the war in Iraq to a premature and disastrous


close through legislative fiat. If ever there was a case for 
precipitous withdrawal from Iraq--and I believe there never was--now is 
the last time anyone should consider such a step. If abandoning Iraq 
was a terrible idea when we were unsuccessful in our efforts there, it 
is a catastrophic proposal today, when we are winning.

The supporters of withdrawal said in 2007 that the surge could never 
work, that extra American brigades could do nothing to bring greater 
security to Iraq, that no new counterinsurgency strategy could succeed 
in protecting the population. We were losing in Iraq, they said, and 
nothing could change that. Some even declared that the war was already 
lost.

But they were wrong. As General Petraeus put it in his end of the 
year letter to the troops, ''A year ago, Iraq was racked by horrific 
violence and on the brink of civil war. Now, levels of violence and 
civilian and military casualties are significantly reduced and hope has 
been rekindled in many Iraqi communities.'' In fact, the surge has 
succeeded well beyond the projections of even most optimists. Let me 
cite a few examples.

In Baghdad, ethno-sectarian violence has fallen over 90 percent in a 
year. IED attacks in Baghdad are down by 45 percent since February 
2007. The specter of civil war in Iraq's capital, a real threat when 
the surge began, has retreated significantly. The capital's population 
has begun to retake its streets, its schools, and its markets.

The remarkable progress is not confined only to Baghdad. Attacks have 
decreased in 17 of 18 provinces in Iraq since the surge began. In the 
country as a whole, attacks are down by some 60 percent and stand at 
the level experienced in early 2005 or even 2004. Car bombs across Iraq 
are down, the number of civilian deaths has fallen, and IED explosions 
are down, all by significant margins. Intelligence tips are up, 
discovery of weapons and explosive caches has increased, and al-Qaida 
is on the run, having been forced by U.S. and Iraqi troops out of the 
urban areas like Baghdad, Ramadi, Fallujah, and Baquba and into 
isolated rural areas. U.S. casualties, too, have fallen significantly, 
even in the midst of ongoing operations.

As GEN Barry McCaffrey put it in a recent report, Iraq is seeing 
''dramatically reduced levels of civilian sectarian violence, political 
assassinations, abductions, and small arms/indirect fire and IED 
attacks on U.S. and Iraqi Police and Army Forces. This is the 
unmistakable new reality . . . The national security debate must move 
on to an analysis of why this new political and security situation 
exists--not whether it exists.''

In the face of such facts, it is beyond perplexing to see the 
proponents of this legislation seek not to consolidate our gains and 
ensure that they continue but, rather, to force a troop withdrawal that 
would reverse all of the achievements I just cited. Understanding what 
we now know--that our military is making remarkable progress on the 
ground, and that their commanders request from us the time and support 
necessary to succeed in Iraq--it is inconceivable that we in Congress 
would end this strategy just as it is succeeding.

This is not to say that all is rosy in Iraq. It is not, and neither I 
nor our military commanders make any such argument. The cumulative 
results of nearly 4 years of mismanaged war cannot be reversed 
overnight. Al-Qaida is on the run but has not disappeared, and we can 
expect them to fight back. Fighting among Shia factions in the south 
presents a significant challenge, and violence and crime remain at 
unacceptably high levels in a number of areas. The road in Iraq 
remains, as it always has been, long and hard. But this is an argument 
for continuing our successful strategy, not for abandoning it in favor 
of sure failure.

At some point last year, a few of the proponents of withdrawal from 
Iraq began conceding that the surge was having tangible, positive 
effects. They went on to argue, however, that securing the population 
was irrelevant, as the point of the surge was to see political progress 
and there had been none. Yet even while this new debate began, 
political progress at the local level took off across Iraq. Tens of 
thousands of Iraqis--most of them Sunnis who were, or would have been, 
part of the anticoalition insurgency--joined Concerned Local Citizens 
groups and aligned themselves with our efforts. Moqtada al-Sadr 
announced that the Mahdi army would observe a 6-month ceasefire, a 
pledge he renewed just last week for an additional 6 months. In Anbar 
and elsewhere, local populations turned to the coalition and against 
al-Qaida, turning that province from Iraq's most dangerous into one of 
its safest.

In the face of these new facts, supporters of withdrawal changed 
their argument yet again. Maybe the surge had brought about greater 
security, they said, and perhaps this had helped generate political 
progress at the local level, as counterinsurgency doctrine would 
suggest. But this was irrelevant, they said, so long as national level 
political reconciliation is lacking--and since we can never expect 
that, the troops must leave.

Yet they were wrong again. In January, the Iraqi Parliament passed 
the long-awaited debaathification law that restores the eligibility of 
thousands of former party members for government jobs lost because of 
their Baathist affiliation. Earlier this month, a provincial powers law 
passed that devolves a significant amount of power to the provinces and 
mandates new provincial elections by October 1 of this year. The 
Parliament passed a partial amnesty for detainees that can facilitate 
reconciliation among the sects, and it completed a landmark 2008 
budget.


Again, these significant achievements come coupled with remaining 
challenges. Parliament has yet to pass an oil law, though oil revenues 
are being shared in its absence; the Maliki government remains 
unwilling to function and provide services as it must, and other 
difficulties abound. Yet it is telling that in his latest report, 
military analyst Anthony Cordesman said, ''No one can spend some 10 
days visiting the battlefields in Iraq without seeing major progress in 
every area . . . If the U.S. provides sustained support to the Iraqi 
government--in security, governance, and development--there is now a 
very real chance that Iraq will emerge as a secure and stable state.''

No one can guarantee success in Iraq or be certain about its 
prospects. We can be sure, however, that should the U.S. Congress 
succeed in terminating the strategy by legislating an abrupt withdrawal 
and a transition to a new, less effective and more dangerous course--
should we do that, then we will fail for certain.

Let us make no mistake about the costs of such an American failure in 
Iraq. Should Congress force a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it 
would mark a new beginning, the start of a new, more dangerous effort 
to contain the forces unleashed by our disengagement. If we leave, we 
will be back--in Iraq and elsewhere--in many more desperate fights to 
protect our security and at an even greater cost in American lives and 
treasure.

In his testimony before the Armed Services Committee in September, 
General Petraeus referred to an August Defense Intelligence Agency 
report that stated, ''. . . a rapid withdrawal would result in the 
further release of strong centrifugal forces in Iraq and produce a 
number of dangerous results, including a high risk of disintegration of 
the Iraqi Security Forces; a rapid deterioration of local security 
initiatives; al Qaeda--Iraq regaining lost ground and freedom of 
maneuver; a marked increase in violence and further ethno-sectarian 
displacement and refugee flows; and exacerbation of already challenging 
regional dynamics, especially with respect to Iran.''

Those are the likely consequences of a precipitous withdrawal, and I 
hope that the supporters of such a move will tell us how they intend to 
address the chaos and catastrophe that would surely follow such a 
course of action. Should we leave Iraq before there is a basic level of 
stability, we invite chaos, genocide, terrorist safehavens and regional 
war. We invite further Iranian influence at a time when Iranian 
operatives are already moving weapons, training fighters, providing 
resources, and helping plan operations to kill American soldiers and 
damage our efforts to bring stability to Iraq. If our notions of 
national security have any meaning, they cannot include permitting the 
establishment of an Iranian dominated Middle East that is roiled


by wider regional war and riddled with terrorist safehavens.

The supporters of this amendment claim that they do not by any means 
intend to cede the battlefield to al-Qaida; on the contrary, their 
legislation would allow U.S. forces, presumably holed up in forward 
operating bases, to carry out ''targeted operations, limited in 
duration and scope, against members of al Qaeda and affiliated 
international terrorist organizations.'' But such a provision draws a 
false distinction between terrorism and sectarian violence, between 
counterterrorism and counterinsurgency. Moving in with search and 
destroy missions to kill and capture terrorists, only to immediately 
cede the territory to the enemy, is the failed strategy of the war's 
first 4 years. We should not, and must not, return to such a disastrous 
course.

Americans were divided over this war from the beginning, and we 
remain so today. All of us want our troops to come home, and to come 
home as soon as possible. But how we leave--that is of the utmost 
importance. We must not leave, as the supporters of this amendment 
would have it, in a way that erodes all the security gains that our 
brave men and women have fought so hard to achieve and in a way that 
puts us on the road to surrender. The stakes are too high, we have come 
too far and sacrificed too much for that. Instead of surrendering, we 
should persevere with the pursuit of our strategic objectives: to 
defeat al-Qaida, not be defeated by it; to implant in Iraq the forces 
of stability and tolerance, not chaos and civil war; to demonstrate 
that America keeps its word with its friends and allies, rather than 
abandoning them to horrific consequences. The American soldiers we have 
sent to battle deserve to return to us with honor--the honor of victory 
that is due all of those who have paid with the ultimate sacrifice.

Before I close, I would note that there will be another vote soon on 
the motion to proceed to legislation requiring the administration to 
develop a new al-Qaida strategy within 60 days, and to report it to 
Congress. I oppose putting such a mandate in law for several reasons. 
The National Security Act of 1947 requires the President to transmit to 
Congress each year a comprehensive report on the national security 
strategy of the United States. Title 10 requires the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff to produce a national military strategy and to 
conduct a biennial review of that strategy, a review that was recently 
completed. The Chairman has indicated that a new national military 
strategy is under development and, of course, the next President will 
be required to issue a fresh national security strategy. In short there 
are, and will remain, a number of legislative requirements for security 
strategies that include a counterterrorism approach.

Finally, this bill would attempt to limit the President's use of the 
military by imposing dwell times for our forces. While I fully support 
the goal of achieving sustainable dwell times for our Armed Forces, I 
do not believe that we should try to force such a restriction on the 
President irrespective of any contravening interests.

Mr. President, as the debate over Iraq goes on, let us remember to 
whom and what we owe our first allegiance--to the security of the 
American people and to the ideals upon which our Nation was founded. 
That responsibility is our dearest privilege, and to be judged by 
history to have discharged it honorably will, in the end, matter so 
much more to all of us than any fleeting glory of popular acclaim, 
electoral advantage or office. I hope we might all have good reason to 
expect a kinder judgment of our flaws and follies because when it 
mattered most we chose to put the interests of our great and good 
Nation before our own and helped, in our own small way, preserve for 
all humanity the magnificent and inspiring example of an assured, 
successful and ever advancing America and the ideals that make us still 
the greatest Nation on Earth.