---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `470aba4f2ad7153d483742728139b266`
`Mrs. BOXER — 28 July 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute to CDR Duane G. 
Wolfe, a sailor from my home State of California who paid the ultimate 
price in service to our country in Iraq.

Commander Wolfe, of Los Osos, CA, died on May 25, 2009, from injuries 
suffered when his convoy was hit by a roadside bomb southeast of 
Fallujah, Iraq.

He is the oldest Californian to have lost his life in either Iraq or 
Afghanistan to date, electing to continue to serve as a member of the 
U.S. military despite having the option to retire.

Commander Wolfe enlisted in the Navy in 1972 shortly after graduating 
high school and served on Active Duty for 5 years. In 1978, he joined 
the Navy Reserves, where he served until his death. He also worked for 
24 years as a civilian employee at Vandenberg Air Force Base, rising to 
the position of civilian deputy commander for installation support for 
the 30th Mission Support Group.

As a member of the Navy Reserves, Commander Wolfe deployed to Iraq in 
December 2008 for a 6-month assignment. He served as the officer in 
charge of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Al Anbar Area Office, 
leading a team that oversaw nearly $300 million in construction 
projects including many that provide essential services to the Iraqi 
people. He was due to return home on July 10, 2009.

In addition to his military service, Commander Wolfe was a longtime 
deacon for the Los Osos Church of Christ where he taught Bible classes 
and occasionally filled in as a substitute preacher. He was a skilled 
lifelong athlete who loved golfing and playing basketball, and a 
talented mechanic, with a particular aptitude for both construction and 
car repair.

At the age of 19, Commander Wolfe met his wife Cindi, to whom he was 
married for 34 happy years. He and his wife have three children, 
Carrie, Katie and Evan, who remember their father for his kindness, 
warmth, and dedication to his family and country.

Commander Wolfe will be posthumously awarded the Bronze Star with 
''V'' Device for Valor, the Purple Heart, the Navy Combat Action 
Ribbon, the National Defense Service Medal with Service Star, the Iraqi 
Campaign Medal, the Armed Forces Reserve Medal with ''M'' Device for 
Mobilization, and the Overseas Service Ribbon, commemorating his 
courage and extraordinary sacrifice in service to our country.

Nothing can fully account for the loss suffered by Commander Wolfe's 
family and all those who loved him.


But I hope they can take comfort in the knowledge that he will be 
forever honored and remembered by a grateful nation.

As we remember Commander Wolfe and honor his service to the United 
States, we are also reminded of the eight other Californians who have 
been killed in Iraq since April 21. This brings to 879 the number of 
servicemembers either from California or based in California that have 
been killed while serving our country in Iraq. This represents 20 
percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

SSgt Mark A. Wojciechowski, 25, of Cincinnati, OH, died April 30 
while supporting combat operations in Al Anbar province Iraq. Staff 
Sergeant Wojciechowski was assigned to 7th Engineer Support Battalion, 
1st Marine Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

Sgt James R. McIlvaine, 26, of Olney, MD, died April 30 while 
supporting combat operations in Al Anbar province Iraq. Sergeant 
McIlvaine was assigned to 1st Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st 
Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SPC Jake R. Velloza, 22, of Inverness, CA, died from wounds sustained 
after he was shot by enemy forces in Mosul, Iraq on May 2. Specialist 
Velloza was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 12th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd 
Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, TX.

SPC Jeremiah P. McCleery, 24, of Portola, CA, died from wounds 
sustained after he was shot by enemy forces in Mosul, Iraq on May 2. 
Specialist McCleery was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 12th Cavalry 
Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, TX.

PVT Justin P. Hartford, 21, of Elmira, NY, died May 8 at Joint Base 
Balad, Iraq, of injuries sustained from a non-combat related incident. 
Private Hartford was assigned to the 699th Maintenance Company, Corps 
Support Battalion, 916th Support Brigade, Fort Irwin, CA.

MAJ Jason E. George, 38, of Tehachapi, CA, died May 21 near Baghdad, 
Iraq of wounds sustained when his unit was attacked by enemy forces 
using improvised explosive devices while on dismounted patrol. Major 
George was an Army Reservist assigned to the 252nd Combined Arms 
Battalion, Fayetteville, NC.

CPT Kafele H. Sims, 32, of Los Angeles, CA, died June 16 in Mosul, 
Iraq, of a non-combat related incident. Captain Sims was assigned to 
the 18th Engineer Brigade, Schwetzingen, Germany.

LCpl Brandon T. Lara, 20, of New Braunfels, TX, died July 19 while 
supporting combat operations in Anbar province, Iraq. Lance Corporal 
Lara was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to the nine soldiers from CA who 
have died while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom since 
April 21.

SSG Esau I. De la Pena-Hernandez, 25, of La Puente, CA, died May 15 
at Forward Operating Base Shank, Afghanistan, of wounds suffered when 
his patrol was attacked by enemy forces using small-arms fire in Chak, 
Afghanistan. Staff Sergeant De la Pena-Hernandez was assigned to the 
2nd Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th 
Mountain Division, Light Infantry, Fort Drum, NY.

1SG Blue C. Rowe, 33, of Summers, AR, died May 26 in Panjshir 
Province, Afghanistan, when an improvised explosive device detonated 
near his vehicle. First Sergeant Rowe was assigned to the 426th Civil 
Affairs Battalion, Upland, CA.

LCpl Joshua R. Whittle, 20, of Downey, CA, died June 6 while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Lance 
Corporal Whittle was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marine Regiment, 
3rd Marine Division, III Marine Expeditionary Force, Kaneohe Bay, HI.

MAJ Rocco M. Barnes, 50, of Los Angeles, CA, died June 4 in 
Afghanistan of injuries sustained during a vehicle rollover. Major 
Barnes was a member of the Tactical Command Post, 40th Infantry 
Division, California Army National Guard, assigned as an individual 
augmentee to the 3rd Marine Regiment, 3rd Marine Division, III Marine 
Expeditionary Force.

SPC Eduardo S. Silva, 25, of Greenfield, CA, died June 9 at Bagram 
Airfield, Afghanistan, of a non-combat related incident. Specialist 
Silva was assigned to the 563rd Aviation Support Battalion, 159th 
Combat Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, Air Assault, Fort 
Campbell, KY.

PFC Justin A. Casillas, 19, of Dunnigan, CA, died July 4 at Combat 
Outpost Zerok, Afghanistan, of wounds suffered when insurgents attacked 
his outpost using small arms and indirect fire. Private First Class 
Casillas was assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 509th Parachute Infantry 
Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, Airborne, 25th Infantry Division, 
Fort Richardson, AK.

PFC Nicolas H. J. Gideon, 20, of Murrieta, CA, died July 6 at Forward 
Operating Base Salerno, Afghanistan, of injuries suffered earlier that 
day in Paktya, Afghanistan, when insurgents attacked his unit using 
small arms fire and rocket-propelled grenades. Private First Class 
Gideon was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 40th Cavalry Regiment, 4th 
Brigade Combat Team Airborne, 25th Infantry Division, Fort Richardson, 
AK.

LCpl Pedro A. Barbozaflores, 27, of Glendale, CA, died July 11 while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Lance 
Corporal Barbozaflores was assigned to 2nd Light Armored Reconnaissance 
Battalion, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Lejeune, NC.

Sgt Michael W. Heede Jr., 22, of Delta, PA, died July 13 while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Sergeant 
Heede was assigned to 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.
