---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `470f2bc5eb610552e32182b9c1e6352a`
`Mr. CALVERT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I would like to submit for the Record an 
Editorial from the Wall Street Journal regarding the Iraq Resolution, 
H. Con. Res. 63.







 [From the Wall Street Journal, Feb. 15, 2007]












 Awaiting the Dishonor Roll




 Congress has rarely been distinguished by its moral 


 courage. But even grading on a curve, we can only describe 


 this week's House debate on a vote of no-confidence in the 


 mission in Iraq as one of the most shameful moments in the 


 institution's history.



 On present course, the Members will vote on Friday to 


 approve a resolution that does nothing to remove American 


 troops from harm's way in Iraq but that will do substantial 


 damage to their morale and that of their Iraqi allies while 


 emboldening the enemy. The only real question is how many 


 Republicans will also participate in this disgrace in the 


 mistaken belief that their votes will put some distance 


 between themselves and the war most of them voted to 


 authorize in 2002.



 The motion at issue is plainly dishonest, in that 


 exquisitely Congressional way of trying to have it both ways. 


 (We reprint the text nearby.) The resolution purports to 


 ''support'' the troops even as it disapproves of their 


 mission. It praises their ''bravery,'' while opposing the 


 additional forces that both President Bush and General David 


 Petreaus, the new commanding general in Iraq, say are vital 


 to accomplishing that mission. And it claims to want to 


 ''protect'' the troops even as its practical impact will be 


 to encourage Iraqi insurgents to believe that every roadside 


 bomb brings them closer to their goal.



 As for how ''the troops'' themselves feel, we refer readers 


 to Richard Engel's recent story on NBC News quoting 


 Specialist Tyler Johnson in Iraq: ''People are dying here. 


 You know what I'm saying. . . You may [say] 'oh we support 


 the troops.' So you're not supporting what they do. What 


 they's [sic] here




 to sweat for, what we bleed for and we die for.'' Added 


 another soldier: ''If they don't think we're doing a good 


 job, everything we've done here is all in vain.'' In other 


 words, the troops themselves realize that the first part of 


 the resolution is empty posturing, while the second is deeply 


 immoral.



 All the more so because if Congress feels so strongly about 


 the troops, it arguably has the power to start removing them 


 from harm's way by voting to cut off the funds they need to 


 operate in Iraq. But that would make Congress responsible for 


 what followed--whether those consequences are Americans 


 killed in retreat, or ethnic cleansing in Baghdad, or the 


 toppling of the elected Maliki government by radical Shiite 


 or military forces. The one result Congress fears above all 


 is being accountable.



 We aren't prone to quoting the young John Kerry, but this 


 week's vote reminds us of the comment the antiwar veteran 


 told another cut-and-run Congress in the early 1970s: ''How 


 do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake?'' 


 The difference this time is that Speaker Nancy Pelosi and 


 John Murtha expect men and women to keep dying for something 


 they say is a mistake but also don't have the poiitical 


 courage to help end.



 Instead, they'll pass this ''non-binding resolution,'' to 


 be followed soon by attempts at micromanagement that would 


 make the war all but impossible to prosecute--and once again 


 without taking responsibility. Mr. Murtha is already 


 broadcasting his strategy, which the new Politico Web site 


 described yesterday as ''a slow-bleed strategy designed to 


 gradually limit the administration's options.''



 In concert with antiwar groups, the story reported, Mr. 


 Murtha's ''goal is crafted to circumvent the biggest 


 political vulnerability of the antiwar movement--the 


 accusation that it is willing to abandon troops in the 


 field.'' So instead of cutting off funds, Mr. Murtha will 


 ''slow-bleed'' the troops with ''readiness'' restrictions or 


 limits on National Guard forces that will make them all but 


 impossible to deploy. These will be attached to 


 appropriations bills that will also purport to ''support the 


 troops.''



 ''There's a D-Day coming in here, and it's going to start 


 with the supplemental and finish with the '08 [defense] 


 budget,'' Congressman Neil Abercrombie (D., Hawaii) told the 


 Web site. He must mean D-Day as in Dunkirk.



 All of this is something that House Republicans should keep 


 in mind as they consider whether to follow this retreat. The 


 GOP leadership has been stalwart, even eloquent, this week in 


 opposing the resolution. But some Republicans figure they can 


 use this vote to distance themselves from Mr. Bush and the 


 war while not doing any real harm. They should understand 


 that the Democratic willingness to follow the Murtha ''slow-


 bleed'' strategy will depend in part on how many Republicans 


 follow them in this vote. The Democrats are themselves 


 divided on how to proceed, and they want a big GOP vote to 


 give them political cover. However ''non-binding,'' this is a 


 vote that Republican partisans will long remember.



 History is likely to remember the roll as well. A newly 


 confirmed commander is about to lead 20,000 American soldiers 


 on a dangerous and difficult mission to secure Baghdad, 


 risking their lives for their country. And the message their 


 elected Representatives will send them off to battle with is 


 a vote declaring their inevitable defeat.
