# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `4712abcc803f1fc06b4aa985774a59f9`
`Mr. HUNTER — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 2647, National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010:

I requested $3,000,000 for Trex Enterprises at 10455 Pacific Center 
Court, San Diego, CA 92121. Funding for this program will be used to 
complete development, flight testing and integration of the Brownout 
MMW Sensor that will reduce aircraft accident risk and allow aircrew 
visibility through the full range of landing and take-off operations in 
otherwise extremely hazardous flight conditions. ''Brownout'' is a 
situation Army aviators experience in combat operations daily in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Created by helicopter rotor downwash, it continues to 
cause aircraft accidents and remains a high risk to flight safety.

Specifically, as aircraft approach the ground, a thick plume of brown 
desert dust, dirt and sand disturbed by high velocity winds from rotor 
systems engulf the aircraft, causing a complete loss of the pilot's 
visual reference to the ground. The Brownout Situational Awareness 
Sensor (BSAS) is a cockpit display system capable of providing the 
aircrew visibility through the blowing sand and dust. This technology 
will greatly reduce the loss of aviator lives, loss of aircraft and 
reduce the amount of maintenance requirements resulting in damages from 
Brownout situations. Brownout is among the biggest hazards to rotary-
wing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, contributing to more than 71 
U.S. helicopter accidents. Providing this capability is critical to 
aircrew safety and combat readiness.

I also requested $1,000,000 for CHI Systems at 12860 Danielson Court, 
Suite A, Poway, CA 92064. There is currently insufficient training 
provided to soldiers on the most crucial battlefield lifesaving 
situations. Medics and soldiers, in many instances, lack the experience 
to act swiftly and effectively in combat casualty situations. By 
combining instrumented manikin parts that support hands-on practice 
with computer based scenario training, this funding will complete the 
HapMed Combat Medic Trainer development and provide medics and soldiers 
the ability to practice critical lifesaving tasks. In addition to 
providing realistic training scenarios, HapMed is also portable, so 
soldiers can continue to train while they are deployed. This system has 
received high praise in its ability to train soldiers for medical 
treatment on the battlefield. According to a Science and Technology 
Manager for the Army, ''New technologies such as HapMed are needed to 
provide medics with greater opportunities to develop and test their 
decision making and technical medical skills.''


New Army recruits must receive training in Buddy Aid or as Combat 
Life Savers (CLS). Currently, insufficient training is provided to help 
soldiers and medics acquire and maintain some of the crucial 
battlefield lifesaving skills such as tourniquet application, needle 
chest decompression, and emergency cricothyrotomy, addressing, 
respectively, the top three causes of preventable death on the 
battlefield. In order to perform these lifesaving functions under 
battlefield conditions, military personnel must have the awareness and 
confidence to act swiftly and effectively.

Further, I requested $3,000,000 for Cubic Solutions at 5650 Kearny 
Mesa Road, San Diego, CA 92111. The Navy's carriers and large-deck 
amphibious assault ships serve as the flagships of battle groups and 
expeditionary forces. Commanders receive intelligence, reconnaissance, 
and surveillance (ISR) data from airborne manned and unmanned sensor 
vehicles via the ships' AN/USQ-167 Communications Data Link System 
(CDL-S) terminals. The AN/USQ-167 securely transports many forms of 
classified data, including voice communications, tactical data, 
photographs, and streaming video, using the NSA-approved KI-11 COMSEC 
equipment. The KI-11 is based on an encryption


device that is no longer available. This initiative will fund a KI-11 
replacement based on a new, interoperable, NSA-approved device.

Kinetic energy penetrators fabricated from tungsten offer a means to 
gain 40% more kill depth if nanoscale tungsten is consolidated to full 
density with retention of the small crystal sizes during consolidation. 
It is for this reason that I requested $2,000,000 for San Diego State 
University Research Foundation at 5250 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA 
92182. This funding will provide the Army the material that will ensure 
larger stand-off distances in battle (lethal to the enemy while our 
troops are beyond the lethal zone), earlier kinetic energy kills of 
incoming missiles, and more armor penetrations events. The current 
depleted uranium materials are toxic and need to be removed from the 
battlefield. For example, to avoid poisoning surgery is required on any 
friendly troops struck by fragments. Dual use applications are 
outstanding--from automobile vibration suppression to high thermal 
conductivity heat sinks in computers. For example, wireless telephone 
networks use tungsten-copper composites to improve heat removal from 
relay stations to improve performance.

I requested $1,000,000 for Allermed Laboratories, Inc at 7203 Convoy 
Court, San Diego, CA 92111. Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that 
occurs in many areas of the world in which U.S. Military personnel are 
deployed. Over 2500 service personnel were diagnosed with leishmaniasis 
in Iraq and Afghanistan during the present conflict. Funding this 
program will result in the development of a biological product that 
meets the specifications of the FDA and the DoD. A phase 1 safety trial 
was completed in 2007; a phase II dose-response study and sensitivity 
study were conducted in Tunisia and completed in 2008; a phase IIb 
trial is presently being conducted in San Diego, CA and will be 
completed in June 2009. In this trial, the sensitizing properties of 
the skin test doses that were used in the 2008 Tunisia trial are being 
evaluated.

The Navy is challenged to conduct ASW localization and small-area 
search operations in shallow water littoral areas against emerging 
modern, diesel-electric submarines and these new submarines provide a 
minimal noise signature making them virtually undetectable to acoustic 
arrays under many circumstances. $2,000,000 for Information Systems 
Laboratories at 10070 Barnes Canyon Road, San Diego, CA 92121 will 
address this issue. The Navy's answer to the quiet diesel-electric 
submarine localization problem is to rely on active sensors. Active 
sensor performance in the littorals, however, suffers degraded 
detection ranges from reverberation and alerts the submarine, enabling 
it to undertake countermeasures to avoid detection. Recent developments 
in miniaturization of low cost, low power electromagnetic sensor 
technology offers new potential for employing non-acoustic sensors to 
increase the Navy's capability for tactical surveillance, localization, 
and classification of quiet, modern diesel-electric submarines.

This funding will develop multiple small and inexpensive non-acoustic 
sensors, or clusters, packaged into ''A'' size buoys, the size buoy 
currently being used by U.S. Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) airborne 
assets, which will be demonstrated under this program. This 
revolutionary ''cluster approach'' is a development that promises to be 
equally effective in both the open ocean and the littoral against the 
evolving threat. A-size sonobuoy launch containers can be designed to 
deploy the mini-sensors in linear arrays, or clusters, depending on the 
mission. Ongoing electric-field detection technology research has 
already demonstrated promising near-term solutions and passive ''A''-
size air dropped buoy concepts are ready for TRL7/8 demonstration in FY 
2009.

Finally, I also requested $5,000,000 for MBDA at 5701 Lindero Canyon 
Road, Suite 4-100, Westlake Village, CA 91362. This funding will 
develop for the Navy an innovative missile solution for its requirement 
for an Affordable Weapon System (AWS) capable of operating from ships 
and with a potential Navy/USMC airborne launch capability. AWS will 
defeat targets at stand-off ranges, rapidly completing the engagement 
phase with a capability to loiter in a target area. The Navy is looking 
for an AWS that can kill a variety of target sets to include Strategic 
Fixed, Strategic Mobile, Tactical, Maritime and importantly, Irregular 
Warfare/Global War on Terrorism targets. Typically these include mobile 
land and sea targets, time critical targets, and targets of opportunity 
such as terrorist leadership meeting facilities, mobile missile 
launchers, communication nodes and weapons caches. AWS is packaged in 
the existing shipboard Mk-41 Vertical Launch System as a ''quad-pack'' 
missile which offers a four-to-one load-out advantage over the existing 
weapon system to provide combatant commanders the capability to carry a 
deeper magazine and strike many more targets. AWS also utilizes 
conventional, low-cost airframe materials and electronics in 
combination with flexible swarming cooperative attack algorithms to 
overwhelm and defeat these targets within their range of undefended to 
heavily defended threat environments. AWS will have a flyaway cost of 
$250K, less than a third the cost of the existing shipboard strike 
weapon system.
