# None
## `47414bec55e978a9144edc68773c6dac`
`Mr. McKEON — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, this afternoon I rise to honor a good friend 
of mine and an esteemed former Member of this House.

First elected in 1993, John McHugh represented New York's 23rd 
Congressional district honorably in the U.S. House of Representatives 
until this summer.

Representing Fort Drum and the men and women of the legendary 10th 
Mountain Division, John joined the Armed Services Committee upon being 
elected and went on to serve as the Chairman of the Morale, Welfare, 
and Recreation Panel; the Chairman of the Military Personnel 
Subcommittee; and the Ranking Member of the Full Committee.

During his tenure in the House of Representatives, John was a 
tireless advocate for America's military personnel and their families 
and known by his colleagues as a leader on national defense and 
security issues.

One of his best attributes was his willingness to sit down with our 
troops--active, Guard and reserve, and their family members at every 
level of the chain of command--to hear their views and concerns.

From his leadership positions with the Armed Services Committee and 
with little fanfare, John traveled across the globe--from the United 
States and Europe to active combat zones in Iraq and Afghanistan--to 
hear directly from troops stationed and deployed overseas.

Along those lines, John spearheaded more than 68 hearings, mark-ups, 
and briefings so


he could hear a variety of views, make reasoned decisions, and 
translate those into legislative initiatives to ensure our military 
personnel have the best possible training, the most modern equipment 
and weapons systems, and the necessary resources to carry out their 
missions.

Some of his accomplishments include: higher Army and Marine Corps 
end-strength levels, increased military personnel pay, reductions in 
the unfair tax on veterans' disability and military retired pay, and 
more military retiree benefits for our troops.

It is for these reasons that President Obama tapped John McHugh to be 
his Secretary of the Army. In that position, John is continuing his 
work on behalf of the men and women of our military and their families.