# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4748750a52ad923a0d7bf4ae59de2e2b`
`Mr. DELAHUNT — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DELAHUNT. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I agree with my friend and colleague from Florida. This is a special 
country


and a special Nation and our men and women who are serving us in Iraq 
are special to us, to all of us.

The article that I alluded to earlier and mentioned the name of 
Private Clausen, I would like to quote from other soldiers who are in 
Baghdad currently who are fighting, are in the combat, and their 
observations, and I would encourage my colleagues on both sides to 
listen to their words. They get it. They understand. They know what is 
happening on the ground. They know the reality of Iraq.

Lieutenant Antonio Hardy. These are his words:

''To be honest, it's going to be like this for a long time to come, 
no matter what we do. I think some people in America don't want to know 
about all this violence, about all the killings. The people back home 
are shielded from it. They get it sugar-coated.''

Sergeant Herbert Gill:

''What is victory supposed to look like? Every time we turn around 
and go into a new area, there's somebody waiting to kill us. Once more 
raids start happening, they'll melt away. And then 2 or 3 months later, 
when we leave and we say it's a success, they'll come back.''

Our troops get it.

I referred earlier to Private Zack Clausen. Let me repeat his words: 
''We can get into a firefight and empty our ammo, but it doesn't 
accomplish much. This is not our war--we're in the middle.''

Listen to these voices. These are not the voices that come and appear 
before us in congressional hearings. These are our brothers, our 
children, our sons, our daughters that are serving every day in 
Baghdad. Let's listen to the troops.