# NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `474ed689cbe1fcc5a56322698802fd52`
`Mr. MARKEY — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3221, the 
American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008.

This vital legislation comes at a time of record-breaking gas prices, 
double digit increases in food prices and a weakening economy. On top 
of all these struggles, Americans now face a crisis at home and in 
their communities in the form of rising property foreclosures. In some 
parts of the country, neighborhoods are littered with ''for sale'' 
signs, and many families are struggling to keep up with their mortgage 
payments. The legislation we are debating on this floor today will 
empower communities to respond to the current home mortgage crisis, 
prevent further lending abuses and increase federal oversight of the 
mortgage industry.

H.R. 3221 expands the Federal Housing Administration's role in 
preventing foreclosures by expanding refinancing loan guarantees for 
at-risk homeowners. Today, families are facing variable interest rates, 
hidden fees, early payment penalties, but with enactment of the 
Foreclosure Prevent Act, the government will be there to provide relief 
and counseling. It also increases oversight to ensure regulators have 
the tools to prevent the next crisis. It expands housing counseling and 
consumer protections. The bill also establishes an affordable housing 
trust fund to provide assistance for low income households. The bill 
even makes it harder to foreclose on the homes of our returning troops 
from Iraq and Afghanistan.

This bill also contains important language to my district and my 
hometown of Malden, Massachusetts. The tenants of the Heritage 
Apartments face an uncertain future, with an HUD affordability contract 
expiring soon. The tenants are facing possible displacement once an 
outstanding HUD mortgage is fully paid in a few years. The development 
is also in need of major renovations and upgrades that simply cannot be 
delayed. Unfortunately HUD is failing to ensure that the development 
remains affordable and livable by placing burdensome restrictions on 
prepayment of the outstanding mortgage and subsequent transfer to a new 
owner who is willing to finance the renovations.

Language in this bill would allow income-eligible residents to 
qualify for enhanced housing vouchers following the prepayment of the 
HUD mortgage and the property transfer and directs HUD to approve such 
actions. I want to thank the Chairman of the Financial Services 
Committee (Mr. Frank) for his assistance in ensuring that this 
important provision is included in this housing bill.

Today, with this legislation, we are taking steps to revitalize our 
communities for a better tomorrow. I strongly urge this House to vote 
to approve this bill.