# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5136, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `475a9a6d32f784ee0e1690837a48c191`
`Ms. LEE of California â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Ms. LEE of California. I thank the gentlelady from Maine for yielding 
and for her leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I have long opposed additional funding to support the 
ongoing occupation of Iraq and a policy of open-ended war in 
Afghanistan that continues to undermine the economic and national 
security of the United States. Estimates for the direct and indirect 
costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are now as high as a 
staggering $7 trillion.

Unfortunately, the $726 billion authorized in this defense bill, 
including $159 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
continues an unsustainable rise in military-related expenditures that 
have nearly doubled since 2001 and which now account for nearly 60 
percent of Federal discretionary spending.

I want to thank the chairman for accepting en bloc my amendment to 
highlight and prioritize potential cost savings at the Department of 
Defense through reductions in waste, fraud, and abuse. Also, I want to 
thank the committee and Chairman Skelton for continuing the prohibition 
on the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and for including language I offered calling for 
improvements in the budgeting of national security priorities to better 
reflect the needs of foreign engagement programs outside DOD.

Efforts to reduce the United States military footprint abroad and 
wasteful spending at the Pentagon are small steps toward what needs to 
be done for a fundamental shift in U.S. foreign policy. In recognizing 
the economic challenges we face here at home, high rates of 
unemployment, crumbling schools and infrastructure, there is no denying 
that the long-term success and security of our Nation is at stake.

Finally, I urge my colleagues to take this opportunity to begin to 
repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell. That has unfairly denied fundamental 
human rights to highly qualified individuals who wish to serve our 
country. I believe this country is ready to immediately end this 
inequitable policy. Setting this process into motion today is a 
historic step on behalf of all those who have been discriminated 
against. Discrimination is un-American. It's un-American. Now is the 
time to end it in the military.