---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `475ea4b0d557accb9fa0dfdc0f1ecfc8`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today the first bill I am introducing in 
the 110th Congress is the Kids Come First Act, legislation that would 
ensure every child in America has health care coverage. The Kids Come 
First Act was also the first bill I introduced in the 109th Congress 
and I feel just as strongly today as I did at the beginning of the last 
Congress that insuring all children must be a top agenda item. In the 
two years since I last introduced this bill, the problem of uninsured 
children in this nation has actually worsened.

The 110th Congress faces many challenges, from the war in Iraq to 
lobbying reform. But perhaps no issue bears more directly on the lives 
of more Americans than health care reform. Today 47 million Americans 
are uninsured, including 11 million under age 21. Health care has 
become a slow-motion Katrina that is ruining lives and bankrupting 
families all over the country. We cannot stand by as the ranks of the 
uninsured rise and American families find themselves in peril.

A recent Census Bureau report revealed that for the first time in 
almost a decade the number of uninsured children increased. In 2005 
there were 361,000 children under the age of 18 added to the uninsured 
rolls. And the number of Americans without health care continues to 
rise.

The Kids Come First Act calls for a Federal-State partnership to 
mandate health coverage to every child in America. The proposal makes 
the states an offer they can't refuse. The federal government will pay 
for the most expensive part: enrolling all low-income children in 
Medicaid, automatically. The states will pay to expand coverage to 
higher income children. In the end, states across the country will save 
more than $6 billion a year, and every child will have health care.

It is totally unacceptable that, in the greatest country in the 
world, millions of children are not getting the health care they need. 
The Kids Come First Act expands coverage for children up to age of 21. 
Through expanding the programs that work, such as Medicaid and SCHIP, 
we can cover all eleven million children uninsured children.

Insuring children improves their health and helps families cover the 
spiraling costs of insuring them. Covering all kids will reduce 
avoidable hospitalizations by 22 percent and replace expensive critical 
care with inexpensive preventative care. Also, when children get the 
medical attention they need, they pay much better attention in the 
classroom and studies show their performance improves.

To pay for the expansion of health insurance for children, the Kids 
Come First Act includes a provision that provides the Secretary of 
Treasury with the authority to raise the highest income tax rate of 35 
percent to a rate not higher than 39.6 percent in order to offset the 
costs. Prior to the enactment of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Act 
Reconciliation Act of 2001, the top marginal rate was 39.6 percent. 
Less than one percent of taxpayers pay the top rate and for 2007, this 
rate only affects individual with income above $349,700.

The health care of our children is a priority that we must address 
and it can be done in a fiscally responsible manner. I will continue to 
work to find ways to offset the cost of my proposal. The wealthiest of 
all Americans do not need a tax cut when 11 million children do not 
even have health insurance. President Bush has called for this rate cut 
to be made permanent, but I believe it would be a better use of our 
resources to invest in our future by improving health care for 
children.

Since I first introduced the Kids Come First Act in the 109th 
Congress, more than 500,000 people have shown their support for the 
bill by becoming Citizen Cosponsors and another 20,000 Americans called 
into our ''Give Voices to Our Values'' hotline to share their personal 
stories. In addition, a coalition of 24 non-profit organizations 
representing 20 million people from across the country have endorsed 
Kids Come First, including the National Association of Children's 
Hospitals, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of 
Family Physicians, March of Dimes, the Small Business Service Bureau, 
AFL-CIO, SEIU, and AFSCME.

It is clear that providing health care coverage for our uninsured 
children is a priority for our nation's workers, businesses, and health 
care community. They know, as I do, that further delay only results in 
graver health problems for America's children. Their future, and ours, 
depends on us doing better. I urge my colleagues to support and help 
enacting the Kids Come First Act of 2007 during this Congress.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the Kids Come First Act of 
2007 be printed in the Record.