---
---

# None
## `475e4107de9b0e648705ab31d12ead97`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 23 July 2008`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. I certainly thank the gentlelady for yielding and for 
her exemplary service on the Rules Committee.



Mr. Speaker, we know today that we are in a crisis without question. 
Families all across this great Nation are wondering if they're going to 
lose their house, what they're going to do next, burdened by a mortgage 
crisis that we have not seen in a generation, and it makes me angry.

As America's families call out for relief, we have this bipartisan 
bill before us today to try to address it. As we consider this 
legislation, we have to ask ourselves why are we in this position and 
how did we get into this situation in the first place? If we don't know 
the answer to that, we're not going to be sure that the next generation 
is not going to be asked to bail out the wealthy.

Mr. Speaker, the past 7 years brought some of the most egregious 
financial blunders this country has ever seen. On a daily basis we 
discover new evidence of incompetence. Americans have been blindsided 
by the mortgage crisis just as they were blinded by the savings and 
loan crisis. Due to the lack of oversight by this administration and 
the previous Congresses believing that most businesses and agencies 
should simply police themselves, American families are paying the price 
at the same time as the cost of gasoline and groceries skyrocket and 
foreclosure rates continue to climb.

We're seeing the evidence of this administration's failed policies 
play out in neighborhoods across the country. From California to New 
York, from Texas to Michigan, millions of hardworking families, 
mothers, fathers, daughters, sons, grandmothers, and grandfathers have 
had their homes foreclosed, their dreams shattered, and many of them 
find themselves homeless.

Mr. Speaker, recent reports estimate that 1.4 million homes will 
enter into foreclosure this year alone. It was reported in May that 
there were 157 new mortgage foreclosures filed every day in New York 
City. In my district in New York, the housing vacancy rate in Buffalo 
has risen 46 percent over the past 6 years, and soon the city will own 
one out of every 12 or 13 homes. That is 7,000 to 8,000 homes.

Despite these staggering numbers, our President, the optimist, 
continues to insist that our financial systems are ''basically sound.'' 
I have to wonder if the Americans who poured their lives and savings 
into their homes feel the same way.

Make no mistake about it, this crisis didn't jump out of the woodwork 
yesterday. It has been years in the making. But instead of taking 
meaningful action to protect Americans, their investments, their 
livelihood, and the American economy, the administration and the 
previous Congress has insisted the problem didn't exist. They told 
Americans a story of a healthy robust economy while the reality they 
were living told them something quite different.

Pervasive greed has replaced the public good. This is the 
administration that led us into war in Iraq, that won't address global 
warming, and built an energy policy based on the Enron loophole. 
Insisting upon living in a dreamworld, this administration failed to 
take any meaningful action to rein in the housing crisis until it was 
spiraling completely out of control. The failure to accept the reality 
of the situation has led us to this problem we're in today.

Crucial opportunities were missed to investigate the risky lending 
practices that Americans are suffering the consequences of today. 
Opportunities to instill safeguards to ensure that Americans are able 
to afford their mortgages were lost.

Mr. Speaker, the mortgage crisis is complex, and there is enough 
blame to go around. But it is clear that the lack of oversight allowed, 
if not encouraged, this crisis, and at the same time, the heads of the 
GSEs were paid millions of dollars in salary and millions of dollars in 
bonuses every year for not overseeing the work they were hired to do.

At the very least, thorough oversight would have uncovered how risky 
the lending and investment practices at the root of this crisis 
actually are--serving as a warning sign to the likely participants. 
Instead of oversight, they encouraged deregulation. Instead of holding 
hearings, they allowed big business to run rampant over protecting the 
most vulnerable Americans. Instead of strengthening our critical 
safeguards, they looked the other way while our Nation entered into a 
mortgage meltdown. For the past 7 years, this administration has 
ignored the needs and security of the American people.

Should Americans working every day pay the price for this 
recklessness? Should retired Americans who depend on their homes for 
their retirement pay the price for their troubling risks? Should future 
generations lose their shot at the American dream because of this 
incompetence?

Mr. Speaker, the Congress is not going to stand for it. Like 
President Franklin Roosevelt, who led this Nation out of our last great 
economic crisis, this Democrat-led Congress is committed to helping 
families out of this crisis and ensuring the situation never happens 
again.