# None
## `476290cee5e240435249ef306c13cdd9`
`Ms. WOOLSEY â€” 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Thank you, Congresswoman Watson. And I want to thank 
Chairman Conyers for organizing this special order and for his 
leadership on universal health care.

I am glad to join with my colleague, Diane Watson, and Jan Schakowsky 
is here, and we just heard from Sheila Jackson-Lee, to highlight the 
need for health care for not just some Americans but all Americans.

Mr. Speaker, more than 47 million Americans are uninsured, an 
increase of 6 million since this administration took office. Nearly 10 
million of those uninsured are children, children under the age of 18. 
It is unforgivable that a country as wealthy as the United States of 
America cannot find a way to provide health insurance to its entire 
population.

Actually, when there is a will, there is said to be a way. So the 
United States must not have the will to provide health coverage to 
every single American.

Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program, CHIP, are 
important safety nets for children whose families cannot afford to 
purchase health insurance. However, even with these programs, 10 
million children still lack health insurance. Currently, Healthy 
Families, which is what CHIP is called in the State of California, 
Healthy Families serves 1.2 million children, more than 10,000 children 
in my district. And last year we, the Congress, had the opportunity to 
expand CHIP to provide services to nearly 4 million more children. This 
legislation would have provided health care to an additional 607,000 
children in California, and would have provided CHIP coverage to many 
of the 5,000 children without health insurance in my district.

Unfortunately, however, the administration recklessly vetoed this 
expansion. Imagine when the United States is spending over $338 million 
a day in Iraq, we can't find $35 million over 5 years. So divide that, 
5 into 35 is 7, so that would be $7 million a year to provide an 
additional 4 million children with health insurance.

What are these priorities?

No child should be denied quality care because his or her parent 
cannot afford to purchase health insurance. No parent should have to 
choose between medicine for his or her child and food on the table.

Mr. Speaker, even if we are able to insure every child, that still 
leaves nearly 40 million Americans without health insurance. We hear 
stories every day about people who lack medical care and whose only 
option is to go to our already overcrowded emergency rooms to seek 
care. Our Nation's health centers, hospitals and emergency rooms are 
doing everything they can to provide medical care to the uninsured and 
underinsured, but they cannot fill the need.

Actually, when an emergency room is the care center, the underinsured 
and uninsured do not get access to important preventive care and they 
do not get access to screenings to prevent disease or catch and treat 
them early. The shame is that we can detect and treat diseases when 
caught and treated early. So many uninsured, for example, who are 
surviving cancer and other serious diseases could have been treated 
with access to screenings and treatment.

No one should have to put off important medical screenings like a 
mammogram because she cannot afford the cost and doesn't have the time 
for a wait list for free screenings. If a woman is diagnosed with 
breast cancer, she should not have to choose between food on the table 
or rent. What an awful choice to be asked to make, particularly if you 
have a family to support. No one should be denied necessary medical 
care because they cannot afford it. We must refocus our priorities. We 
must use the money that we are spending on Iraq to invest in our 
Nation's health care system. The 47 million Americans without health 
insurance deserve no less.

I look forward to working with my colleagues to find the best 
possible solution to address this crisis, and I thank you again, 
Congresswoman Watson, for holding this special order.