---
---

# OFFERING GOOD LUCK AND A SAFE RETURN TO GROTON'S 1109TH AVCRAD
## `476fc7d81207fbddf6c569add6a74a1c`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, today, nearly 150 members of the 1109th 
Aviation


Classification Repair Activity Depot of the Connecticut National Guard 
are preparing for the unit's second deployment abroad to Iraq. Although 
my duties in Washington prevent me from joining the send-off ceremony 
today in Groton, I want the members of the 1109th AVCRAD, and their 
families, to know that all of Connecticut is proud of them and look 
forward to their safe return.

Connecticut's AVCRAD plays a critical role in supporting our 
military. The unit provides maintenance and logistics for aircraft and 
equipment help to 14 across the Northeast states and supports 
Connecticut's fleet of Black Hawk helicopters. Last year, I had the 
chance to visit their facility and see their operations up close. I 
walked away from that experience deeply impressed with the 
professionalism, skill and dedication they have for their mission.

Overseas deployment is not new to the AVCRAD. Yet, as we know all too 
well, any military deployment is hard not only on our men and women in 
uniform, but also on their families and loved ones waiting at home for 
them to return. In my visit last year, I was briefed by the unit's 
leadership about the scope and impact that this deployment will have 
not only on the unit as a whole, but also on the families of those 
preparing to deploy. As I did then, today I continue to offer my 
unconditional support and assistance to them and their families 
throughout the length of this deployment.

I am proud to represent the 1109th AVCRAD in Congress. I join 
Connecticut's Adjutant General, Major General Thaddeus Martin, the 
unit's commanding officer, Colonel Tom Boland, and the people of 
southeastern Connecticut in wishing the 1109th AVCARD good luck and 
eagerly awaiting their safe return.
