---
---

# THE KUCINICH PLAN FOR IRAQ
## `47708e91b1719097cbd701aeb970a007`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, the administration is preparing to 
escalate the conflict. They intend to increase troop numbers to 
unprecedented levels, without establishing an ending date. It is 
important for Congress to oppose the troop surge. But that is not 
enough. We must respond powerfully to take steps to end the occupation, 
close U.S. bases in Iraq and bring our troops home. These steps are 
necessary preconditions to the U.S. extricating itself from Iraq 
through the establishment of an international security and peacekeeping 
force.

That is what the Kucinich plan which I am presenting Members of 
Congress today is all about. Congress as a co-equal branch of 
government has an urgent responsibility here. Congress under article I, 
section 8, has the war-making power. Congress appropriates funds for 
the war. Congress does not dispense with its obligation to the American 
people simply by opposing a troop surge in Iraq. It is simply not 
credible to maintain that one opposes the war and yet continues to fund 
it. If you oppose the war, then don't vote to fund it.












 The Kucinich Plan for Iraq




 Dear Colleague: In November of 2006, after an October 


 upsurge in violence in Iraq, the American people moved 


 decisively to reject Republican rule, principally because of 


 the conduct of the war. Democratic leaders well understand we 


 regained control of the Congress because of the situation in 


 Iraq. However, two months later, the Congress is still 


 searching for a plan around which it can unite to hasten the 


 end of U.S. involvement in Iraq and the return home of 


 140,000 U.S. troops.



 The Administration is preparing to escalate the conflict. 


 They intend to increase troop numbers to unprecedented 


 levels, without establishing an ending date. It is important 


 for Congress to oppose the troop surge. But that is not 


 enough. We must respond powerfully to take steps to end the 


 occupation, close U.S. bases in Iraq and bring our




 troops home. These steps are necessary preconditions to the 


 U.S. extricating itself from Iraq through the establishment 


 of an international security and peacekeeping force.



 Congress, as a coequal branch of government, has a 


 responsibility here. Congress, under Article 1, Section 8 of 


 the U.S. Constitution has the war-making power. Congress 


 appropriates funds for the war. Congress does not dispense 


 with its obligation to the American people simply by opposing 


 a troop surge in Iraq. It is simply not credible to maintain 


 that one opposes the war and yet continue to fund it. If you 


 oppose the war, do not vote to fund it. If you have money 


 which can be used to bring the troops home do not say you 


 want to bring the troops home while you appropriate money in 


 a supplemental to keep them in Iraq fighting a war that 


 cannot be won militarily. This is why the Administration 


 should be notified now that Congress will not approve of the 


 appropriations request of up to $160 billion in the spring 


 for the purposes of continuing the occupation and the war. 


 Continuing to fund the war is not a plan. It would represent 


 the continuation of disaster.



 In addition to halting funding of this war, a parallel 


 political process is needed. I am offering such a 


 comprehensive plan today. I appreciate your consideration.





 Sincerely,























 Dennis J. Kucinich,


 Member of Congress.