# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4773361a697420b00d06c8436bbe19d5`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Los Angeles.

Mr. Speaker, we are here today as a result of the meeting in the 
Rules Committee last night where members of the Republican minority 
tried to speak about our desire to have more added to this ''simple 
resolution,'' as it is being called by the minority. And that it is, a 
simple resolution.

Mr. Speaker, we implored upon the committee to make in order more 
amendments which would specifically speak directly to the needs of 
trying to provide direction and to work with the President of the 
United States on where we are in Iraq. In fact, on March 15, 2006, 
Members of both parties from this body supported the creation of a 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group to review the situation on the ground and 
to propose strategies on a way to move forward.

For more than 8 months, the study group met with military officials, 
regional experts, academics, journalists and other high-level 
officials. This study group included James Baker and Lee Hamilton as 
cochairmen. It included Lawrence Eagleburger, Vernon Jordan, Ed Meese, 
Sandra Day O'Connor, Leon Panetta, William J. Perry, Charles S. Robb 
and Alan Simpson.

Mr. Speaker, we believe that the things which were embodied within 
this Iraq Study Group report, which came out this last December, embody 
the kinds of things that the President of the United States is 
attempting to do now in Iraq. The President stood before each and every 
one of us as we sat in this Chamber just a few weeks ago and he 
outlined very clearly the changes that are taking place and his 
willingness not only to work with this body, but willingness to be more 
specific.

I would like to read some of the things from the Iraq Study Group 
report that we will not be hearing as the voice of the United States 
Congress. That is, that the United States should work to ''provide 
political reassurance to the Iraqi Government in order to avoid its 
collapse and the disintegration of the country.''

America should ''fight al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations in 
Iraq using more special operations teams.''

We should ''train, equip and support the Iraqi security forces.''

And we should ''deter even more destructive interference in Iraq by 
Syria and Iran.''

But there is more. The ''more'' is ''We could, however, support a 
short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad, or to speed up training to equip the mission.''

Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is what this resolution, that is 
nonbinding, is all about is to politically neuter the President of the 
United States, and, I believe, our forces and our mission in Iraq. It 
is about trying to do something that is politics, rather than policy.

The Rules Committee last night heard from several of our colleagues, 
one of them Sam Johnson, who brought forth an amendment that would 
clarify that Congress and the American people support our troops and 
the funding for our Armed Forces that are serving in harm's way to make 
sure that we do not put that element at risk.

Our colleague from Virginia, Frank Wolf, brought forth the things 
that I just spoke about. He brought to the Rules Committee the 
recommendations from the Iraq Study Group, with this emphasis on 
providing American commanders in Iraq with the strategic and tactical 
means to support this war. However, my colleagues on the Democratic 
side have decided that what they


want to do is they want to have this be all about politics and not 
about policy. They are after a simple answer.

Last night, the Rules Committee met--and after hours of testimony 
from members from both parties, the Democrat members of the Committee 
voted along party lines to shut out every opportunity for amendment to 
the Resolution that the House will be considering over the next 3 days.

Our colleague from Texas, Sam Johnson, brought an amendment that 
would have clarified that Congress and the American people support our 
troops and that funding for our armed forces serving bravely in harm's 
way will not be cut off or restricted in any way.

Our colleague from Virginia, Frank Wolf, also brought to the Rules 
Committee a very comprehensive amendment that would have made clear 
that Congress supports the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group--
with its emphasis on providing American commanders serving in Iraq with 
the strategic and tactical means that they need for success and 
accelerated cooperation with Iraqi leaders to meet specific goals--as 
the strategy for moving forward to success in Iraq.

A number of other members also spent a large part of their evening 
sitting in the Rules Committee, waiting to share their ideas about how 
to improve this resolution--however, unfortunately the 13 members of 
the Rules Committee are the only ones who will have the benefit of 
hearing and debating these good ideas, because none of them were given 
the opportunity to be considered and voted on by the House.

Instead, today we are on the floor with a completely closed process 
to debate a non-binding resolution with no teeth and a serious logical 
flaw.

In 2 short paragraphs, without explicitly stating that funds will not 
be cut off from our troops serving in harm's way, the resolution 
asserts that Congress and the American people will continue to support 
and protect the members of Armed Forces who are serving in Iraq. This 
non-specific language is something that every member of this House 
clearly supports.

It also states that Congress disapproves of the President's plan to 
deploy 20,000 reinforcements to Iraq to bolster the mission and provide 
additional support to troops already serving on the ground.

This resolution gives no direction about how we should proceed in 
Iraq--instead, it settles for some generic language about supporting 
the troops without guaranteeing that Congress will continue to fund 
their efforts as they remain in harm's way--and it simply amounts to a 
vote for the status quo.

Mr. Speaker, this is a serious debate for serious people. We all 
understand that the cost of failure in Iraq is too great to bear--it 
would embolden radical Islamic terrorists and give them a base from 
which to train and attack America for generations.

But with this resolution my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
provide the troops with nothing: no guarantees that we will continue to 
fund their heroic efforts; no guarantees that Congress will heed the 
advice of the Iraq Study group--which notes on page 73 of their report 
that it would ''support a short-term redeployment or surge of American 
combat forces to stabilize Baghdad, or to speed up the training and 
equipping mission.''

Nor does it provide the American people with a clear picture of our 
direction in Iraq--it merely says ''no'' to the only strategy for 
success which has been put forward.

Mr. Speaker, I think that Congress can do better than this nonbinding 
vote for the status quo in Iraq. I know that a number of my Republican 
colleagues tried to improve this legislation, but were denied the 
opportunity by the Democrat majority.

But I know that our troops serving in harm's way, and the American 
people deserve better than this simplistic resolution that provides no 
new ideas, outlines no strategy for victory, and makes no guarantee 
that we will continue to fund the efforts of our troops.

I am greatly disappointed in this resolution and the Democrat 
majority's efforts to prevent this body from considering amendments 
from thoughtful members to improve it.