# WORLD REFUGEE DAY 2010
## `477ef8852b2b3d4634bce9232b4ec710`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 June 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, this Sunday, June 20, the world will 
observe the tenth annual World Refugee Day. On this day, we call 
attention to humanity's efforts, through the United Nations, the work 
of individual governments, and of nongovernmental organizations, to 
alleviate the plight of those forced from their homes by conflict or 
hatred.

Sadly, while the world's commitment to these refugees is great, the 
scope of the problem is even greater. Last year, more than 43 million 
people were forcibly displaced from their homes, the largest number 
since the mid-1990s. At the same time, data from the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees show that the number of refugees who 
resettled in 2009 was at the lowest level in two decades.

These figures, just for 2009, include more than 2.8 million people 
who have fled homes in Afghanistan, more than 1.7 million people from 
Iraq, more than half a million in Somalia, nearly half a million from 
the Democratic Republic of Congo. These stunning numbers represent the 
human cost of humanity's inability to live in peace. These seemingly 
endless millions represent mothers who struggle to feed their babies, 
children unable to go to school, families without dependable access to 
clean water or food or medical care. They are without homes, and if the 
world is silent to their pleas for aid, they will be without hope.

Fortunately, this human tragedy has prompted global action, with the 
United States in the lead. The Refugee Act of 1980 guides U.S. policy 
with regards to refugees, and since its passage, more than two and a 
half million people forced from their homes have been resettled in the 
United States. Of the more than 112,000 refugees who found refuge in 
countries other than their home in 2009, about 80,000, or nearly three-
quarters, were resettled in the United States.

Despite our commitment to aiding refugees and to finding them new 
homes, our current policies often stand in the way of fulfilling our 
responsibility to help. Current law and administrative practice too 
often put unnecessary burdens on those seeking asylum here, even 
barring some who hope to escape the worst sorts of violence and 
persecution from entering the United States.

Seeking to address these problems, I have joined Senators Leahy and 
Durbin in sponsoring the Refugee Protection Act of 2010. Our 
legislation would extend protections for those seeking asylum in the 
United States; reform the process by which asylum seekers can be 
expelled from this country; modify existing law to ensure that 
legitimate asylum-seekers are not inadvertently caught up in 
antiterrorism protections while ensuring that terrorists are unable to 
manipulate the system to gain entry; and ease the path to resettlement 
for asylum-seekers and their families. Failing to remedy these gaps in 
our refugee law would carry a great human cost. As Dan Glickman, the 
president of Refugees International, testified to the Judiciary 
Committee during a hearing on our bill last month, ''The Refugee 
Protection Act will help us do the right thing by


creating a more efficient and fair process for providing safe haven to 
the world's most vulnerable.''

We face this continuing challenge without one of the world's most 
eloquent and effective advocates for the world's refugees. Senator Ted 
Kennedy led the drive to pass the original Refugee Act of 1980. He was 
a tireless advocate for the innocent victims of conflict, religious 
persecution and ethnic hatred. As we approach another World Refugee 
Day, we would benefit enormously from his leadership, but we can gain 
inspiration from his example. So long as there are people forced from 
their homes by war and persecution, this Nation will have a 
responsibility to act, and the Refugee Protection Act is an important 
opportunity to do so.
