---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4786dc9c8bb45728a1c1f20ae3de1141`
`Mr. LOEBSACK — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LOEBSACK. Thank you, Mr. Engel, for yielding.

Madam Speaker, today with all my colleagues I stand here in support 
our brave men and women of the Armed Services, as well as their 
families. We should honor their great commitment and sacrifices without 
hesitation. I support this resolution because I believe the President's 
plan for escalation is the wrong approach to the conflicts in Iraq.

But this must not be the end of our efforts in Congress. For too 
long, Congress refused to stand up to the administration. Our actions 
today must mark the beginning of Congress' role, not the end. The time 
has come to tell President Bush enough is enough.

Last November, the American people spoke. They spoke loudly and 
clearly on a number of issues, but none more passionately and 
forcefully than the war in Iraq. The American people, long before this 
debate this week, decided that the misadventure in Iraq must end.

Our troops have performed valiantly in Iraq. In just a matter of a 
few weeks they removed from power a brutal dictator and began to 
provide the Iraqi people the opportunity to construct a new political 
order. Our troops have also contributed mightily to the reconstruction 
and development of the Iraqi economy and infrastructure.

But over the course of this conflict, the mission of our troops has 
been transformed, and now they find themselves in the middle of a civil 
war that involves not just two sides, but almost innumerable factions 
in conflict with one another.

What is worse is the continued presence of American troops in Iraq 
will likely only inflame the ongoing sectarian strife and create more, 
if not fewer, enemies of America. The bottom line is that a continued 
presence of American troops will only exacerbate the multiple conflicts 
in Iraq.

As a member of the Readiness Subcommittee of the House Armed Services 
Committee, I have additional concerns regarding President Bush's 
proposed escalation. I believe such an escalation will further strain 
the limited resources available to our military. Already we know our 
readiness levels for our troops not yet deployed are inadequate.

A further escalation of troop levels in Iraq will only exacerbate 
this problem and put more servicemen and women in harm's way without 
the proper training or equipment. Our troops were not trained to be 
peacemakers in situations such as today's Iraq. Some have argued that 
we need to increase the number of troops, so that we can engage in an 
action similar to what our forces did in Bosnia.

Madam Speaker, this is at best a false analogy. Iraq today is not 
Bosnia of 1995. Today's Iraq is in the early stages of a series of 
conflicts that may indeed intensify, but this will occur irrespective 
of whether we insert another 21,500 troops. We simply cannot solve the 
sectarian conflicts militarily. While it was the Bush administration 
who initiated hostile actions in March of 2003, I believe it is now 
necessary for the Iraqi people to step up and assume responsibility for 
their future.

What is also needed now more than ever is for this administration to 
reach out to our traditional allies and those in the region who have a 
significant stake in the future of Iraq. The Bush administration must 
do something that it has been woefully reluctant to do. It must admit 
that it made a major strategic and foreign policy mistake when it 
invaded Iraq in the first place. And I am willing to wager that such an 
admission would go a distance towards at least beginning to repair our 
relations with the rest of the world, and the improvement of our 
relations with our traditional allies beyond the British is a 
prerequisite to securing their help on Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I call on my colleagues to support this resolution 
today, as the beginning of this Chamber's efforts to protect our troops 
and bring our country's involvement in this war to an end.