---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `479a35e9220536209ce95268d072a4f7`
`Mr. BONNER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BONNER. Mr. Speaker, as my colleagues and certainly the people 
from my home in south Alabama know, I do not often come to this floor, 
either to hear my own voice or to offer some prophetic words of wisdom 
on whatever the topic of the day happens to be.

My father often taught me that you learn a lot more from listening 
than you do from talking. So in many ways, that is what I have been 
doing the past few days, listening to my colleagues and thinking about 
the consequences of the words that we are debating.

After a lot of listening to a lot of words, however, I find myself 
compelled to come and say in the most direct way I know that I am 
opposed to this nonbinding resolution. Let me say that again for that 
is, after all, what we are talking about. This is a nonbinding 
resolution. It is nothing more than a few words on a piece of paper, 
and yet they are powerful words that have the potential of being 
demoralizing and possibly even destructive.

Make no mistake that the resolution we are debating today does not 
have the force of law behind it. So for those of you who are watching 
at home, let us be clear. At a time when the President recognizes that 
the situation in Iraq is unacceptable and it is clear that we need to 
change our strategy, this resolution will not stop the deployment of a 
single soldier or marine to Iraq, nor will it bring a single soldier or 
marine home to their families or loved ones.

More importantly, this resolution does not offer any alternative 
strategy. Nothing. Zip. It is silent with regard to our country's 
ongoing efforts in fighting the global war on terror. Instead, it is 
simply and unfortunately a method by which the House Democratic 
majority is seeking to send a message to the President of the United 
States.

But let us not kid ourselves. The words spoken in this Chamber this 
week will travel much farther than the distance between this building, 
the Capitol, and where the President lives, the White House. In 
reality, these words will travel far beyond our shores, across the 
globe to the 140,000 men and women who are currently deployed in Iraq 
and engaged in but one part, admittedly an important part, of the 
global war on terror and the Islamic militant extremists we are 
fighting.

I know we have heard Democrat after Democrat and a few Republicans, 
to be fair, come to this floor and say, we support our troops and we 
support this resolution; but with all due respect, I find it totally 
inconsistent to say you support our troops and at the same time you 
support this resolution.

How can we really expect our soldiers to have the will to succeed 
when this body as a whole does not have the resolve to stand by them 
and their mission? Do we think our troops do not listen to what is 
being said here in Washington and around the country? During my visits 
to Iraq, I found just the opposite to be the case.

So while the underlying message of this resolution is intended for 
the President, it is only logical to ask who else might be listening. 
What about the families of these soldiers who are anxiously awaiting 
their safe return home. Make no mistake, they will hear this message 
loud and clear.

And then there is the very real chance that the families of the 
thousands of Alabama National Guard members who have been deployed to 
Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the families of all active and Reserve 
forces, will read the glaring subtext of this resolution and hear the 
people's House signaling that we will not be able to prevail in Iraq, 
the cause is lost, and their loved one's sacrifice is for naught.



Unfortunately, the words of this resolution will also travel to the 
ears of our enemies. And what could be better news for our enemies than 
that America is divided, an America that does not have the will to 
succeed.

On this topic, let's look to the man who knows the enemy in Iraq 
better than anyone, General David Petraeus. You remember General 
Petraeus; he just received an overwhelming vote of confidence when he 
was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate to command our 
forces in Iraq. At his confirmation hearing, General Petraeus was asked 
if a congressional resolution disapproving the deployment of additional 
troops would encourage the enemy. His response was direct and 
unequivocal. ''That is correct, sir.''

Let me say that again. General Petraeus, our commander in the ground 
on Iraq, believes that a resolution disapproving the deployment of 
additional troops, which is what we are debating today, will encourage 
our enemy.

He went on to say that this is a test of wills, and at the end of the 
day a commander in such an endeavor would obviously like the enemy to 
feel that there is no hope. But instead of saying there is no hope to 
the enemy, we are saying there is no hope to the American soldier and 
the American people.

Let's not forget that our words as well as our actions do have 
consequences. Vote ''no'' on this resolution.