---
---

# None
## `47ae3fafc29d70cace926253e9d3fcdf`
`Mr. KYL â€” 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, a colleague of mine asked a little earlier 
if I would give a brief report of a trip to Iraq, from which I just 
returned, and I thought I would take this time to do that. Several of 
my colleagues, both from the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
Democrat and Republican, were able to make this trip, and I want to 
report primarily on what we found when we went to Iraq.

I will start by saying we were in Israel the same day Secretary Rice 
met with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud 
Abbas, and so we had an opportunity to speak with a lot of leaders in 
Israel as well about the status of the negotiations that had been 
thought to proceed there, but with Hamas now likely being a part of the 
Palestinian Government they are likely going to come to a halt. This is 
most unfortunate.

Obviously, neither Israel nor the United States can have direct 
dealings with a government which is dominated by a faction that refuses 
to recognize Israel's right to exist or renounce terrorism or agree to 
previous Palestinian agreements. This will complicate the process of 
reaching a permanent accord that the people in the Palestinian areas 
particularly want to have and the people of Israel also want to have in 
order to bring violence to a close against them.

So, unfortunately, the news out of Israel is pretty much the same as 
it has been year after year after year after year: Israel simply does 
not have a partner for peace at this time. Obviously, Secretary of 
State Rice is continuing to pursue the situation as best she can to try 
to help the Israelis achieve that situation.

With regard to the Iraq situation, I took away three primary points 
from our visit, and I want to discuss them briefly. The first is that 
after having talked to our commanders on the ground, General Petraeus 
and General Odierno, and a variety of other general officers as well as 
troops of other rank, and Iraqi leaders, there is a sense of cautious 
optimism about the new plan that has been announced and, in fact, is 
already being implemented. Our troops have begun to arrive, Iraqi 
troops arriving in greater numbers than before, primarily in the city 
of Baghdad, and a new military strategy and a political, economic, and 
diplomatic strategy has begun to play out.

Early signs are encouraging, though everyone cautioned that there 
will be signs of progress, because they think it is a plan that can 
succeed, but there will also be bad days.

Nobody should declare victory simply because things seem to be going 
well for a while. An illustration of this is for about 3 days prior to 
our arrival there had been no major incidences of violence in the city 
of Baghdad, yet they were not willing to applaud that too loudly. Good 
thing, because as we were leaving the country, a couple of car bombs 
exploded. Clearly, it will be a matter of progress that is not 
necessarily obvious and certainly will take a while to achieve.

Nonetheless, progress is possible this time because things are now 
different. In fact, the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq told us that in 
his visits with people on the streets of Baghdad he was seeing 
something new, and he said it was an attitude that this time things are 
different; that there is an opportunity here for success, for a plan to 
succeed, where it didn't exist before. It is not simply because of 
greater American presence, it is also because the Iraqis are beginning 
to do things differently than they had done in the past.

Whereas some people call this a troop surge, I think it is important 
to note there are many other factors involved in addition to the 
addition of Iraqi and American troops. For example, the Iraqis are now 
going to be much more involved in maintaining control of an area after 
it has been secured. Sometimes in the past the Iraqi or American troops 
would take an area, would clear it of terrorists or militias, only to 
have those people infiltrate back when we left. Clearly, an Iraqi 
presence must be maintained in order for stability to be preserved, and 
that is what we are now beginning to see.

The Iraqi Shiite death squads and militia activity have gone way 
down. Again, this is, we believe, partially because of some things the 
Iraqi Government has done, rounding up about 600 of the Shiite 
troublemakers and working with the people in places such as Sadr City 
to persuade them it is better to not resist control by the Iraqi Army 
than it would be to fight. These are positive signs, but they are 
certainly not an end of the problems.

There are little things that are being done, for example, to prevent 
car bombs from going into marketplaces and blowing up a lot of people. 
They are beginning now to create what are in effect pedestrian malls 
such as we have in the United States, where vehicles are not permitted. 
It might still be possible for a single suicide bomber to go into a 
market and cause destruction but certainly not as much as a car bomb.

The point is, from a military tactical standpoint, the rules of 
engagement, the activities of the Iraqis, as well as what the United 
States is doing, all are working together to consolidate the gains that 
have been made there and to preserve them.


There is also a diplomatic, economic, and political aspect. The newly 
announced legislation to distribute the oil revenues of the nation to 
the people of the country is a very important political step that will 
give the people of Iraq more confidence in their Government. This was 
mentioned by our Ambassador Khalilzad when we were there. So from the 
military standpoint there are some signs this is already beginning to 
work, and I certainly hope our colleagues here in the Congress will do 
their best to allow this plan to work.

That brings me to the second point. Our commanders, both in Kuwait 
and Iraq, were very clear that it was important the Congress pass the 
supplemental appropriations bill to provide


the necessary equipment and reinforcements and not to tie down the 
tactics of the people on the ground. They are very concerned that we 
will somehow put limits on the kind of equipment that goes into theater 
or the number of troops or where the troops go or how they are 
deployed. Clearly, Congress should not be trying to micromanage a war, 
and I hope my colleagues who have discussed that in some preliminary 
way will see the detriment to such an action and will not offer 
resolutions that would change the way these commanders are able to do 
their job. This is something specifically that General Petraeus asked 
of us.

The third and final point is the Iranian influence in Iraq cannot be 
denied. It is true, I cannot read Farsi, the language of Iran. On the 
other hand, when General Odierno holds up an item, one of those 
explosive devices, and says, in Farsi this says ''made in Iran,'' I 
can't verify that, but I believe General Odierno. He pointed to batch 
and serial numbers on a variety of other weaponry and said, this can 
all be traced back to Iran.

We are clearly in a situation where we must make it crystal clear to 
the Iranian leaders this will not be tolerated. We have a right to 
protect our troops in Iraq and their interference will be intolerable. 
We have to find a way to get the Iranians to back off of that.

Those were three of the key impressions we took from our trip to 
Iraq, and I think it boils down to this: Some of our colleagues like to 
point to the Baker-Hamilton report and say that is what we should be 
doing instead of what we are doing. Remember what Lee Hamilton said in 
testimony before the Senate not too long ago. He said, the President's 
announced strategy should be given a chance to succeed. He specifically 
said, give it a chance to succeed.

I think there was some discussion of elements of the study 
commission's recommendations, such as a temporary troop surge, which is 
not inconsistent with what we are now doing. That is what I think we 
should do, give this plan a chance to succeed. Our troops in theater, 
our commanders, and the Iraqi leaders all believe they can see early 
signs of success in this program, even though it has just begun, and 
they are cautiously optimistic that it can succeed. I think it would be 
unconscionable for the Congress, seeing the beginnings of success here, 
to then act in any way that would pull the rug out from under our 
troops and make it impossible for them to achieve their mission.

I deliberately did not raise the question of the debate back here in 
Washington with the troops I met, but they raised it with me. They can 
see what is going on. They watch television. They are very well aware 
of what is being debated here. They are proud of what they are 
accomplishing. Their morale is high. Yet I submit to my colleagues that 
were we to pass legislation that would undercut their ability to 
perform their mission as they see it, clearly that situation could 
change, and this bothers our troops. It certainly, I think, would have 
the effect of causing our enemies to ask whether we have the will to 
see this through. As General Petraeus said, this is all about a test of 
will. Secretary Gates, I believe, and General Petraeus said it as 
well--in this war, it is a test of wills, and the United States has to 
make it clear we have the will to see it through.

From our perspective as legislators, we can take the example of the 
young men and women whom we put in harm's way to achieve a message. The 
example I take from them is they have the will. They understand what is 
at stake. They are proud of what they are doing, and they want us to 
help them achieve the mission. I think that is the least we can do 
under these circumstances. I hope my colleagues, as we debate in the 
ensuing days, will keep in mind what these folks in Iraq who are on the 
ground looking at this every day have to say about the situation and 
that we won't do anything to undercut them but that we will do 
everything in our power to support their mission.