# RECOGNIZING NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE U.S. ARMY
## `47b9d5167854d82dfe822a03acfa15c2`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, as a fellow NCO, my colleague, the 
gentleman from Georgia, and also my good friend, Mr. Wilson from South 
Carolina, I rise today to draw my colleagues' attention to House Joint 
Resolution 44, an act that would recognize the valiant efforts and 
heroism of the noncommissioned officers of the United States Army.

I would like to commend Chairman Skelton for his introduction and 
leadership and sponsorship of this bill, a token of appreciation for 
those who serve to protect our Nation and our ideals of freedom.

The noncommissioned officer rank has a long and rich history in the 
United States Army, originating with the Continental Army in 1775. The 
most visible leaders of the service, the noncommissioned officers have 
been the backbone of the Army for more than 230 years.

Often referred to as the ''eyes and ears'' of a commander, 
noncommissioned officers are not only sought


after for their advice and guidance, but they are the standard keepers 
of the service, dedicated to the upholding of the Army's and our 
country's values. Responsible for the training of the Army's future 
leaders, the noncommissioned officer is integral in executing any given 
mission of the service.

Madam Speaker, from my own little district of American Samoa, and as 
a fellow American Samoan, I am very proud to share this little bit of 
news with my colleagues here in the House today.

Just a few weeks ago, a fellow Samoan, Command Sergeant Major 
Iuniasolua Savusa, a ranger in the 101st Airborne, was recently 
selected by Admiral Timothy Keating as the Senior Enlisted Leader of 
the U.S. Army Pacific Command, or PACOM. In other words, the Command 
Sergeant Major of all the U.S.; not just Army, but the entire unified 
military command under the Pacific Command currently in Hawaii led by 
Admiral Keating.

This command was established in 1947 by President Truman and is 
considered the largest of the United States' unified commands and 
consists of approximately 250,000 military personnel. Command Sergeant 
Major Savusa has a long and substantial career in the U.S. Army. He has 
served overseas all throughout Europe and was instrumental in the 
initial incursion of Baghdad in Operation Iraqi Freedom, former Command 
Sergeant Major U.S. Army Europe, and also Former Command Sergeant Major 
U.S. Army Central Command.

Command Sergeant Major Savusa is an example of the Toa o Samoa, or 
many of the Samoan soldiers who are enlisted and have served in the 
many branches of the Armed Forces.



I would like to take this opportunity to recognize Command Sergeant 
Major Ace Vimoto; Command Sergeant Major Charles Tobin; Chief Warrant 
Officer 5 Kokolua Yandall; Command Sergeant Major Falaniko, retired; 
and Chief Warrant Officer 5 Save Liuato Tuitele for their contributions 
to our military.

I must pay a special tribute to Command Sergeant Majors Vimoto and 
Falaniko for they both had sons who enlisted in the Army and have given 
the ultimate sacrifice to our country. The son of Command Sergeant 
Major Falaniko, Private First Class Jonathan Falaniko, was killed in 
Iraq; while the son of Command Sergeant Major Vimoto, Private First 
Class Timothy Ray Vimoto, was killed in Afghanistan. We must honor 
these fathers and sons for their selfless sacrifice and the sacrifice 
they have made in the protection of our freedoms.

I cannot express the immense pride I have in those who persevere 
daily to protect the freedom and integrity of the United States. 
Noncommissioned officers of the United States Army are perhaps the most 
visible embodiment of the moral character and strength of the U.S. 
Army.

I would like to remind my colleagues that this recognition by 
Congress is the least that can be done to express a deserved gratitude 
of those who have served and those who continue to serve in our Army 
today.

With that, Madam Speaker, I again commend my good friends for their 
management of this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to support 
this bill.