# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `47bc05bd863ea604881aac6d57ab78e5`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. I thank the gentleman from New Mexico. He brought a 
lot of insight to this discussion tonight. There is nothing better 
than, if you want to see what's going on, to go to the battlefield 
yourself.

What I was wondering with some of my colleagues this evening is the 
Democrats have made our troops sit and wait for 107 days to see if, in 
fact, they are going to fund the very resources that they need. And I 
have got to wonder how demoralizing that has to be when you get up 
every morning and you are putting yourself in harm's way for this great 
Nation of America, keeping America safe, and also helping liberate and 
begin to bring peace and democracy to another country, and how that 
must feel to know that your own home country is sitting over here and 
playing political games while you are doing the heavy lifting.

So I have to say to the young men and women that are in harm's way 
tonight that I am hopeful that this Democratic leadership will finally 
step up and do what they should do.

Before I yield to the next gentleman, I wanted to let the American 
people know what our young men and women have been waiting on. In this 
bill that we hopefully can pass this week is $8 billion for body armor, 
armored vehicles, and base security surveillance. In other words, these 
are the things that would help to keep them safe. Yet we have to wait 
108 days for the Democrats to decide that they want to keep our troops 
safe. That just isn't right; $2.4 billion to help use some new 
technology and some things that we are learning about IEDs, which is 
one of the things over there that has caused so much damage and death 
and destruction in that country and harmed and injured, severely, many 
of our young men and women. And yet they have had to wait 108 days for 
these resources, for this Democratic Congress, this Democratic 
leadership, to give them the resources that they need.

Another important piece of this supplemental is the fact that $2.7 
billion is allocated for updating our security and our surveillance and 
our intelligence. Let me tell you, today in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
all around the world, knowing where the bad guys are is a very 
important piece of how we defend this country and we prosecute the war 
on terrorism. Yet we have had to wait 108 days and counting for this 
leadership to do the right thing by our young men and women.

It is my honor and privilege now to recognize a fellow Texan, a 
former judge, a good friend, Congressman Carter from Texas, who has 
also been to Iraq. I believe the gentleman has been three times, if I 
am correct.