---
---

# None
## `47d267a69624c15a7e9b32fe33d9e1eb`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize Corporal 
Evan S. Rinkenberg, recipient of the Purple Heart award.

On June 6th, Cpl. Rinkenberg and his infantry company came under 
attack from the Taliban after performing security checkpoints in the 
Helmand province of Afghanistan. While providing cover fire for his 
company as they fled to safety, Cpl. Rinkenberg was shot by enemy fire 
in his right hand. Despite his injury, Cpl. Rinkenberg continued to 
provide cover fire for his fellow soldiers until he looked down; only 
then did he become aware of his injury.

Now back in the United States, Cpl. Rinkenberg, a native of 
Woodbridge, VA, has undergone four surgeries to repair the bones and 
ligaments in his hand in an effort to improve mobility. His lack of 
dexterity has made even simple tasks, such as maneuvering his infant 
daughter's pacifier, difficult for him. Cpl. Rinkenberg's future as a 
Marine remains uncertain as his hand continues to heal. He is faced 
with a worst case scenario of obtaining a medical release from the 
Marines, which would provide him with disability pay, something the 
Corporal identified as the ''only certainty in his now cloudy future.'' 
Despite his slow recovery, Cpl. Rinkenberg hopes to return to 
Woodbridge by 2012 where he plans to continue to serve his country as a 
rifle range instructor at Officer Candidate School in Quantico, Va.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in recognizing 
Corporal Evan Rinkenberg for his service to his fellow soldiers and our 
nation. It is important to recognize the sacrifices that Cpl. 
Rinkenberg and all of our nation's service members make on a daily 
basis in order to preserve our freedoms.
