---
---

# None
## `47f1005f360a4de1cd7fc3eb76dd34a0`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Thank you, Congressman Ross, for yielding.

I want to talk for a minute or 2 about what Congressman Ross had 
mentioned. The foreign debt that we have now has doubled in the last 5 
years to over $2 trillion at this point. And you think of our country, 
and our country has been there to help and to finance so many others 
over the years. You think after World War II we helped put Japan back 
on its feet. We helped in Europe. And the sad fact is that right now 
Japan is helping us, that we are having to sell to Japan to help pay 
for our debt, selling our Treasury notes. And it is a sad fact that 
China has become one of the largest lenders to our country. And it is 
simply because we have not covered those costs that we have been 
running in our government.

I have two children, and I do not want to pass on to them the debts 
that we have been running up. I am proud to be a member of the Blue 
Dogs to try to change this direction.

You think of our small businesses in this country, and those small 
businesses are having to pay part of the fare for this debt that we 
continue to run up. The interest rates that we are paying on that are 
funds that could have been used to help small businesses. Back home in 
South Bend, Indiana, or in Rochester, Indiana, where I come from, those 
funds could have been used to help with the education of children in 
Michigan City or down in Logansport, Indiana. But instead those funds 
are used today to help pay the interest on the debts that we have run 
up. But with the Blue Dogs' help and with the Democrats' help, that is 
going to end.

What the people of this country are beginning to understand and what 
the folks back home in Indiana do understand is that we bring Hoosier 
common sense to this issue, Mr. Ross. Congressman, what we are trying 
to do is make sure that we do the same things here in Washington that 
we do back home in Mishawaka, Indiana, and in our beloved State. We are 
going to stop the increase in the debt. We are going to see it lowered, 
and we are going to see those funds used to take care of our veterans, 
who need more help than ever. More come home every day with various 
issues. Our beloved troops that come home from Iraq, Afghanistan and 
all over the world, our funds need to be used for them, not to continue 
covering a debt that we continue to run up. We will end that debt. We 
will lower those interest payments, and they will be used to educate 
our children, take care of our veterans down in Delphi, Indiana, and 
throughout our country, and to set our country back on the right 
course. That is what Democrat common sense will bring, and that is what 
the Blue Dogs promise to bring with us.

Congressman Ross, thank you so much for this opportunity.