---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `47f32ba009148b1eb72797f8451b3d5c`
`Mr. STEVENS — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, in late November, Senator Inouye and I 
traveled to the Middle East to assess the security situation there. I 
want to share some of the insights from our travels, especially as they 
relate to Iraq. We visited Tunisia, Iraq, and several other countries. 
We met with senior U.S. State Department, intelligence, and military 
leaders regarding U.S. policy in Iraq, in the Middle East, and in 
Europe.

Our first stop was in Tunisia where we met with U.S. Ambassador 
Robert Godec and his staff regarding political, economic, and social 
conditions in Tunisia. Tunisia is a moderate Muslim country which has 
strongly supported women's rights. The Tunisian economy has averaged 
5.6 percent growth each year, with an 80-percent level of home 
ownership. It is a real democracy. The United States has a close 
working relationship with Tunisia, including strong military-to-
military contacts. Tunisia straddles the Middle East, Europe, and 
Africa, creating a strong interest in regional security issues, 
particularly concerning Iraq. During our visit, we had many discussions 
about the situation in Iraq and the possible impacts on the rest of the 
region.

We have discussed many of these same issues with the Foreign Affairs 
Secretary of State Saida Chtioui and Minister of Defense Kamel Morjane. 
Tunisia is interested in strengthening the foreign military financing 
relationship with the United States. We call that FMF.

Before departing Tunisia, Senator Inouye and I presented a wreath at 
the U.S. North Africa American Cemetery and Memorial in Tunis. There 
are 2,841 American servicemen who are buried in that cemetery. It was 
established in 1948 and covers 27 acres. It sits near the site of the 
ancient Carthaginian city destroyed by the Romans in 146 B.C. and lies 
over part of the Roman city of Carthage. The cemetery is located in the 
part of Tunis that was liberated from the Germans by the British 1st 
Army in May of 1943. We last visited that area with Senator Hollings, 
who is now retired from the Senate. He made the landing there in World 
War II. Many of the men who were interred there gave their lives in 
those landings and in the occupation of Morocco and Algeria, and the 
subsequent fighting which ultimately liberated Tunisia. Some have seen 
those scenes in the recent movies that were shown of World War II. 
Others involved there died as a result of accidents or sickness in 
North Africa or while serving in the Persian Gulf command in Iran. But 
I want to tell the Senate it is a very impressive sight and it is 
touching to see how well that cemetery staff takes care of the 
cemetery. It is a United States military cemetery, and our visit to 
that cemetery left Senator Inouye and me very humbled since we were 
involved in World War II ourselves.

We then traveled to Iraq, where we spent 2 days meeting with senior 
U.S. and Iraqi Government officials. We arrived at the Baghdad 
International Airport, formerly known as Saddam International Airport, 
which is located approximately 16 kilometers west of Baghdad. It has 
both a civil international terminal and a smaller military ramp. The 
Baghdad International Airport is served by a class 1 runway of 13,000 
feet, and the military side has almost 9,000 feet. The military runway 
was bombed by coalition aircraft and closed early in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. The 1st Expeditionary RED HORSE Group and the 447th 
Expeditionary Civil Engineering Squadron helped repair the runway, and 
it is once again operational. It opened to commercial aircraft in 2003. 
It can handle 7.5 million passengers a year. I tell the Senate that 
because it is partially back. I think that is what I am trying to tell 
the Senate. Many things are returning to normal in various parts of 
Iraq.

Baghdad International Airport has been refurbished as part of a $17.5 
million contract to rebuild Iraqi airports in Baghdad, Basra, and 
Mosul. This project is administered by the U.S. Agency for 
International Development.

Coalition forces began returning control of Baghdad International in 
June of 2004 with the turnover of the air traffic control tower and 
checkpoints. The process was concluded with the exchange of the main 
gate on August 25, 2004. Our major access to Baghdad is in civilian 
control of Iraq now.

Upon arriving in Iraq, we traveled to the international zone formerly 
known as the Green Zone. This area in central Baghdad houses most of 
the city's diplomatic and Government buildings. Part of this area was 
Saddam Hussein's family playground, including the Presidential palace, 
which is now the U.S. Embassy annex, numerous villas for Saddam's 
family, friends, and former Baath party loyalists, along with an 
underground bunker which reminds one of Hitler. We were informed it was 
also the home to Saddam's man-eating lions, which have since been moved 
to Iraq's national zoo, I am happy to say.

Most of our briefings took place in the Presidential palace, which, 
as I said, is now part of the American Embassy. We discussed the 
current situation in Iraq with U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker and his key 
staff.

Let me tell the Senate a little bit about Ambassador Crocker. He is a 
most impressive individual. He grew up in an Air Force family, attended 
schools in Morocco, Canada, Turkey, and the United States, and joined 
the Foreign Service in 1971. Since those early years he has served in a 
variety of hot spots around the world. His assignments have included 
Iran, Qatar, Iraq, Egypt, as well as right here in Washington, DC. He 
also served as U.S. Ambassador in Pakistan, Kuwait, Syria, and Lebanon. 
This man has an impressive list of senior assignments during which he 
represented our country, and he is representing us very well now in 
Iraq.

In January of 2002, Ambassador Crocker reopened the American Embassy 
in Kabul. In 2003, he served as the


first Director of Governance for the Coalition's Provisional Authority 
in Baghdad. He was subsequently confirmed by this Senate as our 
Ambassador to Iraq on March 7, 2007. We have here a true Middle Eastern 
expert representing our Nation in this country.


Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus are a great team. Their 
partnership serves our country well.

I was very impressed by that team and by the Department of State 
officials working throughout Iraq. Whether serving in the Baghdad 
Embassy or in numerous provisional reconstruction teams that are now 
known as PRTs that are located throughout the country, they deserve 
much credit and they deserve our support. I was especially pleased with 
the progress the PRTs have made over this past year. Their efforts are 
important to achieving our counterinsurgency strategy by bolstering 
moderates, promoting reconciliation, fostering economic development, 
and building provincial capacity.

The PRT initiative is a civilian military interagency effort that 
serves as the primary interface between U.S. and coalition partners and 
provisional and local governments throughout Iraq. They are helping 
Iraq develop transparency and stable provisional governments by 
promoting increased security, the rule of law, political and economic 
development, and providing the provincial administration necessary to 
meet the basic needs of the Iraqi population. Twenty-five PRTs serve 
all the provinces in Iraq. Ten full-sized teams stretching from Mosul 
in the north to Basra in the far south serve the majority of Iraqis. 
Coalition participation includes the British-led PRT in Basra, the 
Italian-led team in Dakar, and the Korean-led team in Erbil. The PRTs 
work closely with U.S. and coalition military units to strengthen 
provisional governments.

Ten of the twenty-five teams are the new ''embedded'' PRTs, as they 
are called. These civilian-led teams work hand in glove with the 
brigade combat teams or the U.S. Marine regiments to support the surge 
in Anbar Province and in the greater Baghdad area.

Manning of these PRTs is diverse. Personnel represent our Department 
of State, USAID coalition, and the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, the gulf region division of the Army Corps 
of Engineers, and our contract personnel. The office of Provincial 
Affairs within the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad provides the policy guidance 
and support to the overall PRT program. This program is one of the 
significant things we saw that has taken place in Iraq since the surge, 
and it has been very successful.

As part of the President's new way forward, PRT personnel doubled 
from 300 to over 600 team members countrywide by the end of last year. 
The PRT's financial support comes from a variety of sources, including 
coalition partners and donor nations, with the majority coming from the 
United States, of course. Principal programs associated with PRTs 
include the U.S.-funded community stabilization program, the provincial 
reconstruction development committee program, the local governance 
program, the civil society program, and the Inma agribusiness 
program,--by the way, Inma means growth in Arabic--amounts to progress. 
Progress has taken place as a result of the surge.

During our visit, it was announced that security conditions had 
improved enough to allow the drawdown of U.S. combat troops from Diyala 
Province. This was the first drawdown of combat forces since the surge 
began in 2007, and these forces will not be replaced. This redeployment 
without replacement reflects the overall improved security conditions 
within Iraq, improved capabilities of the Iraqi security forces, and 
the increased participation of concerned local citizens. Improved 
economic factors and declining tribal conflicts in the province have 
made the drawdown possible. I think General Petraeus's ability to reach 
out to the tribal leaders has contributed greatly to what we have seen 
in terms of the progress being made in Iraq.

Diyala Province has been plagued by rampant corruption in the past. 
Leaders placed their ambitions ahead of the needs of the constituency. 
There was a lack of food, water, electricity, and fuel, and residents 
viewed Iraqi security forces as sectarian. Tribal conflicts divided the 
population. We met with some of those forces. Iraqi security forces and 
the government of Diyala Province worked diligently over the past 18 
months to bring stability and services to that province. Acts of 
violence have dropped in the past year by 50 percent alone. The surge 
enabled the coalition and Iraqi security forces to dominate the terrain 
and secure the population, allowing the government to function properly 
and to shift focus from defense to reconstruction and providing 
essential services. We saw progress. That is what I am trying to say. 
We saw with our own eyes the progress that is taking place in Iraq 
since the surge.

We met with Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih and his staff and 
personally stressed the importance of moving forward on the political 
reconciliation. The national Government must reconcile. We must keep in 
mind that Iraq's political system, though, is still in its early stages 
of development. Its leaders are trying to establish a government and 
resolve fundamental issues in the midst of continuing violence.

Iraqi leaders agree political progress can be improved. However, 
there have been steps forward during the past several months. While the 
so-called benchmark legislation has been slow in terms of the national 
legislature, I believe that actions will flow from the laws that have 
been passed and those that have already been enacted. Steps are already 
being taken. We were encouraged by the distribution of oil revenues 
despite the absence of an agreement on the overall revenue-sharing law.

I don't know if the Senate knows it, but many people went from Alaska 
to talk about our basic concept in Alaska of our system of a general 
fund, a basic fund where we put aside 25 percent of all of our oil 
revenue. That is our security for the future. We tried to convince Iraq 
to do something like that, and I am pleased to say they are going to do 
something like that. But they have a different circumstance, of course, 
since they have so many differences between their provinces. But the 
concept of working on a national basis to provide for a distribution of 
oil revenues throughout the provinces is still proceeding.

We received an extensive briefing from General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker on the impact of the recent military surge and the 
declining level of violence throughout the country. General Petraeus 
highlighted the success our soldiers and their Iraqi partners have had 
in taking control of many sanctuaries from al-Qaida in Iraq and 
disrupting extremist networks throughout the country. Since the surge 
of offensives began in June of last year, attacks and civilian deaths, 
we were told, have decreased by 60 percent. I believe that is progress.


Iraqi security forces are having a greater impact on the battlefield. 
In the last year, they have added over 100,000 new soldiers and police 
and increased their capabilities. Senator Inouye and I met with some of 
the leaders of the Iraqi Army in Iraq and with heads of the police from 
some of the areas. I am confident they were moving as quickly to 
eliminate conflicts between their people, between the Sunnis and 
Shiites, and between the various tribes. Most important was the new 
role of tribal leaders in trying to bring about a peaceful situation 
within Iraq. In 2008, the Iraqis will add 30 additional battalions to 
compensate for our reduction of about one-quarter of our combat forces 
by the end of July. In areas of Iraq, the atmosphere resembles the 
spring of 2003, where many communities were feeling liberated. This 
time, they are feeling liberated from al-Qaida and the extremist 
elements that have come in after the defeat of Saddam Hussein.

In many provinces Iraqis are completely in charge. In some areas, in 
fact, there are no coalition forces there at all.

The rejection of al-Qaida and the military extremists has led to the 
rise of concerned local citizen groups, more than 75,000 strong, and 
comprised of both Sunni and Shia volunteers. These groups are helping 
to secure their communities, provide intelligence on the enemy and 
report improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, and weapons caches. You 
should have heard some of the stories we heard about how citizens are


coming forward to say where these caches are located and where the 
weapons are, because they have confidence in their own people, that 
they are going to be in charge of their own security. This move has 
saved the lives of countless Iraqi civilians and coalition soldiers.

We discussed the overall security situation throughout the country 
with LTG Ray Odierno, Commander of the Multinational Corps, and his key 
staff. This is a photo of the meeting we had with that staff. It was an 
interesting briefing.

Since our visit, LTG Odierno has redeployed to Fort Hood, where he 
has reassumed his responsibilities as the Commander of the 3rd Corps. 
He is a very capable individual who I believe will be assigned to more 
senior positions, and we will hear a lot from this officer in the 
future.

We flew to forward operating base Kalsu, south of Baghdad, where we 
met with the commander of the 4th Brigade Combat Team of the 25th 
Infantry Division, COL Michael Garrett, and his senior staff. This is a 
photo the Senator and I had taken with him. Colonel Garret impressed us 
with his leadership and insights into the complexities of his mission. 
This 3,600-soldier brigade is home-stationed at Fort Richardson, AK. 
That also gave us a good reason for visiting with them. We were 
impressed with what they are doing.

This 4/25th brigade was preparing to rotate back to Alaska. They 
served in Iraq for 15 months, from September 2006 to December 2007.

Two years ago, there was no 4th Brigade Combat Team, Airborne, in the 
25th Infantry Division, or in Alaska. Colonel Garrett and the corps of 
his paratroopers grew it from a battalion to a robust airborne brigade, 
and they deployed to Iraq after it had been literally put together in 
Alaska.

The brigade was headquartered at forward operation base Kalsu, in Al-
Hillah Province, but also worked in Babil, Karbala, and Najaf 
Provinces. I am not sure I like the way my helmet looks in this photo. 
Senator Inouye took his off before the photo. It was an interesting 
meeting under a tent with Army soldiers deployed in the field.

Unfortunately, 53 of the 4/25th made the ultimate sacrifice while 
valiantly serving America in Iraq. We in Alaska will always remember 
them. I can tell you that along with all Alaskans we have expressed our 
love, admiration, and honor for their service and are doing our best to 
make sure their survivors are well cared for.

The 1st Brigade Combat Team, Stryker, of the 25th Infantry Division 
also spent 15 months serving in and around Mosul. They returned home to 
Fort Wainwright, AK, at the end of 2006. By all accounts, they did a 
tremendous job providing security in that region of Iraq. They were led 
by COL Mike Shields, a very capable and talented leader.

We also met with senior Iraqi military and police officials from Al-
Hillah Province. They agreed the security situation in this province is 
much improved, with the number of attacks significantly down. The 
mayor, army, and police leaders had a close working relationship with 
the Alaskan-based brigade.

Before departing Iraq, we asked to see a Mine-Resistant Ambush-
Protected vehicle, an MRAP. I had a photograph taken of it as I left 
this vehicle. It carries 6 passengers and weighs 16,000 pounds. It is 
the smaller and lighter version of MRAP variants and is designed for 
urban operations. This is the new protection for our forces. It is a 
category 1 vehicle used by our soldiers and marines in Iraq for mounted 
patrols, reconnaissance, and direct interaction with the civilian 
population. This is protecting our forces from the threat of IEDs, and 
this has saved many lives since its deployment. To date, we have 
fielded 2,317 of these MRAP vehicles in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are in 
the process of adding 9,000 or more by the end of this year, which I 
hope will be the end of the war. Anyway, these vehicles are good news 
and this shows what our country can do in a short period of time. Those 
other military vehicles did not have the level of protection as MRAPs. 
This is a survivable vehicle. I think the Senate should be 
congratulated for moving rapidly to get the money up and get the 
program up. I congratulate Senators Warner and Levin for their support 
in this regard.

We have worked together with the Appropriations Committee and Armed 
Services to make sure these vehicles were supported and delivered in 
the shortest time in history. They were originally flown directly to 
Iraq. Now that significant numbers are coming off the production line, 
they are now going over by ship. These are the most successful vehicles 
for urban warfare we have ever had. We need them there. I think they 
will be largely responsible for completing the operations we have to 
finish in Iraq.

I have taken a little more time than I thought I would. But the 
reason for my report is that my personal conclusion, from what I saw 
and heard, was that the surge has worked. There is still work to be 
done and still support we have to give these people in the field. This 
is no time to consider a withdrawal from Iraq under the conditions such 
as the Russians withdrew from Afghanistan. I urge those who have any 
thought of such a withdrawal, a mandated withdrawal, to look at the 
history of the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan. It was one of the 
most costly in history in terms of the deaths of the Russian soldiers 
who were trying to get out of that country. They turned around and 
literally fled from the country under difficult circumstances, where 
they were ordered out by their political masters without regard to the 
safety of the people involved. I will not participate in such a 
withdrawal. If we withdraw, it must be because we have finished the job 
and the Iraqi military and police forces can take responsibility for 
their own security.

As Israel has done for so many years, I believe Iraq will come to be 
able to defend itself. We have to stay the course in order to do that. 
The people who were lost there deserve for us to finish the job.












47th anniversary of peace corps
