# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `481025b9b46258fd87f54c89a9addfb0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will yield myself just 4 minutes and 
then save some of the remaining time.

Mr. President, this amendment calls for a congressionally mandated 
fence that would surround every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine and 
every military unit in the Armed Forces. If their days at home don't 
equal the days deployed, these soldiers, by law, could not be deployed 
in support of operations in Iraq or Afghanistan. It is quite a 
restriction.

I have done some research recently, since I heard about this 
amendment, and it is certainly without precedent in wartime, and we are 
in wars, both in Iraq and Afghanistan. Rather than get into the debate 
about the length of the war in Iraq again, I think most people 
appreciate the fact that the war or the conflict in Afghanistan will be 
with us for a long time. I mention that because I have yet to see a 
congressional proposal to end our engagement in Afghanistan where we 
were successful in ousting the Taliban, but, obviously, there are more 
challenges we have to meet in the future.

In the Defense authorization bill, we have provisions to increase the 
size of the Marine Corps and the Army, which I hope will alleviate some 
of the enormous strain that has been placed on our Guard, Reserve, and 
Active-Duty Forces. I understand the deep concern of the Senator from 
Virginia about this issue. Our Guard and Reserve are being stressed in 
a way that is unprecedented, probably since World War II, when 
everybody was called to serve, just about, and I certainly understand 
the concerns raised here. I share them with Guard members and members 
of the Reserve all the time.

We have called people back to active duty in an almost unprecedented 
fashion, so I understand the intent of this amendment. But if we put 
such a requirement into law in wartime, I think it would be bad 
congressional micromanagement. It would be a precedent that no 
President could live with and an expression of distrust in military 
leaders, particularly of the Secretary


of Defense, Mr. Gates, who promptly established dwell-time policies on 
assuming office and is doing his utmost to enforce them.

Senator Webb has expressed his belief that this amendment would do no 
harm. Well, those whom we charge with the responsibilities--both the 
Department of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff--have indicated 
that if enacted, the amendment would have immediate adverse effects on 
their ability to accomplish their military missions.

The Joint Staff told us this amendment would ''eliminate the 
flexibility of the services to manage and mitigate exceptions to dwell 
time planning goals'' and that ''future support to IAF/OEF may be 
severely impacted.''

The Joint Staff went on to say, ''The requirements will result in 
future capability gaps in combat and combat support forces both in IAF 
and OEF units.'' For reservists, the requirement will ''exacerbate the 
stress on the current force, providing sourcing challenges and creating 
shortfalls.''

The Department of Defense stated, ''In emergency situations, where 
forces are needed quickly, the waiver process could affect the war 
fight itself by delaying forces needed in theater.'' And they went on 
to say, ''The proposed language stipulates minimum periods between 
deployments in both units and individuals. The requirement to meet both 
criteria for units and individuals before deployment could severely 
limit options for sourcing rotations.''

That is the view of the people we entrust with the responsibilities 
to defend our Nation, and I do not diminish the responsibility of the 
Congress as well. This amendment could--and according to military 
planners, would--do harm. And it shouldn't be a surprise.

So the amendment has a Presidential waiver provision, which I am sure 
will be emphasized in the course of this discussion, but it doesn't 
make the amendment better. Attempts at using it would only lead to 
endless delays and bickering about whether deployment ''meets an 
operational emergency posing a vital threat to national security 
interests.'' Those kinds of decisions should clearly be made by the 
President of the United States. That is what the Constitution says when 
it outlines specifically that the President of the United States shall 
serve as Commander in Chief.


Now, the Congress, as they have in the past, has the power of the 
purse, and if we don't like what the President--the Commander in 
Chief--is doing, then we can cut off those appropriations. Sometimes we 
have done that, much to our dismay in afterthought. For example, I 
referred earlier--yesterday--to a decision to cut off any military 
assistance or any kind of assistance to Cambodia, and we watched 
helplessly as 3 million people were slaughtered in a genocide of 
proportions almost unmatched in the 20th century. I say ''almost.'' So 
I believe this kind of decision should be made by the Commander in 
Chief.

I wish to assure my colleague from Virginia that I will work with him 
in every way to get this legislation passed, which increases the size 
of our Marine Corps and Army, and we should continue, just as quickly 
as we can, to recruit these brave individuals and to maintain the 
standards we think are important in order to have this highly qualified 
All-Volunteer Force.

I would also again point out that there are men and women who want to 
go back to Iraq. There are men and women who want to serve again in 
Afghanistan. There are men and women who feel a sense of urgency and a 
desire to serve. Would the amendment of the Senator from Virginia 
preclude them from additional service? I don't know.

So I hope we can continue to work together on this issue, and I hope 
we can turn down this amendment, even though I certainly agree with the 
sentiments and the concern of the Senator from Virginia.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.