---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `481c35bb3cd1cf82673fede42adc9f07`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Let me thank my colleague for yielding and ask my 
colleagues what is it that we are doing here? We got 1 week before we 
break for the Memorial Day recess. Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs, has said we have to have the funding for our troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

We know that come early June, layoff notices go out to contract 
employees who work at the Pentagon. Why? Because we can't seem to get 
this bill finished. And why can't we get it finished? Because we have a 
bill in front of us that has all types of unrelated spending beyond 
what is needed to fund our troops.

The gentleman from California (Mr. Lewis) earlier this week, 
introduced a clean troop funding bill, a bill that the President called 
for with the changes that were made up here to make sure that we got 
funding to the troops as quickly as possible. That is the bill that 
ought to be on the floor today, not a bill that handcuffs our generals, 
starves our troops and puts them in a position where they can't succeed 
in their mission in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill also includes a $54 billion tax hike on small businesses 
around the country. And if there is a time when we don't need to be 
raising taxes on small businesses, it is now. They are the engine of 
new job growth in our country. And what are we going to do? We are 
going to put more taxes on them.

I think that what we are doing here is that we are playing political 
games on the backs of our troops. You know it. All this bill is going 
to do is delay the process for weeks and weeks and weeks while we play 
political games because you know the President is not going to sign 
this bill.

Why don't we move Mr. Lewis' bill? We can do it today. We can do it 
early next week. It is a clean troop funding bill that takes care of 
our troops and honors them on the eve of Memorial Day instead of 
playing political games on their backs.