# None
## `4820399e7f021c03400d2ca61fad1cbb`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about Iraq. 
Following the bombing of the Golden Mosque in Samarra, our enemies 
tried to plunge Iraq into chaos, and in certain parts of Iraq they were 
succeeding. Terrorists and extremists were pitting Iraqi against Iraqi, 
Sunni against Shia, Shia against Sunni. In Baghdad, Iraqi families were 
being forced to leave their homes and to resettle in areas where other 
members of their religious community resided.

Iraqi police and army units were nowhere near capable of taking the 
lead during operations. On the political front, progress was very slow. 
When the going got tough, many called for U.S. withdrawal and 
abandonment of Iraq.

Thankfully, the President did not listen to the calls for defeat and 
retreat. The President reviewed our strategy and changed course. This 
change was needed. I visited Iraq twice before this change of strategy. 
I can tell you it was a dangerous place. During one of my trips, we had 
to take a helicopter from the Green Zone to Baghdad International 
Airport because of an IED threat.

In January of 2007, the President and General Petraeus launched the 
surge of American forces into Iraq. The Iraqi people quickly realized 
that something dramatic had happened. Those who had worried that 
America was preparing to abandon them instead saw tens of thousands of 
American forces flowing into their country. They saw our forces moving 
into the neighborhoods, clearing out the terrorists, and staying behind 
to ensure that the enemy did not return. They saw our troops, along 
with provincial reconstruction teams, coming in to ensure that improved 
security was followed by improvements in daily life.

The surge is now achieving its primary aims of improving population 
security in Baghdad and reversing the cycle of sectarian violence that 
plagued Iraq. Although there is much more work to be done, security has 
improved considerably since General Petraeus began implementing this 
new strategy that became fully operational in mid-June.

According to the U.S. military, monthly attack levels have decreased 
60 percent since that time. Civilian deaths are down approximately 75 
percent. Although al-Qaida in Iraq remains a dangerous threat, its 
capabilities are severely diminished. Thousands of extremists in Iraq 
have been captured or killed, including hundreds of key al-Qaida 
leaders and their operatives.

Iraqi forces now have assumed responsibility for security in 9 of 18 
Iraqi provinces and are now leading combat operations all over the 
country. Iraqi security forces and concerned local citizen groups 
continue to grow, develop capabilities, and provide more security for 
their country. The Government of Iraq is committed to one day assuming 
fiscal and overall responsibility for CLCs, which some now call the 
Sons of Iraq, and has begun structuring vocational training programs 
for these CLCs who want to rejoin the civilian workforce.

The President's strategy in Iraq has put us on a path to success. 
U.S. and Iraqi troops, working together, have achieved significant 
results. Violence is down dramatically and political progress is being 
made. The Government in Baghdad recently passed debaathification 
legislation and a pension law, and is sharing oil revenues with the 
different provinces.

Significant bottom-up political progress is occurring at the local 
level in Iraq, where provincial governments continue to spend national 
revenue on reconstruction, and many people are engaging in local 
politics.

On the economic front, the central Government of Iraq recently 
reached its 2007 target of $30.2 billion in budget revenue 1 month 
before the end of the year. The Government of Iraq recently completed 
early repayment of its outstanding obligations to the International 
Monetary Fund. The Baghdad Chamber of Commerce recently hosted a 
business expo which more than 8,000 executives, entrepreneurs, 
salesmen, and investors attended.

Mr. President, approximately 2 weeks ago, I traveled again to Iraq 
and was briefed by General Petraeus, other commanders on the ground, 
and Iraqi security officials. Petraeus and his troops are obviously and 
undoubtedly doing a remarkable job at turning things around. This was a 
different trip for me. There was a more secure feeling in the air. I 
felt optimistic, more so than at any other time since the war started. 
You can tell that things have remarkably changed for the better. I 
visited a town south of Baghdad where 3 months ago al-Qaida had been in 
total control. I felt so safe that, along with two other Senators and 
our staffs, we walked through a local market without a helmet and spoke 
to dozens of residents, including children, through a translator. One 
of the Iraqi people's biggest fears is that America will surrender and 
leave prematurely. They fear for their lives, their children, and the 
future of the country if we surrender.

Great, almost unbelievable strides have obviously been made, and we 
are headed in the right direction. Despite this fact, some of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to introduce 
defeatist legislation, such as what we have before us today, S. 2633, 
that call for tying our hands on this front line of the war on terror. 
So as things get better and better, the Democrats continue to call for 
retreat. They continue to politicize the war in Iraq, persisting in 
calls for troop withdrawal, when the surge is demonstrating real 
success, both military and political.

Scaling back withdrawing when we are succeeding so brilliantly 
clearly equals defeat and makes absolutely no sense. The Democrats have 
concluded that America has lost and refuse to listen to the judgment of 
our military leaders.

Responding to whether gains made in Iraq would be lost if we abruptly 
withdrew our troops, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi recently stated:




 There haven't been gains. The gains have not produced the 


 desired effect, which is the reconciliation of Iraq. This is 


 a failure. This is a failure.


Such defeatist nonsense is not the way to boost the morale of our 
troops on the ground or to show gratitude for their success. I call on 
the Speaker to visit Iraq, to talk to our troops, to talk


to the Iraqi people, and to see how successful the surge is working for 
her own eyes.

Further, I find it peculiar that the Democrats keep calling for 
withdrawal over and over again when initially they criticized the 
administration for not sending more troops to Iraq. When plans for the 
surge were announced, they roundly attacked it, going so far as to say 
the war was already lost. Then when the surge began to show great 
success, Democrats again criticized it and said the only purpose of the 
surge was to enable political reconciliation in Iraq. Now that both 
military and political successes are being realized, the Democrats are 
once again going to have to redefine what failure looks like.

When General Petraeus first took command, he said, ''Hard is not 
hopeless.'' Today, there is hope and optimism in Iraq. Amazing progress 
has been made. I should not have to say this, but we must support our 
troops, not just in word but in deed. The Democrats need to stop 
playing games with the brave men and women who are sacrificing so much 
for this country. They need to stop introducing legislation that ties 
strings to money for our troops. They need to stop introducing 
legislation that would prematurely bring our troops home and ruin all 
the gains they have made over the last 5 years. Partisan politics need 
to be set aside. We need to come together as a Congress, as a country, 
and get behind the effort and the mission in Iraq. Let's finish what we 
started, not just for today but for the future. We are all Americans 
first. It is time we started acting like that.

I yield the floor.