---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `48266e4d1db4a317044a7dc04f9553dd`
`Mr. DORGAN — 5 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I have listened with some interest today 
to many of my colleagues who have come to the floor to speak about what 
is called a stimulus package. I have never quite understood the word 
''stimulus'' as it applies to economics. I did teach economics in 
college at one point. I guess the notion of a stimulus is to excite the 
economy, to do something to expand the economy.

The fact is, until a couple of months ago, the President was telling 
us the economy was doing really well; we have a strong, sound economy. 
The Secretary of the Treasury was telling us the economy is solid and 
we are on solid ground. Of course, most Americans knew better. Now we 
discover that the economy needs a stimulus. Let me describe why that is 
the case, and a response to some of the discussion on the floor of the 
Senate today.

We have had an almost unbelievable 7 years. President Bush came to 
the Congress at the start of his Presidency, and he said: President 
Clinton has left a large budget surplus. Alan Greenspan said he 
couldn't even sleep; the surplus was so big. He was worried the surplus 
was so large it was going to be a problem.

President Bush saw this projected surplus, a surplus in the first 
year of his Presidency and then projected for the next 10 years. He was 
so excited, he rushed to the Congress and said: You have to help me. We 
need to get rid of this projected surplus. We need to provide very big 
tax cuts. By the way, if you earn a $1 million a year in income or $10 
million a year, brace yourself, I have big things in mind for you. I am 
going to give you a very big tax cut.

Some of us said: Mr. President, you said you were a compassionate 
conservative. Where is the conservative part of this? What if something 
goes wrong? These are just projections. Let's wait and see if these 
surpluses materialize.

The President said: Don't worry. Be happy. We want to give tax cuts, 
with the biggest tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans.

Sure enough, he got that through the House and the Senate--but not 
with my support. I did not vote for it. But almost instantly we saw, 
No. 1, the country move into a recession in 2001. Then we had 9/11 and 
the devastating attack by terrorists. Then we had a war in Afghanistan 
pursuing Osama bin Laden and the Taliban. Then we went to war in Iraq 
and had all of the homeland security issues. All of a sudden, we had 
all of this extra expense, and we had a downturn in the economy. What 
had been budget surpluses turned into very large budget deficits.

The President, oblivious to all of that, said: It doesn't matter. 
Things are the same, as far as I am concerned. We want more and more 
tax cuts for upper income Americans.

So that has been the fiscal policy for 7 years: ignore the obvious, 
ignore reality, and just preach the positive message and hope 
everything turns out all right.

The fact is, everything has turned out all right for some. If you are 
at the top of the income ladder, you have to be ecstatic. Your share of 
the assets and wealth of this country has dramatically increased. But 
if you are someone at the bottom of the economic ladder, working two 
jobs, trying to make ends meet for your family, if you are someone who 
is trying to buy a home, somebody who is trying to hang on to a job in 
a plant that the owners want to move to China in search of 30-cent 
labor, if you are someone who works in a company that has now told you 
times have changed, you no longer get health care and your retirement 
program is gone and if you don't accept a $2-an-hour decrease, your job 
is going to Shenzhen, China, you are somebody who is having a tough 
time with things in recent years.

Then, all of a sudden, we see the subprime mortgage scandal. The 
subprime mortgage scandal is an unbelievable scandal with greed in 
every direction, the brokers making massive amounts of money with fast-
talking sales pitches to a lot of folks, putting them in a new subprime 
loan at a 2-percent interest rate that will reset 3 years later at 
rates people have no capability of paying; just buy it and flip it in 2 
years, and you will make a lot of money.

The mortgage companies that were advertising on television were 
saying: Hey, get a mortgage from us. If you have had bankruptcy, no 
problem. You have trouble, you have bad credit, no problem. Can't pay 
your monthly home bills, no problem. We will give you a loan. Come to 
us. Bad credit, come to us.

You saw the ads. All of us saw those ads. Those mortgage companies 
and brokers together ratcheted up this huge bubble. Then what they did 
is, when they sold these subprime mortgages, they cut them up like 
sausage. Just like meat-packing plants filled sausage with sawdust for 
filler, they sliced up these mortgages, collateralized debt 
obligations--some subprime, some decent loans--and securitized them and 
sold them, and nobody knew what they had. All of a sudden, people can't 
pay their house payments. Interest rates get reset. They have no 
capability of paying. We have substantial bankruptcy, home 
foreclosures--it is a huge mess. It has caused a serious drag on the 
economy.

Couple that with this President's fiscal policy in which we have a 
$600 billion requirement to borrow in this fiscal year alone and a $700 
billion trade deficit, $2 billion a year that we import more than we 
export. That is $1.3 trillion in debt this year on a $13 trillion 
economy. That is a 10 percent indebtedness in 1 year on top of the 
greed that comes from a subprime loan scandal and an economy that seems 
to have come to a dead stop.

Then they say: We need to stimulate the economy. Yes, we probably do. 
This economy probably needs a lot more than stimulus. We need to hook 
up some jumper cables to something.

The Federal Reserve Board--a board that has gotten a lot of my 
attention over the years--has taken aggressive action. They seldom take 
aggressive action on anything. They did two cuts, a three-quarters of a 
percent interest rate cut and a half a percent interest rate cut. The 
fact is, that is a bold move for the Federal Reserve Board.


Now it is up to Congress to do something on the fiscal policy side. 
But it is just a step, an important step. Psychologically, we must take 
this step, or markets and others would have an apoplectic seizure. So 
we write a piece of legislation in the Finance Committee, try to bring 
it to the floor of the Senate, and we have people doing all kinds of 
gymnastics on the floor. They say: Well, this is loading up a bill with 
ornaments and goodies and projects and so on.



I guess they want to avoid the obvious. The obvious difference that 
exists with this stimulus package is very simple. This stimulus bill, 
coming out of the Finance Committee, is supported by the Democratic 
chairman and the Republican ranking member. Senators Baucus and 
Grassley said this: If you are going to stimulate the economy and you 
are going to give $500 rebates, you need to include the 20 million 
lower-income senior citizens who would not get a rebate under the 
House-passed stimulus plan.

Folks who work in this Chamber, take a shower in the morning, put on 
a blue suit, and come to work, are not, in most cases, trying to count 
their pennies to see if they will have enough for soup and medicine the 
rest of the week. But there are a whole lot of folks, senior citizens 
especially, living on fixed incomes who have an awful time making it 
stretch month to month. I meet a lot of them, especially a lot of older 
women living alone in many cases, trying to figure out: How do I make 
this income stretch to be able to pay for my medicine and to buy the 
food and pay the rent?

I mentioned medicine. Senior citizens are about 12 percent of the 
population. They consume one-third of all prescription drugs. One of 
the fastest growing elements of health care is the cost of prescription 
drugs. You can't do a stimulus package and decide that some 20 million 
senior citizens should not participate. You are going to give a rebate 
to the American people to try to stimulate the economy, and you are 
going to say grandpa and grandma don't apply, they don't count? What 
kind of approach is that? Grandpa and grandma don't count? We inherit 
this place from them. They were the stewards of this country of ours. 
They helped build this country. They provided the roots by which we, 
the branches, have been able to succeed. But now we have people in this 
Chamber who say grandpa and grandma don't count; millions of senior 
citizens shouldn't be a part of this.

The difference in the stimulus package being debated is one that is 
pretty stark: 20 million lower income seniors, many of whom need it 
most, under our proposal would get a rebate check of $500. To some, 
that doesn't mean much, I suppose. There are people around here who 
lose a cuff link worth $500, I reckon. But to a lot of people, $500 is 
very significant. We cannot--I emphasize--we cannot pass a stimulus 
package and walk out of that door with our heads high if we decide 20 
million senior citizens don't count, that these senior citizens won't 
be included.


There is another issue in this piece of legislation that we passed 
out of the Finance Committee. It is something that for anyone who has 
studied rudimentary economics 101. It is one of the economic 
stabilizers in our economy: When there is an economic slowdown, you 
extend unemployment benefits. It is axiomatic that when there is a 
slowdown in the economy, you must extend unemployment insurance 
benefits. We have always done that. Yet those who object to what we 
have passed out of the Senate Finance Committee are saying, no, you 
can't do that. Don't support that. We don't support giving rebates to 
senior citizens who need it and we don't support extending unemployment 
insurance benefits to those at the bottom of the economic ladder who 
have lost their jobs.

Again, there is no one in this Chamber who would have lost their job 
during this slowdown. No one in this Chamber is going to go home and 
say, Honey, today wasn't a very good day. I was given notice that my 
job was over. It wasn't my fault. I worked pretty hard, but I was given 
notice that I am no longer needed. Nobody in this Chamber will have to 
get that message. But there are a whole lot of people in this country 
who have experienced that.

So when we talk about the economic stimulus package that came out of 
the Finance Committee, the major differences are simple and easy to 
understand. We say 20 million senior citizens cannot be left out of an 
opportunity for the rebate check. They too will stimulate this economy. 
They especially need that help. We say when those who have lost their 
jobs during an economic downturn and have run out of unemployment 
benefits, that their benefits should be extended, as we have always 
extended them during an economic downturn.

Yesterday, President Bush sent us a new budget, and it reflects much 
of what I have described of the priorities that seem to be completely 
backwards. The President's priorities are: Let's continue to borrow, 
borrow, borrow more money. Let's decide to cut substantially here at 
home the investments we should make in this country.

I spoke to a group about a half an hour ago that is very interested 
in rural water investments. All of us who come from rural States 
understand the urgency of getting good water to our communities. Rural 
water systems are unbelievably important. The President, as one example 
in this budget, said: Let's cut funding for the Corps of Engineers by 
$851 million. Let's cut funding for the Bureau of Reclamation by $183 
billion. He said: Let's cut water funding for projects that will bring 
quality drinking water to people around this country in rural areas; 
let's cut that by about $1 billion.

I say consider this: In the President's budget, he said, let's cut 
water project funding in our country--the infrastructure investment 
that will bring dividends for years--let's cut that by $1 billion. This 
is from the Special Inspector General for Iraq. The Special Inspector 
General for Iraq says, we are now, American taxpayers, funding 967 
water projects in the country of Iraq. We are going to cut $1 billion 
in water projects in this country, and we are funding 967 water 
projects in Iraq. We are designing and constructing the Ifraz main 
water supply project, $194 million. We are doing the Haditha project, 
the Baladrooz water supply project; we are building the water supply 
project at Meshkab. We are designing and constructing the water supply 
project at Nassriya. The list is long--I could read this for a long 
while. The water treatment plant in Sadr City, the water treatment 
plant in Al Wathba.

There is plenty of money, apparently, as long as it is overseas 
someplace. There is just not enough money to take care of things here 
at home. It is unbelievable to me.

By the way, while I am at it, most of this is done with contract 
work. We hire contractors. There is the greatest waste, fraud, and 
abuse in the history of this country with the hiring of those 
contractors. I brought this item to the floor a number of times--and I 
want to do it again, because I held about 17 hearings on this subject. 
I ask unanimous consent to show this towel on the floor of the Senate.

This towel was brought to us by Henry Bunting. Henry Bunting was a 
purchaser in Kuwait for the Halliburton Corporation, their subsidiary 
Kellogg, Brown, & Root. I had a hearing about waste, fraud, and abuse 
in contracting which is hair raising: $45 for a case of Coca Cola, 
$7,500 to rent an SUV per month. How 50,000 pounds of nails that were 
ordered to Iraq and they were too short. They are laying in the sand 
now, discarded, because none of that matters. Henry Bunting said 
Halliburton said: Don't worry about it. The taxpayer picks up the tab. 
He held up this towel. He said: This is an example of everything that 
is wrong. My job was to order towels for the troops, among many other 
things. He said: I filled out a requisition to order towels for 
American troops in Iraq, and I ordered white towels. He said: My 
supervisor at Kellogg, Brown, & Root said, No, no, no, that is not the 
towel we are going to order. You are going to order a towel that has 
KBR embroidered on the towel, the initials of the contracting company, 
the Halliburton subsidiary. Henry said: Yes, but that is going to 
quadruple the cost. It is going to cost four times more to buy a towel 
like that. His supervisor said: It doesn't matter. This is a cost-plus 
contract. The taxpayers are going to pay for this. This is just a 
towel. It is a towel that costs four times what it should have cost for 
the American taxpayer. But it is not just a towel; it is a brand new 
$85,000 truck that has a flat tire, and because it has a flat tire and 
they cannot fix it on the road because they didn't have the 
right wrench, they leave it there to be torched; or an $85,000 brand 
new truck that has a plugged fuel line that is left to be set on fire. 
Why? The American taxpayer will pay for all of that. That is not a 
problem. Nobody will even know, except I know, and some of my 
colleagues know. Nobody seems to care, however, in the executive 
branch. Nobody.



When I see what is now coming to us in this budget--it is 
interesting. When I talk about this issue of a hand towel with the 
embroidered initials of the Halliburton subsidiary, Kellogg, Brown & 
Root, that cost four times more, but they said, don't worry, it doesn't 
matter, the taxpayers pay for that. We don't care about that. All of 
this is funded out of these emergency requests sent to us by the 
President. Here is what he has done. It starts again this year.

In 2002, the President said: We are going to fight a war, and I want 
$49 billion, and I want it now, and I want it declared an emergency, 
and we are not going to pay for it. We are going to put it on top of 
the debt.

In 2003, he said: I want $76 billion. I want all of it declared an 
emergency and we are going to put it on the debt. We need that for the 
war. In 2004, he said: I want $87 billion. We are not going to pay for 
it. Add it to the debt. In 2005: I want $82 billion. In 2006: I want 
$92 billion. In 2007, he said: I want $103 billion. Last year, for 
fiscal year 2008, he said: I want $193 billion. That is $16 billion a 
month, $4 billion a week. He said: I don't want any of this paid for. I 
want to add it to the debt, because I am sending soldiers to war and 
they are going to come back and help pay the bill. Now, that is nearly 
$700 billion--nearly three-quarters of a trillion dollars, not a penny 
of it paid for. Not a cent.

Don't ever talk to me again about what is liberal or what is 
conservative. If this is a conservative President, as he claims, saying 
let's add almost three-quarters of a trillion dollars to Federal 
indebtedness because we don't have the courage to ask the American 
people to do what we should do, and that is pay for that which we are 
pursuing in Iraq--on top of this added to the debt, the budget we 
received yesterday is an almost unbelievable description of what has 
gone wrong and what will continue to go wrong as long as this 
administration doesn't recognize the unbelievable danger that comes 
from fiscal policy debt and trade debt.

As I indicated earlier, we are doing a stimulus package. I strongly 
support that which came out of the Senate Finance Committee. I strongly 
support the notion that we must include lower income seniors; we must 
include, for example, the stabilizers we have always included of 
extending unemployment insurance. All of that is very important. When 
we are finished with that, we must say to this President and to the 
next occupant of the White House that we have structural problems that 
cannot wait. We cannot possibly have a growing, vibrant American 
economy that expands opportunity for the American people unless we put 
our fiscal house in order. In terms of priorities, we can't be American 
leaders and say: Oh, by the way, let's cut $1 billion in water projects 
in the United States, and Katy bar the door, here are 967 separate 
water projects we want to fund in Iraq. We are going to say we can't 
build hospitals in the United States, but we will build hospitals in 
Iraq. We say we don't have enough money to rehabilitate the schools in 
the United States, but we will build the schools in Iraq.

My point is it is long past the time to start taking care of a few 
things here at home, and this President's budget is a completely 
bankrupt budget. This President's budget says the following: This 
President's budget says he will take our Federal debt from $8.9 
trillion to $12.2 trillion in the next 6 years. Think of that. That is 
a complete abdication of responsibility. It means we have no 
leadership. It falls on our shoulders, it seems to me, to begin using 
some modicum of common sense, and we intend to do that.

I have some other things I was going to visit about today, but I want 
to wait because some of my colleagues are on the floor. I don't know 
whether Senator Reid is ready with the unanimous consent request, but 
when he is, I certainly would want him to do that. I also know my 
colleague Senator Sanders from Vermont is on the floor as well.

I would be happy to wait until after Senator Sanders makes a 
presentation. But I want to make a presentation about a couple 
additional issues that relates to some of this.

At this point let me relinquish the floor, and perhaps I could ask 
unanimous consent that after Senator Sanders is finished, I be 
recognized.