# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `482a1979f955f46c5ed315daac64eac0`
`Mr. KYL — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, I wish to speak to the amendment that was 
laid down by Senator Cochran from Mississippi, an amendment to strike 
language from the bill that is pending before us, language that would 
inhibit the ability of our commanders on the ground to carry out the 
message we have asked them to perform in Iraq.

As we are all aware, this security supplemental is designed to 
provide money for the conduct of our operations in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. There is a timetable here. The commanders have said they need, by 
April 15, the beginning part of this funding so they can carry out the 
missions we have asked them to perform. When I was there about a month 
ago, this message was given to me over and over when I would say: Is 
there anything I can do for you: Senator make sure we get the funding 
without the strings attached when we need that money.

So the President requested this security supplemental appropriations 
bill. The House has acted. The Senate has the bill before us this week. 
Madam President, this funding bill will do no good if it has 
limitations imposed in it that prevent us from carrying out the 
mission, and the President has already said if language that sets a 
timetable for the withdrawal of our troops is included, he will be 
forced to veto the bill. We understand that.

It makes no sense to me that we would go ahead and pass such a bill, 
knowing the President will veto it, because there would be no way for 
us to go back and redo it all before the April 15 time, when the troops 
begin to need this money. Many have suggested that this is actually a 
slow-bleed strategy on the part of some to put a poison pill in the 
bill, forcing the President to veto it, knowing it means the troops 
would not get the money they need when they need it. I would rather 
like to think that this is a genuine point of view on the part of some 
of my colleagues who believe we should put strings attached on this 
funding and somehow that will provide a more clear way for us to 
achieve our mission. I don't understand it, but I suspect somebody 
could argue that.

What I would like to do is support Senator Cochran's amendment to 
simply strike this language from the bill. If the President is able to 
continue to carry out the Petraeus plan and we have funding to do that, 
we will know soon enough whether it will enable us to achieve the 
mission. By the summertime or thereabouts, if it appears this surge is 
not working, then we will know that as well.

What I cannot understand is why anybody would want to pull the rug 
out from under the troops just at the time it appears the President's 
strategy is beginning to work. When I was there, there was already 
cautious optimism, signs of success of the plan--nobody wants to 
declare success or victory, of course, but that those elements of 
success continue to be manifested and be reported on.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record, at the 
conclusion of my remarks, a piece by William Kristol and Frederick 
Kagan from the Weekly Standard of April 2, 2007, entitled ''Wrong on 
Timetables.''