---
---

# TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY ACT OF 2008
## `48361e7b715cdbb0259f63961e8005e9`
`Mrs. CAPPS — 8 April 2008`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. I want to thank my colleague for yielding to me.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of Senate bill 793, the 
Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2008. I want to commend the leaders of 
the bill in the House who have spoken already. This version of the bill 
we are considering today represents bipartisan and bicameral consensus.

It would fund, as we have heard, important research, treatment, 
surveillance and educational activities related to trauma and traumatic 
brain injury, commonly known now as TBI. The funding would support 
ongoing efforts at the National Institutes of Health, which are so 
important, and also the Health Resources and Services Administration 
and the CDC.

Reauthorizing this program will strengthen the goal of understanding 
and addressing TBI and strengthening our capacity to treat it. This 
current war has made us all too much familiar with the devastating 
effects of TBI and the importance of coordinated interventions to treat 
it. The war in Iraq and Afghanistan underscored the importance of this 
legislation, but by no means do these situations only arise in times of 
war.

We know that traumatic brain injury has been occurring all along with 
all kinds of traumas, traumas to the head and sometimes unsuspected 
injury that can result from other traumas. And so we need to, for a 
variety of reasons, pass this legislation and get this bill signed into 
law.

I want to acknowledge my friend and colleague Congressman Bill 
Pascrell and also Congressman Platts from Pennsylvania. This leadership 
has brought us to this point. I know that our Health Subcommittee is 
pleased to be a part of this legislation.

I urge, strongly, our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join 
in supporting Senate bill 793.