---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4845a23cdccc7949a81472ca1239ad37`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. I think you made a significant statement there, 
Mr. Matheson, that when you are in a deep hole, the first thing you do 
is stop digging.

I want to very, very briefly share, and I am sure there are some 
American people who are watching our discussion this evening, on just 
how serious a situation we are in. I talked about instability in the 
Middle East and our dependence upon oil.

Clearly there are two known facts. Right now, 42 percent of all of 
the known oil reserves rest under the basin in the Middle East, in 
Iraq, Iran, and Saudi Arabia. That is nearly half of all of the 
available oil supplies that we know of in the Earth. And it is not 
renewable. It doesn't renew itself. Eventually at some point oil is 
going to run out.

When I was at NATO, and we had a meeting over in Paris this past 
winter, our winter NATO meetings, a question was put to a noted 
economist, John Malone, and he made a profound statement. He said we 
didn't leave the stone age because we ran out of stone; nor will we 
leave the oil age because we have run out of oil. What he said was that 
civilization as we know it could very well run out before the oil runs 
out with the rapid rate we are going with the damage that oil-driven 
energy sources around the world are causing with the greenhouse 
effects.



I thought it would be very interesting to share with the American 
people just how serious this is given the fact that oil is not a 
renewable source of energy, given the fact that almost half of it is in 
a very unstable region, and much of the world is still depending upon. 
But according to the Energy Information Administration, here are some 
startling facts. They say that world daily oil consumption is projected 
to grow by 1.4 million barrels this year in 2007 and by 1.6 million 
barrels in 2008. That is daily oil consumption. You talk about running 
out with that rapid rate, and each year it goes up. In addition, the 
EIA projects a steady increase in natural gas and electric use in the 
United States which will create upward pressure on prices. This doesn't 
paint a very good picture.

And then it goes on to say that almost all scientists agree that the 
Earth's climate is rapidly changing and getting warmer, having 
increased by 2.6 degrees Fahrenheit since the turn of the century. Now 
as I mentioned earlier, on the surface of it, 2.6 doesn't seem like 
much, but it is major. The Earth's global average temperature is now 
approaching or possibly has passed, according to this report, the 
warmest experience since human civilization began over 12,000 years 
ago. Now it is approaching the warmest it has ever been in the history 
of mankind. Global warming is a fact. Climate change is a fact.

And it goes on to say that over the past 150 years, measured carbon 
dioxide concentrations have risen by more than one-third. The question 
is not whether greenhouse gases will result in climate change, but 
rather the magnitude, the speed, and the geographic details and the 
likelihood of impacts stemming from this trend.

I am not painting a gloom and doom picture here. We are talking about 
facts so we can get a sense, a greater sense of urgency in this 
Congress and in the world. So many places over in the world we are 
fighting and killing one another over what could very well be in the 
scheme of things very trivial. We are all in the same bucket as human 
beings.



This earth of ours is precious, and for no other reason more 
important than saving this earth for our future generations, the air we 
breathe all rests in the decisions that we make in this Congress today.

I know and I share the same feeling with you all that we feel very 
honored and very privileged to be elected and serving in Congress at a 
time when this is our challenge. And when they write the history books 
and perhaps our grandchildren and children will look and say, well, 
what did grand-daddy or my daddy do at that time, the history books 
will reflect very proudly that we provided the leadership at a very 
crucial time to move this Nation forward in getting away from oil 
dependency and getting into clean energies.

We have the means to do it. We know we need to do it, and we have the 
direction to do it.