---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `48567bd7754ca6d4fe1d5f7c905f36da`
`Mr. JONES — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I would like to start my comments out with an 
editorial from the Pensacola News Journal, dated June 25: ''Is 
Afghanistan worth it?''

''It isn't often that conservative columnist George Will and liberal 
columnist Thomas Friedman are on the same page. Welcome to 
Afghanistan.''

Mr. Speaker, the reason we need to have this debate tonight is due to 
one issue. The main issue that bothers me greatly is what is called 
''rules of engagement.''

In fact, on the 20th of June, in The Washington Post, George Will 
wrote an editorial, ''An NCO recognizes a flawed Afghanistan 
strategy.''

''A recent email from a noncommissioned officer serving in 
Afghanistan: He explains why the rules of engagement for U.S. troops 
are 'too prohibitive for coalition forces to achieve sustained tactical 
success.' ''

I also would like to show, very quickly, two newspapers articles from 
the Marine Times:

''Rules of engagement. We are putting our kids out there to fight 
with their hands handcuffed--left to die. They call for help. Negligent 
Army leadership refuse and abandon them on the battlefield. Four 
marines and one Army killed.''

I actually spoke to this father, Mr. Speaker, from Maine, who was 
featured in the Marine Times, which reads: ''Caution killed my son. 
Marine families blast suicidal tactics in Afghanistan.''

This is what they call ''rules of engagement.'' We handcuff our 
troops, and we tell them we want them to go out and fight.

Mr. Speaker, I have a retired general who, for the last 9 months, has 
been my adviser on Afghanistan. I gave him my word that I would not use 
his name publicly on the floor of the House, in a committee or in a 
newspaper. Six weeks ago, I asked him again about Afghanistan, and this 
is what he emailed back to me:

''Afghanistan has been too tough a nut to crack for every nation that 
has ever tried to crack it. We need to figure out a way to honorably 
pack our bags and get out. It is not in our national interests to be 
there.''

That is why I am on this amendment with Mr. McGovern and Mr. Obey. I 
don't see how anybody could be opposed to this. If you are concerned 
about our troops and if you are concerned about the frequent 
deployments that are wearing out our military and their families, if 
you are concerned about the billions of dollars that are unaccounted 
for in Afghanistan, this is a reasonable amendment. It will give hope 
to our troops, and it will give hope to our taxpayers that we are 
watching their moneys. More importantly, the troops will know what is 
in front of them--not 10 more years of going down a road that has no 
end to it.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I will ask the men and women in this room to 
continue to pray for our men and women in uniform and their families. 
Let's pass this amendment. It is a good amendment.