# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `485fd3410d7b9025038d7b9835bc06d2`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today in support of 
House Concurrent Resolution 63 which opposes the President's decision 
to deploy 21,000 additional U.S. combat troops to Iraq.

I am also here to specifically honor the Broward County Veterans 
Council, who recently adopted a resolution concerning the war in Iraq. 
The Broward County Veterans Council represents a host of veterans 
groups throughout Broward County, Florida, including the Broward 
chapters of the American Legion, AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans, 
Fleet Reserve, Gold Star Mothers, Italian American Veterans, Jewish War 
Veterans, Marine Corps League, Navy League Council, The Order of the 
Purple Heart, The Paralyzed Veterans Association, Reserved Officers 
Association, Retired Officers Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
Vietnam Veterans of America, and World War I Barracks.

The Broward County Veterans Council led by its Chairman, Bill Kling, 
adopted this resolution unanimously on January 16, 2007. And the spirit 
of this resolution is as follows:

Whereas, the President of the United States has put forth a plan to 
the American people and to Congress which calls for an escalation of 
20,000 or more of our troops going to Iraq to combat the insurrection 
in Baghdad and the Anbar province; and



Whereas, the majority in Congress has put forth several plans that do 
not include an escalation of combat troops; and

Whereas, the American people have made it clear they want a new 
direction in Iraq and Afghanistan; and

Whereas, the administration's attempts to escalate the war previously 
by sending additional troops to Iraq have unfortunately failed to stop 
the bloodshed between the Sunnis and the Shia;

Therefore, the Broward County Veterans Council believes that the best 
plan is to bring troops home in a phased redeployment so that we may 
get them out of harm's way.

Veterans groups, along with families across my district, are very 
concerned about the direction this war has taken and are demanding a 
change in strategy.

To President Bush their message is loud and clear: This war has been 
mismanaged, the strategies for success have failed; our national and 
personal security interests, most importantly, are not being enhanced 
and in fact may be undermined. And, therefore, they overwhelmingly 
oppose President Bush's plan to send more troops to Iraq.

Traveling through my district, people in South Florida are demanding 
that Congress ask the tough questions concerning our policy in Iraq. 
Well, we have asked these tough questions, and I along with many of my 
fellow Members of this House, both Democrats and Republicans, have come 
to the same conclusion: The President's plan to increase troops is 
wrong.

The administration has based this plan in part on the readiness of 
the Iraqi Security Forces to stand up and take control. I have heard 
nothing from our military experts that would indicate that the Iraqi 
troops are anywhere near prepared to bring order to this troubled 
country.

General Colin Powell recently told the associated press, and I quote, 
''I am not persuaded that another surge of troops in Baghdad, for the 
purposes of suppressing this violence, this civil war, will work.''

And four-star General Barry McCaffrey called the President's surge 
plan last month, ''a fool's errand.''

These are some of the experts we should be listening to.

Mr. Speaker, I ask you, as the civil war in Iraq spirals out of 
control, as Iraqi Security Forces continue to be ill-prepared, and as 
we continue to alienate our allies around the world, what warrants this 
administration to continue on the same path in Iraq and add more 
troops? So far, nothing.

We have no business sending over 21,000 additional troops in the 
middle of a growing civil war. We have no business sending over 21,000 
additional troops when, as it is, our military is already stretched too 
thin. And because our military is already dangerously pushed to the 
limit, we have put ourselves in the precarious position of dealing with 
real threats like Iran, while at the same time protecting our allies 
like Israel and some other Middle Eastern friends.

For these reasons, I am advocating for a plan, as others are, devised 
by our military experts that supports a phased withdrawal of our 
troops. But while our brave men and women in uniform are serving, it is 
critical that we provide them nothing less than the best protection and 
support. We have more than a responsibility to support our troops; we 
have a solemn obligation, and that obligation extends to asking the 
tough questions and getting our policy right.

In honor of the Broward County Veterans Council and the veterans 
living in Palm Beach County, in recognition of their heroism and 
commitment to our country, I support this resolution

Mr. Speaker, I stand here today in support of H.R. 63, which opposes 
the President's decision to deploy 21,000 additional U.S. combat troops 
to Iraq.

I am also here today to specifically honor the Broward County 
Veterans Council, who recently adopted a resolution concerning the war 
in Iraq.

The Broward County Veterans Council represents a host of veteran 
groups throughout Broward County, FL, including the Broward chapters of 
the American Legion, Am Vets, the Disabled American Veterans, the Fleet 
Reserve, the Gold Star Mothers, the Italian American Veterans, the 
Jewish War Veterans, the Marine Corps League, the Navy League Council, 
the Order of the Purple Heart, the Paralyzed Veterans Association, the 
Reserve Officers Association, the Retired Officers Association, the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Vietnam Veterans of America, and the 
World War I Barracks.

The Broward County Veterans Council, led by its chairman, Bill Kling, 
adopted this resolution unanimously on January 16, 2007.

The spirit of their resolution is as follows:




 Whereas the President of the United States has put forth a 


 plan to the American people and to Congress which calls for 


 an escalation of 20,000 or more of our troops going out to 


 Iraq to combat the insurrection in Baghdad and the Anbar 


 province; and



 Whereas, the majority in Congress has put forth several 


 plans that do not include escalation of combat troops; and



 Whereas, the American people have made it clear they want a 


 new direction in Iraq and Afghanistan; and



 Whereas, the administration's multiple attempts to escalate 


 the war by sending additional troops to Iraq have 


 unfortunately, failed to stop the bloodshed between the 


 Sunnis and the Shiites.



 Therefore, the Broward County Veterans Council believes 


 that the best plan is to bring our troops home, in a phased 


 redeployment, so that we may get them out of harm's way.


Veterans groups, along with families across my district, are very 
concerned about the direction this war has taken and are demanding a 
change in strategy.

To President Bush, their message is loud and clear: This war has been 
mismanaged, and the strategies for success have failed; our national 
and personal security interests are not being enhanced and in fact, may 
be undermined. Therefore, they overwhelmingly oppose President Bush's 
plan to send more troops to Iraq.

Traveling through my district, people in south Florida are demanding 
that Congress ask the tough questions concerning our policy in Iraq.

Well, we have asked those tough questions and I, along with many of 
my fellow Members of Congress, both Democrats and Republicans, have 
come to the same conclusion: The President's plan to increase troops in 
Iraq is wrong.

This administration has based this plan in part on the readiness of 
the Iraq security forces to stand up and take control. I have heard 
nothing from our military experts that would indicate that the Iraqi 
troops are anywhere near prepared to bring order to this troubled 
country.

GEN Colin Powell recently told the Associated Press: ''I am not 
persuaded that another surge of troops in Baghdad for the purposes of 
suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war, will work.''

And four-star GEN Barry McCaffrey called the President's surge plan 
last month ''a fools errand.''

These are the experts we should be listening to.

Mr. Speaker, I ask you--as a civil war in Iraq spirals out of 
control, as Iraqi security forces continue to be ill-prepared and as we 
continue to alienate our allies across the world--What warrants this 
administration to continue on the same path in Iraq and add more 
troops?

So far, nothing

We have no business sending over 21,000 additional troops into the 
middle of a growing civil war.

We have no business sending over 21,000 additional troops to Iraq 
when as it is, our military is already stretched too thin.

And because our military is already dangerously pushed to the limit, 
we have put ourselves in a precarious position dealing with real 
threats like Iran, while at the same time, protecting our allies like 
Israel and other Middle East countries.

For these reasons, I am advocating for a plan, devised by our 
military experts, that supports a phased withdrawl of our troops.

But while our brave men and women in uniform are serving, it is 
critical that we provide them nothing less than the best protection and 
support. We have more than a responsibility to support our troops--we 
have a solemn obligation. And that obligation extends to asking the 
tough questions and getting our policy right.

In honor of the Broward County Veterans Council and the veterans 
living in Palm Beach County, in recognition of their heroism and 
commitment to our country, I support this resolution.