---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `486b02f00358aa8eccb361ef49eeebd9`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Madam President, very quickly, this amendment restores 
the amount of money for the training of the Afghan security police and 
military back to the level that was requested both by the President in 
his budget submitted to this body, as well as restores the number that 
was approved in the Defense authorization bill that has previously been 
voted on by this body and is now in conference with the House.

The fiscal year 2010 Defense appropriations bill takes $900 million 
from the President's request for Afghan security forces at a point in 
time when our troops are in the trenches fighting and defending us, 
defending the Afghan people from both the Taliban and al-Qaida, and 
there is no more critical issue out there right now than training both 
the Afghan military as well as the Afghan security police.

We have just received General McChrystal's assessment, and let me 
quote a portion of that assessment where he states as follows:




 Failure to provide adequate resources also risks a longer 


 conflict, greater casualties, higher overall cost, and 


 ultimately a critical loss of political support. Any of these 


 risks, in turn, are likely to result in mission failure.


General McChrystal's No. 1 issue is the training of the Afghan 
military and the Afghan security police because of the fact, if we are 
ever going to achieve success over there, we have to know that once we 
root out the bad guys, once we take out the Taliban and al-Qaida, that 
we can turn that country over to the Afghans, as we are doing in Iraq 
today, and we can remove our troops with the confidence that the Afghan 
military and the Afghan security police will be able to maintain 
security within that country as well as to protect the Afghan people 
from external sources. But the only way we will be able to do that is 
to train the military as well as to train the security police.

The President's budget that came over for this particular issue 
requested $7.5 billion. That is a lot of money--a lot of money for any 
issue--but certainly a lot of money for training. But it is obviously 
absolutely necessary if we are going to complete the job.

We are at a very critical crossroads in Afghanistan right now. The 
President has under consideration the issue of whether to call for 
additional troops to be sent into Afghanistan. He is obviously weighing 
that very heavily. While he should, I would hope he is going to make a 
very quick decision on that particular issue. But whatever the decision 
is, and whenever he makes it, we know for a fact that the Afghan 
military and the Afghan security police have to continue to receive the 
training our troops are providing for them today.

Let me just quote a couple of other statements from other very high-
profile individuals who are very knowledgeable and very thorough in 
their assessment of the situation with respect to the Afghan military 
and the Afghan security police. First of all, Admiral Mullen, during 
testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on September 15, 
said the following in response to Chairman Levin:




 I share your view that larger and more capable Afghan 


 national security forces remain vital to that nation's 


 viability. We must rapidly build the Afghan army and police.


Senator Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, at 
that same hearing stated:




 We basically need a much larger Afghan army, much quicker. 


 That is the bottom line. That is the winning strategy.


Senator Lieberman said in July that the commitment to the expansion 
of Afghan forces ''is a decision that we have avoided making for far 
too long. Every day we continue to drag our feet and fail to commit to 
the indigenous security forces hinders the fight against the extremists 
and delays the pullout of U.S. troops in Afghanistan.''

Lastly, the outgoing Supreme Allied Commander for Europe--the 
SACEUR--GEN John Craddock, said during his testimony this summer:




 I don't think the intent there is to ever occupy and stay. 


 The key, as has been pointed out, is the enabling of 


 development of the Afghan national security forces. As the 


 SACEUR for the last 2/1/2/ years, I repeatedly told NATO 


 nations the very first thing we need are more trainers for 


 the army and the police, particularly the police.


Madam President, what this amendment does is add $900 million 
basically back to the top line. The reason we can do that is that under 
the appropriations bill, as has been passed, and as compared to the 
President's budget and the budget passed here, this bill is about $3.5 
billion under the budget. So there is room to add this $900 million 
back in to make sure we are giving the Afghan people the ability to 
protect themselves from external forces as well as the ability to 
protect themselves from dangers within their own country.

Last, let me say the President has been very critical of the 
reduction of this $900 million. In the statement of administration 
policy, or the SAP that was put out on the 25th of September, here is 
what the President said:




 The administration opposes the reduction of $900 million 


 for ANSF sustainment. Accelerating the growth in size and 


 capability of the Afghanistan National Security Forces is a 


 key component of the U.S. strategy in Afghanistan. The 


 President's full request reflects his commanders' plan for 


 Afghan forces to assume a greater share of responsibility for 


 security as quickly as possible.


Simply stated, it is critically important that this training proceed 
at a very rapid pace. In order to do that, we have to resource the 
training that our troops are doing today and we will need to continue 
to do over the next fiscal year.

I ask this amendment be called up at the appropriate time for a vote 
by this body and that our colleagues will support the amendment.