---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST--H.R. 6532
## `487a925eb124284998bc5795c5d13c21`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 8 September 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his 
leadership. I am not surprised that the Transportation Secretary for 
the Bush administration would call the majority leader and ask this be 
done. She came to us today. She stood over that bridge the day after it 
happened. When I was listening to my friend from New Hampshire talk 
about the fact that we need to continue funding our soldiers, of 
course, we need to do that. But for me, this is an issue of priorities. 
Why this administration would decide to spend $10 billion a month in 
Iraq month after month after month, so that this war has gone on longer 
than World War II, while we have bridges collapsing, while we have 
levees falling apart, defies reality.

When I heard the Senator from New Hampshire talk about soldiers on 
the frontline, which this Congress has been more supportive of than any 
other Congress for continuing that funding, for those people on the 
bridge that day in Minnesota, they were on the frontline. Those people 
who plummeted into that cold water that day were on the frontline. 
People died at that bridge. The NTSB has not concluded its 
investigation of the cause for the bridge collapse, but what we do know 
is, if it had been fixed earlier, if there had been appropriate funds 
all over this country for bridge and levee repairs, we may not have 
experienced some of the disasters we have seen. I view this not only as 
fixing a bridge that, by the way, is six blocks from my house--I drive 
over it every day with my daughter in the back seat, an eight-lane 
bridge that fell into the Mississippi River--it is also about going 
into the next century's transportation system.

If we are going to move to the next century in this economy, if we 
are going to start talking about transportation and wind and solar and 
doing things with biofuels and building our own energy future, we 
cannot be stuck in the last century's transportation system. As we face 
difficult economic times and look at the number in terms of what we can 
generate in jobs with transportation funding, it is a winner. I want to 
have an infrastructure plan and a stimulus package that lasts long 
after the rebate checks are cashed, that is looking to the future with 
infrastructure funding.

When Dwight D. Eisenhower created the interstate highway system, when 
President Roosevelt did the rural electrification system, they saw it 
as not only moving the economy forward, they saw it as a way to 
generate jobs. That is what this is about.

It is shortsighted, indeed, and shows a lack of understanding of the 
country's priorities to say that we should let transportation funding 
go down the pot while we are constructing bridges in Iraq and as 
bridges in Minnesota are falling apart.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.