# WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `489121f5ac6623e1aef4fa3dd2646f14`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. I thank the gentleman from Iowa for yielding me the time 
and for managing this bill. He has played a very important role in the 
committee in the formulation of this legislation and is far more 
knowledgeable than many of us because he has had experience in bringing 
whistleblower lawsuits as an attorney.

Mr. Chairman, this bill that we are considering at this time would


strengthen one of our most important weapons against waste, fraud and 
abuse, and that is Federal whistleblower protections. Protecting 
whistleblowers is a key component of government accountability.

Federal employees are on the inside. They can see where there is 
waste going on or if there is corruption going on. They can see the 
signals of incompetent management, and what we want is to enable them 
to let us know, those of us in Congress, about these kinds of problems. 
So this bill would give them the protections to come forward and, in 
effect, blow the whistle on what they know is going on and is not right 
to be continued.

But I want to emphasize that one of the most important provisions of 
H.R. 985 protects national security whistleblowers.



It is impossible to overstate how essential this provision will be. 
Now, there may be an attempt to try to strike this provision, and I 
want to make clear to my colleagues why they should not be misled into 
voting for such a motion.

There are a lot of Federal officials who knew the intelligence on 
Iraq was wrong. Officials in the CIA and the State Department knew that 
Iraq did not try to import uranium from Niger. Officials in the Energy 
Department knew the aluminum tubes were not suitable for nuclear 
centrifuges. Other officials knew the information from ''Curveball,'' 
the so-called informant that turned out to be inaccurate, but the 
information that he was spreading about so-called mobile weapons labs 
were completely bogus.

But none of these officials would come forward. In fact, none of them 
could come forward to Congress and share their doubts. If they did, 
they could have been stripped of their security clearances, or they 
could have been fired.

And we all know what the result has been. Nobody blew the whistle on 
the phony intelligence that got us into the Iraq war.

It is imperative that national security employees be protected 
against retribution so they will not be afraid to report national 
security abuses to Members of Congress. When the intelligence is wrong, 
the consequences for our Nation can be immense.

H.R. 985 also extends whistleblower protections to employees of 
Federal contractors. Every year, Federal contractors do more and more 
of the government's work. In 2005, nearly 40 cents of every Federal 
dollar, outside of the entitlements, went to private companies. We need 
to encourage the employees of these private companies to report 
wasteful spending.

We heard testimony in our Oversight Committee about a Halliburton 
truck driver, not just one but many of them, who were told, if they had 
a flat tire or some mechanical problem, not to worry about it, torch 
the truck. They will just go and buy another one. After all, these were 
cost-plus contracts.

Well, this abuse was so wanton that one of the truck drivers finally 
blew the whistle. But rather than being protected for speaking out for 
the American taxpayer, he was fired.

Finally, passage of this bill would stop this kind of intimidation. 
This legislation includes an important provision that will help check 
the growing problem of political interference with science. It gives 
explicit provisions to protect the Federal employee who reports 
instances where Federal scientific research is suppressed or distorted 
for political reasons.

Don't buy the argument that this should be struck. We ought to 
protect scientists from those that would try to suppress or distort 
their scientific work.

The bill is bipartisan. It was cosponsored by Ranking Member and 
former Chairman Tom Davis of the Oversight Committee and former 
subcommittee Chair Todd Platts. It passed unanimously last month by the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

It is carefully crafted legislation that protects both our national 
security and the interests of the American taxpayer, and I urge its 
adoption.

Mr. Chairman, I am including with my statement copies of letters 
between my Committee, Oversight and Government Reform, and the 
Committee on Homeland Security regarding jurisdiction.





















 House of Representatives,

















 Committee on Homeland Security,


















 Washington, DC, March 14, 2007.


 Hon. Henry Waxman,


 Chairman, Oversight and Government Reform Committee, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Henry: I am writing you considering the jurisdictional 


 interest of the Commttee on Homeland Security in H.R. 985, 


 the ''Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007.'' 


 Section 12 of this legislation provides whistleblower 


 protections to Transportation Security Administration (TSA) 


 employees. Under House Rule X, the Committee on Homeland 


 Security has jurisdiction over the ''[t]ransportation 


 security activities'' of the Department of Homeland Security 


 and ''[o]rganization and administration of the Department of 


 Homeland Security.'' As a result, the Committee on Homeland 


 Security has a jurisdiction interest in section 12 of the 


 bill. Moreover, the Committee on Homeland Security received a 


 sequential referral of a nearly identical bill, H.R. 1317, 


 the Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act, 


 legislation that was introduced by Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA) in 


 the 109th Congress. Although the Committee on Homeland 


 Security has sought a sequential referral of H.R. 985, the 


 Committee agrees to discharge the legislation in the interest 


 of clearing this measure as expeditiously as possible for 


 consideration in the House.



 As a condition to our agreement to forgo a markup of this 


 legislation, you have agreed to include report language to 


 accompany the bill that clarifies the congressional intent 


 behind that the term ''public safety'' in 5 U.S.C. 2302 


 (b)(1),(8), and (9), as amended by H.R. 985, is meant to 


 cover ''national security'' and ''homeland security.'' This 


 clarification will ensure that TSA employees who report 


 security risk, in addition to safety risks or mismanagement 


 issues, will still receive the whistleblower protections 


 granted under the bill. Additionally, you have agreed to 


 include report language to accompany Section 10 of the bill 


 to ensure Department of Homeland Security employees who work 


 on intelligence and information-sharing matters are covered 


 by the ''National Security Whistleblower Rights'' granted 


 under that section.



 Our agreement not to hold a markup is also conditioned upon 


 our mutual understanding that our decision to waive further 


 consideration does not, in any way, reduce or otherwise 


 affect the jurisdiction of the Committee on Homeland Security 


 over provisions of the bill. Additionally, you have agreed to 


 support the request of the Committee on Homeland Security to 


 have its members named as conferees in the event of a 


 conference with the Senate on this bill.



 I ask that you please include in the Congressional Record 


 during consideration on the floor, a copy of this letter and 


 a copy of your response acknowledging the Committee on 


 Homeland Security's jurisdictional interest in this bill and 


 indicating your support of our agreement expressed in this 


 letter.





 Sincerely,























 Bennie G. Thompson,


 Chairman.