# HONORING THE LIFE OF SERGEANT JASON M. LANTIERI
## `489a8dd84c3799f3d7dcb6c086ff05b6`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 22 October 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and 
service of Army Sergeant Jason M. Lantieri, a twenty-five year old 
young man from my district who died on October 10, 2007 while serving 
in Iraq. Family, friends and the Killingworth community gathered last 
Thursday to honor, and say goodbye, to this special young man.

Jason was a bright, talented, and outgoing student-athlete at Haddam-
Killingworth High School in Higganum, Connecticut. There, Jason's 
athletic abilities were undeniable as he played on the school's soccer, 
basketball, and baseball teams. In addition to his athletic prowess, 
Jason's commitment to his school and fellow classmates was solidified 
through his active role in student council.

Following graduation in 2000, Jason enrolled in Western New England 
College in Springfield, Massachusetts. In subsequent years after 
earning his business degree, Jason joined the Army and was assigned to 
the 725th Brigade Support Battalion of the 25th Infantry Division based 
in Fort Richardson, Alaska. During the next two years, he proudly, and 
bravely, served our Nation in Iraq.

On October 9, 2007, Jason was injured in a vehicle accident outside 
of Baghdad in Iskandaryah, Iraq. He passed away from his injuries the 
next day.

Earlier this year, Jason was able to fulfill his passion for travel 
and adventure on a break from Iraq in Europe. He wrote about his 
travels, stating, ''Europe is a great place to just live for the day 
and for the moment.'' Although I did not know Jason, it is clear to me 
that he lived his life to the fullest, and made the world a better 
place for his family, friends and all those who knew him.

Jason's passing brings a profound sadness to the southeastern 
Connecticut community. His memory and contributions, however, will live 
on in our hearts and minds. I ask my colleagues to join with me in 
honoring Jason's life, his service and ultimate sacrifice to our 
Nation, and offer condolences to his friends and family at this 
difficult time.
