# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `48ab1295ea794a8c9ea9ba3749b67f6b`
`Mr. WYDEN — 5 March 2010`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I am introducing a bill to right a 
bureaucratic wrong that has prevented capable and qualified veterans 
from serving their home States as work-study students in Congressional 
offices.

For years, veterans have served in the office of their representative 
or senator as a vital part of an office's constituent service efforts. 
These student veterans gain employment experience while providing 
valuable expertise to our offices. Student veterans work together with 
our staffs to assist other veterans from their home State wade through 
the often confusing and lengthy process of receiving benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. Congressional offices benefit by 
providing better services to their constituents without having to hire 
a disproportionate number of people to assist with veterans affairs. 
Veteran work-study students also benefit the VA by shouldering up-front 
some of the administrative burdens of claims processing.

Congressional offices have served as qualified work sites for VA 
work-study students for over 25 years. Student veterans have worked in 
congressional offices during my time in both the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. In recent months, however, Oregon 
congressional offices were notified that they would no longer be 
eligible sites for VA work-study programs.

I am deeply troubled that the proud tradition of student veterans 
serving fellow veterans in Oregon congressional offices is in jeopardy. 
At a time when the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have increased the 
number of veterans seeking our help with VA benefits and services, the 
instability of the program is particularly unfortunate. Moreover, my 
concerns are heightened due to the reduction in work-study positions 
available to Oregon veterans during an economic recession that has sent 
unemployment rates over 12 percent in some areas.

I share the VA's hope to provide high quality, prompt, and seamless 
service to veterans and their dependents, through the VA work-study 
program. That is why I am introducing legislation today to return these 
talented student veterans to Congressional offices. These student 
veterans provide an invaluable resource to our staffs. I hope that we 
are able to pass this legislation quickly to provide valuable 
employment opportunities for our Nation's veterans.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.