---
---

# HONORING VICTIMS OF FORT HOOD ATTACK
## `48afad3c41b211935b6438b6758f3f17`
`Mr. SKELTON — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Less than 24 hours ago our Nation was shocked to learn that a 
shooting had taken place at Fort Hood, Texas, one of the largest 
military bases in our country. Over the course of these initial news 
reports, we were saddened to learn that at least 13 soldiers were 
killed or have died and more than 30 were wounded, including the 
alleged assailant and the officer who was instrumental in bringing an 
end to the shooting.



What was shocking to most Americans is that a fellow member is 
alleged to have carried out this vicious attack on his comrades in 
arms. Yesterday, as these soldiers were in the midst of preparing for 
combat overseas, a fellow soldier opened fire on these unsuspecting 
patriots and those civilians and soldiers who were supporting them.

While many of those who were there were spared from the flying 
bullets, a number of these courageous soldiers and civilians were 
wounded, and they will face months, perhaps even years, recovering from 
their wounds. The heartache for these individuals and their families 
will be compounded by the fact that they will face these challenges 
knowing they were injured in the line of duty by an individual from 
within their own ranks. In the following days and months to come, these 
individuals and their families will need both emotional and physical 
sustainment and encouragement. It is our responsibility to ensure that 
they and their families have the resources they need to make a full and 
complete recovery.

Our prayers are with those who have lost a loved one in this 
senseless killing. These military families are already stressed with 
the thought of their family member deploying to Afghanistan or Iraq for 
a year, of the holidays and special moments that they would not share 
because of this deployment. And now their world has been turned upside 
down. Those last days prior to deployment when many families often make 
special plans to spend those few precious moments together have been 
taken away.

This morning, they will awaken to the realization that time will not 
bring their family member home to their welcoming arms. These families 
will need much love and support in the coming days; and we, as 
Americans, will be there with them and for them in their time of need.

Mr. Speaker, there is an ongoing investigation into this incident, 
and it is not appropriate for us to speculate on the motivations and 
why this occurrence happened. The investigation should be allowed to be 
completed without intervention as quickly as possible so it can bring 
closure to those who were tragically impacted by this event.

My thoughts and my prayers go out to those who have lost a loved one 
and to those who have been wounded, but I also want to reach out to all 
of our military families who are stationed around the world, who each 
understandably are touched by the heartbreaking events of yesterday at 
Fort Hood.

Mr. Speaker, I am extremely saddened by this occurrence. All of us in 
this body are extremely saddened by this occurrence.

I reserve the balance of my time.