---
---

# None
## `48b634b2c5e0dff2b258617ffce3ee1b`
`Mr. GALLEGLY — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. GALLEGLY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 1266, a resolution 
I introduced that congratulates Albania and Croatia for the decision by 
NATO to invite these two countries to become full members of the 
alliance.

On April 3rd of this year, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at 
its summit meeting in Bucharest invited Albania and Croatia to begin 
accession talks to join the organization. This decision was in 
recognition of wide-ranging political, economic and military reforms 
undertaken by these two aspiring members.

Both Albania and Croatia have made significant progress in 
establishing civilian control in their armed forces and ensuring those 
forces are closely integrated with the militaries of NATO members. Both 
have made substantial progress in holding free and fair elections, 
establishing democratic institutions and building their free market 
economies.

Regarding Albania, I want to single out the assistance of their 
military in three areas of operation: Albania's participation in the 
NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Bosnia; its contribution of 140 men to 
the NATO operations in Afghanistan; and the participation of Albanian 
Special Forces as part of the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq.

With respect to Croatia, it has been and continues to be a 
significant contributor to peacekeeping missions in Bosnia and Kosovo. 
In Afghanistan, Croatia has been a supporter of the NATO-led mission 
and in the past year has sharply increased their military forces in 
that country. In addition, Croatia has strongly backed international 
efforts in the areas of nonproliferation and the fight against illegal 
trafficking of weapons, drugs and persons.

I have traveled to Croatia on numerous occasions and can attest to 
the fact that the Croatians and Americans enjoy a close friendship 
based on common interests and common values. Today we enjoy the closest 
bilateral relationship with Croatia since the country achieved its 
independence in 1992.

Madam Speaker, Albania and Croatia are two strong allies that have 
shown that they are ready, willing and able to become full members of 
NATO. I urge the passage of H. Res. 1266, and also urge the Senate to 
move quickly to ratify amendments to the NATO treaty that would allow 
these two nations to join our most important international alliance.