---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `48b93969c32cf54ec770be9a23a918fd`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

It's a fascinating evening that we find ourselves in, to be asked to 
somehow, in less than a day, in fact, as I understand it, Mr. Speaker, 
this bill was filed after midnight. So on the very same day we're being 
asked to consider a bill, which all of America can see here, which is 
over 3,000 pages long.

Now, when the Democrat majority came in, they said, well, this was 
going to be the most fair and democratic Congress that we've ever had, 
that somehow a new day was dawning, that they would do business in a 
different way. I have not been a fan of omnibus spending legislation 
when my party was in control. I voted against the omnibus. It's no way 
to run the railroad, Mr. Speaker. In fact, when my party was in 
control, if an omnibus was passed, I note, for example, if I look at 
the Congressional Record of January 4, 2005, that to bring an omnibus 
piece of legislation to the floor by waiving the 3-day rule was 
described as ''martial law'' by then-Minority Leader Pelosi, now 
Speaker Pelosi. It's in the Record, Mr. Speaker. Look it up.

So somehow when she's the minority leader, Mr. Speaker, it's not okay 
to bring this monstrosity; in fact, it's tantamount to martial law. And 
yet we've heard that this is going to be such an open and democratic 
and fair Congress. So what is it, Mr. Speaker? Is it martial law, is it 
not martial law, to expect Members who haven't even seen the bill, much 
less read the bill, to vote on it tonight?

I heard the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee 
come and speak to us about earmarks. Well, again, this was the 
leadership team that claimed that they would do better. And as I look 
at it, when you add in the earmarks in the one appropriations bill that 
was passed by regular order, you're still looking at the third highest 
amount of earmarks, I believe, in the history of the Republic.

Now, the Speaker herself said, and I don't have the quote in front of 
me, but something along the lines that she would just as soon do 
without earmarks. But as I've read the legislation, she doesn't appear 
to be leading by example in that regard.

Mr. Speaker, there are very few people who know what is in this bill. 
But what I do know is it spends the people's money with very little 
accountability. I was at a town hall meeting in my district, and I have 
the honor and privilege of representing the Fifth Congressional 
District of Texas. I was in Athens, Texas, and a constituent, a very 
wise man, came up to me and said, You know what? I don't think that any 
Member of Congress should be allowed to vote on a piece of legislation 
unless they've read the bill, which I guess might lend this evening's 
vote to one, maybe two, Members, maybe no Members. There's something to 
be said for that. A bad process can lead to bad outcomes, and this is a 
bad outcome. It spends too much of the people's money. It continues to 
grow the government budget faster than the family budget, the family 
budget that has to pay for it.

Mr. Speaker, I'm a member of the House Budget Committee. I see 
several of my colleagues on the Democrat side who are also serving on 
that Budget Committee. And we just heard testimony from the head of the 
Congressional Budget Office, which I might add


was an appointment under this majority, this Democrat majority, who 
said that if we don't change the spending patterns of the Federal 
Government that within a generation we're looking at doubling taxes on 
our children and grandchildren.

Now, you can go check the Record. And it's not just the head of the 
Congressional Budget Office; it's the head of OMB, it's the Comptroller 
General. And yet we are asked to vote on an omnibus piece of 
legislation that, once again, sets us on this path to double taxes on 
the next generation. It's just unconscionable. Again, it robs the 
family budget to pay for the Federal budget.

And here's something else that's unconscionable about this: in this 
omnibus, we're going to pay to fund some bureaucrat in the bowels of 
the Commerce Department, but we won't pay for the men and women in our 
Nation's uniform fighting for liberty in Iraq. Well, last I looked, 
they're part of this Federal Government as well. They're wearing our 
Nation's uniform. They get paychecks drawn on the U.S. Treasury. But 
somehow we can find the ability, in this 3,000-page bill, to pay for 
every bureaucrat in Washington; but we won't fund the men and women in 
harm's way in Iraq. Also unconscionable.

There are so many reasons, Mr. Speaker, that this rule should be 
voted down, as should the entire bill.