---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `48b9eb7a016fa9501b06f8ec9c9b35da`
`Mr. HINOJOSA — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HINOJOSA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, H.R. 2956, and for the safe 
redeployment of our combat troops out of Iraq.

I thank our Chairman Lantos of the Foreign Affairs Committee for 
yielding time to me and want to reiterate that for 4 years now our 
administration has sacrificed its many soldiers for an Iraqi Government 
that has failed to take responsibility for its own security. While many 
of these soldiers have made great sacrifices on our Nation's behalf, 
the President has failed to support them with a viable strategy to 
succeed in Iraq and then to end combat operations.

This bill would force the President to be accountable to this 
Congress and to the American people. Yes, the American people deserve 
to know how this war is conducted and how it will end.

This bill would force the Iraqi Government to realize that America's 
commitment to their nation is not open-ended and that they must be 
accountable to their people for security and stability.

This bill would allow our military to safely redeploy from combat in 
Iraq to better confront emerging security threats around the world.

This bill would end the drain upon our Nation's resources that could 
better be used on our priorities at home such as improving our homeland 
security, strengthening our economy, and for providing for our 
citizens.

I strongly support this important legislation and request the 
President heed the call of this Congress to support our troops by 
redeploying them out of Iraq.