---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `48bef11e6b4cc15469af8c485deebe83`
`Mr. SANDERS — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Comprehensive 
Veterans Benefits Improvements Act of 2007.

The purpose of this bill is to address many of the long-standing 
benefit and other policy issues that are a priority to the national 
veteran service organizations and millions of their members all across 
our country. The legislation tracks many of the recommendations made in 
the Independent Budget, IB, for fiscal year 2008. The IB, as it is 
known, is ''the collaborative effort of a united veteran and health 
advocacy community that presents policy and budget recommendations on 
programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
Department of Labor.'' It is a guide for how this country should treat 
its veterans. It is written jointly by AMVETS, Disabled American 
Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Veterans of Foreign Wars 
and supported by over 50 other prominent organizations. I am very happy 
to have consulted extensively with the Independent Budget authors to 
craft this legislation.

For too many years veterans' needs have been sent to the back of the 
line in Congress behind tax cuts for the rich and corporate welfare for 
multinational corporations. This legislation is one step forward in 
correcting the shortcomings of the way our current system treats 
veterans. Instead of turning a blind eye to our veterans' needs as has 
happened often in recent years, this bill begins to say ''thank you'' 
with real action.

The Comprehensive Veterans Benefits Improvements Act makes more than 
25 separate changes to veterans' programs ranging from disability 
payments, to insurance premiums, to grants for disabled veterans to 
adapt their cars to make them easier to use.

We also try to make progress on long standing injustices in the VA 
and DoD benefit and retirement systems that veterans and their families 
have fought to correct for years. Among them are:

Category 8 Veterans: In January of 2003 the VA announced that it 
would no longer allow Category 8 veterans to enroll into the VA health 
care system. The Administration justified this move on the grounds that 
these are ''higher income'' veterans. The truth, however, is that these 
veterans can make as little as $27,000 a year. VA estimates that more 
than 1.5 million category 8 veterans will have been denied enrollment 
in the VA health care system by fiscal year 2008. This legislation 
repeals that ban.

Concurrent Receipt: As the Military Officers Association of America 
explains, the Concurrent Receipt or Disabled Veterans' Tax issue exists 
because of a ''19th century law that required a dollar-for-dollar 
offset of military retired pay for disability compensation received 
from the VA . . . Retired pay is earned for a career of uniformed 
service and VA disability compensation is recompense for pain, 
suffering and lost future earning power due to service-connected 
disabilities.'' For that reason veterans should receive both payments 
and not have one offset the other. This legislation would allow 
veterans to receive both compensation/pension benefits and retired or 
retirement pay.


Dependency and Indemnity Compensation-Survivor Benefit Plan Offset: 
Under current law, the survivors of veterans who die as a result of 
service-connected causes are entitled to compensation known as 
dependency and indemnity compensation, DIC. In addition, military 
retirees can have money deducted from their pay to purchase a survivors 
annuity. This is called the Survivor Benefit Plan, SBP. However, if the 
military retirees dies from service-connected causes his or her 
survivors will receive a SBP payment offset dollar for dollar by the 
amount of the DIC payment they receive. Like the offset between 
military retiree pay and VA disability payments, this SBP/DIC offset 
unfairly denies beneficiaries the full amount of 2 programs that are 
meant to compensate for different loses. This legislation repeals the 
offset between dependency and indemnity compensation and the Survivor 
Benefit Plan.



Veterans' Claims: We also take a new approach to improving the system 
for rating claims by creating an agency dedicated to electronically 
sharing clinical information between the VA and the DoD.

For too long these issues have been ignored by the Congress. It is 
time for that attitude to change.

This legislation also amends other benefit programs important to 
veterans.

Over time, Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs have added 
many benefits and assistance programs for our Nation's veterans and 
their families. As with many programs, the benefits did not meet all 
the needs of our veterans and others also have not been updated in many 
years rendering many of their benefits much less useful. For example, 
the IB notes the low level of grants the VA gives severely disabled 
veterans for adapting their cars:




 In 1946 the $1,600 allowance represented 85 percent of 


 average retail cost and a sufficient amount to pay the full 


 cost of automobiles in the 'low-price field.' By contrast, in 


 1997 the allowance was $5,500, and the average retail cost of 


 new automobiles, according to the National Automobile Dealers 


 Association, was $21,750. Currently, the $11,000 automobile 


 allowance represents only about 39 percent of the average 


 cost of a new automobile, which is $28,105.


This legislation increases this car grant amount to $22,484 and 
adjusts this amount automatically each year using an average retail car 
cost index established by the Secretary.

This is not the only example of a veterans' benefit being chipped 
away by inflation. When we look at assistance family members get for 
burying a loved one we find that the current benefits have not kept up 
with inflation. As a result, the current benefit of $300 only pays for 
a small fraction of the costs of a burial. The legislation I am 
introducing today increases the plot allowance from $300 to $745 and 
expands the eligibility for the plot allowance for all veterans who 
would be eligible for burial in a national cemetery, not just those who 
served during wartime. This section also contains a provision to adjust 
these payments annually.

This legislation contains many other similar corrections and updates, 
bringing benefits into the 21st Century so that these programs are 
meaningful again.

These are not controversial proposals. These changes are the least we 
can do to show our appreciation for those who sacrifice for their 
country.

This legislation is attempting to strengthen the current VA system so 
that it can fully provide for those veterans already in the system and 
those thousands more returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and all over 
the world that will soon come to the VA for care.

This is just the beginning; one part of a larger effort to honor our 
veterans and their service. We here in Congress have so much more to do 
to care for our veterans such as improving mental health care for 
veterans, Traumatic Brain Injury treatment, Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder treatment, transition assistance, polytrauma care, caring for 
homeless veterans, and eliminating the waiting lines and claims 
backlogs at the VA. As a parent of a fallen soldier told our Committee, 
these veterans have survived the war, now ''[w]e've got to help them 
survive the peace.''

We have much work to do in the Veterans Affairs Committee and I look 
forward to working under the leadership of Chairman Akaka and the other 
colleagues on our Committee and in the Senate to make sure that 
meaningful and substantial veterans' legislation is passed this year.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.