# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `48bf36d690369bd735d013b59480dfc1`
`Mr. COSTA — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I thank very much Congressman Ross, the 
gentleman from Arkansas, who does an excellent job each week in helping 
convey the message of the Blue Dogs, the fiscally conservative 
Democrats who are focused on accountability, not just at home but 
abroad as well.

Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to once again echo strong support 
for the Blue Dog Accountability War Act, and I, too, am pleased that 
Congressman Skelton, because of his focus and his desire to see the 
same sort of accountability that I think all Americans want to see, 
this is a bipartisan issue, chose to include provisions of the Blue Dog 
War Accountability Act within the new authorization for Defense.

Four years ago, we all remember very clearly when this war effort was 
brought to America. We were told that 4 years ago it would cost $60 
billion and that the oil revenue from Iraq, which has tremendous 
reserves, would go to pay for the reconstruction. I think many 
Americans thought that that might be a reasonable price to pay, 
notwithstanding the fact that you can never, ever put a price on the 
cost of American lives that have been lost nor those that have been 
injured. Nonetheless, we were told that 4 years ago in monetary costs, 
it would be $60 billion and the oil revenues would go to pay for the 
reconstruction costs.

Many of you saw the reports this week by a number of press agencies 
that indicated over the last 2 years billions and billions of dollars 
have been lost from revenues from the Iraqi oil reserves, but while it 
was a new story this week, it comes as no surprise to many of us who 
have been briefed in Congress.

I was in Iraq last May, spent time in Mosul, city of Mosul, with a 
number of our commanders. As we were getting our briefings, as all 
congressional delegations receive when you go to Iraq, we were told of 
the problems of getting the oil from the oil field, from the wellheads 
to refinery because there's only one, and then getting the refined 
products to where the Iraqis could use the gasoline and the other oil 
products. They told us as recently as a year ago that every step of the 
way from when the oil was taken out of the wellhead, put in the truck, 
on the truck, mind you, because you can't use pipelines because the 
insurgents keep blowing the pipelines up, that every step of the way, 
every province, there is graft, there is corruption, there's other 
types of lost revenue, and those moneys go too often into the hands of 
these same insurgents that are battling our troops, making side profits 
off the revenue that was supposed to go to reconstruction, going to pay 
for insurgents and for bombs that come in the form of IEDs, that end up 
killing and maiming so many of our American men and women who are 
trying to fight this battle on behalf of the Iraqis.

So this is well-known, and yet 2 years as we look at the problems 
with trying to get this oil out of the ground and to the refineries, we 
still have made little progress in terms of eliminating that graft and 
corruption that currently takes place or the profits from that graft 
and corruption that go into the hands of the insurgents.

And yes, unfortunately, the oil revenues today are still at or below 
the levels during pre-Saddam Hussein years when, in fact, there were 
restrictions on the amount of oil they could drill. That's how much 
progress unfortunately we have not made in the 4 years that we've been 
engaged in this effort.

The fiscal accountability under the Blue Dog War Act for this effort, 
as it's being included in other aspects of our budget, are critical. 
The reforms the Americans expected here at home, they're the reforms 
that Americans expect on a bipartisan basis as we try to change the 
direction and the course of this war in Iraq.

Let me conclude by saying that it's important that we keep our eyes 
focused on the situation at hand. Many of us have had briefings on a 
weekly basis with the top generals who are engaged in this effort 
trying to implement this surge. Just last week in speaking with one of 
those generals, I told him, I said, you know, we're doubtful on the 
surge, many of us, not because we don't think American men and women 
are successful; we know that they will do the absolute best job 
possible, but we're doubtful on the credibility of the leadership of 
this administration to effectively carry out what they say, and that's 
a loss of confidence. If this were a parliamentary system, there would 
be a vote of no confidence after all that has transpired over the last 
4 years.

Having said that, I, like most Americans, hope that this surge is 
successful, for all the right reasons, for all the right reasons, but 
let me tell you tonight what I told the American general last week. If 
this surge by this summer is not successful, I hope you will tell the 
Congress and the American public that it's not working. He responded in 
the affirmative that he would respond by August on whether or not this 
was working or not. So I told the general, I said I hope it's 
successful, but I hope if it's not, you will tell us that it is not and 
that currently you are engaged in an effort that looks at a plan B. As 
I told Secretary of State that we needed to be thinking about doing in 
February of this year, a plan B that would protect our men and women 
who are at the front lines, look at protecting the borders between Iraq 
and Iran and Syria, look at redeployment, looking at beefing up our 
efforts in Afghanistan, in a way that protects our interests in the 
Middle East but quits trying to convince ourselves that if we want 
democracy more than the Iraqis it will happen.


At the end of the day, Iraq will have to stand up for itself and 
indicate that they want to make a success out of this effort of 
democracy.

So I want to yield back to my colleagues and I thank my friend, the 
gentleman from Arkansas, for providing this opportunity for fellow Blue 
Dogs to come and talk about why we are so concerned that, in fact, a 
new day has come and why we have to make new changes in direction that 
will fit the accountability of American men and women, that American 
taxpayers and that most importantly our American soldiers demand and 
deserve.