---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `48c0d0de7fdcfd5c92537308e11d578a`
`Mr. DENT — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. I'd like to thank the gentleman from New York for yielding.

And Madam Speaker, there's one issue that I always recall very much, 
having visited Iraq in the summer of 2005 with at least one gentleman 
in this room tonight. And it dealt with the issue of reconciliation, 
although we really didn't talk as much as about it back then, but 
that's what the exercise was in.

You've mentioned this, as we talked about reconciliation in Iraq, you 
were very good enough to organize a meeting among the Center Aisle 
Caucus not so long ago where a prominent Iraqi in the diplomatic corps 
addressed us, and he talked about the need for reconciliation in our 
country. And we referred to the tribalism in Iraq that we saw that was 
frustrating to us and difficult for us to comprehend, and he sort of 
noticed the tribalism in our country, as he referred to it, I believe, 
as in Republicans and Democrats and very hard for him to understand the 
type of chatter that was going on here. So the point is there's 
reconciliation needed here in America as well as in Iraq.

But one issue of reconciliation that I learned about in Iraq, Madam 
Speaker, was in August of 2005 when I met a fellow named Albert 
Chowanski, Jr., who was from a town about 45 miles from my hometown of 
Allentown, Pennsylvania. He lives in Frackville, Pennsylvania; been in 
the Middle East for about 30 years. He was working for a contractor, 
the Siemens Corporation, and was building a power plant, helping to 
construct a power plant in the Taza area near Kirkuk. And he told me 
the challenges of building a power plant while people are shooting 
mortars at you, and how difficult that was. And I asked him, ''Well, 
how did you deal with the situation?'' He said, ''Well, the mortar 
attacks weren't very effective, to be perfectly candid, but 
nevertheless it was troublesome and made life difficult for us.'' And 
so he said the way he dealt with it, he went out and he met with each 
of the tribal leaders, and that's a multiethnic area near Kirkuk. You 
have ethnic Turks or Turkmen, and you have Kurds and Sunni Arabs and 
Shia Arabs. And so he went out and he met with all the tribal leaders, 
and he gave jobs to members of each tribe. And he said, ''You know, 
they all work together just fine, and everything went pretty quiet.''

And my point is that here's a fellow who seemed to be an engineer of 
some sort. I think he was an electrical engineer, and he was out there 
trying to solve a problem from a very practical level. And we've seen a 
bit of that in Iraq, I think, in recent months. You've seen it in the 
Sunni areas that have been much talked about, the tribal leaders 
turning on al Qaeda, which is all very encouraging. But sometimes we 
talk about benchmarks and we talk about things that we expect the 
Iraqis to do, and we are frustrated with the pace of or lack of 
progress in that country from the higher levels.



But then we see some of these more local efforts at reconciliation 
that do bring a certain amount of encouragement and hope.

But I just wanted to share that with you tonight as something that we 
ought to think more about as we talk about this policy of how we deal 
with Iraq and as we try to deal with the issue from 60,000 feet in the 
air here. And as many of us have visited that country and we talk to a 
lot of folks who are in charge, sometimes life brings us unexpected 
events, and sometimes those events are positive, and I think we can 
learn from people who are on the ground.