# None
## `48c4991a4b41aec83d8c12dba6b2cc57`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday I characterized that the 
Democratic leadership's decision to hold us here through the night as a 
theatrical display more worthy of Hollywood than Washington. Indeed, 
anyone who watched it all unfold might have thought they were tuning in 
to an episode of the ''Twilight Zone.''

How else can we explain a majority party that was asked repeatedly 
the day before to schedule a vote on the pending Levin troop withdrawal 
amendment standing straight-faced on the Senate floor in front of giant 
billboards that read: ''Let us Vote.'' How else to explain Member after 
Member standing up to rail against a 60-vote threshold that they 
frequently insist upon themselves.

The junior Senator from Connecticut has embodied the best traditions 
of this country and this body throughout this entire debate. He has 
taken a lonely stand. In acting out the freedom and the power that he 
and every other proud voice of dissent has under the Rules of this 
body, he showed the world the greatness and the genius of our 
Government. Here's what Senator Lieberman had to say:




 I am exercising my right within the tradition of the Senate 


 to do what senior colleagues have advised over the years--to 


 stop the passions, the political passions of a moment from 


 sweeping across Congress into law . . . so with respect to my 


 colleagues who are saying, let us vote, we will vote. But the 


 question is, on that vote, will we ask for 60 votes for pass 


 this very, very significant amendment? And I say it is in the 


 best traditions of the United States Senate to require 60 


 votes before this amendment is adopted.


So before discussing the amendment itself, I want to thank my 
colleague, the junior Senator from Connecticut for his courage, for 
reminding us again and again, at no little personal cost to himself, 
what we are about in this war and what we are about in this body.

Last night's theatrics accomplished nothing. Nearly every major paper 
in America noted this morning that we could have had the vote on the 
Levin troop withdrawal amendment without any of this fanfare. And that 
is really all it amounted to: sound and fury, because after 24 hours of 
debate, after all the gags and giggles and gimmicks, the cold pizza and 
the empty cots, the essential thing remained unsaid. We still don't 
know what the amendment we are about to vote on would mean for our 
troops, our allies, our mission, or our interests.

With the Senate now in its second week of debate on the Levin 
amendment, after last night's 24-hour talk-athon, I rise yet again to 
ask a simple question: What would the Levin amendment do?

Its sponsor tried to explain on Sunday the practical effect it would 
have. He said, ''Most of our troops would be out of there by April 
30.''

Can he show me where in the text it says this? He can't. It doesn't. 
This 1/1/2/ page amendment contains nothing but vague assertions.

We need to know what the authors of this amendment intend to do with 
this mission, what their plan is. General Petraeus deserves to know. 
Our troops deserve to know. Our allies deserve to know. The people of 
Iraq deserve to know.

So I ask again the questions I asked last week: the Levin amendment 
says the Secretary of Defense shall ''commence the reduction of the 
number of United States forces in Iraq not later than 120 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.'' What would this reduction 
involve?

The Levin amendment says members of our Armed Forces will only be 
free to protect United States and Coalition personnel and 
infrastructure, to train Iraqi Security Forces, and to engage in 
''targeted counterterrorism operations against Al Qaeda.'' What does 
''targeted'' mean?

The senior Senator from Michigan was asked these questions by the 
press. He said he didn't want to get into a debate as to how many 
troops will be needed. He said answering that question would be 
changing the subject. But that is the subject, isn't it?--whether and 
how many troops we are going to keep in Iraq.

Isn't that what this whole debate is about? Don't we have a right to 
know how many troops the senior Senator from Michigan thinks are 
necessary to achieve our goals? To prevent the mayhem our top 
commanders have warned would be the result of a precipitous withdrawal?

The most important questions are left unanswered. All we have are 
vague assertions that no one, not even the sponsor of this amendment, 
has attempted to explain with any measure of clarity.

Let me remind my colleagues what we do have clarity on. Let me remind


the Senate of what we agreed to in legislation in May as a framework 
for considering our current strategy in Iraq.

A bipartisan majority voted 80 to 14 in May to fund General 
Petraeus's Baghdad Security Plan. We agreed that we would receive a 
report on benchmarks in July. We voted, and put into law, that General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker would report in September on progress.

We are now in the second week of debate on the Levin amendment, and 
we expect several others will be filed outlining a number of different 
ways of revisiting the Petraeus plan.

But in my judgment, the plan we put forward in May, and put into law, 
is still valid--to give General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker about 
60 more days to prepare their assessment. At that point we will have 
allowed the Baghdad Security Plan 3 months to work since it became 
fully manned last month. The benchmarks report and the timeline we set 
in May was clear. It gave us, the troops, and our allies, clarity on 
what was expected.

A Democratic-led Senate voted to 81-0 to send General Petraeus into 
Iraq. A bipartisan majority of 80 senators told him in May that he had 
until September to report back on progress. His strategy has led to 
some military successes. Yet just 1 month after this strategy became 
fully-manned, Democrats are declaring it a failure. Some of them were 
calling it a failure as early as January.

The Levin amendment is not a credible alternative to the current 
strategy. By aiming to short-circuit the Petraeus plan just 1 month 
after it became fully manned and 2 months before we would expect a 
report, we short-change ourselves and our forces on the field.

We need to give General Petraeus until September to do his work. That 
is a commitment we made and signed into law. We need to stand by that 
commitment.

For this and the other reasons I have outlined, I will vote against 
cloture on the Levin amendment. I urge my colleagues to do the same.

I yield the floor.