---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `48c5fbf46f83241839fbe568136b6b76`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Chair, I rise in support of the Military 
Construction Appropriations Act of 2011.

This measure provides $141.1 billion for military construction of all 
kinds from military family housing, to construction of operational 
facilities in the U.S. and abroad. This funding will be used to 
construct schools, hospitals and other facilities for veteran's 
healthcare.

The Veterans Health Administration has estimated that it will treat 
over 6.1 million patients next year. This number includes more than 
439,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. This measure provides $48.8 
billion for health programs within the Veterans Health Administration. 
Additionally, the bill provides $53 billion for service-connected 
compensation, pensions and benefits for the estimated 4 million 
veterans and their families.

This measure provides $2.4 billion to further implement base closures 
and realignments outlined in the 2005 BRAC, including support for the 
re-stationing of troops and their families from overseas to the United 
States. The bill provides $1.3 billion to support our troops in 
Afghanistan and $259 million for U.S. construction funding obligations 
as part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
Program in that country.

For military families living on base, the measure appropriates $1.8 
billion for housing as well as for operation and maintenance costs. 
These funds are used for everything from repairs, to furnishings, 
management, utilities, and even for mortgage insurance. To address the 
growing housing backlog for unmarried troops and trainees, the bill 
provides $190 million for Army trainee housing facilities.

And finally, to ensure accountability, the measure provides funding 
to the Defense Department inspector general to audit these and other 
military construction projects.

I encourage my colleagues to join me in support of this bill.