# None
## `48dea2be450bb97cb1abe64a2b452252`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I ask if the Chair will let me know when there is 2 
minutes remaining.

 Mr. President, I wish to first of all thank our friend and colleague 
from Illinois, Senator Durbin, for again making an excellent statement 
about the Nation's priorities, the priorities we have before us in 
terms of making a judgment about the Children's Health Insurance 
Program. He has spoken frequently, eloquently, and passionately about 
the issue. He and I are hopeful that across the country Americans are 
able to take a few minutes and really absorb the arguments that are 
made in the case that is before the Senate and also understand the 
judgments many of us have made on this side of the aisle--virtually all 
of us on this side of the aisle, and some very courageous Republicans--
about what our responsibilities should be to the future of our country. 
It is a future that expects, that demands, and that requires us to give 
attention and assistance, when we can, to our children. This is the 
right thing to do not only from a health point of view, as has been 
pointed out so many times, but it also is imperative in terms of 
getting a handle on health care costs in the future by having a 
healthier generation, and, importantly, it is imperative as we are 
looking to the education of this generation.

 We have made the case time and time again, and we are making 
different points this afternoon, but the fact is if a child can't see 
the blackboard or hear the teacher or is unable to read the assignment 
because they are in need of glasses, that child is not going to be able 
to learn, that child has a better chance of dropping out, and that 
child has a better chance of living a life that is not constructive, 
productive, or useful in so many ways. So this case has been made time 
and again, and it is important.

 We hope, those of us who are supporting this legislation, that we 
will be able to garner the votes that are essential to getting this 
legislation into law. So I thank those who have spoken and spoken so 
well on this issue.

 Mr. President, as I and others have mentioned, this is really an 
issue of priorities. Nothing points out the issue of priorities more 
clearly than the choice we have between investing in our children--
Americas's children here at home, the sons and daughters of working 
families--and investing in the war in Iraq. This point is made 
frequently but can never be made enough: 41 days of conflict in Iraq at 
$12 billion is 10 million children who could be insured for virtually 1 
year. That points to the difference in the choice. On the one hand, we 
have a President and administration that virtually gives open-endedness 
to the number of days we are going to continue to be in Iraq. Yet, when 
it comes to the question of these 10 million children for the year, he 
says: Absolutely no. There is no way. We will not permit it, we will 
not accept it, and we will veto any proposal that comes our way that 
recommends and suggests it.

 The administration is quick to highlight their achievements on 
health care for children in Iraq, but they won't show the same 
commitment to the health of our own children. In Iraq, American money 
has renovated 52 primary care clinics and re-equipped 600 others, but 
in America, children are denied essential medical services in the name 
of fiscal discipline; in Iraq, we have provided 30 million doses of 
children's vaccines, but in America we are told we cannot afford basic 
preventive care for 10 million children.

 The Web site of the U.S. Agency for International Development 
proudly notes the remarkable accomplishment--and I commend them for 
it--that they have successfully vaccinated 98 percent of all Iraqi 
children against measles, mumps, and rubella. If only we could do as 
much. If only we could do as much for our own children. According to 
the Centers for Disease Control, only 91 percent of American children 
have received the same vaccine by the recommended age. The 
administration should be as concerned that children growing up in 
Boston or Birmingham get their recommended vaccines as they are about 
the children in Baghdad and Basra.

 The same Web site proudly notes that the USAID has improved the 
health of vulnerable populations in Iraq by increasing access to high-
quality, community-based primary health care. That is just what we are 
trying to do in America with this bill. In Iraq, it is an 
accomplishment; in America, it is a veto.

 A bipartisan majority in Congress has made a judgment too. Our 
judgment is that we must make room for decent health care for America's 
children. We must stand up to the empty rhetoric and hollow slogans of 
the White House and give all children in America the healthy start in 
life they deserve. We need to know who is for working families across 
America and who will stand in their way to getting quality, affordable 
health care.

We need to know who is for families such as the Vega family in 
Greenfield, MA. CHIP helps Flora Vega, a working mother, buy an extra 
inhaler for her 5-year-old daughter so she can have one at school and 
the other at home. CHIP also helped her afford a nebulizer--the small, 
portable device that pumps the asthma medicine into her lungs when an 
inhaler isn't effective. That means her daughter doesn't face sudden 
dangerous attacks of asthma that require her to go to an emergency 
room.



 We need to know who is for families such as the Lewis family in 
Springfield, MA. I met Dedra Lewis and her daughter, Alexsiana, when 
they came to talk about the difference CHIP has made in their lives. 
Alexsiana has a rare eye disease that requires expensive drops every 
hour of each day. To take care of her daughter, Dedra had to cut back 
on her hours at work and lost her insurance. Without CHIP, she would be 
choosing between paying the mortgage for their home and paying for the 
medicine the child needs to keep her vision.

Family after family, from coast to coast, can tell similar stories. 
That is why families across America are calling on Congress to renew 
the promise of CHIP. The task has not been easy, but we will not be 
deterred or deflected. When Medicare was first proposed in the 1960s to 
allow the Nation's senior citizens to live their retirement years in 
dignity, its supporters were attacked with much the same harsh rhetoric 
as we hear about CHIP--it is socialized medicine, it is a Government 
takeover. But Congress rejected that absurd rhetoric, and hundreds of 
millions of senior citizens have benefited immensely ever since. 
America's families face real challenges--higher mortgages, soaring gas 
prices, the ever-increasing cost of health care, and many other 
burdens. They deserve real solutions, but the White House offers only 
hollow slogans.


Our opponents failed to stop Medicare, and they won't stop CHIP now. 
Medicare didn't pass on the first attempt, but its supporters came back 
again and again with the force of the American people behind them to 
ask--to demand--that Congress act. And the 1964 election made it all 
possible. That is just what we will do with CHIP, even if it takes the 
2008 election to do it. We will keep at it until the children of 
America get the health care they need and deserve and that the American 
people are demanding.

As we have pointed out, at the time we saw this legislation 
developed, when it was initially proposed, it was a compromise between 
Republicans and Democrats. Those of us who wanted to give attention to 
the uninsured sons and daughters of working families recognized that we 
had a unique situation in America: We had resources as a result of the 
tobacco settlement, which provided hundreds of billions of dollars as a 
bonus to America, and we could decide how we were going to expend those 
resources. I saw in my own State of Massachusetts, the determination to 
use those resources to provide a health insurance program for the sons 
and daughters of working families.

That was a very important model that was replicated here over 10 
years ago in the Senate, where we used much of the resources that were 
allocated to us to be able to develop the Children's Health Insurance 
Program. There were Republicans on that side who said: Look, we don't 
want to just extend Medicaid; we want a separate program that will be 
resolved in the States. There were those of us on this side saying: 
Medicaid provides very good health assistance for children; the 
preventive programs are model programs, and they do an enormous amount 
in providing quality health care for children in a wide variety of 
areas and functions. No, our Republicans said, we want the States to be 
able to develop those; we will take guidelines, but we will let the 
States do it. A compromise was reached between Republicans and 
Democrats, and that was acceptable.

Secondly, it was determined that the States would have the ability to 
make judgments and decisions about deductibles and copays. We said: No, 
we want a standard way to make sure all working families are going to 
be able to acquire it. But, no, we worked out that program, and again 
it was a compromise. It was a judgment and decision of the sponsors of 
that legislation that we were going to use the private insurance 
companies--private insurance companies--to make sure of the delivery 
system. Many of us thought it would take a long time to get this 
program up if we went that route, but nonetheless it was a compromise. 
It was a compromise. Democrats and Republicans came together in this 
compromise program. Very important compromises were made at that time. 
It reflected the best judgment of the Members of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, and that legislation has been an 
extraordinary success.

The area where it has not been successful is that we have not reached 
all the children out there who are eligible and should be able to 
receive it. If we are looking for legislation that really reflects the 
best of Republicans and Democrats, if we are looking for legislation 
that basically reflects the best in terms of our priorities, this is 
that legislation, and now is the time to move ahead.

We have a budget of $2.9 trillion. The question is, Can we afford--
can we afford--the few billion dollars to provide the type of health 
coverage in this legislation? We are not even taking the resources from 
the existing budget. We are saying: What is going to be the result of 
that, by increasing the cost per package, the 61 cents? The result of 
that is going to be more children are going to stop smoking. That is 
the result.

If you take the increase in the cost of a pack of cigarettes, we have 
the real opportunity to see a very important public health 
achievement--discouraging children, the 3,000 children who start 
smoking every single day, the thousand who become effectively addicted 
from their earliest contacts with it. We discourage them from moving 
down that pathway. So this is a positive health development both in 
terms of the resources and in terms of the outcome. Unique. Unique.

Just to finalize here, we are enacting new legislation--those of us 
who believe in it--to address some of the real challenges and make this 
a fairer and more equitable country. We have the example of the 
existing program in place now. It works. It works. It is successful. 
Parents need it, and parents want it. The only issue--the only issue, 
the only issue--is whether we have the willingness and the will to 
implement it and to make it achievable for families in this country. We 
are talking about those working families, those mothers who hear a sick 
child cry in the night and wonder whether that child is $423 sick, 
because that is the average cost of going to the emergency room; those 
families who pray their child, who has an earache or a throat ache, 
will be better in the morning. How do you put a cost on that? How do 
you put a cost on that? Well, we recognize that as a real value, and we 
are not prepared to let parents make that kind of judgment call and 
feel that kind of pain and that kind of fear and that kind of anguish.

This legislation does the job, and it is important that we get a 
strong, overwhelming vote this afternoon that really reflects the good 
judgment of the American people, who say children should be first in 
this Nation. That has been a founding value of our Nation since the 
Pilgrims settled up in my part of the country, and I believe it is a 
value that is shared today. We will have an opportunity to vote on this 
in a short time. Hopefully, it will be accepted overwhelmingly in the 
Senate.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.