# TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT
## `48dfa4a2a684bfb9743f49d926ecce79`
`Mr. BACHUS — 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Chair, I think there are some issues that may divide 
us, but there are other issues that unite us as Members, and this is a 
perfect example of an amendment, I think, that brings us all together.

In fact, this amendment is cosponsored by Dennis Moore, my Democratic 
colleague from Kansas. And Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie 
Thompson was very helpful in crafting this amendment. And I express my 
appreciation to you, also, the ranking member, Peter King, and to the 
ranking member of the subcommittee, Charlie Dent, and also to the 
chairman of the subcommittee, Ms. Sheila Jackson-Lee. They and the 
Homeland Security Committee were most helpful.

Mr. Chairman, often, as we go through the airports of America, we and 
our constituents see our members of the military passing through those 
airports. Many of them are going to Iraq and Afghanistan. They're 
leaving their loved ones, facing sometimes an uncertain future. Others 
are coming in from Iraq and Afghanistan, going home to see loved ones. 
Sometimes they haven't seen them for over a year. They're often loaded 
down with heavy gear.

Now, also, at the same time, we see the registered travelers that we 
talked about earlier, we see United Premium members, we see Delta 
Platinum members and Gold Medallion members. We all see them getting 
priority, and that's okay. I have no problem with that.

But if there is any group of Americans who ought to get priority to 
go to the front of the line, not to skip security, but to go to the 
front of the line, it's men and women in uniform. So this amendment 
extends to them the same basic courtesy that we extend to over a 
million other Americans right now.

In fact, this is my Southwest A-list member. I, because I travel, I 
get to use that. United members do, Delta members do. But I want to see 
our military have this same privilege.

I will reserve the balance of my time.