---
---

# None
## `48e23231cf70fb16fde63ac85c8c5e02`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 18 September 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, S. 1257, the District of Columbia 
House Voting Rights Act of 2007, is an important and consequential 
bill.

The bill before us would increase the 435-seat House of 
Representatives to 437 seats, by providing one seat for a voting member 
in DC, which is predominately Democratic, and one additional seat for 
Utah, which is predominately Republican. And it does it in a way that 
doesn't give advantage to one political party over the other.

The time has come to give the District a voice and a vote in the 
House of Representatives.

I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation.

The legislation is sponsored by Senator Joseph Lieberman, chairman of 
the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee; Senator Orrin 
Hatch; and my distinguished ranking member on the Rules Committee, 
Senator Robert Bennett. I am a cosponsor this legislation.

The District of Columbia occupies an interesting and unique place in 
the United States:

It covers just 61.4 square miles, sandwiched between Virginia and 
Maryland: Yet with more than 580,000 residents, the population of the 
District surpasses that of the entire State of Wyoming. The District of 
Columbia is the seat of American government. The U.S. Congress 
determines the laws for the District; the Federal Government impacts 
the District's transportation system, health system, and police 
function. DC residents pay the second highest per capita Federal income 
taxes in the country. And District residents have sacrificed their 
lives defending our Nation. During World War I, World War II, Vietnam, 
the Korean war, and today in Iraq, they have fought for our democracy. 
Despite all this, DC residents have no vote in how the Federal 
Government operates.

''No taxation without representation,'' the colonists told King 
George in the late 1700s. We cannot allow this lack of representation 
to continue during the 21st century.

Today, the District of Columbia has a nonvoting representative in 
Congress--Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton. She has been vocal in 
representing the interests of the residents of DC, but she is unable to 
cast a vote on the House floor to ensure that voice is heard. This 
makes little sense.

We now have an opportunity to change this and to strike the right 
balance while doing it. The bill before us would add two seats to the 
House of Representatives, one for the District of Columbia and one for 
Utah.

Utah was next in line for a fourth congressional district 
representation in the House, according to 2000 population census data. 
At that time, Utah was only 856 residents away from becoming eligible 
for an additional seat.

So this legislation strikes the appropriate balance by allowing 
additional representation for both DC and Utah without disadvantaging 
either national political party.

In the last 200 years, Congress has not granted House representation 
to the District of Columbia by statute. Whether such a Federal law is 
constitutional has never been before the courts. As a result, critics 
of the legislation have argued that a bill providing for a vote for the 
District representative is unconstitutional. However, a bipartisan 
group of academics, judges, and lawyers argue that Congress has the 
authority and historical precedents to enact Federal law, and I agree 
with their view.

The Constitution vests in Congress broad power to regulate national 
elections and plenary authority over DC under the District clause, 
article I, section 8, clause 17. This clause permits Congress wide 
discretion to grant rights to the District of Columbia, including for 
the purposes of congressional representation.

From 1790 to 1800, Congress allowed District residents to vote in 
congressional elections in Virginia and Maryland. This was allowed not 
because they were residents of those States but because Congress acted 
within its District clause authority.

Constitutional scholars from the right and the left, the most notable 
conservatives being Judge Kenneth Star and Professor Viet Dinh, believe 
this legislation is constitutional. These scholars reference the 
sweeping authority of the District clause, which provides that ''The 
Congress shall have power . . . to exercise exclusive legislation in 
all cases whatsoever'' over the District of Columbia.

In addition to believing that Congress can pass this legislation, I 
believe there are strong reasons why it should pass this legislation.

DC is affected, perhaps more directly than any other U.S. 
jurisdiction, by the actions of Congress.

Citizens of the District, rich and poor, work in this town and work 
in the industries of law, policy, business, tourism, academia and 
medicine. They pay high taxes; they face the challenges of living in 
one of the major cities in the United States.

This legislation would provide DC with permanent voting rights for 
the first time in over 200 years.

From the Boston Tea Party and ''no taxation without representation'' 
to the suffragettes and struggles over voting rights in the 1960s, the 
goal of American society has been to bring a voice to citizens who were 
voiceless.

Voting is the voice of democracy.

This political limbo that Congress has placed on the District has run 
its course.

It is time to give the District a voice and a vote in the House of 
Representatives.

This important step can not only right this wrong but can do it 
without causing partisan rancor or disadvantage to any party. What is 
at stake


here is nothing less than a fundamental fairness voting issue.

This bill is consistent with the historical precedents of Congress's 
role in protecting and preserving the right to vote, regardless of 
color or class, age or gender, disability or original language, party 
or precinct, and geography domestic or foreign.

It is the right thing to do, and the 21st century is the right times 
to do it.

I urge my colleagues to join me in taking up and passing this bill on 
a majority vote in the full Senate.

(At the request of Mr. Reid, the following statement was ordered to 
be printed in the Record.)