---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `48e8d61e1997098b66a5fe8232809a71`
`Mr. PEARCE — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this stay-the-course 
resolution, because it is, indeed, a stay the course. It says, 
blithely, that we support the troops, the troops are in Iraq, they are 
fighting. We support the fight.

We do not, on the other hand, support an escalation, which would be 
another course of action, nor do we present the other alternative that 
says bring them home. We can bring them home, increase or stay the 
course, and so this stay-the-course resolution is one that is very 
curious indeed today.

The last two speakers that I have heard say that there is no good 
military action left. That is a credible viewpoint. It is one that is 
expressed, and yet I ask my friends why did you not have the courage to 
simply say, if there are no goodwill alternatives left for the 
military, then bring them home. That is fair and adequate.

I have also heard that it is a misguided conflict. I have also heard 
that our soldiers' work is done. If their work is done, please have the 
courage to bring them home.

I want to speak today on behalf of our soldiers, the soldiers of 
today. I will do it while remembering the soldiers of yesterday. 
Through no fault of my own, I served in the Air Force during the 
Vietnam conflict. I say through no fault of my own, because I was not a 
volunteer. I got there because I drew a very low draft number. As time 
has proved, it was going to be the only lottery that I am going to win, 
but that lottery gave me a free pilot's certificate and sent me to 
Vietnam to fly in 1971, 1972 and parts of 1973.

I was in Vietnam during the time that Jane Fonda made her trip to the 
North, giving aid and comfort to the enemy. I was in Vietnam during the 
time that there were demonstrations in the streets back home. I was 
there during the time that our soldiers were cursed at and spit on. 
Today, as I beat around the back dusty roads of New Mexico, I encounter 
those same soldiers that I encountered back then. For those soldiers 
who are my age, who are on walkers, life has been difficult.

There is a common greeting for soldiers of that era. It is welcome 
home, brother, or welcome home, sister, because they were never thanked 
for their duty and they were never welcomed home with parades with 
yellow ribbons. We were snuck back into the country.

I have brought a couple of photos to help us remember, to remember 
the people who were trying to get out of Saigon, not just Americans, 
but those people who had sided with us. They are crawling up the ladder 
trying to get into the helicopter. The helicopters proceeded out to 
carriers, then the helicopters were pushed off the side of the 
carriers. This is the way we left Vietnam.

I bring this up because I am beginning to see the same thing today. 
My colleague yesterday spoke of this resolution and mentioned that the 
resolution was vague, where people of very different beliefs could 
believe that it represented them. If you support the war, you believe 
that it supports your position. If you are opposed, you will somehow 
believe that this is the one step that is going to stop us.

Yet it really does nothing, the vague language, that clever language 
points out, this is not a time for cleverness, it is a time for 
decision, because I will be a constant voice for our soldiers. I read 
and I hear the comments today.

I read when Chrissie Hynde says, ''Let's get rid of all the economic 
(expletive) this country represents! Bring it on. I hope the Muslims 
win!''

I hear from the left, William Arkin, ''Those soldiers should be 
grateful that the American public . . . do still offer their support to 
them, and their respect . . .

''So we pay the soldiers a decent wage, take care of their families, 
provide them with housing and medical care and vast social support 
systems and ship obscene amenities into the war zone for them, we 
support them in every possible way, and their attitude is that we 
should in addition roll over and play dead.''



Our friends on the other side of the aisle, I do not discount their 
intent, but I know what they are trying to do. They are doing the same 
thing that was done in Vietnam: they are trying to feed that hungry 
tiger that lives on the left, that hates the American way of life, that 
hates the American military, that will do anything to discredit, 
disrespect, and discount the service of our soldiers.

My friends, you will not be able to appease the left with this 
toothless resolution that you are presenting. You know that your own 
Members, some of your Members, have called for defunding; but defunding 
is going to allow the exit that looks like this, and it is going to 
allow the mass catastrophe, the mass killings that are going to occur, 
and that is all part of the problem.

But before you allow your friends, who would never vote for me, who 
disrespect our soldiers so much, before you empower them and before you 
encourage them, I would recommend that you think carefully about just 
cleanly bringing our soldiers home.

If you are going to do nothing in the resolution, you have an 
obligation to do no harm. This resolution does no harm. This resolution 
empowers our enemy, encourages our enemy, and encourages people who are 
going to disrespect our soldiers. I recommend a vote against the 
resolution.