---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE FORT PIERCE ELKS LODGE 1520
## `48ebf353d0e3784d8d0454ec1119239a`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 24 September 2007`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is my pleasure to rise 
today to recognize the members of the Fort Pierce Elks Lodge 1520 in 
Fort Pierce, FL, for their contributions to our service men and women 
and to congratulate the Lodge for the commendation they have received 
within the Elks community.

Over the past 3 years, the Fort Pierce Elks Lodge has implemented an 
outstanding veteran's services program. Through their overseas military 
outreach program, ''Operation Desert Elk',' the Lodge collects various 
sundry items and creates care packages for troops in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. These packages provide a touch of home for our brave soldiers who 
are serving in such hostile environments. To date, over 1,400 packages 
valued at over $50,000 have been mailed overseas.

At home, the Lodge provides ongoing support to our hospitalized 
veterans at the West Palm Beach, FL, Veteran's Affairs Medical Center 
and at local State nursing homes. Clothing, books, and board games as 
well as monetary donations to support recreational therapy programs are 
provided on a continual basis. The Lodge has also adopted veterans in 
nursing homes and provided visitation, greeting cards and meals.

I am honored to recognize the exceptional individuals who make up the 
membership of the Fort Pierce Elks Lodge 1520 and the incredible 
services they provide for our service men and veterans.
