# EDUCATION
## `48ef962e4d9759ba6e4371abb2a4e9d4`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin â€” 15 December 2009`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, it's such a privilege to stand 
in the well of the House of Representatives.

Each time I stand here, I just shiver and shake and think about just 
how I got here and the unusual circumstances that have allowed me to be 
here. Really coming from a very poor background, parents who had very, 
very meager means. But it was because of an educational opportunity 
that I'm able to be here with you and to speak with you here this 
evening.

You've heard it all from the well of the House of Representatives, 
Mr. Speaker. You've heard about all of the problems that we have in our 
economy. And this evening I want to talk to you about the importance of 
reestablishing ourselves in the world as a nation that is graduating 
students from college and producing the next generation of innovators 
and engineers and doctors and scientists and teachers so that we can 
reestablish ourselves in the world and continue to enable our economy 
to grow. But, of course, you've heard about all of the problems that 
sort of crowd out a really important discussion about the importance of 
funding educational opportunity.

You've heard about the two wars and the escalation, which is going to 
cost us $30 billion. You've heard about the war spending. Between 2001 
until 2009, we've spent just under $950 billion for Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and we've just included another $139 billion for both 
wars. In July, the DOD was spending $11 billion a month on both wars. 
And CRS projects that we're going to be spending another $400 billion 
to $900 billion in the next 10 years.

You've heard about the entitlement programs, Medicare and Social 
Security, and how they're in danger and how we have to fund that. 
You've heard about the escalating health care costs consuming 20 cents 
of every consumer dollar in the so-called takeover by the government of 
health care. You've heard about the great recession where as many as 
700,000 jobs were lost in a single month in the last 15 months. You've 
heard about the financial systemic risk that threatens the economy not 
only of the United States of America but of the world, requiring 
countries, including this one, to develop billions of dollars in 
stimulus funding. You've heard about various proposals to right 
ourselves and to justify our economy. You've heard proposals to just 
simply reduce spending. You've heard proposals to give tax breaks to 
the wealthy and that these tax breaks will somehow trickle down to 
support those workers and small businesses. And you've even heard 
whispers of raising taxes. And very few people raise as a solution to 
this problem at looking hard at what we're doing in terms of


advancing post-secondary educational opportunity.

That's why this evening, Mr. Speaker, I'm so happy to be joined by my 
dear friend and colleague from Virginia, Representative Bobby Scott, 
who serves on the Labor and Education Committee and I'm sure will give 
us some valuable information about the importance of preparing the next 
generation of students.