---
---

# THE BLUE DOG COALITION
## `490881325d57e63d020de8cb823ab744`
`Mr. ROSS — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for 
joining us this evening as a member of the fiscally conservative Blue 
Dog Coalition to talk about the need to restore common sense and fiscal 
discipline and accountability to our Nation's government.

On the accountability front, Mr. Speaker, under the United States 
Constitution Congress has an obligation to provide Congressional 
oversight of the executive branch. Congressional oversight prevents 
waste and fraud, it ensures executive compliance with the law and 
evaluates executive performance.

What we saw, Mr. Speaker, for the last 6 years is a Congress that 
failed to uphold its constitutional duty to provide oversight of the 
administration. Rather, what we saw was a Congress that provided a 
rubber stamp.

The 110th Congress will be different. We will uphold the Constitution 
of the United States of America and we will provide oversight of the 
executive branch, as the founders of this country wrote into our 
Constitution. The reason we are doing that is because when Congress 
does not do that, it abandons its responsibility by failing to conduct 
meaningful investigations of allegations of serious waste, fraud, abuse 
and mismanagement of taxpayer dollars.

Mr. Speaker, it is time for this Congress to hold this administration 
and the Pentagon accountable for how your tax money is being spent in 
Iraq. Let me be clear about it: As long as we have soldiers in harm's 
way, we will support our men and women in uniform. As I mentioned 
earlier, my brother-in-law is in the U.S. Air Force, and today is 
headed from Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington, to 
Kurdistan, where he will be serving for the next few months, if not the 
first year. My first cousin is in the U.S. Army. His wife gave birth to 
their first child while he was in Iraq.

This war has impacted all of us across this country in one way or 
another. I have had 3,000 National Guard soldiers, brave soldiers from 
Arkansas, spend more than a year in Iraq. I e-mailed today with a 
soldier from my district in Iraq. Make no mistake about it, as long as 
we have men and women in uniform in harm's way, we will support them 
and ensure that they receive the resources they need to get the job 
done.

But that should never be confused with holding the administration, 
the Pentagon and the Department of Defense, accountable for how this 
money is being spent. We are sending some $9 billion a month, with a B, 
of your tax money to Iraq. The last report I got, it was some $57 
million a day to Afghanistan. It is time that this Congress held this 
administration and the Department of Defense accountable for how it is 
spending your tax money in Iraq, Afghanistan and other parts of the 
world.

Additionally, Mr. Speaker, it is time that we hold this new Iraqi 
government accountable. They must be accountable for their actions. If 
we are going to put soldiers in harm's way, if we are going to have 
soldiers dying and becoming injured and returning home without arms and 
legs and with other injuries that forever change their life, it is time 
we hold this new Iraqi government accountable for what they are doing 
or not doing in Iraq.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, it is important, it is absolutely critical, 
that we stop this nonsense of passing supplemental after supplemental 
in funding for the Iraq war when we know that this is a long-term deal. 
It is time for the President to quit playing games with the American 
people, to stop this nonsense of passing supplements. It is my 
understanding he is going to ask for billions more in a supplemental 
just days, if not weeks, before the budget comes out for fiscal year 
2008. It is time to make the cost of Iraq and Afghanistan clear to the 
American people, provide a level of transparency, and include it in the 
budget.

This is what we are talking about when we are talking about restoring 
accountability to our national government. Once we demand 
accountability we will see these deficits begin to disappear.

When I was a small child growing up, I always heard it was the 
Democrats that tax and spend, and yet I come to Congress and we have 
got for 6 years a Congress that is controlled by Republicans in the 
House, the Senate and the White House, a country controlled by the 
Republicans, and what do they give us? They gave us the largest deficit 
ever in our Nation's history, year after year after year, in fact, the 
largest deficit ever. $413 billion in hot checks occurred in 2004; in 
2003, it was $378 billion in hot checks; in 2005, $318 billion; in 
2006, $296 billion in hot checks.

It is time to restore fiscal discipline to our Nation's government. 
It is time for this government to have a balanced budget once again, 
because where is this money coming from? It is not only coming from 
taxpayers, but we are spending more than we are taking in. It is coming 
from foreign central banks and foreign investors. In fact, this 
administration has borrowed more money in 6 years from foreigners than 
the previous 42 Presidents combined.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be joined this evening for this 
discussion


by the cochair of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog 
Coalition, the gentleman from Florida, Mr. Boyd.