---
---

# None
## `490baac3e18e48c944f0c3d3c78dd60a`
`Mr. JONES — 2 December 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, this past Saturday, the 27th of November, 
Fox News aired a story about the Lee family and Lex, the wounded 
military working dog that was adopted by the Lee family.

Corporal Dustin Lee was Lex's handler and the Lees' son. A rocket-
propelled grenade ended the life of Corporal Lee and also injured Lex 
by sending shrapnel into his back in 2007. Lex's pain has been so very 
severe over the past 3 years, and he has also had a hard time walking.



Lex received adult canine stem cell therapy at Georgetown Veterinary 
Hospital, performed by Dr. Lee Morgan. Lex was released last Friday 
with much success.

I would like to thank Kelly Wright of the Fox News' show ''Fox and 
Friends,'' for taking interest in this story and understanding the 
importance of war dogs in our military. Through his kind work, many 
people were touched by this heartwarming story.

I would also like to thank Dr. Lee Morgan of Georgetown Veterinary 
Hospital. Dr. Morgan volunteered much of his personal time to Lex, his 
recovery, and the Lee family. He was very kind and devoted to this 
cause and gave this dog and family the attention they deserve.

Many individuals and organizations have made it possible for Lex to 
receive this therapy by donating time and money to the cause. I would 
like to thank the Humane Society, the American Kennel Club, the German 
Shepherd Dog Club of Northern Virginia, the Shoreline German Shepherd 
Dog Club, and the United States War Dogs Association.

Also, Marine General Mike Regner for his help in retiring this dog 
and making sure Lex was able to be a part of and placed with the Lee 
family.

Contributions came from all over the country, and I appreciate 
everyone who donated. A dog handler currently stationed in Afghanistan 
sent a donation, which speaks to the importance of these dogs and to 
the appreciation our servicemembers have for them.

With that, Madam Speaker, I close by asking God to please bless our 
men and women in uniform, to bless the families of our men and women in 
uniform. And I ask God to continue to bless America.
