# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `490c54e24fb8b699fbfd726649073764`
`Mr. DICKS â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DICKS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your kindness.

The resolution that is being considered in the House of 
Representatives today expresses a very clear message to the American 
people that it is time to change the direction of our policy in Iraq.

The meetings and communications that I have had with people from the 
Sixth Congressional District from the State of Washington have made it 
clear that the people I represent want to hear from Congress. My 
resolve in this is strengthened by the loss and grief I have heard from 
families in my district whose loved ones have been lost or injured in 
this conflict.

I also deplore the mistakes by this administration: failing to deploy 
enough troops to stabilize Iraq, disbanding the Iraqi Army, failing to 
provide jobs and economic restoration. Those are but a few.

It has been 4 years since U.S. and Coalition Forces invaded Iraq 
based on what was faulty intelligence. The premise for our military 
action against the Saddam Hussein government in Iraq was that he had 
weapons of mass destruction, and even the President has now 
acknowledged that this determination resulted from an incorrect 
interpretation of intelligence information.

With more than 3,000 U.S. military personnel killed and thousands 
more wounded, people across the Nation, including many Members of 
Congress, are questioning our continued involvement very seriously and 
very legitimately, especially since the President has now ignored the 
advice we know he received from many senior military advisors and has 
decided to increase the number of military troops deployed to Iraq. It 
is time for this Congress to speak clearly and forcefully in opposition 
to this escalation and in support of changing course in Iraq.

In this resolution we are clear that our determination that American 
forces have accomplished everything they have been asked to do in Iraq 
courageously and with the professionalism the Nation expects of the 
best-trained and best-equipped military in the world. These troops have 
not let us down, to be sure; but in many ways they have been let down 
by a policy that ignores the reality of their situation, and by a 
Commander in Chief whose only response to what is unmistakably a civil 
war in Iraq is to place more American troops in harm's way while 
sectarian violence plays out in the streets of Baghdad and other Iraqi 
cities.

Day after day, U.S. service people are being killed and injured by 
bullets and bombs traded by Shiite and Sunni zealots for reasons that 
predated our involvement and which will likely endure long beyond the 
time we finally leave Iraq.

For the past 4 years, I regret that the Republican leadership of 
Congress has abdicated much of its oversight responsibility for the 
Iraq war and its funding. To date, the Bush administration has not 
adequately explained to Congress or the American people the reasons for 
our continued military involvement in Iraq. In announcing his intention 
to send more than 21,000 additional troops to Iraq, last month the 
President said it is time for the Iraqi Government to act, to take 
charge of their security and to begin to govern themselves.

What we in Congress are saying now is that we believe the Maliki 
government in Iraq will be more apt to accomplish that goal if we do 
not send more American troops into Baghdad and if we signal to Iraqis 
that we are planning for a phased withdrawal from their country. That 
is what we must do to change the policy that keeps our forces acting as 
the local police officers on the streets of Baghdad, and to give the 
Iraqi people greater incentive for taking charge so that our troops can 
begin to come home. This was a view of the bipartisan Iraqi Study 
Group, which pointed to a compromise recommendation calling for gradual 
drawdown of U.S. troops from Iraq.

It is instructive to recall the views expressed by many of the 
generals on the ground, including General Abizaid, General Casey, 
General Petraeus, that this conflict cannot be won militarily; it will 
require a political solution. That political solution requires the 
involvement of other regional governments, including Syria and Iran.

All Americans, certainly every Member here in the House of 
Representatives, wants the Iraqi Government to succeed and to become 
the stable democracy we had hoped to achieve at the outset of our 
involvement. None of us want Iraq to fall into chaos and to become a 
haven for terrorists, including al Qaeda. But the current U.S. policy 
and the proposed escalation of a number of American troops offers 
little promise, I am convinced, of accomplishing those goals.

Even the recently completed National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq, 
which the President presumably relies upon, concludes that the war, as 
it is currently being prosecuted, will not or cannot bring about these 
results. My colleague, Mr. Murtha, has also suggested that it will be 
up to the Iraqi people themselves who will expel what remains of al 
Qaeda in the country, and I believe there is merit in his argument.



This is an important debate, Mr. Speaker, and one that is perhaps 
long overdue. We as a new Congress, led by a new Democratic leadership 
team, must communicate that we are placing a firmer hand on the tiller 
of this ship of state and that we are demanding greater accountability 
for both the policy and funding of the Iraq war. This new direction 
starts with a brief and declarative statement, that ''Congress 
disapproves of the decision of President George W. Bush announced on 
January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional United States 
combat troops to Iraq,'' but it must be followed by that harder task of 
guiding our military policy through aggressive oversight and more 
careful direction of our political and military leadership by all of 
the relevant committees here in Congress.

That is our task ahead, Mr. Speaker, and as a member of the Defense 
appropriations subcommittee, I am prepared to do my part.