---
---

# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `4913ca12704f70e6c2c43b7a34a61a56`
`Mr. BURGESS — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and the notation 
made of the exception of the last 3 or 4 minutes, and I will do my best 
to accommodate that.

I get asked by a lot of people, why in the world did you make this 
sixth trip to Iraq in July. You knew what was going on there. What did 
you expect to see that was going to be different? But I knew we had 
today's hearing coming up. I knew it was coming down the pike at us 
fairly fast. I knew the news hadn't been good out of the country of 
Iraq for about the 10 months before July. I had been in Iraq in July of 
2006, had thought there was some measure of success that was beginning 
to be felt then, but then we had August, September and October, pretty 
rough months by anyone's estimation. And so I will admit, I was 
significantly pessimistic when we made that trip back in July.

But I knew we were going to hear from General Petraeus today. And I 
knew that every time I had been to Iraq before I came away learning 
something that I hadn't seen on CNN or even Fox News. There was 
information that can only be available to you by going for yourself and 
looking for yourself, feeling, touching, smelling the situation on the 
ground.

Now, I get a lot of concern from people when I go back home in the 
district who say, yeah, that's all great what we're doing for Iraq, but 
we don't know that we care that much about the Iraqis. I will tell the 
citizens of this country, it is in America's best interest that we 
succeed. Where we cannot be successful in Iraq, and you've heard other 
people talk about it this evening, let's be honest, it's not a 
political party that loses a car, it's not a Congress that loses a war, 
it's not a President that loses a war, it is a country that loses a 
war.

And again, I reiterate, it is in America's best interests that we be 
successful because an Iraq that is stable, an Iraq that is able to 
participate in its own security, an Iraq that is able to act as an ally 
or partner for peace in


the Middle East, what a difference 20 years from now looks like with 
that scenario compared with an Iraq where we leave prematurely, 
descends into chaos, is enveloped by Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia, you 
name it. And the chaos that has been evident in Iraq in the past 
suddenly envelopes the entire Middle East, with a country like Iran 
emerging as the victor.


Now, the surge or the reinforcements that we talked about really 
since January of this year, I think it's probably worthwhile to just 
touch on the timeline that we've been through this year. Remember, it 
was January 26, not that long ago, that General Petraeus was 
unanimously confirmed by the Senate, sent off with a pat on the back 
out the door, and no sooner had the door closed behind him when the 
Senate began sniping and criticizing his activity. He hadn't even 
gotten into the country yet.

Ambassador Crocker. You heard my friend from Georgia talk about the 
wonderful resume of Ambassador Crocker. Many of us who were here in the 
spring of 2003 remember Ambassador Crocker as one of those stalwarts 
who came at 10:30 every morning and briefed us in the Armed Services 
Committee room, whether we were members of the committee or not, came 
with General McCrystal and briefed us every morning as to what was 
going on on the ground in Iraq. And I was really very grateful to 
Ambassador Crocker for having taken the time to do that so meticulously 
when the active combat phase was going on.

On May 26, we finally passed the emergency funding and Bush signed it 
into law. Mid-July, we took a trip over to Iraq. Again, I didn't know 
what I was going to see. I was prepared to accept bad news if bad news 
was all we were going to find. But the reality was the city of Ramadi, 
which was absolutely off limits to me in July 2006, that's the first 
place we went. After we landed in Baghdad, we got on the Black Hawk 
helicopter and immediately went to the city of Ramadi, had a briefing 
by the Second Marine Expeditionary Force, had a briefing by Colonel 
Jacobsen there on the ground. After the briefing, instead of just 
shaking hands and parting ways, we went downtown. We went to the 
market. We walked through the market. We talked to children in the 
market. We saw things for sale in the market. We talked to a man who 
was concerned that one of our JDAMs fell on his building. And I will 
tell you, it doesn't do much to drive up a deal if that happens to your 
building.

But nevertheless, we had a very one-on-one, close-up discussion with 
Iraqis on the street in Ramadi. And a year ago, no one in their right 
mind would have taken a Member of Congress to Ramadi; it was far too 
dangerous.

Now, you can imagine how gratified I was. We got back. We got a call 
from the White House, and we were invited down to present our findings. 
I even tried to downplay it a little bit; well, there's some good news, 
but we've got to be careful because we've had nothing but bad news out 
of Iraq. And then a week later, two guys from the Brookings 
Institution, a place that I don't normally agree with, two guys from 
the Brookings Institution come up with an op-ed that says, this is a 
war we just might win.

Throughout all of that, for the last week we have seen the steady 
drumbeat of efforts to undermine the credibility of General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker prior to their hearing today.

Today, we did have the House hearing, tomorrow there is going to be 
the Senate hearing. Arguably, there was not a whole lot new that was 
discussed because everything had been leaked in the New York Times in 
the weeks leading up to the hearing. And General Petraeus did say that 
he expected there was a possibility he would bring one of the Marine 
units home before the end of September, and that there was reason to be 
optimistic if things continued on this course, there was reason to be 
optimistic that other troops could be brought home early, beginning in 
December, much prior to fulfilling the 15-month rotation that was 
originally posed to them.



That would be good news. I hope he is correct in that. I hope he is 
successful.

The data collection that went on leading up to this briefing, always 
for the last year you can pick data points out of the air wherever you 
want to make them. But the discipline to evaluate the trend lines is 
what is so critical. Today we saw those trend lines established and the 
data meticulously collected before those trend lines were established. 
Not all of them showed good news. But a preponderance of them show a 
positive effect that has happened in Iraq since our reinforcements 
arrived.

None of us can predict what is going to happen beyond the end of this 
year. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, as we sit here tonight on the eve 
of the anniversary of 9/11, I am terribly concerned about what might 
even happen tomorrow. None of us knows what tomorrow holds. Didn't we 
learn that lesson Monday, September 10 in 2001 when it seemed like 
there just wasn't much happening in the world? We have another tape 
from Osama bin Laden. We are told there is another one out there. What 
does all this mean? None of us knows for sure. But I reiterate that we 
are living in a very dangerous time. Now is the time for us not to show 
weakness and retreat from Iraq. Now is the time for us to redouble our 
resolve, make certain that we are successful, and for every one of us 
to give thanks that we have leaders like General Petraeus and Ryan 
Crocker to lead us in this perilous time.