---
---

# CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF THE COUNTRY'S BUDGET
## `491fd0be46aa5e69c6ff4972bc3855ab`
`Mr. KAGEN — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. KAGEN. I couldn't agree with you more, and I appreciate your 
yielding.

Think about it. I'll ask it rhetorically: Can you name one thing that 
President Bush has done to help us become an energy independent Nation? 
Just one thing. I can't think of a thing that he has done. There is so 
much that we could be doing to become energy independent.

But let's look at taxes just for a minute. I can lower your taxes by 
investing in people, by having healthier children who will have 
healthier lives. They will get a better education if we educate them 
and invest in education. I can lower your taxes. I can lower the taxes 
of every city, every county and every State in this country if we would 
invest in a health care system that makes sense, that's affordable, and 
guarantees access to affordable care for everyone, especially our 
children on whose future we all depend. We can lower our taxes by 
having healthy senior citizens who walk straight, who don't need canes, 
who actually have access to the essential services that they require.

We have to invest in people, their education, their health care, and 
especially our veterans. And it's going to cost more and more and more 
the longer we remain in a religious civil war in Iraq. We're spending 
$12 billion of our tax money that we have to pay back sometime. Now 80 
cents on the dollar that we're borrowing from foreign countries, 80 
cents on the dollar we're taking from foreign countries right now. So 
who owns America? Who are we? And in which direction are we going to 
turn? We have become a debtor country.

Let's take a look at some of the numbers that are a bit frightening. 
I'm going to scare you for a reason. This is the way it is: 2.8 million 
homes are going to go through foreclosure in a short time through the 
subprime mortgage crisis. But the number at the end of the day, when 
this recession is done in 2011 or 2012, may be 20 million homes. Now if 
you have three people per home, that's 60 million American citizens. 
Sixty million people might have to lose their home. If I came up to you 
and said, hey, you know, 20 percent of the population in Cuba is 
homeless, you would say, well, yeah, it's a Third World country. We're 
already getting there.

Now 10 years ago, in conversations with my physician colleagues, we 
would have an agreement that we were doing fine in America so long as 
the value of the dollar was upheld and so long as Arabians took our 
dollar in payment for their oil. Well, last year, the Japanese started 
buying their oil and paying in the yen. Germany is now paying in the 
euro because they get more for their money. So our dollar has been 
devalued because of these failed and losing economic policies that 
we're now underneath because of President Bush.

We must turn a page. We must come back to the basics of being 
fiscally responsible and paying as we go as we've done in this House in 
the 110th Congress.

Now if we don't invest in our children's education, where are we 
going to get? We're getting nowhere. If we don't invest in our 
children's health care early on, we'll never be able to afford their 
expensive care later on. Remember the old tire commercial, ''You can 
pay me now or you can pay me later''? That's true in the health care 
field as well.

I feel very strongly that we have to take on all of these issues. We 
have to have a fiscally responsible budget. And the very first thing we 
have to address is our skyrocketing, impossible costs for health care, 
which are a drag on every small business I get to meet with. I don't 
care if you're in farming or if you're a shoe salesman or if you're a 
small manufacturer, the number one cost you have of running your 
overhead is your health expense for your employees, if you're fortunate 
enough to have the money to pay for it.

Today, the average cost for a family of four is $14,000 for health 
insurance, on average. If you're making $50,000 annually, how can you 
afford to give $14,000 to the insurance industry? You can't afford it. 
That's why we have 47 million United States citizens with no health 
care coverage at all. I think we have to become fiscally responsible. 
This Congress will do it.

I yield back.