---
---

# CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `492d22b7f53537081c0a6902eddd8ac4`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 3081 and the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011. 
This bill is necessary to keep federal agencies running and I support a 
number of provisions contained in it. These programs provide vital 
assistance to American families across the country as we continue to 
experience the worst economic downturn in recent history.

However, I cannot support any bill that provides funding for the wars 
in Afghanistan and Iraq. Vice President Joe Biden was recently quoted 
in The Washington Post as telling President Obama that we were ''locked 
into Vietnam'' with the war in Afghanistan. The expose on the war by 
veteran journalist Bob Woodward showed a military that was unwilling to 
provide our Commander in Chief with a way out. We are stuck in a 
seemingly endless war in Afghanistan.

The Obama Administration also wants us to believe that combat 
operations in Iraq have ended. The reality is that the remaining 50,000 
U.S. troops in the country continue to conduct joint combat operations 
with Iraqi military forces. This number does not reflect the 11,000 
private security contractors currently operating in Iraq. Innocent 
Iraqi civilians and U.S. troops continue to be killed.

I also oppose funding in this bill that provides counterinsurgency 
assistance to Pakistan. These funds go toward their military, police 
and Frontier Corps forces--and toward U.S. military personnel operating 
in the country. I have long expressed concern over the growing presence 
of U.S. military personnel in Pakistan and the implications it has for 
our own national security.

We cannot afford to continue the status quo in Pakistan, Afghanistan 
and Iraq. Our counterinsurgency strategy places our troops and our 
national security in great peril. The truth is that we cannot afford 
these wars. We cannot afford an open-ended commitment to wars that have 
done nothing to further our security or moral standing in the world. 
The American people cannot afford to have Congress allocate vital 
resources under the facade of nation-building overseas, especially 
while people here at home have such urgent unmet economic needs.