---
---

# MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `4939ea218776f74a4f0d33f3f591573e`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. I thank the gentleman. You hit upon one of the keys or 
at least one of the major concerns or arguments that I have over the 
idea of our colleagues that we can withdraw from Iraq and it will end 
the war.

You touched upon the fact that radical Islam teaches that they must 
kill all infidels. I make the point that, look, I understand the desire 
of people who want us out of Iraq to end the war and end the killing 
and to not have American troops on the battleground dying each day. I 
want that as well.

The question one has to ask is, is that a viable strategy? A lot of 
people think back to the Vietnam War and say, well, look, we ultimately 
made a decision that we couldn't win the Vietnam War. Indeed, as your 
discussion earlier in this hour pointed out, there were Members of this 
Congress who decided we want out of Vietnam; we are going to cut the 
funding back; that will bring us home.

Some could argue that with the help of this Congress, we did cut off 
funding for the Vietnam War, and the Vietnam War did end. I would 
suggest for thoughtful Americans looking at this today, we are in a 
very different world. To my knowledge, and I have asked this of a 
number of people, I know of no incident ever where any North Vietnamese 
leader had announced that, if we finished in Vietnam and left Vietnam, 
that would be insufficient. I know of no Vietnamese, North Vietnamese, 
leader, Communist Vietnam leader, even leader of Communist China at the 
time, who said, as soon as we defeat the Americans in Vietnam, then we 
will take the fight to them in the United States.

That is a very, very, very, very different circumstance than we have 
here. Read Osama bin Laden. Read Ayman al Zawahiri. Read any of the 
leaders of the radical militant Islamic movement in the world of the 
leaders of al Qaeda, now thought to be reforming in the mountain areas 
of Pakistan and reasserting itself in a more cohesive fashion; they 
have made it clear. They don't want us just out of Iraq. Their goal 
isn't, if the Americans will leave Iraq, the war will end. They have 
never said that. What they have said over and over and over again is, 
we intend to kill the great Satan.

You talked about Ahmadinejad. He has given speeches in which he 
envisioned a world in which there is no Israel and a world in which 
there is no United States. How does one unilaterally declare peace? I 
think that is a fair question; could we have said at some point during 
World War II, you know what, we are losing soldiers in France, we are 
losing soldiers in the Netherlands fighting this battle, let's just 
quit, and the war will end? Or had Hitler said, I am going on, I am 
going forward, my plan is an Aryan domination of the world?

This is a different circumstance. The leaders of this radical, 
militant, jihadist movement have said, we must confront the infidel. As 
you just explained, they define it: Anybody who doesn't believe and 
practice Islam the way they believe it and practice it must be killed.

I think by announcing, as this proposed supplemental bill does, and 
the language of it clearly states, we will leave Iraq by August 2008 no 
matter what. We have to think about the message that sends. That is a 
very clear message. That message is, if you are Osama bin Laden hiding 
somewhere in Pakistan or on the border lands between Pakistan and 
Afghanistan, and you hear that message, and you know he is paying 
attention, and he has heard that message, what do you think? If you are 
Ayman al Zawahiri and you are his chief lieutenant and you hear that 
message, it is very clear: Hang tight, lay low, go to the cities 
outside of Baghdad, keep your profile low, kill a few people on the 
side as you are going, but don't worry about it, because, in a handful 
of months, maybe as early as next January, but, according to this 
measure that the Democrats announced earlier this week, no later than 
August 2008, the Americans will withdraw from Iraq, gone, finished, out 
of here.


You have just announced to Osama bin Laden: Hang on, hold tight. In 
August, the Americans will abandon Iraq. In August, the war will end, 
and you will have control of Iraq, assuming the Iraqis can't defend 
themselves at that point, and you can take this war forward wherever 
you want to take it forward.

I don't understand the mindset of that. I understand the mindset of 
somebody who says, end the war tomorrow, let's bring them home. That is 
safe. If that's the choice of the American public, if that's the choice 
of the majority in this United States Congress, that is something, get 
them home and get them home tonight because they are safe.

But announcing that they will leave as of almost a year and a half 
from now, and between then they fight for what, is something I just 
can't understand. I do believe that Osama bin Laden and Al Zawahiri 
will understand that message.