---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `493da61e0682bb004453ec43fb830c0b`
`Ms. LEE — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

First let me thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for 
their work on this bill and also for their devotion to the men and 
women of our Armed Forces.

Thank you very much on behalf of my dad, retired Lieutenant Colonel, 
recently deceased, Garvin Tutt. Thank you, Mr. Skelton; thank you, Mr. 
Hunter.

Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple and straightforward. It provides 
that no provision contained in any Status of Forces Agreement, or SOFA, 
negotiated between the President and the Government of Iraq which 
commits the United States to the defense and security of Iraq from 
internal and external threats is valid unless this agreement has been 
authorized and approved by Congress.

This may sound complicated but it really is not. The issue is really 
simple. Should President Bush, this President, or any President be 
allowed to obligate our troops to a long-term commitment to spend 
resources and provide troops to defend Iraq against its enemies 
internal or external without congressional review? The longstanding 
answer and constitutional answer to this question is ''no.'' So, Mr. 
Chairman, this amendment should not be controversial.

And why is it needed? Because in November, 2007, President Bush and 
Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki signed the Declaration of Principles for 
Friendship and Cooperation, which included an unprecedented commitment 
to defend Iraq against internal and external threats. Frankly, this is 
not only unprecedented, but it is really insulting when one considers 
that the agreement does require the review and approval of the Iraqi 
Parliament but not our own Congress. That doesn't make any sense. If 
prior review and approval is good enough for the Iraqi Parliament, it 
is good enough for the United States Congress. In fact, it is essential 
for the United States Congress to give their approval.

I want to take a moment to address the position of the administration 
and some of my Republican colleagues who would argue that the agreement 
is nothing more than a garden variety. Status of Forces Agreements, for 
the most part, don't require congressional involvement or approval. But 
the reality is that this Declaration of Principles goes far beyond what 
is typically covered in the Status of Forces Agreement, or SOFA. The 
reality is that routine SOFAs do not include any guarantee to defend a 
host country against external or internal threats. That just has not 
been part of prior SOFA agreements.

I cannot underscore just how serious this commitment is. An agreement 
of this kind to commit American troops to the defense of security of 
another country is not routine or typical or minor. It is a major 
commitment that must have the support of the American people, and that 
popular support will only be reflected through the Congress of the 
United States, the people's House.

Mr. Chairman, if a decision is made about keeping troops in Iraq 
indefinitely, then it is the Congress that


should have a say. My amendment does that.

I want to be clear, though, that this amendment is not about 
redeploying our troops from Iraq, a position that I strongly support, 
nor is it about timelines or reconstruction or oil or the various other 
debates raging around our occupation of Iraq. We can't undo the 
suffering, the death, the horrible injuries, the deep psychological 
scars, or the millions of lives that are forever altered, and we can't 
erase the misrepresentations made, the mistakes made, or the damage 
done. But we can, however, prevent future mistakes. And it would be a 
disastrous mistake to let the current declaration move forward without 
congressional debate and approval.

So this amendment is about the future. Do we want the next President 
and Congress to inherit a situation where our troops are committed to 
fight Iraqi civil wars and any entity the Iraqis deem a threat? Do we 
really want that? Do we want to do that without even having debated it 
or allowing congressional review? Do we really want that?

This is about standing up for Congress and the Constitution. Again, 
this amendment is responsible, practical, and necessary. For these 
reasons, I urge all Members to support my amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.