# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4952e1a3e58617cd876852547a0fd153`
`Mr. HUNTER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, let me just respond to my good friend from 
Rhode Island, he is a great friend of mine and a former colleague on 
the Armed Services Committee, the estimate that has been given, that 
has been bandied around, that we would need some 20,000 support troops 
to support the 21,500 troops that are involved in the President's plan, 
some of whom are already in theater, has been rebutted by DOD, which 
said it is not 1 for 1 support to line troops, it is about 1 in 10, 
which in the estimate that they gave us was about 2,000 to 2,300, not 
20,000 support troops.

Using that number, even with the 21,500 troops that are involved in 
the Baghdad plan, adding them to the 138 that we have right now, still 
brings us to a number that is lower than the 160,000 that we had 
December a year ago. I know that number has not been absolutely 
resolved, but I would just tell my friend that I believe it is going to 
be much lower than the number that has been put out there.

To my good friend from California, who talked about the Kosovo vote 
and the resolution to disapprove it, my recollection is that vote was 
undertaken before troops were moved. In this case, the 82nd Airborne is 
not already over the line in Iraq, but they actually have a brigade 
deployed in this operation, and the Baghdad operation that is being 
undertaken right now has a combination of Iraqi troops and American 
troops in each of nine sectors.

Madam Speaker, I yield as much time as he would like to take to Mr. 
Conaway from Texas, who is a gentleman that represents a great base at 
Fort Hood.

