---
---

# WATER CRISIS IN IRAQ
## `495edab6c34138d78b38cdb5c3838e65`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 9 October 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, after the administration promised to bring 
liberation to the people of Iraq, they have, instead, brought 
insecurity and despair.

Every day a new report emerges about the horrible living conditions 
in Iraq. One of the latest stories comes from Missan, a predominantly 
Shia province south of Baghdad.

Human rights groups and media reports show that there is a shortage 
of safe drinking water, and that very shortage may pose a serious 
health risk. Eight agencies have found that there is a shortage of 
chemicals for water purification and that many people have been forced 
to take water directly from the polluted Tigris River.

The provincial capital, Amarah, hasn't been able to treat its water 
supply since early September because they lack the treatment chemicals.

This problem, Mr. Speaker, is further complicated by the large number 
of internally displaced people arriving each and every day. And 
according to media reports, thousands of refugees have arrived from the 
central and northern provinces since February 2006, which puts 
unmitigated pressure on the already strained water system.

And according to a U.N. Refugee Agency report, the available water 
supply only met 60 percent of the needs 1 year ago. It also stated, 
''Rural areas rely on drinking water directly from the marshes, water 
that is highly saline, untreated and often contaminated.''

Recent studies found that only 5 percent of the houses in the 
province have running water. 60 percent use water pumps, and the rest 
rely on river water. Is there any wonder why the number of cholera 
cases are on the rise?

But the news reports only say so much. Listen to the local sanitation 
officials: ''Mains water has not been purified since early September as 
the chemicals aren't available, and the only truck carrying the 
material was stolen.

''Families fear cholera will spread to their cities and towns. In 
Amarah, cases of diarrhea have increased by 30 percent compared to 2 
months ago.

There hasn't been a proper sanitation system in Missan since before 
the invasion of 2003. Many districts have poor sanitation facilities, 
and one can smell the stench of open sewers kilometers away. In some 
areas of the province, supposedly drinkable water is being mixed with 
sewage effluent and families have no option but to drink unsafe water.

Mr. Speaker, we are spending $2 billion a week in Iraq, and we cannot 
provide for the most basic needs like safe drinking water. This makes 
one wonder if the funds are being misdirected, and it makes us wonder 
if our administration just can't show any leadership on humanitarian 
projects. It is simply disgraceful.

We should help the Iraqi people by giving them back their country, 
and then we should work with our international partners to help the 
Iraqis rebuild their physical and economic infrastructure. And we 
should ensure that the Iraqi people have all they need to survive: 
clean water, food, electricity, schools, jobs, and a secure future.

These life and death problems are not going to be solved at the point 
of a gun. Putting our brave men and women in uniform on the front lines 
of a civil war isn't helping.

I urge my colleagues to join together to support proposals that bring 
our troops and military contractors home and rededicate ourselves to 
the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Iraq.

It is past time for responsible foreign policy. It is time to bring 
our troops home now.
