---
---

# DEVELOPMENT, RELIEF, AND EDUCATION FOR ALIEN MINORS ACT OF 2010
## `4975bea24a52a187f5f6b1ca422436d8`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 8 December 2010`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. I rise in enthusiastic support of this legislation.

Every year my office receives dozens of calls in May from youngsters 
17-18 years old. They have recently graduated from local high schools, 
been accepted to college--many at UNLV applied for a millennium 
scholarship, available in Nevada to the best and brightest of our 
Nevada high school graduates. According to state law they have to 
demonstrate proof of citizenship. They go home, ask their parents for 
their birth certificate--then they learn the truth--when they were 6 
months, 1 year, 2 years old--their parents came over the border and 
brought their child with them.

Now, 18 years later, these children are Americans. They think like 
Americans, live like Americans, speak like Americans; were educated in 
our schools side by side with our children, they know no other country, 
they did nothing wrong, they have broken no law intentionally.

We American taxpayers have invested a great deal in these youngsters. 
Our tax dollars have helped educate them. They are smart, talented, 
hardworking Americans, ambitious, just the kind of people we want and 
we need for the future of our own beloved country.

Others are willing to don the uniform of our Nation and fight for us 
in Iraq and Afghanistan--brave, strong men and women--the very kind of 
people we want and we need for the future of this country.

Let us pass this bill and provide a path to citizenship for the best 
and the brightest of our youngsters, those willing to volunteer to 
fight and possibly die for the United States of America. Let us share 
the American dream with these youngsters who have no other Dream but 
ours.
















 General Leave
