---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `497d313a42f34df7bb0145e1be2e789f`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to come before 
you today in support of H. Res. 1500, a rule providing for H.R. 4899, 
the ''Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010.''--a bill that will help 
create jobs for Americans and provide assistance in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and Haiti.

I want to thank Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Lewis for their 
leadership on this timely legislation. Clearly, this is an important 
bill and must be only amended with items that are essential to provide 
the necessary assistance this country so greatly needs.

H.R. 4899 will provide funding for the needs of the American people, 
from national security, housing, employment, health, to education. I 
fully support these efforts and want to stress that we must continue to 
provide policies and funding that ensure that the United States remains 
a global leader in science and technology, including space exploration, 
which not only results in knowledge-building, but also in hundreds of 
thousands of jobs throughout the nation.

Mr. Speaker, this supplemental appropriation is quite different from 
any other supplemental appropriation that members of this body will 
ever consider. This supplemental appropriations bill provides over 
$37.47 billion to support our troops, over $24 billion to keep 
teachers, firefighters and law enforcement personnel on the job while 
states continue to recover from the recession; over $13 billion for 
Vietnam veterans and survivors exposed to Agent Orange; $5.7 billion 
for PELL; $2.8 billion for Haiti; $677 million border security; $275 
million for the Gulf Coast oil spill including unemployment benefits 
program and unemployment assistance related to the oil spill and an oil 
spill relief employment program that are underway for the self-employed 
businessman and women who were greatly impacted by the Gulf Coast oil 
spill.

No price is too great to pay, Mr. Speaker, when it comes to doing 
what is necessary to aid our country. This bill must only be amended 
with key items that are critical to adequately address this nation's 
needs. I am therefore, offering several amendments to H.R. 4899.

