---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `4980d9412f322766cfde52357e0327f1`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. I'd like to thank the gentleman from New York. And 
what you're describing, Mr. Israel, is exactly the right thing that 
Members of Congress can do, certainly in a bipartisan fashion, to help 
facilitate the conflict in Iraq.

The military is doing a stunningly competent job at what they do. But 
this is war that is multidimensional. It's myriad complexities does not 
lend itself to, for example, that million-man Russian Army, that 
million-man Allied Army heading toward Berlin. This is a


multidimensional complex insurgency, a difficult cultural conflict, a 
geopolitical conflict, an economic conflict. And it takes a united 
institution like the House and the Senate, to deal with the many 
different levels, for example, besides the Status of Force Agreement 
that we've been talking about here tonight that will give the Iraqi 
community, the Iraqi country, some dignity, about dealing with the 
issues of the day on a level playing field. The issue of an Iraqi 
interpreter trying to get to the United States can be effectively dealt 
with by the legislation that Mr. Israel described. The Sunnis, the 
Shiites and the Kurds in Iraq have very different views, perspectives 
on how to govern their country. Each of them comes to this conflict, 
this political reconciliation debate from very different perspectives.

This past August, August 26, there was a Unity Accord Agreement 
signed between these three factions in Iraq. But that Unity Accord 
Agreement has not been carried through yet. What is the status of that?

Now, it's very difficult for that political process to be understood 
and then pursued by our military. It is something that Members of 
Congress can do.

What about the oil law, the hydrocarbon law, how to share the oil in 
Iraq? That is a political question. It's a question that we, in this 
House, can deal with much more effectively than the military can 
because it's a political process. We cannot deal with that in a 
political way if we're divided in a partisan way.

But the integration of our understanding that we represent America, 
as Members of Congress, not as political parties which, by the way, are 
not mentioned in the Constitution, that can effectively deal with this 
issue.

The British are leaving Basra. They are basically going to turn Basra 
over in a short period of time to the Iraqi Army. This is a 
predominantly Shiite region of Iraq. What is the relationship of the 
various Shiite groups in and around Basra with Iran?

Now, General Petraeus is responsible for the military activities 
inside Iraq. Who is responsible for the intergovernmental relations of 
various countries around the world, especially in the Middle East, and 
especially between Iran and southern Iraq where the Shiites are 
dominant?

It's a political process. We, as Members of Congress, must understand 
how we can individually continue to probe to have a dialogue with Iran.

The issue of the surge bringing greater security, has it brought 
greater security? What does greater security mean when you have 
security forces on the ground if you're going to go beyond that? It's a 
political process, a greater political process than I think we have 
understood.

General Petraeus cannot call for Dayton negotiations where you bring 
the warring factions, like we did in the former Yugoslavia, to the 
United States to Dayton, Ohio. The political process of reconciling 
those vast differences is a political process of this institution.

This institution doesn't represent 535 Secretaries of Defense or 
Secretaries of State. We represent the philosophy of integrity where 
dialogue is way more important, under these circumstances, than 
continued violence.

What about the refugees in Jordan and Syria, 2 million refugees, not 
to count the displaced persons in Iraq? Do we just ignore that? Do we 
say, well, that's the administration's problem, that's a military 
problem? No. We get together with dialogue with Assad and Syria, with 
the King of Jordan. We talk to people in the Middle East that have 
resources that can effectively deal with those people who may be 
starving to death.

Another thing, just to add to the complexity of it, one of the 
military strategies in the war in Vietnam by this country, a military 
strategy to achieve victory in Southeast Asia, was attrition. Is 
attrition a part of the military strategy in Iraq with the vast array 
of complex insurgencies? Some al Qaeda, some Sunni, some Shia, some 
from various other sects coming from Saudi Arabia or Iran or Jordan or 
Hezbollah? Attrition cannot be a strategy now. Attrition doesn't work. 
It didn't work in Vietnam.

How do we reconcile American military strategy? We do it in a debate 
on this House floor. The difficulties of an insurgency, the 
difficulties of culture, primitive, ancient cultures sometimes that 
we're dealing with, the economics, the resources, the religious 
differences, this is a political solution that General Petraeus has 
said many, many times. And where does that political reconciliation, 
the resolution of those vast myriad of problems begin? It begins here 
on the House floor. It begins with Members of Congress that we see here 
tonight, Mr. Israel, Mr. Lampson, Mr. Dent, myself and many other 
Members, there's quite a few. I think Mr. Israel and I talked about the 
potential for 70 Members in a bipartisan working group that can bring, 
through dialogue, through ingenuity, through information, through 
intellect. Somebody once said that history is a vast early warning 
system. We should not complain about having hindsight. We have 
hindsight. If we have a dialogue, we understand history and we're going 
to make this work. This group here tonight can certainly lead the way.

I yield back to Mr. Israel. Thank you very much.