---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `4988f31fd2ec7ab73136307045f4b497`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Rangel and 
Ranking Member McCrery for proving that the Ways and Means Committee 
can work in a bipartisan way to extend needed relief to our Nation's 
small businesses.

I am particularly pleased that this bill--the first to be acted upon 
by the committee since I became a member--includes a provision that 
closely mirrors the Veterans Employment and Respect Act. which was the 
first legislative proposal I introduced upon being elected to Congress 
in 2005.

Section 2 of the bill before us today extends the Work Opportunity 
Tax Credit to include veterans who have developed a service-related 
disability and who have been discharged or released since September 11, 
2001.

Our military service men and women deserve our utmost respect during 
their active service, and our support and assistance during the 
sometimes difficult transition back into civilian life. One key 
component of a successful transition is the opportunity to gain 
meaningful employment in the private sector. Incentives designed to 
encourage employers to hire some of the newest veterans--many of whom 
are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan--will better enable these men 
and women to make a smooth return to civilian life.

I offer my appreciation to the Chairman and Ranking Member for 
including this important provision and for making additional changes to 
the Work Opportunity Tax Credit that will ensure more businesses are 
able to take advantage of it and, as a result, positively impact the 
lives of our disabled veterans and citizens seeking gainful employment 
after a period of unemployment, welfare assistance, or disability.