---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `498b4b2c11aa5e8c4591c71e62228f41`
`Mr. GREGG — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, before congratulating the Senator from 
South Carolina for bringing forward this extremely important amendment, 
let me begin by congratulating the Senator from West Virginia and the 
Senator from Mississippi, the senior members of the Appropriations 
Committee, chairman and ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, 
who also are chairman and ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Homeland Security, for bringing forward a bill which makes major 
strides toward addressing our needs as a nation to protect ourselves 
and to make sure our borders are secure.

This has been a very integral issue for both of these leaders for 
many years. Senator Cochran, who chaired this committee before the 
Democratic majority took over, and Senator Byrd, who was the ranking 
member on this committee for years and has been intimately involved in 
the effort to try to make sure we adequately address things like port 
security--their leadership is extraordinary, and this bill is a 
reflection of that. I do not want this amendment to in any way imply 
they have not made an extraordinary and a very effective effort to move 
forward with border security because within the context of the dollars 
they had available to them, they have done excellent work.

What this amendment does, however--and I congratulate the Senator 
from South Carolina for bringing it forward--is acknowledge the fact 
that we have an emergency here. It is as big and important an emergency 
relative to national security as the war in Iraq is. I look at them 
pretty much as the same type of national emergency. The issue of 
controlling our borders is an issue of national security, of making 
sure that we as a country are safe and we maintain our viability as a 
nation. A country that doesn't control its borders is not safe and will 
lose its viability as a nation. So nothing is more important to us from 
the standpoint of protecting national security and making sure we get 
operational control over the borders, which the Senator pointed out 
effectively, as this amendment moves forward.

Some have said: Why would the former Budget Committee chairman, and 
now ranking member, be willing to offer an emergency resolution which 
brings this bill up by $3 billion? That is the reason. I have voted to 
make sure our troops are fully funded in Iraq. I am voting for this 
amendment because it will make sure we have the people we need on the 
border to assure that our national security is maintained. In 
maintaining security over the border, this amendment, once and for all, 
will put into place the necessary funding--this isn't an authorizing 
event, remember--to be sure we have the boots on the ground, the 
technology in place, and the detention capability in place in order to 
manage the border.

It takes the present situation where we are ramping up the 20,000 
border agents and increases that number to 30,000 by 2012, and prefunds 
it, for all intents and purposes. In addition, it gives us 45,000 
detention beds, which is what we need to stop the catch-and-release 
process. So when the border agents apprehend someone whom they deem to 
be in this country inappropriately, they have a place they can put that 
person, where they can find them until they make a final 
determination--when the court system makes a final determination of 
whether that person is illegally in this country and should be 
returned.

The way the law works now, unfortunately, we don't have enough beds. 
What happens is the person gets detained and the court system says 
return in a couple weeks and we will dispose of whether you are here 
legally. For the most part, they don't show up for court. This 
amendment will end that practice of catch and release, and I 
congratulate the Department for having worked hard to try to do this 
with the resources they presently have.

In addition, this amendment will fully fund the commitment that we as 
a Congress made at least 2 years ago now to put into place the 
necessary hard fence and the virtual fence so that we know who is 
crossing the border, or when someone is crossing illegally, and we can 
stop, as well as possible, those who attempt to enter illegally. We 
know we need hard fencing in urban areas and we need virtual fencing 
along the less populated areas. We put out a plan and hired a 
contractor to put up the virtual fencing. This amendment guarantees 
that that virtual fencing, which involves a lot of electronics and air 
observation through Predators and the equipment necessary, such as 
helicopters and vehicles, will enable the people on the ground to 
apprehend these individuals who come in illegally where the crossing 
occurs, and it involves the necessary resources and capital investment 
to accomplish all of that, which is absolutely critical.

It has the capital resources in it necessary to get the job done of 
protecting our borders, and the American people, if this amendment 
passes, will be able to look at the dollars that have been put into the 
pipeline, which will accomplish what is the first thing the American 
people want relative to immigration reform, which is secure borders.



I supported the last comprehensive immigration bill. I was one of the 
few members on our side who voted for that bill. I believe we need to 
do something in a comprehensive way. But I also recognize the reality 
of the situation, which is that the American people will not move 
forward or will not accept movement in the area of comprehensive 
immigration reform until they are confident we have regained control 
over our borders. This amendment accomplishes that.

In addition, there are a number of authorizing events in here. I 
recognize that authorizing appropriations is anathema to many of us. As 
was pointed out eloquently by the Senator from South Carolina, we don't 
have effective immigration reform. So the vehicle for accomplishing 
very targeted law enforcement reform--and this is law enforcement 
reform--in the area of protecting our borders is going to have to fall 
to the Appropriations Committee. It has not been unusual for the 
Appropriations Committee to assume the role of taking on an authorizing 
event when it is narrow and aimed at an issue of doing something that 
delivers a better service, and in this instance it is protecting our 
borders. That is not an unusual event for the Appropriations Committee. 
It is a lift, but it is something the Committee has done in the past 
and done rather well. I have chaired a couple of committees where that 
has been done.

This is the time to do it. This is the time to put into place the 
authorizing language necessary to do the demonstration programs on US-
VISIT, which we absolutely need, to address the issue of how you deal 
with criminal aliens who have committed a felony, a rape, or are child 
abusers--that language is in here--and to address the issue of how you 
deal with sanctuary cities, and especially give State and local law 
enforcement individuals the authority to be an adjunct to the law 
enforcement effort being put forward by border control and Customs in 
the area of making sure our borders are secure.

When someone comes through the northern border, for example--we don't 
have a lot of security on the northern border in the sense that we have 
it on the southern border because it is mostly forest or terrain that 
is not open. People can cross that border fairly quickly and easily and 
always have been able to. We don't have the same problem on the 
southern border. We have waves of people coming in there. Most of the 
first individuals coming in at the northern border will usually meet 
people of a law enforcement nature, but not our Customs and Border 
Patrol agents. It is probably going to be somebody south of there, in 
Epping, NH, or in New Ipswich, who says I want to know if you are here 
legally, and they have to have some authority to be able to raise that 
issue. They have to have probable cause. They have to have the 
authority to step forward when they have probable cause. This bill 
gives that authority.

This is a good and appropriate piece of legislation for us to take up 
at this time. I recognize it puts the bill in further jeopardy because 
it is emergency funding and it adds $3 billion to the bill. But this is 
a national security issue and it needs to be done. I also recognize the 
Senator from West Virginia pointed out that this bill has received a 
letter from the administration saying they may or may not--but implying 
they would--veto it because it is over their allocation.


Like the Senator from West Virginia, that concerns me a great deal 
because I, again, must state that I don't see a whole lot of difference 
between fighting the war in Iraq and fighting the war on the border to 
protect ourselves from people coming into this country who may do us 
harm. Those are two issues which merge in this entire question of how 
we fight the war on terror. I can separate this bill from the other 
appropriations bills that may be over the administration's request--
maybe in agriculture, or in foreign operations, or in education and 
labor, or maybe in transportation, which is the actual day-to-day 
operations of the Government. But when it comes to fighting the war on 
terror and protecting national security, I believe we have to do 
everything necessary to accomplish that, and that means, in this 
instance, fully funding the necessary people to go on the border and 
the capital resources necessary to support those people on the border.










Amendment No. 2415 to Amendment No. 2412
