---
---

# PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY DONATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `498e6edcc791394ab2a67a7c942a1db2`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague from 
Connecticut and colleagues from California and Missouri and my other 
colleagues for their leadership on this legislation.

It is an important part of this legislation, like the other 
legislation we are doing on whistleblowers and protection for 
whistleblowers, as well as the no-bid contracts.

If you look at the Presidential library and the other two pieces of 
legislation, they all have a common meaning, to ensure that the public 
trust is protected from being bent for the private interest.

What we mean here is that, in making sure in the period of time in 
which


a President of the United States is raising money for their library, 
that at no time will their actions, or public actions, be influenced by 
those who are willing to support their library. In the same way that we 
are trying to make sure later this week when we vote on the no-bid 
contracts, that in no way should those contracts be renewed 
automatically for those who have gotten their business, no-bid 
contracts, and somehow had the influence to get that legislation, and 
the whistleblower legislation, all attempted to protect the public 
trust.

President Bush plans on raising about $500 million for his 
Presidential library. President Clinton's library has cost about $165 
million, and President Bush's, the 41st President, library cost 
approximately $80 million, slightly more than that, and there are no 
questions asked about where the money comes from.

We do not know who is raising these funds, who is donating them, and 
if the donors are looking for any other favors in return. This process 
is overdue for sunlight, and we are reforming that practice here today.

I am proud to have worked with Congressman Waxman, Congressman Clay, 
Congressman Platts, and Congressman Duncan in drafting this bill, which 
would require the disclosure of any contribution of $200 and above for 
a Presidential library. This information will be available online so 
that every American can see who is sending money to the Oval Office.

Mr. Speaker, change is good. Last November, the American people voted 
for change and that is exactly what we are doing this week and this 
year. We are changing the way business is done in Washington and 
restoring integrity to government.

In the first weeks, when we were here, we initiated change on banning 
gifts, banning meals by lobbyists, making sure earmarks had reform, and 
this is part of that step-by-step process. You will not change the ways 
of Washington overnight, but you must have a dedicated step-by-step 
process to bring reform to the way business is done in Washington. This 
is an important step, as will be the whistleblower protection we take 
on today and vote on, and the no-bid contracts for those who are trying 
to enact contracting reform in the areas of Iraq, Katrina and other 
places.

As you just saw last week, the taxpayers are getting back only 40 
cents on the dollar for the trailers they built for the protection of 
hurricane victims because we did not use it. We have got to reform the 
way Washington does work, and this is an important piece of legislation 
in doing that as part of our overall process.

I thank all my colleagues for their work on this legislation.