# None
## `4999076a8ef1d584f1101453a2dc945f`
`Mr. BINGAMAN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, in October 2002, this Chamber gathered 
to consider one of the most serious decisions I have been involved in 
confronting in the 25 years I have been in the Senate. That was a 
decision on whether to grant President Bush authority to invade Iraq. 
At that time, nearly 5 years ago, I opposed the invasion of Iraq, 
believing that it was necessary to give the United Nations weapons 
inspectors the time they needed to determine whether Iraq did, in fact, 
possess nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. I believe that we 
needed to gather the facts and we needed to make an informed decision 
as to whether Iraq posed such a terrible and immediate threat to our 
country that regime change was warranted. As we all know now, the 
weapons of mass destruction were nowhere to be found.

Unfortunately, the weapons of mass destruction were not the only 
thing the President, the Vice President, the Secretary of Defense, and 
other members of the administration were wrong about when it came to 
beginning this war. They were also wrong in thinking that we could 
succeed in Iraq without substantial help from our allies. They were 
wrong to reject warnings that the invasion would fracture Iraq's 
delicate sectarian balance. They were wrong to dismiss legitimate 
questions about how we would rebuild Iraq's civil society. They were 
wrong to think that Iraq's neighbors, Iran and Saudi Arabia, in 
particular, would ignore their opportunity to fill a regional power 
vacuum after the collapse of Saddam Hussein's regime. They were wrong 
to promise the American people, as Secretary Rumsfeld's assistant, Ken 
Adelman, did, that Iraq would be a ''cakewalk.''

My statement at that time, nearly 5 years ago, was the following:




 If war must be waged, other countries should be there with 


 us sharing the costs and helping to restore stability in what 


 will almost certainly be the tumultuous aftermath of military 


 action.


Mr. President, ''tumultuous'' only begins to describe the calamity we 
face in Iraq today. Almost 5 years have passed since that October day. 
Five years is longer than it took Presidents Roosevelt and Truman to 
defeat the Axis Powers in World War II.

Today, Iraq is diverting the United States from other very important 
foreign policy matters. First, of course, it is diverting us from the 
fight against terrorist networks worldwide. Second, it is diverting us 
from responding to the rise of China as a world power. Third, it is 
diverting us from reducing our dependence upon fossil fuels and 
particularly lessening our dependence on foreign sources of energy. 
Fourth, it is diverting us from keeping our country economically 
competitive during this era of globalization.

Respect for America around the world has eroded dramatically as a 
result of this war. To many around the world, the symbol of our country 
today is no longer the Statue of Liberty; instead, it is Abu Ghraib.

President Bush and Vice President Cheney often tell us that we are in 
Iraq to fight the terrorists who attacked us on September 11.

In his 2003 State of the Union speech, the President told us that 
Saddam ''aids and protects'' terrorists, including members of al-Qaida.

In 2004, the Vice President promised ''ample evidence confirming the 
link . . . between al-Qaida and the Iraqi intelligence services.''

In 2005, the President said:




 They are trying to shake our will in Iraq, just as they 


 tried to shake our will on September 11.


In March, Vice President Cheney said:




 Iraq's relevance to the war on terror simply could not be 


 more plain. . . . As we get farther away from 9/11, I believe 


 there is a temptation to forget the urgency of the task that 


 came to us that day.


Just last week, as many speakers have reiterated, President Bush 
said:




 The same folks that are bombing innocent people in Iraq 


 were the ones who attacked us in America on September 11th.


So the administration has been consistent in its formulation of this 
problem. The truth is, Saddam Hussein had nothing to do with 9/11. He 
did not support al-Qaida before September 11, and al-Qaida had no 
presence in Iraq prior to that date. Saddam Hussein was a brutal 
dictator, but his regime posed little immediate threat to the United 
States or its allies. The Baath party, as a secular Arab nationalist 
movement, had no history of cooperation with al-Qaida or other Islamist 
movements.


The truth is that al-Qaida's offshoot, al-Qaida in Mesopotamia, is in 
Iraq today because of our decision to invade. As the Washington Post 
pointed out recently, al-Qaida in Mesopotamia is an Iraqi phenomenon. 
Its membership is largely Iraqi. It derives its primary financing 
indigenously from kidnappings and other criminal activities. And those 
terrorists and would-be terrorists who have come to Iraq from other 
countries would not have been there absent this conflict.

Al-Qaida in Mesopotamia thrives over Sunni grievances over our 
occupation of that country. Our continued occupation of that country is 
its best recruiting tool.

President Bush has treated terrorism as a monolith. As David 
Kilcullen, a counterterrorism analyst, has written, the President has 
lumped together all terrorism, all rogue states, all strategic 
competitors.

Lumping every dangerous terrorist movement together profoundly 
misconstrues the nature of terrorism and, in fact, encourages eclectic 
groups to collaborate. It places our Nation in greater jeopardy, not 
less jeopardy.

So the question today is, where do we go from here?

The fundamental problem in Iraq today is not a lack of U.S. troops; 
it is an absence of national reconciliation. The U.S. role in Iraq 
should not be to police an endless civil war. Rather, it should be to 
facilitate a settlement among the parties themselves.

The President has belatedly realized that we did not marshal enough 
troops to stabilize Iraq following our invasion in 2002. But today, 
merely adding troops is not the solution. The administration's ongoing 
troop surge is unlikely to prove effective absent a broader political 
settlement.

If current trends continue, our policy will be, de facto, one of 
siding with the Shia over the Sunnis. The Shia-led government knows 
this. It has, therefore, played for time by clinging to the status quo, 
by dragging its feet on national reconciliation. The Shia-led 
government has shown little sign that it appreciates the need for 
accommodation of national minorities. It has missed the most important 
milestones that have been identified by the Iraq Study Group and by 
this Congress.

The administration's own benchmark report released several days ago 
reports unsatisfactory progress on debaathification, on passage of an 
oil law, on holding provincial elections, on disarming militias. The 
Iraqi Constitutional Review Commission has failed to make adequate 
progress.



There has been progress on other benchmarks. I welcome that progress. 
But these were second-order issues compared to the challenge of 
national reconciliation. And the bloodshed continues.

Going forward we need to focus on two objectives.

First, we need to send the Iraqi ruling elite a crisp and credible 
signal that our commitment to maintaining forces in that country is not 
unconditional. Only by making this point loud and clear do we create 
the possibility that the Shia-led government will take the painful 
steps necessary toward national reconciliation.

The U.S. has a moral responsibility to do what it can to create a 
degree of political stability in Iraq. But I repeat the key phrase in 
that sentence, ''do what we can,'' for we can do no more.

Our commitment to Iraq is not openended. We cannot impose a political 
settlement without the cooperation of the political elites in the 
country. The Iraqis themselves must want a solution.

Second, we need to draw down U.S. troop presence in a responsible 
way. Too precipitous a withdrawal will undermine the credibility of 
America's commitment to facilitating a political settlement in the 
country. We need to provide a carrot by allowing for the continued 
presence of U.S. forces in a peacekeeping capacity if the Iraqi 
Government does bring about some measure of national reconciliation.

It is because of these two principles that I supported the first 
supplemental appropriation this spring. That legislation set a firm 
date for beginning withdrawal. That was the stick.

It set a date for completing withdrawal. This arrangement left open 
the possibility of leaving some U.S. peacekeepers in Iraq if, 
ultimately, the factions forged a political settlement. That was the 
carrot.

This approach remains sound today. And today, with these objectives, 
in mind, I would urge five steps that we must take in Iraq.

First, we need to announce a firm deadline to begin a drawdown of 
U.S. troops from Iraq.

The credible threat of a withdrawal, perhaps more than withdrawal 
itself, may convince the Iraqi ruling elite of the need to accommodate 
national minorities. The mere threat of a withdrawal says that our 
commitment to Iraq is not unconditional. It proclaims that we will not 
preserve the failed status quo.

I applaud my colleagues, such as Senator Levin, Senator Reed and 
Senator Feingold, for fighting for a firm deadline. They may disagree 
on the specifics of withdrawal.

But they do agree that if they do not continue to push for a firm 
timetable, the Bush administration will cling to that failed status 
quo.

The fact that the administration is even considering alternatives is 
a direct result of our decision to push for some change in direction by 
a specific date.

Second, we must form a multinational working group to discuss the way 
forward in Iraq.

It is crucial for Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey to be involved. They 
have historical and religious links to national minorities in Iraq. 
They have the most to lose by continued instability there. We cannot 
achieve any political settlement in Iraq without their active 
participation.

Third, this group--not the Iraqi Government--should convene a Dayton-
style multinational conference to help Iraq's factions forge a 
political settlement.

Fourth, such a settlement would provide for a negotiated withdrawal 
of U.S. combat troops, as the Iraq Study Group prescribes. If 
appropriate, other U.S. troops could stay, ideally as part of a 
multinational or U.N. peacekeeping force.

Finally, we should implement the other recommendations of the Iraq 
Study Group, including using our good offices to mediate other 
conflicts in the Middle East, including the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict. President Bush should begin by appointing a special envoy to 
the region, and I applaud his announcement yesterday of a resumption in 
aid to West Bank Palestinians.

I conclude my remarks by saluting the servicemen of my home State who 
have given their lives while answering our Nation's call to duty in 
Iraq.

I have asked the Pentagon for an accounting of all New Mexican 
service personnel who have died in Iraq to this date, and that is the 
accounting I will go through at this time.

While the people of New Mexico and of our entire Nation mourn their 
loss, we will always celebrate the lives they led and the sacrifices 
they made for our country.

Marine LCpl Christopher Adlesperger, 20, of Albuquerque, NM, attended 
the University of New Mexico before joining the Marine Corps in 2003. 
He was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross for his actions in Fallujah 
on November 10, 2004.

SGT James Akin, 23, of Albuquerque, NM, is quoted by the Albuquerque 
Tribune as saying, ''Live life to serve, because you can. Dissent, 
because you can. Enjoy freedom, because you can. Remember always that 
the measure of our progress is not whether we can provide more for 
those who have plenty, but whether we can provide enough to those who 
have little.'' He is survived by his wife and his father.

SGT Matthew Apuan, 27, was a 1998 graduate of Mayfield High School in 
Las Cruces. He was on his second tour in Iraq when he died near Baghdad 
on February 18, 2007.

LCpl Aaron Austin, 21, a Lovington, NM, native, was killed in 
Fallujah, Iraq, on April 26, 2004. Austin proposed to his girlfriend 
over the phone from Iraq while on his second tour of duty.

PFC Henry Byrd III, 20, of Veguita, NM, graduated from Belen High 
School in 2004. Before enlisting, Byrd was a volunteer firefighter in 
his community.

CPL Lyle Cambridge, 23, of Shiprock, NM, and a member of the Navajo 
Nation, joined the Army in May of 2002. After his death in Baghdad on 
July 5, 2005, Lyle's sister said she couldn't remember ever seeing her 
brother mad. One of her fondest memories of her brother is that he 
bought his older sister a new Easter dress every year.

SP Roberto Causor, Jr., 21, was assigned to C Company, 2nd Battalion, 
505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division, in Fort 
Bragg, NC. He died on July 7, 2007. His parents reside in Rio Rancho, 
NM.

Marine LCpl Steven Chavez, 20, was born in Hondo, NM, and graduated 
from Hondo High School before entering the Marines. Chavez loved the 
outdoors and participated in track, basketball and football while at 
Hondo. Chavez was killed about a week before he was set to return home.

SPC Jeremy Christensen, 27, of Albuquerque, NM, was already a veteran 
of the Armed Forces on September 11, 2001. He decided his country 
needed him again and reenlisted. A coworker said the 27-year-old told 
him that he was ready to go to war and he wasn't scared.

CPL Joel Dahl, 21, of Los Lunas, NM, had searched for a family during 
his teen years in the foster care system. Dahl was excited to finally 
have a family of his own when he learned of his wife's pregnancy. 
Corporal Dahl was killed in Baghdad, Iraq, 5 days before the birth of 
his son.

1LT Jeremy Fresques, 26, was a 1997 graduate of Farmington High 
School. His wife Lindsay requested that people remember her husband as 
''a strong Christian man, a good husband, and someone we can all be 
proud of.''

Marine LCpl Jonathan Grant, 23, was raised by his grandmother in 
Pojoaque, NM. Grant left behind a fiancee, a young daughter, and a 
young son.

SGT Tommy Gray, 34, of Roswell, NM, is remembered by his mother Joyce 
as having a passion for fishing and comic books. Sergeant Gray was in 
the Army for 15 years and is survived by his wife Rene.

Army LTC Marshall Gutierrez, 41, a native of Las Vegas, NM, died in 
Kuwait of non-combat related injuries on September 4, 2006. Gutierrez, 
a 1983 graduate of West Las Vegas High School and a 1987 graduate of 
New Mexico Highlands University, was assigned to the Area Support Group 
in Arijan, Kuwait.

Marine LCpl Shane Harris, 23, was always willing to do anything for 
anyone, according to his coworkers. The Las Vegas, NM, native was 
killed in combat in al-Anbar Province, Iraq, on September 3, 2006.

Marine LCpl Chad Hildebrandt, 22, of Springer, NM was killed 
conducting combat operations against enemy forces in al-Rutbah, Iraq, 
on October 17, 2005. Classmates described Hildebrandt as a role model 
to younger students.



SPC Alexander Jordan, 31, died on September 10, 2006, of injuries 
caused by enemy small-arms fire while he was conducting a mounted 
patrol in Baghdad. Jordan, whose father lives in Rio Rancho, attended 
Cibola High School in Albuquerque and the New Mexico Military Institute 
in Roswell.

SPC Stephen Kowalczyk, 32, lived in Albuquerque, NM, while his father 
served in the Air Force. While there, he graduated from Highland High 
School and in 2004 decided to join the Army. He is survived by his 
mother, a brother and four sisters.

SGT Joel Lewis, 28, of Sandia Park, NM, was serving his first tour in 
Iraq when he was killed by an improvised explosive device during combat 
operations in Baqubah. Lewis was charismatic and loved the outdoors. He 
enjoyed hockey, skydiving and snowboarding.


SPC Christopher Merville, 26, of Albuquerque, NM, graduated from the 
University of New Mexico. He had an interest in Civil War history and 
toured civil war battlegrounds with his uncle.

SPC James Pirtle, 27, of La Mesa, NM, planned to return home in 
January of 2004 to I pick up where he left off with his wife, two 
stepsons, and a baby girl. His mother said of James, ''My son was my 
hero before he went in; now he is the world's hero.''

LCpl Christopher Ramos, 26, of Albuquerque, NM, was killed in al-
Anbar Province. His wife Diana said that Chritopher was her best 
friend, a wonderful husband, and a great father.

PFC Mario Reyes, 19, of Las Cruces, NM, assigned to the 3rd Squadron, 
3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, Fort Carson, Colorado was killed November 
7, 2005, when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
dismounted patrol in Baghdad.

Marine Sgt Moses Rocha, 33, helped make his friends stronger people 
just by being near them. The Roswell native was serving his second tour 
in Iraq when he was killed by militant fire. His is survived by his 
teenaged daughter.

SSG Joseph Rodriguez, 25, played football and Rugby as a teen in Las 
Cruces, NM. His mother remembers her son doing well in math classes at 
school, and he would always add up numbers for her in his head. He is 
survived by his wife Leslie, and their son Ethan.

PFC Ricky Salas, 22, called Roswell his home with his wife April, and 
their two young children. He was killed March 7, 2006, when the vehicle 
he was in was hit by an improvised explosive devise and overturned in 
Mosul, Iraq.

Marine LCpl Emilian Sanchez, 20, of Santa Ana Pueblo, was proud of 
his Native American heritage and carried eagle feathers with him to 
Iraq. He was killed during combat operations in al-Anbar Province, 
Iraq, on January 21, 2007.

Army SGT Leroy Segura, 23, of Clovis, NM, loved his grandmother's 
home-made tortillas and his mother's menudo. He helped his high school 
win the district cross country title in 2000.

SPC Clifford Spohn, 21, of Albuquerque, NM, graduated from Cibola 
High School in 2004 and joined the Army the following October. He 
leaves behind a wife and 4-year old daughter.

SPC Jeremy Stacey, 23, joined the Army in 2003 in Albuquerque, NM. 
Stacey died on July 5, 2007, and was posthumously promoted to the rank 
of corporal and awarded the Bronze Star and Purple Heart. His mother 
resides in Los Lunas, NM.

Army Medic SGT Lee Todacheene, 29, was a proud member of the Navajo 
Nation. His father said that, ''He respected himself and everybody. He 
was generous and kind, and he loved his family above everything else.'' 
Todacheene is survived by his wife and his 11- and 12-year-old sons.

Army SGT Eric Vizcaino, 21, of Albuquerque, NM, left behind a young 
wife and 2-year-old daughter. His father asked his son to consider 
leaving the Army after his deployment, but Sergeant Vizcaino wanted to 
remain a soldier.

Marine LCpl Jeremy West, 20, was born in Albuquerque, NM, and served 
in both Afghanistan and Iraq. He was the grandson of Tim Kline, a 
former Albuquerque city councilor and Albuquerque Police Department 
police lieutenant.

Army SGT Marshall Westbrook, 43, a Farmington, NM, native and Army 
National Guard military police officer, is survived by his wife Jolene 
and their five children. He was described as a gentle giant by a close 
friend in his military police unit.

SPC Clifton Yazzie, 23, of Fruitland, NM, was killed January 20, 
2006, during his second tour of duty when a roadside bomb exploded near 
his humvee in Al Huwijah, Iraq. Yazzie, a 2001 graduate of Kirtland 
Central High School, was a member of the 101 st Airborne Division. His 
loss is mourned by his wife, his two children, his parents, and the 
Navajo Nation.

Army CPL Jesse Zamora, 22, a native of Las Cruces, NM, was killed on 
February 3, 2006, during his second tour of duty when he was hit by a 
piece of shrapnel from a roadside bomb near his humvee in Beiji, Iraq. 
A 2002 graduate of Mayfield High School, his brother Tyrel was also 
serving in Iraq when he was killed. Zamora was awarded the Purple Heart 
and Bronze star during his second tour.

Army CPL Jose Zamora, 24, was looking forward to returning to his 
family and his wedding when he was killed in Iraq on August 6, 2006. He 
was raised in Sunland Park, NM.

Marine MAJ Douglas Zembiec, 34, of Albuquerque, NM, served in 
Afghanistan, Kosovo, and Iraq and had been awarded the Bronze Star, a 
Purple Heart, a Navy Commendation with Gold Star and a Navy Achievement 
medal. A 1991 graduate of La Cueva High School, Zembiec was killed on 
May 11, 2007, during combat operations in Baghdad, Iraq. He is survived 
by his wife and his daughter.