---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2007
## `49ae96fb098c84e0fd7bd1c34c7756a0`
`Mr. POMEROY — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. POMEROY. This is a photograph of Major Alan Johnson, his wife, 
Tori, and his daughter, Megan. This beautiful family suffered the 
tragedy of losing Major Johnson in Iraq. Last winter, we buried Major 
Johnson at Arlington Cemetery. His widow contacted me 2 weeks later to 
tell me that what had happened in the State of Washington is the 
pension plan there had simply given the money back that Alan Johnson 
had paid in as if he had terminated his employment at the time he was 
called to duty, called to deployment in his status as a Reserve 
officer.

It brought to light a gap in the law that protects our deployed 
Reservists and Guardsmen. When they come back, this law seamlessly 
reintegrates them into the pension plan of their employer, but there 
was no provision if we tragically lose our soldiers under deployment. 
Included in this bill is the HEROES Act, introduced by Doc Hastings and 
myself, that allows for survivor benefits to be paid in this situation. 
It is a very important addition. It is terribly important that 
survivors of our soldiers who paid the ultimate price have survivors 
benefits under the pension. This law will afford that.

Madam Speaker, I include for the Record a letter to this effect from 
Mrs. Tori Johnson.

























 November 5, 2007.


 Hon. Charles Rangel,


 Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means, Longworth House Office 




 Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Rangel: I am writing to thank you for 


 introducing the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax 


 (HEART) Act, H.R. 3997. Your bill makes many important 


 changes to the tax law that will be of great help to the men 


 and women who serve in the Reserve and the National Guard and 


 their families.



 My husband, Major Alan R. Johnson, who was killed in Iraq 


 earlier this year, was a public servant both in the Reserve 


 and in his full time job. In his civilian life, he worked for 


 fifteen years with the Yakima County Department of 


 Corrections. We were a team. He was a strong leader and he 


 depended on the strength of his family. We needed to be 


 strong so he did not need to worry about us when he was 


 serving his county in the Reserves.



 Dealing with the problems and technicalities our family had 


 to face after we learned that Alan was killed has not been 


 easy. My husband was 44 and we were planning on his 


 retirement for our future. Because his employer considered 


 Alan as an employee who had voluntarily terminated when he 


 left for his deployment, the survivor benefit under his 


 pension that we would be paid was less than the amount we 


 would have received if he was still an active employee. When 


 I asked why, I found out that in order to have his pension 


 protected under existing law he had to return to work.



 The HEART Act corrects the gap in the Uniform Services 


 Employment and Reemployment Right Act's pension protections 


 for survivors of National Guard and Reserve soldiers who are 


 killed in action and can not return to work. Our Guard and 


 Reservists should know that the families that they leave 


 behind will be able to rely on the survivor benefits that 


 they have earned in their civilian employment.



 Over 81,000 Reservist and National Guard members have 


 responded to our Nation's call to duty. They believe in our 


 country and are willing to make that ultimate sacrifice. When 


 they cannot return to their former jobs your bill will make 


 sure that their families will get the full survivor benefits 


 that they earned from their jobs at home.



 Again, I thank you for your leadership and that of 


 Congressman Pomeroy and Congressman Hastings in making sure 


 that the country that Reservists, like my husband, have 


 sacrificed everything for will take care of their families. I 


 hope that your bill, H.R. 3997, will become law soon.





 Sincerely,























Victoria C. Johnson.
