---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `49b762e16503daea747296e9afefd7c1`
`Mr. HOBSON — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOBSON. Madam Speaker, I want to begin by saying that last night 
when I was watching the floor debate, my colleague from Connecticut, 
Chris Shays, gave one of the best speeches on where we are with regard 
to the war in Iraq. It was a comprehensive overview of the current 
situation, and I agree with his views on this debate, and I would like 
to associate myself with his comments. I hope that my colleagues and 
those who are following this debate will take a moment to read his 
remarks.

Like Mr. Shays, I rise in opposition to this resolution. This is the 
wrong resolution to be considering if we in Congress are supposed to be 
fulfilling our responsibility to provide oversight on how this war is 
to be conducted. Rather than debating the so-called surge, which is 
actually taking place, we should be debating how to put policy in place 
that will bring stability and ensure the security of the American 
people.

Admittedly, the administration has made mistakes in the execution of 
this war. Many of us, both Democrats and Republicans, have been telling 
them that from the beginning. Among a number of things that we have 
been saying has been that they had enough troops to win the war, but 
they didn't have enough troops to win the peace. But we can't correct 
those mistakes. What we can do now is to find a strategy on how best to 
go forward.

So the question becomes, what can we do now that gives the Iraqis the 
best chance to take control of their country, while also allowing our 
troops to return home with honor? We owe it to the parents and the 
families of the men and women who have fought and died in this war to 
not let their lives be lost in vain. That is the message that I have 
heard many times when I have met with those families in my district and 
one that many of my colleagues have also heard.

Last month, I went on a bipartisan congressional delegation trip to 
Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. While we met with the U.S. troops and 
commanders, we also had a chance to meet with the leaders of those 
countries, including the prime minister, al-Maliki. He told us that if 
his country had the command and control equipment and our backing, the 
Iraqis could begin to take over their own security in 3 to 6 months and 
that we could begin to redeploy up to 50,000 of our troops.

Madam Speaker, we need to make sure that Prime Minister Maliki has 
the tools and resources to do just that. Frankly, the American people 
would be better served if that were this debate, instead of this 
nonbinding resolution.

Our focus should be on fixing what needs to be fixed so that the 
Iraqi people can take control of their country's fate, like they did 2 
years ago when they held their first free elections in 50 years.

This action will require several steps. For example, as several of my 
colleagues have already mentioned, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 
supports a short term surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad. This is being done. The group also recommended that there be 
more diplomatic outreach in the region to include countries like Egypt, 
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Syria and even Iran, and this needs to be done by 
the administration.

Further, it is imperative that our U.S. troops begin to transition 
from a combat role to one focused on training, counterterrorism, force 
protection and controlling Iraq's borders.

My colleagues, the world is watching. Our friends, our enemies are 
watching and waiting to see what our next move will be. A retreat from 
Iraq would lead to even more instability in the region and create a 
haven for terrorist groups who despise freedom and our way of life.

What kind of message are we sending when we engage in debate that is 
essentially a political exercise, rather than one that is on 
substantive strategy on how to bring stability to the region?

Madam Speaker, we cannot accept defeat, but we must insist on making 
the changes necessary so that the Iraqi people can take the fate of 
their future in their own hands. There is a phrase that has often been 
repeated since the war began, and that is as Iraqi forces stand up, 
U.S. forces can begin to stand down. Defining a workable strategy to 
achieve that goal should have been the focus of this week's debate, 
rather than this nonbinding resolution that will not bring us a step 
closer to stabilizing Iraq and bringing our troops home or achieving 
stability in this region of the world.



Again, I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution.