# None
## `49bd2531a48e24d6e7e32f42f1b22e00`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. I thank my ranking member.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this motion to instruct for the 
reasons articulated by the gentleman from California.



But let me talk about another subject that is covered in this bill 
and one that is of extreme importance. It goes to the question of how 
we handle those who are at Guantanamo at the present time.

This issue has erupted around this country because people are 
beginning to understand the ramifications of closing Guantanamo and 
bringing people here to the United States whose only connection to the 
United States is that they were caught on the battlefield with the 
intention of killing Americans. Now, why is it important whether or not 
we keep Guantanamo open or whether we bring these people to the United 
States?

We got a little bit of an insight into why it's important by the 
report by a colleague of ours, Mr. Rogers from Michigan, who, when he 
was in Afghanistan recently and visited our base there, went to the 
prison there where we are holding people who we actually captured on 
the battlefield. He observed the fact that now we have FBI agents 
Mirandizing, that is, giving Miranda rights statements to those we have 
found on the battlefield.

In other words, Madam Speaker, what we have done is we have 
transposed the universe in which these people are being detained from 
one of a combat atmosphere to one of a criminal proceeding in the 
United States.

Now, why is that important? It's important because this is happening 
for the first time in the history of the United States. We did not do 
this, obviously, during the Revolutionary War. We did not do it during 
any war we fought, not the Civil War, not World War I, not World War 
II. If we had followed this same thinking in World War II, our courts 
would have been overwhelmed. People forget we have had 2 million POWs 
that we held during World War II, over 400,000 of them in the United 
States. Never was it thought that they had all of the rights under the 
Constitution.

But this question has basically been treated by Federal courts in the 
past with this perspective: the connection you have to the United 
States is what determines your coverage under the Constitution. That's 
why someone coming over the border illegally doesn't have the right to 
all of the constitutional protections because the only connection to 
the United States is trying to get in illegally.

Here we have people sitting at Guantanamo whose only connection to 
the United States is that we have reason to believe that they wanted to 
kill Americans anywhere in the world. So now what we're saying is if we 
take them from Guantanamo and put them in the United States, they have 
a connection to the United States. They were brought here 
involuntarily. And the legal arguments that for years have presented a 
barrier from their obtaining all constitutional rights, that barrier is 
pulled down.

So while this bill has language in it, this conference report, as 
it's being worked on, has language in it with respect to Guantanamo, I 
don't think we have focused in on what this means. Yes, there's a 
concern about the threat they may pose to Americans, and that arises 
out of the fact that some say, well, they could escape from the prisons 
and then we're told, oh, we've got these prisons they can't escape 
from.

But it is more than that. It is that they may be released at the 
direction of Federal judges, and the only reason they would be released 
is that they somehow now have access to all of our constitutional 
rights.

So the American people need to understand that we may have a 
President who says, no, we don't want to release them. We have an 
Attorney General who testified, no, we're going to make sure they're 
not released based on everything we do.