# None
## `49cafc9bc46420a96b4381f1180ad914`
`Ms. DeLAURO — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. DeLAURO. This is domestic propaganda. It is a military-
industrial-media complex in which military analysts, many who have ties 
with the contractors making money off of the war and parroting DOD 
talking points on the air to mislead the American public, and the TV 
networks did nothing to prevent it.

I will just tell my colleagues that if you voted for the DOD 
appropriations bill last year, if you did, you voted to prohibit this. 
You've done it since 2002. Donald Rumsfeld met with these guys 18 
times, told them what to say, and then, my friends, DOD hired a company 
to track their remarks on the TV networks.



I am proud to offer this amendment with my colleagues. This has been 
a secret propaganda program within the Department of Defense to use 
military analysts to generate positive news coverage of the war in 
Iraq, conditions on Guantanamo, and other activities as part of the war 
on terror.

New York Times: 75 retired military analysts briefed often by high-
level officials in a ''powerfully seductive environment'' only to be 
found later again parroting the administration's talking points on 
major television news programs, over the radio and through newspapers.

Also, the Times reported internal DOD documents described the 
analysts as ''message force multipliers'' who could be counted on to 
deliver the administration's themes and messages to millions of 
Americans in the form of their own opinions.

You know, when you put analysts on the air without fully disclosing 
their business interests or their relationship with high-level 
officials, you have betrayed the public trust. This should not have 
happened. Unfortunately, our leaders at the Department of Defense 
didn't understand it. Support this amendment.