---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `49d6928fe920dd8ff8bdb17febe74be3`
`Mr. PICKERING — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. PICKERING. Madam Speaker, consistent with House Republican 
Earmark Standards, I submit the following earmark disclosure and 
certification information for seven project requests I made included 
within the text of H.R. 2638, the ''The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2009.''

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: Regional Counter Drug Training Academy.

Project Amount: $2.5 million.

Account: 01 Operating Forces Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Regional Counterdrug Training 
Academy.

Address of Requesting Entity: 219 Fuller Road, NAS Meridian, 
Mississippi 39309.

Description of Request: NGB identified an FY2009 unfunded requirement 
of $24.2M for Counterdrug Schools. Funding for NGB Counterdrug Schools 
is essential. Current Counterdrug (CD) Schools funding status impacts 
their ability to support DoD and Law Enforcement/Community Based 
Organization training and CNNTF support. Inconsistent funding has 
prevented CD schools from developing long-term training plans to 
maximize their capabilities. In FY2006, non-availability of funds 
forced one of the five Counterdrug schools to shut down. Failure to 
correct this unacceptable trend will increase the Nation's ability to 
field an adequate number of law enforcement professionals dedicated to 
combating drug trafficking at the national, state, and local levels. 
With appropriate funding, CD Schools will also be better positioned to 
provide counter narcotics-based training programs critical to domestic 
law enforcement against Narcoterrorism.

The RCTA Meridian budget has shown little growth since FY2000, yet 
the costs associated with training law enforcement officers have 
increased by approximately 20%. The requested funding would restore 
training opportunities to the FY2000 level of approximately 5000 
students per year.

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Military Construction/Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Bill.

Project: Fitness Center Addition.

Project Amount: $6.34 million.

Account: Military Construction; Navy & Marine Corps.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Naval Air Station, Meridian.

Address of Requesting Entity: 255 Rosenbaum Avenue, Meridian, 
Mississippi 39309.

Description of Request: This project would add to the existing 
fitness facilities in order to ease overcrowding. It will also upgrade 
mechanical and electrical systems, reduce maintenance costs, and 
provide space for military water survival training.

The Fitness Center is required to support 4078 active duty and 
reserve military, DoD and Contract personnel. The existing fitness 
facilities are incapable of meeting the present DoD Fitness Standards. 
Additionally, some of the facilities such as the gymnasium have 
significant roof leaks which contribute to maintenance, mold, and 
mildew problems.

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: MQ-5B Hunter Tactical Unmanned Aircraft (UAS).

Project Amount: $5 million.

Account: Op;A Other Procurement, Army; Tactical Unmanned Aerial Sys 
(Tuas)Mip.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: UAS Project Office, Redstone 
Arsenal, PM Tactical Concepts, UAS Project Office, SFAS-AV-UAS.

Address of Requesting Entity: Redstone Arsenal, AL.

Description of Request: The MQ-5B Hunter units provide Army 
Warfighters with real-time Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target 
Acquisition (RSTA) and Strike (Armed Reconnaissance) employing the 
Viper Strike munition.

The Hunter has now flown approximately 60,000 flight hours and nearly 
30,000 hours in the OIF theater. The system has proven a proactive 
platform in winning the IED fight by providing ''eyes'' over the U.S. 
Army's main supply routes in OIF. Demand for the MQ-5B Hunter's day/
night and Strike capability will remain high even as overall troop 
levels in a theater of action draw down.

Funding will (1) provide four new production or eight retrofit MQ-5B 
Air Vehicles to replace 'A' configuration Air Vehicles deployed with 
the 1st Armor Div Combat Aviation Brigade in Operation Iraqi Freedom 
(OIF) and (2) support another unit scheduled for employment in 
Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF).

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: Simultaneous Field Radiation Technology (SFRT).

Project Amount: $2.3 million.

Account: RDT & E, Defense-Wide; Advanced Concept Technology 
Demonstrations.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: U.S. Navy, Space and Naval Warfare 
Systems Command.

Address of Requesting Entity: U.S. Navy, Space and Naval Warfare 
Systems Command, North Charleston, South Carolina 29419.

Description of Request: Early research of Simultaneous Field 
Radiation Technology (SFRT) has provided initial findings that strongly 
indicate the potential for significant improvement over conventional 
antenna technology. Research conducted in 2006, and validated by 
SPAWAR, resulted in the transitioning of SFRT from a pure theoretical 
model and conceptual prototype. Preliminary tests with the National 
Guard and Coast Guard have generated a keen interest within DoD for 
assessment of SFRT in a multi-dimensional operations environment of 
networked manned and unmanned tactical and wireless systems.

The FY09 request is intended to provide the means to incorporate the 
technology baseline of SFRT with emerging technology as a new 
generation of advancements could significantly reduce antenna size and 
weight, minimize the negative effects of required antenna vertical 
polarity, and measurably enhance the performance of robots and 
unattended ground sensors.

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: Silicon Carbide Power Electronics for More Electric Aircraft 
(MEA).

Project Amount: $3.2 million.

Account: RDT & E, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Air Force Research Laboratory, 
Propulsion Directorate AFRL/PRPE.

Address of Requesting Entity: Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio 45433.

Description of Request: The Joint Strike Fighter Program has 
documented that Silicon Carbide (SiC) power electronics technology 
reduces weight and expense in technology for the MEA program. This 
technology is a key to the Air Force's high-temperature power 
electronics planning, as presented in the Air Force's planning chart. 
This project provides a strong base of funding to develop the core SiC 
high-temperature power electronics needed for the high-temperature 
engine and flight actuators on JSF and other platforms. SiC based power 
electronics have been identified as a critical technology to achieve 
high-speed Mach 2 and Mach 4 aircraft where temperatures required can 
be up to 350 degrees Celsius, twice the capability of conventional 
power technologies. This capability will enable improvements in the 
More Electric Aircraft program and provide substantial benefits for 
Long Range Strike aircraft programs, ensuring that the United States is 
able to protect itself quickly, and with improved safety for the war 
fighter.



Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: F/A-18 Expand 4/5 Upgrade for USMC.

Project Amount: $7.6 million.

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Navy; F-18 Series.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Naval Air Systems Command.

Address of Requesting Entity: Patuxent River, Maryland 20670

Description of Request: FY09 funding will provide radar upgrades for 
15 Marine Corps APG-73-equipped F/A-18s. Expand 4/5 allows for very 
high resolution radar maps to provide long range, all weather target 
recognition and precise target coordinate generation needed for 
precision weapons employment.

Requesting Member: Congressman Chip Pickering.

Bill Number: FY 09 Defense Appropriations Bill.

Project: Silicon Carbide Electronics Material Producibility 
Initiative.

Project Amount: $4.8 million.

Account: RDT & E, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Air Force Research Laboratory--
Materials and Manufacturing Directorate Survivability & Sensor 
Materials Division (AFRL/MLPS).

Address of Requesting Entity: Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio 
45433

Description of Request: FY09 funding will enable significant 
reductions in the size and weight of a vast number of military 
electronic platforms and dramatically improve capabilities and 
performance at significantly lower costs. The program will accelerate 
semiconductor technology integration and development of a domestic 
second source of production capacity for silicon carbide (SiC) based 
materials and devices. These devices are required for high performance 
and high frequency power components for critical next-generation 
Department of Defense (DoD) systems. These systems include solid state 
power substations (SSPS) for future all-electric warships with 
Integrated Power Systems (IPS); hybrid electric military vehicles 
(HMMWV); high power naval surface radars for DD(X) and CG(X); and 
airborne radars for F22, F35, tactical UAVs, AWACS, JSTARS, and TPS-75.
