---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `49dfe9c16d11937def5b2bd2e22b9bc1`
`Mr. REID — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, on the farm bill, what has happened these 
past 10 days is extraordinarily wrong and negative. Today the 
Republicans have a decision to make: Are they going to allow the farm 
bill to proceed? Everyone out there from all over this country who is 
concerned about the farm bill, I want their eyes directed toward the 
Republican votes cast on this today. If they try to hide under some 
procedural nonsense, it is outlandish.

If cloture is invoked on the farm bill, there would be 30 hours of 
offering relevant amendments. Isn't that enough? Is it necessary that 
we have a farm bill where we debate immigration again; where we debate 
foreign policy, including the Iraq war; medical malpractice? The answer 
is no.



















Iraq


I would like to travel back in time, 10 months past, January 10, 
2007, the exact date. In that second week of 2007, America was reaching 
the fourth full year of the war in Iraq, still without clear purpose, 
plan, or Presidential leadership. President Bush had faced a stinging 
rejection of his Iraq strategy by the votes in November. That is an 
understatement. He had fired his Defense Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, 
much too late, but he did fire him. Republicans in the House and Senate 
were publicly and privately breaking ranks with his strategy. The 
demand and imperative to change course and end the war were clear. For 
the first time in his Presidency, there was real reason to believe he 
would heed the call for change. But on that day in January, the 
President did just the opposite. He called for a surge of forces in 
Iraq, not a responsible transition out of combat, not a refocus on the 
war on terror, but a plan to sink us further into the intractable Iraqi 
civil war.

What were the goals of that surge? Here are the President's own 
words:




 The strategy I announced in January is . . . aimed at 


 helping the Iraqis strengthen their government so that it can 


 function even amid violence.



 It seeks to open space for Iraq's political leaders to 


 advance the difficult process of national reconciliation, 


 which is essential to lasting security and stability.


Fast-forward to today, 10 months later. It is indisputable that the 
goals of the surge have failed. As we speak, there are 187,500 American 
troops in Iraq. The Iraqi Parliament created eight benchmarks for 
progress toward national reconciliation. These benchmarks were passed 
by this Congress on a bipartisan basis and signed by the President. 
According to an independent analysis by the General Accounting Office, 
the watchdog of Congress, and this country, only one and a half of 
eight legislative benchmarks have been achieved. By any standard, even 
the math of the Republicans, that is a failing grade.

Iraq, a country with huge natural resources, I can remember the first 
time I met with Iraqi leaders right back here in then-Senator Frist's 
office. We were told by the Iraqi President that he disagreed with the 
international assumption that Iraq had the second


largest supply of oil in the world. He said: We have the largest supply 
of oil in the world.


Why are we pouring the treasures of this country into a country with 
the highest oil reserves in the world?

Without evidence of reconciliation, the Bush administration and its 
allies are trying a new playbook--pointing to recent reductions in 
violence. To be clear, any shift that makes conditions less dangerous 
for our troops and the Iraqi people is welcome news. But take, for 
example, what we read in the papers today. This past month, there were 
''only'' 1,560 violent explosions with explosive devices in Iraq--
''only'' 1,560 in the last month. That is down from 3,200. Sounds like 
a lot of violence to me.

We must not forget that 2007 has been the deadliest year for our 
troops in the entire war. We must remember that about 3,900 Americans 
have been killed. We must remember that tens of thousands have been 
gravely wounded. According to the Joint Economic Council, more than $1 
trillion already has been spent on the Iraq war. And 5 million Iraqi 
men, women, and children have fled their neighborhoods or left the 
country altogether--about half and half; half have left the country and 
about 2/1/2/ million have been displaced--out of a total population of 
about 27 million people.

