---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `49e5e5ce8e828db3a8c398417584ed16`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Madam President, I want to take the 
opportunity to applaud the leadership of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee for their efforts on the Defense authorization conference 
report. Chairman Levin and the ranking member, Senator McCain, have 
done a Herculean job of working through the hundreds of conference 
issues in this bill with the House companion bill. The work and effort 
of all parties involved is one of the shining examples of the Congress 
working together in a bipartisan, bicameral effort to support our men 
and women in uniform.

As a signatory to the conference report, I support this bill. There 
is much to like in this bill. We provide necessary benefits to keep our 
recruiting and retention on the right track. This


bill includes a 3.5-percent pay increase for uniformed service 
personnel, establishes a Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, prohibits the increase in TRICARE fees for retirees and 
reservists, increases the grade of the Chief of the Guard Bureau from 
lieutenant general to general. The bill also includes an increase in 
Active Army and Marine Corps end-strength, increases funding for Mine 
Resistance Ambush Protected vehicles, increases funding for cooperative 
threat reduction program efforts, and provides authorizations for 
critical military construction projects.

In addition, as a response to the problems from the Walter Reed 
incidents reported earlier this year, we provide a comprehensive 
Wounded Warriors Act as part of the authorization bill. The Wounded 
Warrior provisions would require the Department of Defense, DOD, and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, VA, to jointly develop a 
comprehensive policy on improvements to care, management, and 
transition of recovering servicemembers, require DOD to develop a 
comprehensive plan to treat traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress disorder and authorize respite care and other extended care 
benefits for seriously injured servicemembers.

While I support this conference report, I want to point out one 
provision in particular that I have concerns with. This particular 
issue, as I have expressed to the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, is a section of the bill that would require that 
prescriptions dispensed through the TRICARE retail pharmacy program be 
procured at or below Federal ceiling prices. As I understand it, it is 
the intent of the language and the intent of the conferees not to 
modify the current master agreements. I hope that this clarification is 
appropriate, and I wanted to briefly point this out.

Again, I thank my colleagues for their hard work on this report. We 
as a Senate can be proud of this bill. Mr. President, I believe that 
this is good legislation, and I encourage my colleagues to adopt this 
Defense authorization conference report.