# LIHEAP
## `49f70f65cffd3d56f9132679fec4e66d`
`Mr. ENZI — 25 July 2008`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the pending 
legislation, S. 3186, The Warm in Winter Cool in Summer Act. This 
legislation would provide additional funding in fiscal year 2008 for 
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, known as LIHEAP. An 
additional $2.5 billion would be provided, and under this legislation, 
these new funds carry an emergency designation that means it will be 
added to our debt.

I would like to first commend Senator Sanders, the sponsor of the 
legislation, on this well-intentioned bill. We all know that the price 
of oil has increased this year. We feel it at the gas pump every week 
when we fill up our tanks. And with winter just around the corner, 
Senator Sanders is trying to provide additional funding for a home 
energy assistance program that is one component of our country's social 
safety net.

But while the intent of this legislation is admirable, I cannot 
support this additional funding because it is not paid for. It is 
simply another IOU dropped on top of the pile that our children and 
grandchildren will be responsible for. It may be them who will have to 
go without heat or air conditioning because of the debt these types of 
proposals make them responsible for.

If Congress wants to boost funding for LIHEAP, then we ought to pay 
for it by cutting spending in a different program. This bill does not 
do that. It passes the cost to future generations, by charging the 
expense to the government credit card.

The debate we are having today also invites a discussion on budget 
process reform. We ought to have contingencies for emergency spending. 
Last month the Congress approved a supplemental spending bill that 
provided funding for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as extend 
veterans' education benefits and unemployment insurance. This spending 
is in addition to the approximately $1 trillion in annual spending 
through the regular appropriations process. My understanding is that in 
September the Appropriations Committee will mark up another 
supplemental spending bill related to infrastructure and the economy. I 
haven't seen the details of that proposal, but expect that it will be 
large in size and scope. Much of this new spending has merit and ought 
to be funded. I don't take issue with that. However, working outside of 
the regular budget process allows for new spending that does not count 
against the regular budget caps.

So for these reasons, I oppose the LIHEAP funding bill we are 
debating today. While I commend the supporters for bringing their 
proposal forward we ought to tighten the fiscal belt and pay for this 
new spending. If this is a high priority then we need to eliminate some 
spending that is a lower priority to pay for it. Regretfully, this 
legislation does not do that, and I intend to vote no on final passage.


















 Energy
