---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `49fc85781da11f5cb037de6d1239b42c`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my colleague from Florida for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, today we begin an extended debate on a resolution 
criticizing the latest effort by American forces to win in Iraq.

There is no question that the war in Iraq has been difficult. All 
Americans are frustrated that we haven't seen more success and that we 
haven't seen it more quickly.

But war is never easy and almost never goes according to plan. Al 
Qaeda and their supporters in the region have been steadfast in their 
efforts to slow us down and frustrate our efforts to succeed. But 
because they cannot defeat Americans on the battlefield, al Qaeda and 
terrorist sympathizers around the world are trying to divide us here at 
home.

Over the next few days, we have an opportunity to show our enemies 
that we will not take the bait.

It is fitting that yesterday was President Abraham Lincoln's 
birthday. And not since the dark days of the Civil War has our homeland 
been a battlefield. Lincoln's leadership preserved the Union through a 
turbulent age that threatened to undo the American experiment. His 
belief in the promise of the United States, a promise enshrined in the 
Declaration of Independence that stated for the first time in history 
that all men are created equal, this is what drove him to pursue 
victory.

Surrounded by personal and political rivals, Lincoln could have given 
up. He could have recalled the Union forces and sent them home. But he 
didn't.

I think we need a similar commitment to victory today.

The battle in Iraq is about more than what happens there. This is one 
part of a much larger fight, a global fight against Islamic terrorists 
who have waged war on the United States and our allies. This is not a 
question of fighting for land or for treasure or for glory. We are 
fighting to rid the world of a radical and dangerous ideology. We are 
fighting to preserve and defend our sacred way of life. We are fighting 
to build a safer and more secure America, one where families can rear 
their children without the fear of terrorist attacks.

Lincoln famously said in 1858 that ''a house divided against itself 
cannot stand.'' I believe, as Lincoln did then, that we must choose 
sides on a very critical issue. Then it was whether we should abolish 
the evil institution of slavery. Today it is whether we will defeat the 
ideology that drives radical Islamic terrorism. Will we do what it 
takes to stand and fight for the future of our kids and theirs? Will we 
commit to defending the freedoms and liberties that we all cherish? Or 
will we retreat and leave the fight for another generation? These are 
the questions with historic implications that will be answered this 
week.

Many of my friends across the aisle think this is exactly what we 
should do, give up and leave. This nonbinding resolution is their first 
step towards abandoning Iraq by cutting off funding for our troops that 
are in harm's way.

And we know what al Qaeda thinks when America retreats from the 
battlefield. They think that we can't stomach a fight. This is why they 
haven't been afraid to strike us whenever and wherever they have had 
the opportunity to do so.

This war didn't start in Iraq. This war didn't start on 9/11. The war 
began with the Iran hostage taking in 1979, went on for well over a 
year. Then on October 23, 1983, the suicide attack on our Marine 
barracks in Beirut occurred, killing 241 American servicemen and 
injuring 60 others. On February 26, 1993, was the first World Trade 
Center bombing that killed six people and injured more than 1,000 
others. On June 25, 1996, the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia were 
bombed, killing 20 and injuring some 372 others. On June 7, 1998, the 
Kenya embassy bombing killed 213 people and injured 5,000 more. And on 
June 7, 1998, the Tanzania embassy bombing killed 11 people and 68 
others were injured. On October 12, 2000, the USS Cole was attacked; 17 
American sailors killed, 39 other sailors injured.

We all know what happened on September 11, 2001, when 3,000 Americans 
died for no other reason than they were Americans.

Do we really believe that if we pack up now, if we abandon Iraq and 
leave the country in chaos, that our enemies are just going to lay down 
their arms and leave us alone?



For too long, world leaders responded to terrorism by retreating and 
just hoping for the best. In a post-9/11 world, this is no longer an 
option.

God forgive us that it took such a loss of life to open our eyes, but 
our eyes are open. We are engaged in a global war now for our very way 
of life.


Every drop of blood that has been spilt in defense of liberty and 
freedom, from the American Revolution to this very moment, is for 
nothing if we are unwilling to stand up and fight this threat.

We didn't start this war. They did. Now we have got a duty to finish 
it, and, for the sake of our kids and theirs, to win it.

The nonbinding resolution before us today criticizes the new strategy 
for succeeding in Iraq implemented by General Petraeus. It 
''disapproves'' of the strategy before it even has a chance to begin. 
The general's goal is to stabilize the Iraqi democracy, deny the 
terrorists a safe haven and ensure stability in the region. It is a 
prudent strategy that puts the performance of the Iraqi Government 
front and center.

I can't guarantee that this plan is going to work. I hope it does. 
Republicans have put forward a complementary bill aimed at helping it 
succeed. But I again can guarantee you this: If we cut off our funding 
for the troops that are in the field and we abandon Iraq, as many 
supporters of this nonbinding resolution want to, the consequences of 
our failure will be catastrophic.

Last year, Osama bin Laden issued this warning to the United States 
regarding the war in Iraq. He said, ''I would like to tell you that the 
war is for you or for us to win. If we win, it means your defeat and 
disgrace forever.''

Now, think about this for a moment. Al Qaeda knows what the stakes 
are and it issued all of us a challenge. Now, tell me, what message 
does it send if we are afraid to meet that challenge? What message are 
we sending to North Korea, Iran, Venezuela and other enemies of freedom 
around the world? If we abandon Iraq, regional stability is going to be 
jeopardized. Iraq will become a fertile breeding ground for radical 
Islamic terrorists. Without a central government or other stabilizing 
force, Iraq's neighbors will be compelled to enter Iraq to protect 
their own interests. The consequences will be devastating and could 
easily lead to regional war.

If we abandon Iraq, the instability, coupled with the damning image 
of another American retreat, will embolden Iran and Islamic militants 
and endanger Israel. Iran's leaders and terrorist groups have made it 
clear of their intentions to wipe Israel off the map. We would be 
leaving a staunch ally in the Middle East with nothing but chaos and 
instability separating them from their greatest enemy.

If we abandon Iraq, those who seek weapons of mass destruction will 
know they have nothing to fear from a fearful America. Neither al 
Qaeda, North Korea or Iran are going to give up their quest for weapons 
of mass destruction if they know they are free to pursue these weapons, 
secure in the knowledge that America doesn't have the stomach to stop 
them. We will be leaving for our children, and theirs, a vastly more 
dangerous world.

During the Cold War, we took some small comfort in the idea of 
mutually assured destruction, that the Soviet Union wouldn't attack us 
because we could retaliate with equal devastation. There is no such 
comfort in a world where terrorist gangs roam free. It is the nature of 
our enemy to fight us wherever and whenever they can. Whether it is in 
Asia, in Africa or elsewhere, al Qaeda has supporters and sympathizers 
throughout the world. They have the ability to strike us at any time 
with their lethal force across the globe.

Right now, we are fighting them in Iraq. The battlefield is the most 
visible part in the global war against these terrorists, but it is but 
one part. If we leave, they will just follow us home. It is as simple 
as that. We cannot negotiate with them. We can't reason with them. Our 
one and only option is to defeat them. And this nonbinding measure 
before us today will only embolden them.

Now, it is important for this body to debate the important issues of 
our day. Last summer, the House held an extended debate on the war in 
Iraq and the global war on terror which gave all Members an opportunity 
to go on record. We worked closely with our colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle to draft the language of that resolution, and I 
believe that we had a productive debate.

What we are dealing with here today isn't even a resolution to debate 
the war itself. It is a nonbinding resolution attacking a single 
strategy in the prosecution of a much larger war. ''Nonbinding'' means 
nonleadership. It is not accountable, and I don't think it is the right 
message for our troops.

This is a political charade, lacking both the seriousness and the 
gravity of the issue that it is meant to represent. And, as I said 
before, the question before us today isn't actually in this resolution. 
I think it is much more fundamental. The question is, do we have the 
resolve necessary to defeat our terrorist enemies? Will we stand and 
fight for the future of our kids and theirs?

As President Eisenhower once said, ''History does not long entrust 
the care of freedom to the weak or the timid.'' Does Congress have the 
fortitude to do what needs to be done? Our soldiers do. The men and 
women of our military are the greatest force for freedom that the world 
has ever known. They are brave, they are committed and they can win 
this fight if we ask them to. I think the big question is, will we 
support them?

My colleagues, the world is watching. The question is, how will we 
respond