---
---

# RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `4a0daf75f81127a8c15fe1ddb91f7764`
`Mr. PEARCE — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from New 
York for working with me on this motion to recommit that we are 
offering today. I believe that we are going to make this legislation 
much better.

Ever since 9/11, law enforcement agencies have been telling the 
American people that they should immediately report any suspicious 
activity. This important step is one of the best ways that we have to 
stop terrorism. In essence, the public is the eyes and ears for the 
security of the Nation.

Sadly, a lawsuit has been filed in Minnesota which named as 
defendants the Americans who were simply trying to protect themselves 
and their country. These everyday people have now found themselves 
subject to a lawsuit for simply reporting what they thought in good 
faith was suspicious activity.

We are in grave danger when terrorists and their sympathizers use our 
freedoms against us. Terrorists have abused our Nation's immigration 
system, our foreign student travel visa opportunities, and open 
society's freedom to travel.

On 9/11 the hijackers knew how the crew on the plane would respond 
and used that knowledge against the air crews to carry out their deadly 
attacks.

Now, we have imams who behaved in methods similar to those 9/11 
terrorists and are now using our courts to terrorize the Americans who 
reported the behavior. They used a seating pattern that was similar to 
the 9/11 attackers. They asked for seatbelt extensions, and then didn't 
use them but laid them at their feet in an ominous gesture of 
disrespect. They did not sit in assigned seats. The loud criticism of 
President Bush and the war all added together to create a mood of 
uncertainty among passengers who were watching them.

If we allow these lawsuits to go forward, it will have a chilling 
effect on the future of American security. Today's USA Today opinion 
stated the ''Clerics' lawsuit threatens the security of all passengers; 
efforts to name those who reported suspicious actions has chilling 
effect.'' I will submit the full article for the Record.

If we are serious about fighting terrorism, if we are serious about 
protecting Americans and asking them to help protect each other, then 
we must pass this motion.

If I leave my colleagues with one message about this motion, it is 
simply, no American should be sued for trying to stop terrorism.

Recently, I visited Israel. There they were much more open about it. 
They said, the stakes are too high. The danger is too imminent. There 
is no room left in the world for political correctness.

Today we are going to make that choice on the floor of the House, to 
choose political correctness or to choose to protect the people in this 
country and the people who would bring the attention of suspicious 
activities to the Nation's authorities.

Vote ''yes'' on today's motion to recommit and help protect 
Americans.











[From USA Today, Mar. 27, 2007]

 Our View on Post-9/11 Travel: Clerics' Lawsuit Threatens Security of 














 All Passengers




 ''If you see something, say something.''



 Since the terror attacks of 9/11, that common-sense message 


 has been displayed prominently worldwide for obvious reasons.



 Police and transportation authorities can't be everywhere. 


 Whether at an airport, bus or rail station, officials need 


 passengers to alert them to unattended baggage that might 


 contain explosives and behavior that appears out of the 


 ordinary.



 Now the reward for being vigilant apparently includes being 


 dragged into a lawsuit and accused of bigotry. The wry adage 


 about how no good deed goes unpunished seems apt, though not 


 so funny.



 The lawsuit grew out of an incident last November when six 


 Muslim clerics, returning from a religious conference in 


 Minneapolis, were removed from a US Airways flight after 


 passengers and crew raised alarms. The imams were questioned 


 by authorities and released. The six say they are innocent 


 victims of ethnic profiling for merely praying quietly in 


 Arabic at the terminal.



 Their lawsuit, filed earlier this month, accused the 


 airline and Metropolitan Airports Commission of anti-Muslim 


 bias. That was expected. What's unique and especially 


 troubling, though, is the effort to identify an unknown 


 number of passengers and airline employees who reported 


 suspicions so they might also be included as defendants. For 


 example, the imams want to know the names of an elderly 


 couple who turned around ''to watch'' and then made cellphone 


 calls, presumably to authorities, as the men prayed.



 This legal tactic seems designed to intimidate passengers 


 willing to do exactly what authorities have requested--say 


 something about suspicious activity.



 The imams' actions last November appeared to be either 


 deliberately provocative or clueless as to how others might 


 perceive them. Several passengers and crewmembers told 


 authorities that the men loudly chanted ''Allah'' several 


 times, cursed U.S. involvement in Iraq and switched their 


 seat assignments. Three imams asked for seat belt extenders, 


 which include a heavy metal buckle that could be used as a 


 weapon, but left them on the floor.



 Under the circumstances, the pilot made a reasonable 


 judgment call to remove them from the plane. Some of the 


 facts are in dispute: The imams deny making any anti-American 


 remarks and say seats were changed to accommodate a blind 


 cleric who might need assistance. They accuse the airline of 


 slandering them.



 US Airways can afford to defend itself and the crew in 


 court. Passengers who notified authorities don't have those 


 resources. Several lawyers have promised to represent such 


 passengers for free. The American Islamic Forum for 


 Democracy, a moderate Muslim group, will raise funds for 


 their defense. Rep. Steve Pearce, R-N.M., has introduced a 


 bill to shield from legal liability those who report 


 suspicious behavior.



 It shouldn't have to come to that, especially if a judge 


 has the wisdom to throw out the complaints against the ''John 


 Doe'' passengers before they're identified.



 As for ethnic profiling--the reprehensible practice of 


 discriminating solely based on ethnicity--this incident 


 doesn't qualify. The imams were tossed off the plane because 


 of suspicious behavior, which obviously can't be ignored. 


 Suing passengers who merely report such behavior threatens 


 everyone's ability to travel securely.
