# SUPPORTING AND ENCOURAGING GREATER SUPPORT FOR VETERANS DAY
## `4a10c1e11f108d3c02b51e55dd713dff`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 89, a resolution encouraging greater support for Veterans 
Day each year.

Today, I would like to take this opportunity to express my deep sense 
of gratitude to the millions of veterans living throughout the United 
States. Since before the founding of this nation, our veterans have 
been on the front lines defending our safety and our liberty. Their 
commitment to duty, honor, integrity, and self-sacrifice has not gone 
unnoticed, and I commend them for a lifetime of exemplary leadership on 
and off the battlefield.

Veterans' organizations are one great example of the commitment to 
service all of our men and women in uniform possess. These 
organizations help create volunteer opportunities for our nation's 
troops when they retire from the armed services. Some of these include 
donating millions of man hours to the medical facilities of the 
Veterans Administration, sponsoring Boy Scouts of America troops all 
around the country, and awarding millions of dollars for college 
scholarships. These incredible volunteers give back to the very 
communities that they have already sacrificed so much for throughout 
their careers.

Mr. Speaker, the veterans who have passed away before this Veterans 
Day must also be


recognized and graciously thanked for their service. Our Nation has 
experienced many wars in a short history, but we have remained safe at 
home and abroad because of the valiant effort of the members of our 
armed services. The freedoms and liberty we espouse as a democracy have 
and will continue to be under threat. However, our veterans and active 
duty men and women are a testament to the preservation of justice and 
our form of government.

The families of those who serve our country on the front lines also 
deserve the admiration and appreciation of each and every citizen. 
These family members often watch their loved ones travel to faraway 
lands in support of a cause and an ideal so much greater than any one 
individual. The support given to our service men and women by their 
loved ones is irreplaceable, as it is the foundation for the bravery 
inherent in those who labor steadfastly in the defense of liberty.

Let us also make certain that we remember those individuals who are 
in harm's way today in Iraq and Afghanistan. Operation Enduring Freedom 
and Operation Iraqi Freedom are successful because of the members of 
our armed services who are day in and day out giving their best to keep 
America safe at home and abroad. They have also sacrificed to secure 
liberty and democracy for other nations and peoples who desire to be 
freed from political oppression. Furthermore, let us not forgot those 
who have paid the ultimate sacrifice, and let us say a gracious thank 
you to them for their willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice for 
liberty.

I believe that the brave men and women who sacrifice for our present 
freedoms deserve our fullest support. Our Nation's service men and 
women represent the best our country has to offer, and they must be 
treated with the respect and honor they deserve. As we ask these 
courageous soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines--and their families--
to do more and more, it's only right we continue doing all we can for 
them. Recognizing Veterans Day in 2009 is just one small reminder of 
the superior job our troops perform for America at home and abroad, and 
it is my hope that we will continue to do all we can and more for the 
members of our Armed Forces.
