---
---

# NATIONAL TRAIN DAY
## `4a11ce86f3fc1a313407de92dd714b59`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 13 May 2008`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

National Train Day celebrates the 139th anniversary of the ''golden 
spike,'' which was driven into the final tie in Utah and marked the 
completion of our Nation's first transcontinental railroad in 1869.

This weekend I celebrated National Train Day by holding events 
throughout my district, including press conferences and events in 
Jacksonville, Winter Park, and Sanford Auto Train station. We had a 
great turnout at every event, and I heard firsthand from people who use 
Amtrak every day to go to work and visit friends and family all over 
the country.

As Chair of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous 
Materials, I have had the privilege to see firsthand passenger rail 
systems in other countries. I have taken high-speed trains from 
Brussels to Paris, 200 miles, 1/1/4/ hours; and from Barcelona to 
Madrid, 300 miles, 2/1/2/ hours; and the advantage for travelers and 
for business are tremendous. We need to catch up with the world, and 
with gas prices edging toward $4 a gallon, some places $5 and $6, now 
is the perfect time for us to begin to make serious investment in 
passenger rail.

Indeed, Amtrak ridership and revenue has never been stronger. In 
2007, Amtrak set a new record for ridership, exceeding 25.8 million 
passengers. In the same year, ticket revenues increased by 11 percent, 
to more than $1.5 billion. For my State of Florida, Amtrak expenditures 
for goods and services in the State soared to nearly $40 million last 
year, and Amtrak currently employs over 700 Florida residents.

I have traveled all over the country and have conducted many 
transportation roundtable events that feature rail and its importance, 
and the people I have talked to love Amtrak. It is a great way to 
commute to work, takes cars off our congested highways, and improves 
the environment. In many areas of the country, it is the only means of 
public transportation available.

Now what I can't understand is why the Bush administration, again, in 
the midst of sharp increases in gas prices, continues in its efforts to 
destroy passenger rail in this country. Every industrialized country in 
the world is investing heavily in rail infrastructure because they 
realize that this is the future of transportation. But sadly, as their 
systems get bigger and better, our system gets less and less money.

While the administration has spent nearly a trillion dollars on the 
war in Iraq, it continues to decrease their requests for Amtrak. This 
year they only requested $800 million for Amtrak's 25.8 million 
passengers. Well, that is an improvement from zero. For Amtrak, just 
one week's investment in Iraq would significantly improve passenger 
rail across the country for an entire year. This is another perfect 
example of how out of touch this administration is because I can assure 
the President that there is a whole lot more support for Amtrak in this 
country than there is for the war in Iraq.

Unfortunately, there is a lot of misinformation about Amtrak, and it 
is important for people to know the facts. Ridership numbers and ticket 
revenue are at a record level. Outstanding debt has been reduced by 
$600 million over the past 6 years, and many major infrastructure 
projects have been completed. And this has been achieved with a 
workforce that has been reduced by over 4,000 employees. We still have 
a lot of work ahead of us when it comes to Amtrak, and it took a major 
step forward last week when we introduced legislation reauthorizing 
Amtrak at a level that would allow it to grow and prosper. The 
legislation developed by the chairman of the Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee, Mr. James Oberstar and myself, and introduced 
with Congressmen Mica and Shuster, provides over $2 billion a year for 
capital and operating grants, $500 million per year for developing 
State passenger corridors, $345 million per year to pay down debt, $345 
million per year for high-speed rail programs, $600 million to start 
working on constructing a new tunnel through Baltimore, and requires a 
plan for restoring service to the Sunset Limited, one of my top 
priorities.

Major infrastructure improvements are also necessary to improve the 
safety and security of the system and its passengers and workers. 
Amtrak has and will continue to play a critical role in evacuating and 
transporting citizens during national emergencies. Unfortunately, it is 
also a prime target for those who wish to harm us and we must provide 
resources to make the system less vulnerable.

Fifty years ago, President Eisenhower created the national highway 
system that changed the way we travel in this country. Today we need to 
do the same thing with our rail system, and with Amtrak reauthorization 
we are doing just that.

The United States used to have a first class passenger rail system. 
However, after years of neglect, we are now the caboose, and they don't 
even use cabooses anymore. The American people deserve better, and I 
believe our Amtrak reauthorization bill will go a long way to restoring 
the American passenger system.



I encourage my colleagues to show their support for our Nation's rail 
system and its employees by holding events at our local commuter train 
stations any time during the year, and I would also encourage Members 
to cosponsor H.R. 6003, the Amtrak reauthorization bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.