---
---

# HONORING SERGEANT FIRST CLASS ROBERT FIKE
## `4a13869f62d7376fb82629cf3b8c2f49`
`Mrs. DAHLKEMPER — 24 June 2010`

---


Mrs. DAHLKEMPER. Madam Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I rise 
today to honor the life of a fallen hero from Western Pennsylvania. 
Sergeant First Class Robert Fike of Conneautville, Pennsylvania was 38 
years old when he made the ultimate sacrifice defending our nation in 
Afghanistan.

On June 11th, a suicide bomber detonated an explosive near the 
Bullard Bazaar in Zabul Province in southern Afghanistan where Sergeant 
First Class Robert Fike and his fellow soldier, Staff Sergeant Hoover, 
also of Western Pennsylvania, were on foot patrol. Both these brave men 
were killed in the explosion. They were members of the Pennsylvania 
Army National Guard's Company C, 1st Battalion, 110th Infantry, based 
in Connellsville.

Robert Fike was passionate about his service to his country, and was 
the third generation of his family to be a member of the Armed Forces. 
He joined the Pennsylvania National Guard in 1993 after earning a 
degree in organic chemistry from Edinboro University in 1992. During 
his long military career, he served two tours overseas in Saudi Arabia 
from 2002 to 2003 and in Iraq from 2007 to 2008.

Protecting his community and his country was a way of life for Robert 
Fike. Every month, he drove the two hours from his home in Crawford 
County to Johnstown for specialized drills with the 20th Military 
Police Company. Robert also worked as a prison guard at the State 
Correctional Institute at Albion.

For his brave service and sacrifice, Sergeant First Class Robert Fike 
was awarded the Purple Heart, the Army Commendation Medal, the Army 
Achievement Medal, the Armed Forces Reserve Medal, the Global War on 
Terrorism Expeditionary and Service medals and the Iraq Campaign Medal.

Robert is survived by his parents, James and Christine, and his 12 
year old daughter, Mackenzie.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Sergeant First Class Robert 
Fike in the Record of the United States House of Representatives for 
service, sacrifice, commitment to his country and to our freedom.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Robert set as a soldier. Today and always, he will 
be remembered by family and friends as a true American hero, and we 
cherish the legacy of his service and his life.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg:

''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Robert.
