---
---

# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `4a1fdff23dc06c5262d6dfe5d56cf60d`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Chairman, you know it's a good day today where we 
have the opportunity to go back and reauthorize the Corporation for 
National and Community Service. This is a program that 15 years ago is 
a program that I supported, and I'm glad that this Congress is going to 
take the steps to move this program forward and continue the efforts in 
this area.

However, if we're really going to protect the Corporation for 
National and Community Service, if we are really going to protect the 
individuals that are working in these types of programs, what we should 
have been doing today and what we should do is we should extend the 
terrorist surveillance program. We should pass FISA modernization.

You know, 3 weeks ago the majority said that this bill would come to 
the floor. They needed a 3-week extension to get the bill done. That 
expires this week.

We're going to have a long day today. We'll be here till 2 or 3 
o'clock, which I think will be the third week in a row where we will go 
home early and we will not take care of this vital national security 
issue.

We've had a 6-month extension, we had a 2-week extension. The program 
now has lapsed for 3 weeks. Each and every day our capabilities erode 
just a little bit more. And each and every day we remove these 
capabilities to track foreign terrorists by our Intelligence Community, 
each and every day America becomes a little bit more vulnerable. 
Americans living at home, people in this program, our men and women in 
uniform in Afghanistan and in Iraq, they're a little bit more 
vulnerable. Our embassy personnel around the world are a little bit 
more vulnerable.

Earlier this week the statement was made, well, you know, we'd maybe 
like to do FISA this week but the schedule is just too full. We're not 
going to have the opportunity to get to it. We're not going to have the 
opportunity to get to it. We're going to be done working some time in 
the middle of the afternoon and we're going to leave a national 
security issue laying on the table for the third week in a row?

Will the majority deal with this issue next week? Will they deal with 
it before we go on recess? Or will they allow it to lapse for 6 weeks? 
How vulnerable does America need to become before the majority decides 
to act on FISA?

I just wonder if the majority's even looking at what's going on 
around the world, taking a look at the attacks that are taking place in 
Pakistan, taking a look at the attacks that are happening in 
Afghanistan, listening to the rhetoric that's coming out of Iran, 
listening to the rhetoric that's coming out from al Qaeda in Iraq, 
listening to the rhetoric that's coming out of Hezbollah in Syria and 
in Lebanon. There are threats against our allies. There are threats 
against Western Europe. There are threats against our friends in 
Northern Africa. There are threats against Western Europe, and yes, 
there are threats against the United States of America.

They're not listening to what al Qaeda and radical jihadists and 
other terrorists are saying. They're not reading what these individuals 
are saying, because if you were listening to what they were saying, if 
you were reading what they were writing, and if you were watching what 
they were doing, you would understand that the threat is real and that 
it is a grave mistake to


allow this intelligence tool and to allow other intelligence tools to 
erode continually.

Yes, America's more vulnerable today than it was 3 weeks ago. America 
is more vulnerable today than it was 14 months ago because, on national 
security issue after national security issue, the other side refuses to 
give our intelligence community the tools that they need to keep 
America safe. These tools have developed. They've evolved. They've been 
working very, very well in protecting America. But for the last 14 
months, the majority has not only let these tools evolve and 
deteriorate, in many cases they've been under direct attack from the 
majority. Today our intelligence community is paying a price because 
they do not have the tools necessary to keep America safe. Hopefully, 
America will not pay a price because the intelligence community hasn't 
been given the tools by the majority to keep America safe.


It's time to bring the Senate bill to the floor. This is a bill that 
has widespread support, passed by 68 votes in the Senate, supported by 
a majority of the Republicans and the Democrats in the Senate.

Bring that bill to the House. Bring it up right after the GIVE Act. 
Make sure that we've got the tools in place to keep America safe and to 
keep the people working in this program and other programs safe.