# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `4a2c8520ac8d224c600260e80b3b4755`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I offer a modified amendment that will 
provide an additional $15 million for the Boys and Girls Clubs of 
America so the Clubs can continue to help our Nation's children become 
productive, law abiding teenagers and contributing adults.

We have a responsibility to make sure that our children are safe and 
secure. I know firsthand how well Boys and Girls Clubs work and what 
topnotch organizations they are. When I was a prosecutor in Vermont, I 
was convinced of the great need for Boys and Girls Clubs because we 
rarely encountered children from these kinds of programs in criminal 
activity. In fact, after I became a U.S. Senator, a police chief was 
such a big fan of the work of the Boys and Girls Clubs, that he asked 
me to help fund a club in his district rather than helping him secure 
funding for a couple more police officers.

In Vermont, Boys and Girls Clubs have succeeded in preventing crime 
and supporting our children. The first Club was established in 
Burlington 63 years ago. Now we have 6 clubs in Vermont and 25 other 
locations throughout the State managed by the Boys and Girls Clubs of 
America. These clubs serve well over 10,000 kids statewide. In a small 
State such as mine, that is a significant number.

I had a terrific visit last month at the Boys and Girls Club of 
Burlington, VT, and was approached by parents, educators, law 
enforcement officers and others who told me: Keep doing this. It gives 
our children a chance to grow up free of drugs, gangs and crime. That 
is my ultimate proof. If these folks are asking for more clubs and more 
support, then we ought to do it.

As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I have 
pushed for more Federal funding for Boys and Girls Clubs. Since 1998, 
Congress has increased federal support for Boys and Girls Clubs from 
$20 million to $85 million. Due in large part to this increase in 
funding, there now exist more than 4,000 Boys and Girls Clubs in all 50 
States serving almost 5 million young people.

In 2004, Senator Hatch and I worked together to shepherd into law a 
reauthorization of Justice Department grants at $80 million for fiscal 
year 2006, $85 million for fiscal year 2007, $90 million for fiscal 
year 2008, $95 million for fiscal year 2009 and $100 million for fiscal 
year 2010 to Boys and Girls Clubs to help establish 1,500 additional 
Boys and Girls Clubs across the Nation.

Because of these successes, I was both surprised and deeply 
disappointed to see that the President requested no funding in his 
budget for Boys and Girls Clubs for fiscal year 2008 in an effort to 
consolidate and cut grant funding in the Department of Justice. That 
request will leave thousands of children and their clubs behind. We 
cannot allow such a thing to happen. We seem to find an unlimited 
amount of money to send to Iraq, where half the time we cannot even 
find out what happened to the money after it went there. I would like 
to spend a little bit of that money in the United States to help 
protect our children. We owe it to them. This will do it.

If we had a Boys and Girls Club in every community, prosecutors would 
have a lot less work to do because of the values that are instilled in 
children from the Boys and Girls Clubs. They deliver results and 
represent the best of what communities can do to improve the lives of 
their young people.

Across the Nation, Boys and Girls Clubs are proven and growing 
successes in preventing crime and supporting our children. Our 
amendment will restore funding for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America 
to reach $75 million. It also provides an offset by rescinding $15 
million in unobligated balances from the Department of Justice in prior 
fiscal years. It would have no effect on budget authority.

This is not a Democratic or Republican idea; it is just an idea that 
makes sense. It is also an idea that works. We all know instinctively 
that our Nation's strength and ultimate success lies with our children.

I urge the Senate to adopt the Leahy amendment to provide an 
additional $15 million for the 2008 fiscal year for the Boys and Girls 
Clubs of America. Our greatest responsibility is to help children 
inhabit this century the best


way possible and we can help do that by supporting the Boys and Girls 
Clubs of America.