---
---

# PERMITTING CONTINUED FINANCING OF GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS
## `4a32127d5b64f8319abdc6d03739e14d`
`Mr. CROWLEY — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. CROWLEY. I thank my good friend from Massachusetts for yielding 
me the time.

The Republicans keep claiming that Federal spending and deficits are 
growing under the Democrats, but let's look at the facts.

Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence said just a few minutes ago 
that they, the Republicans, doubled the national debt in 8 years to 
almost $12 trillion. And you know what? Mike is right. About an hour or 
so ago Republican Jeff Flake said spending was out of control when 
Republicans were in charge of Congress and the White House. And you 
know what? He was right as well. And the funny thing, when President 
George Bush was voted into office he inherited a multi-trillion dollar 
surplus of funds from President


Clinton and the Democrats. So the party who borrowed and spent and 
squandered surpluses is now standing in the way of moving forward in 
the right path.

The very Republicans who refused to run the country like our 
constituents have to run their households--buying only what they can 
afford--are opposed to legislation that will ensure all new spending 
and tax cuts are paid for. This would prevent us from adding to the 
deficit, yet Republicans are opposed, arguing they should be allowed to 
tax and borrow from the Chinese at will, but only for their priorities.

So the hangover from President Bush and Republican control of 
Congress still lingers. It was Republicans who pushed a $700 billion 
bailout package for the banks, a package that Democrats and President 
Obama are demanding be paid back--and with interest--from those very 
same banks. Then we had tax cuts for the wealthiest in America, with no 
assistance to the middle class, and then a refusal to fund the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. Democrats are correcting these disastrous 
decisions by our Republican colleagues.

The only thing more galling than the inaccuracy and denial of the 
Republicans of their own records and votes is their hypocrisy on this 
issue of their own out-of-control spending and legacy of deficits.

