---
---

# None
## `4a35699a4c29f0853fe4d5de85d5c5c3`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I submit the following:

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Shipbuilding & Conversion, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: PMS 450, Virginia Class Submarine 
Program.

Address of Requesting Entity: Washington Navy Yard, Washington, D.C.

Description of Request: Adds $422 million in additional advanced 
procurement funding for the VIRGINIA Class submarine program. The Navy 
has a projected shortfall of 7 attack submarines beginning in fiscal 
year 2028. The provision of advanced procurement in fiscal year 2009 
would allow the Navy to accelerate procurement of 2 submarines per year 
beginning in fiscal year 2010, potentially decreasing the shortfall to 
6 SSNs.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Sierra Nevada.

Address of Requesting Entity: Hagerstown, MD.

Description of Request: Provide $50 million for the rapid fielding of 
additional Aerial Reconnaissance Multi-Sensor Platforms for tactical 
operations in OIF and OEF.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: L-3 Communications, San Diego, CA; 
MBDA, Los Angeles, CA; Raytheon, Tucson, AZ; Boeing, St, Louis, MO.

Description of Request: The Affordable Weapons System (AWS) program 
is an advanced technology initiative to design, develop, and produce an 
affordable precision guided weapon. Phase II to begin September 2008 
will study best material approach, conops and system architecture 
refinement, and a comprehensive risk assessment leading to a preferred 
system concept with a flyaway cost of less than $250 thousand. The 
results from the Phase I and Phase II study will support the 
development of an ICD leading to a new start program in 2010 with a 
2016 first article delivery. An additional $15 million will support the 
Phase II contracts.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: L-3 Communications.

Address of Requesting Entity: 9925 Carroll Canyon Road; San Diego, 
CA. 92131.

Description of Request: The SEA FIGHTER program provides a low cost, 
low risk, high payoff pathway for rapidly transitioning SEA FIGHTER 
into an operationally deployable asset as well as demonstrating 
transformational and highly survivable persistent surveillance 
capabilities in ungoverned and denied areas that can be applied to 
current and future Naval Littoral and USCG Maritime vessels. A funding 
level of $10 million for FY 2009 is required to upgrade the ship mast 
structure, and for enhanced active and passive survivability system 
modifications, HVAC, pilot house armor, weather tight mezzanine heavy 
curtain, upgraded ramp cradle system, four face SATCOM, surveillance 
and navigation systems, DCGS-N build-out, C4ISR installation, and 
integration and testing.


Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Torrey Pines Logic.

Address of Requesting Entity: 12651 High Bluff Drive; San Diego, CA.

Description of Request: The Navy's need for a secure non-RF 
alternative to radio communication is well known. The need arises from 
operational scenarios, such as Underway Replenishment, where vessels 
are unable to use radios due to RF jammers, EMCON conditions, the 
presence of IEDs, and the need for a secure communication system that 
has a low probability of interception and detection. $2 million to the 
IR LED Free Space Optics Communications Advancement program will allow 
the program to advance LightSpeed technology, which is a proven, tested 
and fielded technology based on IR LED Free Space Optics (FSO) 
concepts. The funding will enable the advancement of the technology's 
size, weight, power, distance and bandwidth for the Navy's use in 
Special Operations and general services communities.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Procurement, Defense-Wide.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: California National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: San Diego, CA.

Description of Request: The Southwest Border Fence supports the 
President's border security initiative and makes for more efficient and 
effective use of the National Guardsmen deployed in support of 
Operation Jump Start. $5 million will continue work on the 14-mile 
Border Infrastructure near San Diego, CA.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Information Systems Laboratories.

Address of Requesting Entity: 10140 Barnes Canyon Road; San Diego, 
CA.

Description of Request: The Tactical E-Field Buoy program will 
develop an affordable ASW buoy that is capable of detecting challenging 
targets in acoustically difficult littoral environments and is 
compatible with existing Navy air-deployed systems. $7 million in FY09 
will fabricate and ocean test the performance of a cluster-type array 
of small E-sensors against a submarine target.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Allermed Laboratories, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7203 Convoy Court; San Diego, CA 92111.

Description of Request: The Leishmania Skin Test will provide a tool 
for military physicians to screen service personnel prior to and after 
deployment to endemic regions, prevent contamination of the blood 
supply by identifying persons who should not become donors, and 
identify and provide definitive care to service members infected with 
the parasite. $1.5 million in FY09 funding will plan and execute a 
phase III clinical trial.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Trex Enterprises.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7203 Convoy Court; San Diego, CA 92111.

Description of Request: An unacceptable number of aircraft accidents 
involving all category Army helicopters conducting combat operations in 
Afghanistan and Iraq have been caused by the brownout phenomenon. $4.5 
million will continue development & testing of the Brownout Situational 
Awareness Sensor, specifically, to increase operating range and field 
of view; harden modular components; and, integrate the system platform.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Other Procurement, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: IBM.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4600 La Jolla Village Drive #300; San 
Diego, CA.

Description of Request: SSC-SD has developed algorithms that are 
extremely complex and computationally intensive on the High Performance 
Computing (HPC) nodes in the laboratory environment. This classified 
project related to IED detection has been an on-going use of the HPC 
laboratory capability and with $2 million in supplemental funding, 
ready to be turned into an operational capability.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: San Diego DEFCOMM.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1870 Cordell Court, Suite 208; El 
Cajon, CA 92020.



Description of Request: JIST-NET will provide the warfighter with an 
integrated and single pane-of-glass planning and situational awareness 
system for satellite communications (SATCOM) and network 
communications. $6 million will allow SATCOM to move forward and 
operationally field JIST-NET in next 6 to 9 months.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Other Procurement, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Telos Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 19886 Ashburn Road; Ashburn, VA.

Description of Request: $3.5 million will provide a communication 
system to the 147th Combat Communications Squadron in San Diego, CA to 
improve wartime readiness levels and provide for a robust capability 
during a potential disaster.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SpaceDev, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13855 Stowe Drive; Poway, CA.

Description of Request: Hybrid Sounding Rocket will benefit the 
nation's defense through the accomplishment of designing and 
fabricating a new propulsion design that provides safe and 
environmentally friendly launch services for small payloads. $2 million 
will complete flight article design, complete three heavy motor ground 
test firings, selection and preparation of a suitable launch site, 
complete first flight article, and the demonstration flight.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: East County Economic Development 
Council.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 1870 Cordell Court, Suite 202; El 
Cajon, CA.

Description of Request: The Connectory, a proven business-to-business 
database, lets DoD compare and analyze objectively capabilities across 
the industrial base to address warfighter requirements, particularly 
limited production items. $1.3 million will expand the number of 
California companies profiled.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SYS Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5050 Murphy Canyon Road; San Diego, CA.

Description of Request: The System for Intelligent Task Assignment & 
Readiness (SITAR) will support accurate, predictive 21st century 
readiness models. $3 million will enhance the SITAR program.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Surface Optics Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 11555 Rancho Bernardo Road; San Diego, 
CA.

Description of Request: $3 million for the Real-Time Hyperspectral 
Targeting Sensor will be used to miniaturize a small, low cost Hyper 
Sensor integrated with GPS location data and real time processing 
capability.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter..

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Boeing, Corp.

Address of Requesting Entity: P.O. Box 516; St. Louis, MO.

Description of Request: $40 million will procure additional Joint 
Direct Attack Munition kits. This funding was the #12 priority on the 
Air Forces Unfunded Requirements.

Requesting Member: Congressman Duncan Hunter.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Skybuilt.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4449 N. 38th Street; Arlington, VA.

Description of Request: $2 million will be used to fund an existing 
Army effort for RDTE and field testing of solar power at forward 
operating bases.
