---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MATTHEW E. PARSONS
## `4a428739379aea056764894e31a28a7d`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 17 November 2008`

---

 Ms. MIKULSKI. Madam President, today I pay tribute to Special 
Agent Matthew E. Parsons of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, 
NCIS, who is retiring from employment with the Federal Government on 
December 20, 2008. Special Agent Parsons is retiring after 36 years in 
law enforcement, with the last 27 years of Federal Government service 
with NCIS. Of special note and atypical of his peers, he volunteered 
and recently completed a high risk assignment as the Director of the 
Strategic Counterintelligence Directorate, Multi-National Force-Iraq, 
Baghdad, Iraq.

During the course of Special Agent Parsons' career in government 
service, he rose from a GS-7 to a GS-15 Special Agent. In his final 
position with NCIS, he was assigned as the Assistant Director for 
Financial Management & Planning at NCIS Headquarters, Washington Navy 
Yard, Washington, DC.

Special Agent Parsons, Federal law enforcement career began August 
1981 with the Naval Investigative Service--the precursor of today's 
NCIS. His first assignment was to Norfolk, VA, at the time when the 
John Walker, Jr., spy ring was uncovered. During the early stages of 
the investigation, Special Agent Parsons was assigned as the NIS case 
agent. In August 1985, he transferred to overseas duty at Yokosuka, 
Japan, where he continued working in the foreign counterintelligence 
arena.

In 1988, Special Agent Parsons was transferred to Naval Air Station 
Patuxent River, MD. While conducting an investigation into a sensitive 
breach of security, he developed the ground work for future NCIS 
computer investigations. Special Agent Parsons utilized innovative 
methods to hone his computer investigative skills which ultimately led 
to the development of agency capabilities to conduct investigations of 
hacking, intrusions, and sabotage of U.S. Government computer systems 
and networks.

In December 1993, due to his outstanding efforts in computer crime 
investigations he was transferred to NCIS Headquarters to establish a 
computer crimes department for the agency. Special Agent Parsons and 
his team, reaching nearly 50 members, developed agency and Department 
of Navy strategies and capabilities which included immediate reporting 
requirements upon the slightest indication of a technological or 
information intrusion. In addition, he and his team worked closely with 
the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and Armed Forces 
Center for Child Protection in the forefront of keeping our Nation's 
future generation safe from exploitation through child pornography and 
online predators.

In October 2000, Special Agent Parsons was promoted and transferred 
to Okinawa, Japan as the Resident Agent-in-Charge. During his tenure in 
Okinawa he led an office primarily responsible to support U.S. Marine 
Corps forces and operations throughout the East Asia and Pacific 
region. He and his team developed a fly-away team concept capable of 
providing on demand support to operating U.S. Naval forces. This 
expeditionary team was tested in early October 2002 when a bomb 
exploded outside a popular restaurant in Zamboanga, Philippines, 
killing two U.S. military members and injuring 20 others. Within 14 
hours of the event, the NCIS Okinawa fly-away team was at the scene 
providing invaluable criminal and forensic investigative support.

In May 2003, Special Agent Parsons was promoted Special Agent-in-
Charge of the NCIS Far East Field Office in Yokosuka, Japan. It was 
during this assignment that he developed a neighbor-to-neighbor program 
which forged a bond with the local Japanese community and served as an 
early warning and indicator of potential criminal or terrorist threats 
to U.S. military personnel living within the community.

In January 2007, Special Agent Parsons was transferred to NCIS 
Headquarters where he became the assistant director for financial 
management and planning. Special Agent Parsons oversaw the agency's 
strategic planning process, developed financial plans and budget 
initiatives, and conducted evaluations of office implementation plans 
and performances.

Demonstrating the extent of his dedication to duty and exceptional 
character, Special Agent Parsons volunteered for a high risk assignment 
as the Director of the Multi-National Force-Iraq Strategic 
Counterintelligence Directorate, SCID, Baghdad, Iraq. Serving in Iraq 
from December 29, 2007 until June 24, 2008, he led a 109-member joint-
service team in a complete strategic refocus of the mission resulting 
in increased collaboration among assets, increased standardization in 
reporting, and ultimately better support to the war fighter.

As a testament to his distinguished career, Special Agent Parsons 
received several awards including the Meritorious Civilian Services 
Award, the Department of Defense Global War on Terrorism Civilian 
Service Medal and the NCIS Expeditionary Medal. Special Agent Parsons 
also received numerous accolades from senior Navy leadership and 
published six articles regarding computer crime investigations in 
professional periodicals.

The Navy, the State of Maryland, and the Nation are lucky to have had 
the service of such a great Special Agent. He will be sorely missed. I 
wish him and his family all the best as they embark on the next chapter 
of their lives. Fair winds and following seas!
