---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `4a45046c2e91b08a51d19376c1f37ca5`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I have and will always support our troops.

I have grieved with their families when they have fallen in battle. I 
have visited them in the hospitals and watched as they recover from 
some of the most devastating injuries any human could endure. As a 
member of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations 
Subcommittee, I joined my colleagues earlier this week in passing the 
largest increase in veterans' health care funding in 77 years. I want 
our soldiers and marines in Iraq and Afghanistan to never doubt that 
their country values their sacrifices and will always be there for them 
and their families, whether in battle or when they come home.

This bill, however, does not honor nor protect our troops. Without 
accountability and a clear change in policy, this bill simply becomes 
another blank check for President Bush to continue waging this war 
without regard to reality or the demands of the American people. The 
Congress has an obligation to provide our troops with the funding they 
need to succeed, but it is under no obligation to support a policy that 
leaves our troops trapped in the cross fire of a civil war.

This Administration's disregard for the reality in Iraq, for what a 
clear majority of Americans now demand, and what is in the best 
interest of our long-term national security has gone on for too long. 
This is a vote to make clear that the Congress will not sit idly by as 
more American soldiers and marines are sucked into the quagmire of 
Iraq. It is long since past time to begin bringing our troops home. 
American blood cannot be a substitute for Iraqi political will.

The Administration's mishandling of the war in Iraq has brought us to 
this point, and the Administration's determination to save face at all 
costs has again denied our troops a policy that takes full measure of 
the sacrifices they have made.

I cast this vote with a heavy heart. The White House has been playing 
a reckless game of ''chicken'' when it comes to our troops, but neither 
the Congress nor the White House will ever bear the true burden. Our 
troops and their families shoulder the true grief and pain of 
suffering.

The Administration has been served notice. It's my hope that this is 
only the beginning of Congressional efforts to force the Administration 
to face reality.