---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `4a5977ff9cbee6ab067321525b173574`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
legislation. It has been a long process, and this bill is far trom 
perfect, but I enthusiastically support this measure as an important 
first step in a long-overdue effort to provide for the needs of our 
most vulnerable citizens and begin to invest in priority items here at 
home to build a brighter future for America.

As a member of the House Budget Committee, I believe that budget-
making is about more than just numbers on a ledger or a spreadsheet. 
Budgets reflect our Nation's priorities, and Congress has a solemn duty 
to pass a funding that honors the values of the American people. I have 
worked with the leadership of this new Democratic Congress to reverse 
the misguided budget course of the current administration that has 
neglected America's domestic needs and created massive annual deficits 
and record national debt. I am pleased that the New Direction Congress 
has rejected the President's misguided budget cuts for critical 
American priorities like education, medical research and energy 
independence. This responsible legislation fulfills Congress's 
obligation to govern and charts a better course for the American 
people.

I especially want to thank the House Democratic Leadership for 
including $600 million for disaster assistance for victims of the 
record drought in North Carolina and throughout the southeastern United 
States. My farmers are hurting, and this disaster assistance will 
provide real relief and some measure of hope for the future. I have 
been proud to lead the fight for this funding, and I want to thank 
Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, Majority Whip Clyburn, 
Appropriations Committee Chairman Obey and Agriculture Committee 
Chairman Peterson for their leadership on this priority item.

Beyond disaster assistance, I support this omnibus appropriations 
bill because it invests in:

K-12 Education: $767 million above the President's request with 
targeted increases to Title I, Special Education, Teacher Quality 
Grants, After-School Initiatives and Head Start.

Student Aid: $1.7 billion above the President's request for Pell 
Grants and other student aid.

Vocational Education: $575 million above the President's request for 
technical training at high schools and community colleges.

State and Local Law Enforcement: $1.2 billion above the President's 
request to help local communities across the country.

Homeland Security Grants: $1.8 billion above the President's request, 
recognizing that homeland security begins with hometown security.

Medical Research: $607 million above the President's request to study 
diseases like cancer, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes.

Health Care Access: $1 billion above the President's request, making 
targeted increases to efforts like Community Health Centers to provide 
280,000 more uninsured Americans with access to health care and High 
Risk Insurance Pools to help 200,000 more people afford health 
insurance.

Rural Health Care: $147 million above the President's request to help 
1,200 small rural hospitals.

Veterans: $3.7 billion more than the President's request for VA 
health care, medical and prosthetic research, medical services for 
injured and ill veterans, and the construction of new VA medical 
facilities.

Highway Infrastructure: Meets the guaranteed levels set in the 
authorization bill and provides a $1 billion initiative to repair our 
bridges.

Renewable Energy & Energy Efficiency: $486 million above the 
President's request for critical investments in Solar Energy, Wind 
Energy, Biofuels, and Energy Efficiency, with a careful blend of new 
scientific investments and conservation efforts.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, this bill contains funding the President 
requested for ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, to support 
our troops and avoid any risk that Defense Department employees could 
be subject to furlough notices this holiday season. I regret that the 
stubborn opposition of the President and his allies in Congress to 
investing more in America's priorities prevent us from making more 
progress. But I strongly support this compromise legislation, and I 
urge my colleagues to join me in voting for it.