---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `4a5ce4b54961313305e44167e9704c3a`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this bill because 
it is the wrong debate at the wrong place at the wrong time; and most 
importantly, it sends the wrong message.

It is the wrong debate because it serves no useful purpose. We know 
this bill will never become law. If it passes, it will be vetoed, and 
that veto will be sustained. We are wasting the time and trying the 
patience of the American people for no useful purpose.

It is the wrong place because it is what happens in Iraq, not here, 
that will determine the outcome of the current struggle. Our forces and 
those of the Iraqi Government are in a tough fight. We should reinforce 
them, not undercut them, and we should encourage the Iraqi Government, 
not abandon it.

It is the wrong time because it is too early to debate the outcome of 
the current effort in Iraq. I have great respect for the author of this 
bill, but it is General Petraeus's report and assessment that should 
guide our deliberations in this body. He has asked us to wait until 
September before he offers us an assessment of the progress and 
prospects of the current effort. Having given him a tough job, we owe 
it to him to adhere to the timeline he has requested.

It is the wrong message, most importantly, because it strengthens 
rather than weakens our enemies.



They know they cannot defeat our forces, but they can and they do 
believe they can outlast this Congress. This debate and this bill will 
only strengthen them in that belief.

By strengthening our enemies, we undercut the best efforts of our 
forces, the forces of Iraq and the Iraqi Government. The best way to 
undo the damage that this bill has already done is to defeat it, and I 
urge my colleagues to do so.