# OUT-OF-CONTROL SPENDING
## `4a5fcd9525f88256daaff0616bc7bc59`
`Mr. AKIN — 10 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. I think you're absolutely right. And that is definitely my 
point. The point is is it was tried under FDR. You can at least say 
they were trying a new theory of how to get the economy going. And they 
tried it and it didn't work and he made it clear it didn't work. And 
now, apparently the Japanese didn't learn too much from our history, so 
they tried it for 10 years, did all kinds of government spending like 
mad, and they basically wasted 10 years of the productive use of their 
own economy because the Japanese knew it didn't work.

And the thing that's ironic is, not only do we know what doesn't 
work, we know what does work. JFK and Ronald Reagan, both of them did 
the right kind of tax cuts. The economy turned around. We had long 
periods of very productive, good economic times in America because they 
did the right thing. Why don't we use the good example? Well, I think 
part of the reason is is because we have a mindset now in Washington, 
DC. that big government is God and it knows better how to spend our 
money. And we just like spending a whole lot of money, but it's not 
what's going to make the economy better. And there are going to be more 
and more of your and my constituents who are going to be suffering 
because they don't have jobs, they've got mortgages that are too big, 
and they're really feeling the squeeze.

And it's a shame when you can't learn when history is staring you 
right in the face. But I really appreciate your putting the focus where 
it belongs in this excessive government spending. And you can take a 
look at billions and billions of dollars--and the numbers just seem so 
big, but when you put it in perspective, the whole war in Iraq, the 
whole war in Afghanistan, added together, spent by this House in the 
first 5 weeks of this year, that's a lot of money, that's an awful lot 
of money. But I do see we have some experts on the floor, and I thank 
the gentlelady for yielding me time.