# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `4a628447598f85f64359823768603195`
`Mr. HUNTER — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. I want to also thank everyone who works on this committee and has 
spent so much time over the years working to prepare our military 
forces to be able to handle contingencies and wars around the world. We 
appreciate that, and you have lots of great experience.

But let me tell you, this provision in this particular bill is 
terrible for the warfighters. Let me talk about a small piece of it.

You have what I call a 15-day wait, notify and hold provision. That 
means before any unit can go into Iraq, a 15-day period, waiting 
period, has to expire after you have notified the Armed Services 
Committees and the Defense appropriations committee that unit is 
''ready for battle'' and meets a mission-capability standard.

Now, the problem with that is we have a war against terror in which 
teams, whether they are special operations teams, medivac teams, EOD 
teams, special fire support teams like C-130, A-6 gun ships are 
constantly moving across the boundaries between Iraq and the rest of 
the world. Some of our assets come off of carriers. Some of them come 
out of Incirlik, Turkey. Some from Kuwait and some of them come from 
other places.

This idea that before a special forces team can move across a line 
you must have a 15-day notify and wait period is totally unworkable.

I want to give to you what Admiral Fallon, head of the Central 
Command, said when we asked him what he thought about the notify and 
hold provision. He said, ''I would ask for consideration that we not 
limit the flexibility of our commanders in allowing them to use forces 
that might be necessary to meet a situation or a mission which they 
might be asked to undertake. And so I would opt to allow our commanders 
to have the flexibility of making that decision rather than have some 
dictated requirement in advance.''

I would say to my good friend, Mr. Murtha, who has several times 
stated that the administration should listen to its generals: Every 
team that goes into that warfighting theater goes in because one of the 
battlefield commanders has requested their presence.

I can remember talking to my son when he was in the battle of 
Fallujah as an artillery officer and he was inside the city as a 
forward observer. And I asked him what the most important platforms we 
had out there were. He said the A6 C-130 gunship. I said, Where are 
they? He said, They come and they go.

Ladies and gentleman, we move firefighting teams, all types of 
special operations crews and teams, EOD teams, A6 C-130 gunships across 
those borders constantly, and to have a requirement where you are going 
to have to give a 15-day notification and wait before you can move that 
unit in is devastating to our warfighting capability.

I would ask for a ''no'' on this measure.