---
---

# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `4a660207dae61e83f6c6f292369712e8`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 11 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 1886, the 
Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2009, 
and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of this debate, it's important to 
emphasize that Congress and the administration are united in our goals 
toward Pakistan. We want a long-term partnership with a modern, a 
prosperous, a democratic Pakistan that is at peace with itself and at 
peace with its neighbors. And we want a Pakistan that does not provide 
safe haven to al Qaeda, the Taliban, and other militant extremist 
groups.



Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the hard work that has gone into my good 
friend Chairman Berman's bill. I also recognize that both amendments in 
committee, as well as the manager's amendment, have made this a 
somewhat less objectionable instrument than it was at the outset, but 
it is still worthy of being objected to.

However, concerns remain, and these are not just my concerns, but 
they are concerns that, I understand, the White House, the Defense 
Department and our own intelligence agencies continue to have with H.R. 
1886. These concerns are particularly acute in light of the current 
Pakistani military offensive against the Taliban and against other 
extremists in the North-West Frontier Province as well as the fact that 
the new policy is still evolving.

Rather than a forward-looking bill that addresses the current 
leadership and the current dynamics in Pakistan, this bill before us, 
H.R. 1886, focuses on past actions and failures attributed to the 
Pakistani Government, punishing the new leadership for the sins of its 
predecessors. That is why I will be offering a comprehensive substitute 
which parallels the results of the administration's strategic review 
and which fully funds its request for critical nonmilitary and certain 
military assistance to Pakistan.

Unlike the underlying bill, our measure provides the necessary 
flexibility for all U.S. agencies to respond quickly and to respond 
effectively to rapidly unfolding developments on the ground while still 
retaining robust accountability and congressional oversight of these 
programs.

As Members will recall, on March 27, the President announced a new 
strategy to guide U.S. policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This 
strategy focused our efforts, the U.S. efforts, toward meeting a core 
goal: to disrupt, to dismantle and to defeat al Qaeda and its safe 
havens in Pakistan, and to prevent their return to Afghanistan or 
Pakistan.

As our intelligence agencies have made clear, the threats emanating 
from al Qaeda and from their allies in Pakistan directly endanger our 
homeland security, the survival of Pakistan as a modern nation-state 
and the security of our friends and allies around the world.

The President as well as all of his top advisers, including Secretary 
of State Clinton and Secretary of Defense Gates, insist that this new 
strategy is intended to be a framework, not a straitjacket, for U.S. 
policy. That is why Secretary Clinton has emphasized that the 
democratically-elected government in Pakistan shares our goals with 
respect to tackling militancy, and that is why she urged that Congress 
not legislate onerous conditionality that might undercut our efforts to 
work with Pakistanis who share the interests of the United States. That 
is also why Ambassador Holbrooke noted before our committee this May 
that certain legislative conditionality could prove seriously 
counterproductive.

While the authors of H.R. 1886 may have sought to empower our 
Pakistani partners to undertake the formidable task of fighting and 
winning against violent extremists, it does the opposite. Further, 
accountability measures for Afghanistan and Pakistan must be tightly 
linked to the new U.S. strategy for the region rather than outdated 
assessments of the situation in Pakistan and preconceived notions about 
the response from our Pakistani partners.

Mr. Speaker, we have gone down this road before. I recall during the 
Iraq debate in the last Congress Members expressed great distrust for 
the judgment of General Petraeus, and they sought to prejudge the surge 
strategy before it could even be implemented. Let us hope that this 
will not be repeated with respect to Pakistan and Afghanistan, as 
General Petraeus is now the chief of Central Command, leading the 
efforts of the Department of Defense in these countries and, in fact, 
in the broader theater.

Why does the executive branch need great flexibility in trying to 
execute a strategy in Pakistan? Look what is happening on the ground 
right now. Six weeks of fighting between the Pakistani troops and the 
Taliban insurgencies have forced 2 million people from their homes in 
the Swat Valley and in other northwestern areas.



According to Islamabad, since the operation began on April 26, 1,305 
militants have been killed; 120 have been arrested; 105 soldiers have 
died; and 306 have been injured. In response, the extremists have 
launched a wave of suicide bombings and other attacks in Lahore and 
elsewhere across the country.

As one Pakistani writer noted, ''The terrorist backlash is 
principally aimed at draining public support from the army's offensive 
in Swat and to rattle the political and military establishments, weaken 
national resolve and erode public support for the anti-militancy 
campaign.''

Fortunately, Pakistan's democratic government has responded with 
firmness and with new resolve to persevere and to succeed in our 
mission. Perhaps even more importantly, anti-Taliban sentiment among 
the Pakistani people appears to be increasing in response to the mayhem 
that has been unleashed by the militants. But these gains are fragile, 
Mr. Speaker. Winning the peace could yet prove elusive. There could be 
little doubt that the political and military challenges ahead for the 
government and for the people of Pakistan are, indeed, profound.

That is why it is so important to provide this administration with 
flexible authorities to carry out its new strategy for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, focusing on the strategic importance of Pakistan to the 
United States and to the world and focusing on the need for increased 
security, for increased governance and for development assistance to 
help us meet these vitally important goals.

Finally, the rule for this bill made in order a self-executing 
mechanism whereby House Resolution 1318, a bill to provide duty-free 
treatment for certain goods from designated Reconstruction Opportunity 
Zones, ROZs, in Afghanistan and Pakistan, will be incorporated into the 
text of H.R. 1886 even though that legislation has never even been 
marked up in committee.

While I support the concept of ROZs, this highly irregular maneuver 
is not the appropriate approach to take on this serious matter. 
Although we share the majority's goal, we believe that the Republican 
substitute that I will offer later in this debate affords the best 
means for the United States Congress and for the U.S. administration to 
work together to develop an integrated and effective assistance plan to 
advance our mutual interests in a democratic, stable and prosperous 
Pakistan that is a strong partner in the struggle against extremism and 
that maintains responsible controls over its nuclear weapons 
technology.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of our time.