---
---

# WHY CHENEY SHOULD BE IMPEACHED
## `4a6744491b88b136cfd72843a9140230`
`Mr. CLAY — 4 May 2007`

---


Mr. CLAY. Madam Speaker, I am a proud cosponsor of H. Res. 333, the 
resolution to Impeach Vice President Dick Cheney. Four years after the 
start of this war, it is obvious that Mr. Cheney deliberately 
manipulated the intelligence process to deceive Congress and the 
American people. At the urging of my constituents in Missouri's 1st 
Congressional District, and from Americans across the country, I 
cosponsored Congressman Kucinich's resolution because there is ample 
evidence that Mr. Cheney systematically evaded the truth and used scare 
tactics to build support for this unjust war. Mr. Cheney's betrayal has 
resulted in a tragic, unnecessary war that has already cost the lives 
of over 3,300 brave Americans and has cost the taxpayers over $400 
billion. The Vice President has taken the integrity out of his office 
and breeched the trust of the American people.

Madam Speaker, below is Richard Cohen's column from yesterday's 
Washington Post, headlined, ''A Case Against Cheney.'' I agree with Mr. 
Cohen's conclusion, ''the harping on weapons of mass destruction was an 
attempt to scare the American people into supporting a war that need 
not have been fought.'' I encourage my colleagues to read this column 
and make a conscious decision to hold Vice President Cheney accountable 
by cosponsoring H. Res. 333.









[From the Washington Post, May 2, 2007]













 A Case Against Cheney














 (By Richard Cohen)




 The resolution offered by the gentleman from Ohio reads 


 sensibly. It alleges crimes high and low, misdemeanors 


 galore--all of them representing an effort to mislead the 


 American people and take them into war. It is Dennis 


 Kucinich's articles of impeachment directed at Dick Cheney. 


 The vice president will, of course, deny being a liar. As 


 long as Kucinich is at it, add that to the articles.



 The congressman's case is persuasive, although his remedy 


 may be too radical. He calls for Cheney to be impeached by 


 the House and tried by the Senate, just as Bill Clinton was 


 for what turned out to be neither a high crime nor much of 


 a misdemeanor. What was it, anyway, compared with more 


 than 3,300 American dead?





 In his articles of impeachment, Kucinich details the many 


 statements Cheney made that turned out to be factually wrong. 


 For instance, he quotes Cheney as saying, ''We know they [the 


 Iraqis] have biological and chemical weapons,'' which of 


 course, they didn't. Still, that was excusable, since it was 


 early in the game and little contradictory evidence was being 


 presented. As Condi Rice said Sunday, ''When George [Tenet] 


 said 'slam dunk,' everybody understood that he believed that 


 the intelligence was strong. We all believed the intelligence 


 was strong.''



 But in Cheney's case, the slam-dunking went on and on--way 


 past the point where it was possible anymore to believe him. 


 He continued to insist that Saddam Hussein had high-level 


 contacts with al-Qaeda--''the evidence is overwhelming,'' he 


 once said--while others in the government not only knew that 


 the evidence was not overwhelming but that it hardly existed. 


 It was the same with Cheney's insistence--not just wrong, but 


 irrefutably so--that Hussein ''has weapons of mass 


 destruction,'' and ''[t]here is no doubt he is amassing them 


 to use against our friends, against our allies and against 


 us.'' The percussive march of these statements is so 


 forceful, one after another after another, that it suggests 


 Cheney wanted war no matter what. If he was lying to himself 


 as well as to the rest of us, that is only a mitigating 


 circumstance--sort of an insanity defense.



 Kucinich also alleges that Cheney ''purposely manipulated 


 the intelligence process to deceive the citizens and 


 Congress.'' That, as the expression goes, is the gravamen of 


 the charge. Kucinich doesn't stand a ghost of a chance of 


 making it stick because Congress is not about to vote 


 impeachment. But no one who reads Kucinich's case against 


 Cheney can fail to conclude that this is a rational, serious 


 accusation. It's possible that each individual charge can be 


 rebutted, but the essence of it is shockingly apparent: We 


 were being manipulated.



 It is something of a joke that Washington is now transfixed 


 by l'affaire Wolfowitz. This is the contretemps at the World 


 Bank in which an architect of this misbegotten war stands 


 accused of favoring his girlfriend. Do not be concerned with 


 the details--this is a parody of a Washington scandal--but 


 concentrate instead on what else Wolfowitz has done in 


 government and how, now, it is a salary increase awarded to a 


 companion that might do him in. This is tantamount to getting 


 Al Capone for tax evasion.



 In the same vein, we tend to focus on single events or 


 statements regarding Iraq (to slam dunk or not to slam dunk, 


 that is the question) and how poor George Tenet, a self-


 deceived careerist, is misunderstood--as if he had uttered a 


 statement of principle dramatically resigning over the 


 manipulation of intelligence and it is suspiciously missing 


 from the record. In all this back-and-forth, what gets lost 


 is the immensity of the outrage, the enormousness of the 


 breach of trust, the naive faith some of us had that when it 


 came to the making of war, we'd be told the truth. This was 


 not the case. The harping on weapons of mass destruction was 


 an attempt to scare the American people into supporting a war 


 that need not have been fought.



 Kucinich is an odd guy for whom the killer appellation 


 ''perennial presidential candidate'' is lethally applied. But 


 he is on to something here. It is easy enough to ad hominize 


 him to the margins--ya know, the skinny guy among the 


 ''real'' presidential candidates--but at a given moment, and 


 this is one, he's the only one on that stage who articulates 


 a genuine sense of betrayal. He is not out merely to win the 


 nomination but to hold the Bush administration--particularly 


 Cheney--accountable. In this he will fail. What Cheney has 


 done is not impeachable. It is merely unforgivable.
