---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `4a859bbb240e54e06c64763d7736cc41`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. I thank the chairman for yielding.

Madam Chairman, we would urge a ''yes'' vote on behalf of this budget 
for many reasons. One is the strong increase in funding for our 
veterans.

In less than 2 months, just about every Member of this House will go 
and make Memorial Day speeches. In November, just about every Member 
will make speeches lauding our veterans on Veterans Day.

Tomorrow, Madam Chairman, the Members of the House have a chance to 
do something more than talk; we have a chance to vote for a budget that 
strongly supports our veterans. But do not listen to us. Listen to the 
national commander of the American Legion, who says in a letter dated 
March 25, ''The American Legion applauds the Budget Committee for the 
budget resolution recommendation for $53.3 billion in discretionary 
funding for veterans.''

Listen to the executive director of the VFW, who in a letter dated 
March 25, 2009, says, ''On behalf of the 2.2 million men and women of 
the VFW and our auxiliaries, I would like to express our strong support 
for your proposed budget mark for veterans funding. The $53.3 billion 
in appropriated veterans funding demonstrates your appreciation for 
those who have worn the uniform of this Nation, and it acknowledges the 
debt that this Nation owes to its former defenders.''

Listen to the voice of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America 
through its executive director. ''For the second year in a row, the 
committee's budget resolution surpasses even the recommendation of the 
independent budget, the blueprint for the VA budget endorsed by the 
leading veterans organizations, including the Iraq and Afghanistan 
Veterans of America. By increasing veterans funding by 11.5 percent, or 
$5.5 billion, the committee has displayed their serious commitment to 
supporting our Nation's veterans.''

Listen to the words of the Vietnam Veterans of America. ''The Vietnam 
Veterans of America appreciates that Chairman Spratt continues to make 
it possible even in this difficult budget year amidst tough economic 
times for the appropriators to be able to properly fund health care and 
other vital services for veterans,'' says the VVA's national president, 
John Rowan.

Listen to the Disabled American Veterans who say that, ''Our support 
for


the discretionary funding levels included in Chairman Spratt's budget 
closely reflect the recommendations of the independent budget and 
reaffirm the goal to provide sufficient funding for the VA.'' They say 
they particularly appreciate the fact that the chairman's budget 
rejects any proposal to bill veterans' third-party insurance for the 
care of service-connected illnesses or injuries.

These are not the words of Republicans or Democrats. These are the 
words of the elected leadership of the veterans service organizations 
of our country.

Veterans funding is one of the strongest aspects of this proposal. 
The increase is 11.5 percent. It is precisely the request that had been 
made. There is no issue with respect to requiring veterans to pay more 
than they presently do for their own health care.

I think the Members would be wise to listen to the words of the 
American Legion, listen to the words of the DAV, listen to the words of 
the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, listen to the words of 
the Paralyzed Veterans of America, listen to the words of the VFW, 
listen to the words of the Vietnam Veterans of America. There is strong 
support in this budget from the chairman, and it is one more good 
reason to vote ''yes'' for this budget.