---
---

# ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL CEMETERY IN SOUTHERN COLORADO REGION
## `4a87b6d1661da7c53bd3d3d2dd528945`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
legislation to establish a national cemetery for veterans in southern 
Colorado, and I congratulate my colleague John Salazar for his work on 
this bill.

I also want to recognize the work of my former colleague Joel Hefley 
and my current colleague Doug Lamborn on this issue. Establishing a 
national veterans cemetery in southern Colorado has been and continues 
to be a goal shared by the entire Colorado delegation.

For over 8 years, it has also been a goal of the Pikes Peak Veterans 
Cemetery Committee. And it has been a goal of the Department of 
Colorado Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Colorado chapters of the 
American Legion, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, and the Association for Service Disabled Veterans. So 
many people have worked tirelessly to build support for this cemetery, 
and I hope they are pleased today that we are now one step closer to 
making it a reality.

This is a particularly timely bill to consider today, as we approach 
another Memorial Day and as we continue to send our troops to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We remember the sacrifices that our veterans have made and 
the sacrifices that our men and women in uniform continue to make today 
to protect our freedom.

And at a time when our country is divided over the war in Iraq, it's 
even more important that we honor the service of those who have given 
their lives for this country and of the many veterans still among us.

Of course, it isn't enough just to remember--we must provide our 
troops and veterans with the care and support they have been promised. 
And we must provide them with a resting place within or as close as 
possible to their own communities.

With a growing military retiree and veterans population in southern 
Colorado and particularly El Paso County--and with Denver's Fort Logan 
cemetery rapidly filling up its burial spaces--it makes sense to 
provide for the future even as we ensure that southern Colorado's 
veterans receive the recognition they deserve.

A National Veterans Cemetery in El Paso County will also serve as an 
important symbol for those in the military community who have given so 
much to their country. Mr. Speaker, this is an important piece of 
legislation, and I urge its passage.
















 General Leave
