---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `4a8de3b2d15c2e33eaa792800f023495`
`Mr. ROE of Tennessee — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. ROE of Tennessee. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding, and I 
rise in strong opposition to this resolution.

If passed, this would send a terrible message to our troops in harm's 
way and only serve to boost morale among our enemies who now have to 
face the reality that they are being tracked night and day.

I served in the Army in 1973 and 1974 in the infantry in Korea. I 
felt abandoned at that time by my country. I never want a soldier to 
feel like I felt at that time. I saw what happened in Vietnam when 
Washington bureaucrats and lawmakers micromanaged the war and prevented 
commanders from having the resources available which they thought would 
win. I will never support a plan for this or any other war in which I 
think we are tying the hands of our brave servicemembers.

In my judgment, the strategy devised by our military leaders and 
being implemented by our Armed Forces is the correct one. I have always 
said I will support this military plan so long as we do not set 
arbitrary dates for withdrawal from the country, which will only set a 
target date for those who would try to kill our young men and women.

It is important that we do not forget why we are in Afghanistan. We 
are fighting this war because a previous Afghan regime allowed al 
Qaeda, the terrorist group responsible for countless attacks around the 
globe, including the September 11 attacks against the United States, to 
operate freely within its borders. If the coalition forces leave, the 
Taliban could regain control of the country and once again provide safe 
harbors for those who hate America and want to destroy our country.

Winning the war in Afghanistan will also help deter a radical Islamic 
government from taking over Pakistan, a country with over 15 nuclear 
weapons. It seems that in recent months, since our surge in force has 
begun, we have seen Pakistan become more willing to confront the 
radical elements within its own borders. And while there is much work 
left to be done, there is no question that our more aggressive strategy 
against the enemy is having many positive results.

In April of 2009 I participated in a congressional delegation to 
visit Afghanistan to observe our operations firsthand. I can tell you 
without hesitation that we have every reason to be proud of our men and 
women serving in Afghanistan; they're doing a great job. What they need 
now is support and a clear signal from Washington that the job they are 
accomplishing is appreciated and in our national interests. By soundly 
defeating this resolution today, hopefully we will send such a message. 
And it is my hope and prayer that we never have to enter another war.