# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `4a92329520b2c1e78f5d955655b88900`
`Mr. DINGELL — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2346, the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009. I am supporting this 
legislation because it contains necessary funding for our troops at war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan and ensures they have the proper equipment and 
resources they need. However, I am pleased this is the last time we 
will use emergency supplementals to fund the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, which grows our federal budget deficit and places the 
burden of paying for the wars on our children. From now on, we must 
keep our word and use supplemental appropriations only for true 
emergencies, like natural disasters, pandemic flu outbreaks, and 
terrorist attacks.

In addition to providing funds for continued drawdown of troops from 
Iraq, refocusing military efforts in Afghanistan, and new strategic 
initiatives in Pakistan, this legislation contains much-needed funding 
to respond to urgent humanitarian crises involving refugees and 
internally displaced persons (IDPs). While I thank the Committee for 
including this assistance, I believe much more is necessary to respond 
to the dire situation Iraqi refugees and IDPs find themselves in since 
the beginning of the Iraq War. The United States has both a moral 
obligation to assist this displaced population--the largest since the 
Palestinian Diaspora of 1948--and also a strategic interest in 
stabilizing the region so young Iraqi men and women turn toward the 
future of their country rather than to violence and extremism because 
they have no place else to go.

H.R. 2346 also contains relief for our troops who have been forced to 
remain on duty


through multiple tours of often intense combat missions. This bill 
contains $734 million to retroactively provide service members and 
veterans $500 for every month they served under stop-loss orders since 
2001.

This bill has many other important provisions that I am pleased to 
support, like funding for pandemic flu response, fighting growing 
violence along the U.S.-Mexico border, and international food 
assistance during the global economic crisis. Mr. Speaker, I urge my 
colleagues to join me in voting ''yes'' for H.R. 2346.