---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4a961462ae0457025cddea009a8dfced`
`Mr. SANDERS — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me begin by thanking Chairman Kent 
Conrad and his staff for the very hard work they have done in crafting 
the important budget resolution that is before us. I know of their work 
because I am a member of that committee and have seen how much effort 
it has taken.

Mr. President, as you know, a budget is more than a long list of 
numbers and this budget certainly has many numbers and it adds up to a 
huge sum of money. But after all is said and done, a budget is a 
statement about our values, about our priorities, and what we as a 
nation stand for. That is what a budget is about. In my view, the time 
is long overdue for the Congress in its budget to get its priorities 
right, and by that I mean to begin to stand up for the vast majority of 
our people--the middle class, the working families of this country--
rather than just the large multinational corporations and the 
wealthiest people in our Nation who year after year have had their way 
on budget initiatives.

Mr. President, when we analyze the merits of a Federal budget, we 
have to begin by taking a very serious look at the economic reality 
which faces the American people. In other words, is the budget we are 
working on now reflective of the needs of our people? Is that what we 
are doing?

On many occasions, members of the Bush administration have come 
before the Budget Committee, of which I am a member, and they have 
given us their view of how our economy is doing. I am astounded each 
and every time by their worldly view with regard to the budget. We have 
heard members of the administration telling us how wonderful the 
economy is doing, how marvelous it is,


and how the economy is booming. I sit there, and I think millions of 
Americans sit there, and they begin to scratch their heads and they 
say: What world are these people living in?

I know that in my own State of Vermont, when we do town meetings, we 
always talk about the economy; how well the middle class is doing. I 
always ask people: How do you think the middle class is doing right 
now--doing well, not so well? With very few exceptions, people tell me 
that the middle class in this country, in the State of Vermont, in 
their own lives, that people are struggling economically to keep their 
heads above water. I find it hard to understand how people from the 
Bush administration can come forward and tell us just how great the 
economy is doing. I really wonder what world they are living in.

In my view, and I think the facts substantiate my view, the economic 
reality facing the vast majority of our working people is that the 
middle class is shrinking, that people today all over our country are 
working longer hours for lower wages.

When I was a kid growing up, the expectation was that one person in a 
family--in those days, almost always the man--could work 40 hours a 
week and earn enough money to pay the bills--one person, 40 hours a 
week. How many middle-class families do we know today where one person 
is working 40 hours a week? The answer is, likely not very many. Most 
of the middle-class families we know are seeing husbands working very 
long hours, wives working very long hours, and on occasion kids working 
to help save some money for college. In fact, at the end of the day, 
what we have to understand is that the American worker today is working 
longer hours than the people of any other industrialized country. We 
surpassed the Japanese a few years ago.

We also have to understand, when we talk about a shrinking middle 
class, that many millions of American workers today are working longer 
hours for lower wages than used to be the case. In Vermont, and 
throughout this country, in fact, parents are wondering why, despite a 
huge increase in technology, despite huge growth in worker 
productivity, there is a strong likelihood that for the first time in 
modern American history our children will have a lower standard of 
living than we do. The American dream has always been about parents 
working hard with the hope that their kids, the next generation, will 
do better than they have done. That was the case with my parents and in 
the case of millions of families in this country.

Unfortunately, now we are in a situation unique in modern history 
where, unless we turn this economy around, what we will see is our 
children having a lower standard of living than we do.

I wonder how the Bush administration can tell us how great the 
economy is doing when more than 5 million Americans have slipped into 
poverty since the President has been in office, including over 1 
million children. That is not a booming economy.

How can the economy be doing well when median income for working-age 
families has declined for 5 years in a row and when the personal 
savings rate in this country now is below zero, something which has not 
happened since the Great Depression?

How can our economy be doing well when almost 7 million Americans 
have lost their health insurance since President Bush has been in 
office and when, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 35 
million Americans struggled to put food on the table last year and 
hunger in America is increasing? If hunger is increasing, that, to my 
mind, does not sound like a booming economy.

How can people talk about our economy doing so well when college 
students are graduating with about $20,000 in debt and some 400,000 
qualified high school students don't go to college because they can't 
afford it? We all talk about education, education, education. Hundreds 
of thousands of young people cannot afford to go to college.

How can our economy be doing great when home foreclosures have 
skyrocketed to the highest level in nearly four decades, according to 
the Mortgage Bankers Association, and when we have lost over 3 million 
good-paying manufacturing jobs since President Bush has been in office?

How can our economy be doing so great when 3 million fewer American 
workers have pension coverage today than when President Bush took 
office, and half of private sector American workers have no pension 
coverage whatsoever?

When the President of the United States and his administration tell 
us the economy is doing great, well, they are partially right. While 
the economy is not doing well for the middle class or working families 
of our country, it is doing very well for the wealthiest people in 
America. That is the truth.

Today, the wealthiest people in our country are becoming much 
wealthier. In fact, they have not had it so good since the 1920s. That 
is the reality. The middle class is shrinking, poverty is increasing, 
the people at the top have never had it so good since the 1920s, and we 
have, as a nation, the dubious distinction of now having, by far, the 
widest gap between the rich and the poor of any major country on earth.

Today, the upper 1 percent of families in America have not had it so 
good since the 1920s. According to Forbes Magazine, the collective net 
worth of the wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $120 billion last 
year to $1.25 trillion. The 400 wealthiest Americans are now worth 
$1.25 trillion at the same time that hunger in America is increasing 
and 5 million more of our citizens have slipped into poverty.

I have given this broad overview of the economy in order to place the 
discussion of our budget in what I think is a sensible context; that 
is, if the wealthiest people in America are becoming wealthier while 
the middle class is shrinking and poverty is increasing, what the 
budget should be about is responding to that reality. That is the 
reality to which the budget should be responding.

The President of the United States, in his budget proposal, told us 
what he thought. He said in his budget that, despite the growing health 
care crisis in our country, he was going to cut Medicare and Medicaid 
by $280 billion over the next decade and that he was going to 
inadequately fund the Children's Health Insurance Program. Today, the 
United States is the only nation in the industrialized world that does 
not guarantee health care to all its people. We have millions and 
millions of children who have no health insurance, and this President 
refuses to adequately fund the health insurance program for children.

Despite the reality that we have 23,000 wounded coming home from Iraq 
and tens of thousands more who will be coming home with post-traumatic 
stress disorder or traumatic brain injury, the President, in his 
budget, once again inadequately funded the needs of our veterans, as he 
has done year after year. In fact, since President Bush has been in 
office, an estimated 1 million veterans have been denied access to 
health services at the VA.

Despite a horrendous crisis in childcare access and affordability for 
working families, so that all over this country working people are 
desperately trying to locate quality, affordable childcare while they 
are at work, the President, in his budget, reduced the number of 
children receiving childcare assistance by 300,000 and he cut funding 
for the Head Start Program.

Despite millions of homeowners paying outrageously high property 
taxes, the President has, in his budget, further retreated from the 
Federal commitment to special education and he has cut funding for that 
program. This will result in a lowering of the quality of education for 
all of our children, including those with disabilities, and an increase 
in property taxes. This is a very serious problem in my State of 
Vermont, where towns are divided every March when they go over the 
budget.

People understand the needs of the schools. They understand the high 
cost of mainstreaming kids with disabilities. Yet people cannot afford 
higher and higher property taxes. We as a Congress have to fully fund 
special education and keep the commitment we have made to school 
districts all over this country. Yet the President, in his budget, cuts 
funding for special education.

Interestingly enough, while cutting programs for the middle class and 
working families of our country, while inadequately funding the needs 
of our veterans, of our children, and of our senior citizens, the 
President has


reached the conclusion in his budget that we do have enough money as a 
government to provide enormous tax breaks to the wealthiest people in 
our society--$739 billion in tax cuts for households earning more than 
$1 million per year over the next decade. We can't fund the needs of 
our kids, the President wants to eliminate a wonderful nutrition 
program for low-income seniors, we can't fund special education, we 
don't have enough money to put into sustainable energy, we can't take 
care of our veterans--we just don't have enough money--but somehow the 
President did manage to find in his budget $739 billion in tax cuts for 
households earning more than $1 million per year over the next decade.

Part of the President's budget calls for a complete elimination of 
the estate tax, a tax which now applies only to the wealthiest three-
tenths of 1 percent of our population. The elimination of this tax 
would provide an estimated $1 trillion in tax breaks for millionaires 
and billionaires between 2012 to 2021. One, just one multibillionaire 
family, the Walton family, which owns Wal-Mart, would receive an 
estimated $32 billion in tax relief--for one family. But we just don't 
have the money to take care of hundreds of thousands of veterans or our 
children or our seniors. Now, that may make sense to somebody, but that 
is not my sense of what moral values are about.

While the budget resolution, introduced by Chairman Kent Conrad, 
which we are debating now is far from perfect, it is much more 
responsive to the needs of ordinary Americans than the President's. 
Instead of cutting back on the educational needs of this country, this 
budget resolution provides over $6 billion more than the President's 
request for education, including significant increases for Pell grants, 
Head Start, title I, and special education.

Instead of cutting back on health care, this budget resolution 
provides an increase of $2.8 billion over the President's request for 
health care, including strong funding for a program that I think is 
enormously important for rural America and that is Community Health 
Centers and the National Health Service. Instead of cutting back or 
inadequately funding the needs of our veterans, this budget resolution 
provides over $3 billion in increases over the President's budget for 
our Nation's veterans--one of the priorities that I regard most 
important as a member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

But I think over the long run we can and must do much better in 
establishing our budget priorities than this budget does. This budget 
is much better than President Bush's budget, but in my view we have a 
long way to go to create a budget which responds to the needs of 
ordinary Americans.

As an example of where I think we should be going as a nation in 
terms of our budget, last week I introduced the National Priorities Act 
which would expand the middle class, reduce the gap between the rich 
and the poor, and lower property taxes all over America as well as 
reduce the level of poverty. The basic premise of this legislation is 
pretty simple: We raise $130 billion in new revenue by rescinding the 
tax breaks that President Bush gave to the most wealthy 1 percent.

I know a lot of my colleagues do not agree with me, but I think that 
at a time when we have a $8.5 trillion national debt, at a time when 
the middle class is being squeezed, at a time when the wealthiest 
people in our country have never had it so good, I believe that it is 
time to rescind the Bush tax breaks that have been given to the 
wealthiest 1 percent.

What we also do is ask the Pentagon to take a hard look at their 
budget and cut out the waste, the fraud, the unnecessary weapons 
systems that currently exist. When you do that, you end up raising $130 
billion of new revenue. We propose that $30 billion go to deficit 
reduction and we propose the other $100 billion go to address the 
longtime unmet needs of the middle class and working families of this 
country.

If as a nation we are serious about addressing the long neglected 
needs of the working people of America and creating a more just 
society, we have to change our national priorities. The wealthiest 
people in this country are doing just fine. They are doing really well. 
It is time we pay attention to working families, to the middle class, 
to the people who are struggling.

I appreciate very much the hard work that Senator Conrad has done and 
I applaud his efforts. In the coming days I will be offering several 
amendments that I think will make the budget bill a stronger bill. One 
of the amendments is pretty simple. I hear a whole lot on the floor of 
the Senate about the need for deficit reduction, and I share that 
concern. The fact that we have a $8.5 trillion national debt should be 
of concern to every Member of the Senate and every Member of the House. 
So our proposal is going to be a pretty simple one--very simple.

What we are going to propose is that we rescind all of the tax breaks 
given to people who earn $100 million or more--a tiny fraction of 1 
percent--and that we use those savings for deficit reduction. That is 
it. Pretty simple. If you are in favor of deficit reduction, I hope you 
will support that amendment.

There is another amendment that we will also be offering. We have not 
worked out all the details but again what this amendment would do is 
rescind tax breaks for upper income people and use all of those savings 
to start the process of fully funding special education. All over 
America, people are paying higher and higher property taxes. It is 
certainly true in Vermont; it is certainly true in many States. The 
question is, Do we continue to maintain tax breaks for the most wealthy 
people in this country while property taxes are soaring? I say no. I 
say we lower property taxes, provide quality education for our kids 
including the kids with disabilities, and we do that by rescinding tax 
breaks for the wealthiest people in this country.

I think we are making some progress in terms of the budget, the 
budget before us today, far better than what the President presented to 
Congress. But we still have a long way to go. I ask my colleagues to 
support amendments which will strengthen the middle class and working 
families of our country.

I yield the floor.