---
---

# None
## `4a9e3d462699e185e44ddb77cea7fa21`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1213 provides for consideration of 
general debate for H.R. 5658. This debate will come under a structured 
rule.

The rule provides 2 hours of general debate, equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Armed Services. The rule waives all points of order against the 
bill's consideration except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule 
XXI.

As the chairwoman of the Rules Committee announced yesterday evening, 
the committee intends to meet later today to report out an additional 
rule which will provide for the remaining consideration of the bill, 
including amendments and final passage.

This two-part process has been used over the years to ensure that the 
Rules Committee has ample time to consider the amendments submitted to 
the committee, and there were a substantial number of amendments 
offered.

Mr. Speaker, the National Defense Authorization Act is one of the 
most comprehensive and important pieces of legislation that the House 
considers each year. The overwhelmingly bipartisan support for this 
bill is proof that we understand our obligation as legislators to 
support our military and ensure our national security by coming 
together and producing quality measures.

I am proud that the chairman and ranking Republican of the Armed 
Services Committee introduced the underlying legislation together. 
Chairman Skelton and Representative Hunter are to be congratulated for 
a job well done. Without their work, the unanimous support for the bill 
with a vote of 61-0 in the Armed Services Committee would not have been 
possible.

Mr. Speaker, for too long, President Bush's administration has 
neglected the needs of our military. I was just in Baghdad 2 days ago, 
and I saw evidence of this neglect. While the President has shown 
little hesitation to send troops into harm's way, his refusal to take 
care of them and their families when they return is downright 
despicable.

The underlying National Defense Authorization Act gives our 
servicemen and -women and their families the resources that they need 
and deserve. That includes providing a 3.9 percent pay raise for all 
servicemembers and expands the authority of the Defense Department to 
offer bonuses.

This bill takes care of our soldiers and their families by increasing 
access to financial aid for education, expanding survivor benefits, and 
enhancing health care services. And it rejects President Bush's 
proposal to inflict $1.9 billion in TRICARE fee and premium increases 
and other increases in health care costs for soldiers.

The bill also strengthens our national security by providing our 
troops with state-of-the-art equipment and authorizes the expansion of 
the military.

It includes fiscally responsible provisions that are designed to 
increase efficiency and accountability in the military.

The bill cracks down on the Blackwaters of the world and requires the 
Department of Defense to put into place policies and systems under 
which contractors are held accountable for their actions.

The underlying legislation also addresses the issue of readiness. Our 
Armed Forces are hurting today because we continue to ask them to do 
more with less.

Under this bill, Congress is making it clear that at least one of the 
three branches of government will not allow rhetorical and ideological 
policies to stand in the way of doing the right thing by our troops.

We continue to send our brave young men and women into battle without 
proper equipment or protection. The National Defense Authorization Act 
authorizes nearly $800 million for personal body armor, as well as $2.6 
billion for mine resistant ambush-protected vehicles for our troops in 
the Middle East.



Finally, the bill prohibits the establishment of permanent bases in 
Iraq, requires the Iraqis to invest in the reconstruction of their own 
country, and I, for one, have emphasized this repeatedly since the 
beginning of this adventure in Iraq. And this bill provides funds to 
help train both Iraqi and Afghani security forces.

Mr. Speaker, no one political party holds a monopoly on national 
security. The underlying legislation is clear evidence that, under new 
leadership, Congress is addressing the needs of our armed services.

America cannot afford to continue to make the same mistakes we have 
made in the past. The stakes are too great, and the world is too 
dangerous.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying 
legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.