---
---

# HONORING THE SACRIFICES AND CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY DISABLED AMERICAN  VETERANS
## `4ab7e081c4047ba518448ad18e0cba55`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of H. Con. Res. 336, a 
commonsense resolution that expresses support for one of the greatest 
segments of the American population, the disabled American veteran.

Back home in Florida, I represent nearly 110,000 veterans, the second 
highest number of any Member of Congress. As you might guess, many of 
these brave men and women are disabled, either injured in battle or in 
the course of their service in the United States military.

Disabled veterans are cared for by military professionals at the VA. 
They also band together in veterans organizations like the Disabled 
American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, or Blinded Veterans 
Association.

However, there was no Federal recognition in place for Americans 
specifically to remember the deeds and heroism of disabled veterans.

The concurrent resolution before us today calls for the establishment 
of a Disabled American Veterans Week and shows all disabled veterans 
that Congress does not forget their bravery and actions in service to 
our great Nation.

You know, every weekend I returned home to Florida to meet with my 
constituents and hear their needs and concerns and what I can do to 
serve the men and women who live in the Fifth Congressional District.

I often hear words of thanks for voting in support of drilling in 
ANWR and in the Outer Continental Shelf, or get asked what Congress is 
going to do to stop the outrageous increase in the cost of gasoline 
that we have seen since our colleagues across the aisle took over the 
House and Senate.

However, the most poignant and heart-wrenching stories I hear are 
oftentimes from veterans. As you might expect, I attend dozens of 
veterans events throughout the eight counties in my district. It is, 
indeed, at these events that I hear stories of courageous deeds, heroic 
actions and lives forever changed by the ravages of war.

Disabled veterans have given so much to this Nation with their blood, 
sweat and tears, lying on the battlefields from Germany, to Korea, to 
Vietnam, to Iraq and Afghanistan.

This resolution calling for a Disabled American Veterans Week shows 
the thousands of men and women who served with honor and distinction 
that Congress will see that their memories and deeds are never 
forgotten.

I thank my colleague, Mr. Altmire, for introducing this resolution. I 
would hope that all Members of this body can support such a worthy 
passage for disabled veterans.