# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `4ab77b8750b17822027b5e9e9d09f488`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 11 March 2008`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. I thank our chairman for yielding me this time and 
for his great leadership on this issue, and for making it clear that 
this veto was about torture.

In December, I said that restrictions on the use of torture 
represented a battle for the soul of our country. Because the President 
chose to veto this critically important piece of legislation, that 
battle continues today.

The way we treat our prisoners is a fundamental measure of our 
character. It is what separates great nations with moral authority to 
lead from other lesser nations.

The President's national security team has now publicly confirmed 
that the CIA waterboarded detainees. Incredibly, President Bush and his 
advisers insist that they have the legal authority to do so again and 
that they don't consider it torture. These claims have damaged our 
Nation's moral authority and credibility around the world.

There is a simple way to restore some of our moral authority. It is 
in this bill in the form of a provision mandating that all intelligence 
agencies and those under contract or subcontract with our intelligence 
agencies comply with the U.S. Army Field Manual on interrogation 
guidelines.

The interrogation rules in the Army Field Manual have served us well, 
but don't just take my word for it. Generals, intelligence 
professionals, diplomats, religious leaders, and foreign leaders, many 
of them our closest allies, have all spoken out against the use of 
coercive techniques such as waterboarding.

Consider the words of Navy Rear Admiral Mark Buzby, Commander of 
Joint Task Force Guantanamo, which is already required to comply with 
the Army Field Manual, who recently stated that ''we get so much 
dependable information from just sitting down and having a conversation 
and treating them like human beings in a businesslike manner.'' Or what 
about the advice of the Republican Presidential nominee, Senator John 
McCain, who, before changing his mind and joining with President Bush 
to oppose this bill and with it Congress' effort to ban torture, stated 
that the issue of interrogation was ''a defining issue'' and that 
interrogation should be ''humane and yet effective.'' And that an Army 
general in Iraq had told him that ''the techniques under the Army Field 
Manual are working and working effectively, and he didn't think they 
need to do anything else.''

In December, Congress made its voice known and passed this critically 
important bill. With one flick of his pen, the President tried to take 
our voice way. I believe it is time to say once and for all ''no'' to 
techniques like waterboarding, ''no'' to torture, and ''no'' to this 
President's attempt to legitimize his administration's political legacy 
at the cost of this Nation's moral authority.

I urge all my colleagues to join with me in voting to override the 
President's veto.