---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008
## `4ac5b75945e33d8273d067a4052559e6`
`Mr. KERRY — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today the Senate has passed legislation 
which will assist military families. I agree with Ways and Means 
Chairman Charles Rangel that this legislation should be called the 
''thank you bill.'' As we approach Memorial Day, I am pleased that the 
House and Senate have passed this important legislation which will help 
thousands of military families.

I would like to thank Senators Baucus and Grassley for the work they 
have done on this bill. The HEART Act reflects a compromise reached by 
the Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees. Last year, Senator 
Smith and I introduced the Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007, 
which would help those who bravely serve their country and the families 
that they have left behind.

The HEART Act includes several provisions from the Active Duty 
Military Tax Relief Act of 2007. It also includes additional provisions 
to help military families and veterans who often struggle financially.

The best definition of patriotism is keeping faith with those who 
serve our country. That means giving our troops the resources they need 
to keep them safe while they are protecting us. And it means supporting 
our troops at home as well as abroad.

Currently, there are over 160,000 military personnel serving in Iraq. 
There are approximately 33,000 United States servicemembers in 
Afghanistan. Many of these men and women are reservists and have been 
called to active duty, frequently for multiple tours.

Most large businesses have the resources to provide supplemental 
income to reservist employees called up I applaud the businesses that 
have been able to pay supplemental income to their reservists, but it 
is not easy for small businesses to do the same.

In January 2007, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
held a hearing on veterans' small business issues. A majority of our 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are Reserve and National 
Guard members--35 percent of whom are either self-employed or own or 
are employed by a small business.

We heard some disturbing statistics about the impact and unintended 
consequences the call up of reservists is having on small businesses. 
According to a January 2007 survey conducted by Workforce Management, 
54 percent of the businesses surveyed responded that they would not 
hire a citizen soldier if they knew that they could be called up for an 
indeterminate amount of time. I am concerned that long call ups and 
redeployments have made it hard for


small businesses to be supportive of civilian soldiers.

The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 provides a tax credit 
to small businesses to assist with the cost of paying the salary of 
their reservist employees when they are called to active duty. A 
similar provision is included in the HEART Act.

In addition to helping small businesses, the Active Duty Military Tax 
Relief of 2007 addresses concerns related to differential military pay, 
income tax withholding, and retirement plan participation. These 
provisions will make it easier for employers who would like to pay 
their employees supplemental income, above their military pay, and make 
pension contributions. Our legislation would make differential military 
pay subject to federal income tax withholding. In addition, with 
respect to the retirement plan rules, the bill provides that a person 
receiving differential military pay would be treated as an employee of 
the employer making the payment, and allows the differential military 
pay to be treated as compensation. These provisions are included in the 
HEART Act.

The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 would make permanent 
the existing provision which allows taxpayers to include combat pay as 
earned income for purposes of the earned income tax credit, EITC. 
Without this provision, some military families would no longer be 
eligible to receive the EITC because combat pay is currently not 
taxable. It also would provide tax relief for the death gratuity 
payment that is given to families that have lost a loved one in combat. 
This payment is currently $100,000. Our current tax laws do not allow 
the recipients of this payment to use it to make contributions to tax-
preferred saving accounts that help with saving for retirement. Both of 
these provisions are included in the HEART Act.

Recently, Representatives Ellsworth and Emanuel and Senator Obama and 
I introduced the Fair Share Act of 2008 which ends the practice of U.S. 
government contractors setting up shell companies in foreign 
jurisdictions to avoid payroll taxes. I think that is appropriate that 
the Fair Share Act is included in the HEART Act. The revenue raised 
from closing this abusive loophole will help offset the tax relief 
provided to military families.

On March 6, 2008, Farah Stockman of the Boston Globe reported that 
Kellogg, Brown and Root Inc.--KBR--has avoided payroll taxes by hiring 
workers through shell companies in the Cayman Islands. The article 
estimates that hundreds of millions of dollars in payroll taxes have 
been avoided a disturbing, yet not all too surprising discovery.

The Fair Share Act of 2008 will end the practice of U.S. Government 
contractors setting up shell companies in foreign jurisdictions to 
avoid payroll taxes. The legislation amends the Internal Revenue Code 
and the Social Security Act to treat foreign subsidiaries of U.S. 
companies performing services under contract with the United States 
government as American employers for the purpose of Social Security and 
Medicare payroll taxes.

Our service men and women need to know that we are honoring their 
service. These changes to our tax laws will help our military families 
with some of their financial burdens. It cannot repay the sacrifices 
they have made for us, but it is a small way we can support our troops 
and their families at home and abroad.