---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `4ae8218a0b3e40bd6283e49a333856c5`
`Mr. BOND — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I want to talk more broadly about the war on 
terror and say it is with pleasure that we see the President's policy 
of bringing back troops home when they complete their mission 
successfully. Return on success is working. Marines are coming home 
after having pacified Al Anbar Province and turned the responsibility 
for maintaining security over to the Iraqi security forces. I know 
about that personally and it is working. The marines are coming home. 
We know they are coming home because


there was a story this morning on television about how marines were 
held up for about 2/1/2/ hours by the TSA at one of the places they 
landed in the United States. They refused to allow the marines to go 
into the terminal because I guess they provided some kind of threat. In 
any event, the marines are now coming back to face additional 
challenges--not just the challenges of the TSA that we all undergo, 
but, regrettably, too many of them have mental health problems, TBI and 
PTSD, and in the Defense authorization bill we have passed provisions 
to assist the wounded warriors coming home. But they have been 
successful, and return on success means al-Qaida is no longer able to 
exercise control over Al Anbar.

For those who think this is a diversion in the battle in the war on 
terror, all they have to do is listen to the leaders, Osama bin Laden 
and Zawihiri, who have said the headquarters of the caliphate from 
which they are going to conduct worldwide operations is the land 
between the two rivers. That is, of course, Iraq. If they win there, 
they are stronger, and they will establish their headquarters there.

The intelligence community leaders, in January of this year, spoke in 
open session before the Intelligence Committee. They said if we 
withdraw before we have established relative peace and stability in the 
area--in other words, if we withdraw on a political timetable dictated 
by this body--there will be chaos. Three things will happen. There will 
be increased killing among Shia and Sunni, genocide and bloodshed. Two, 
that will bring in the other states in the region to protect their 
coreligionists, and we will see the potential of a regionwide sectarian 
war. Three, most frighteningly, al-Qaida will establish the safe haven 
they have sought in Al Anbar and elsewhere from which to embolden their 
efforts and attack the United States and United States persons abroad, 
and our allies.

All you have to do to get an idea of the effectiveness of our new 
counterinsurgency efforts, led by General Petraeus, is to pay attention 
to what was found in the pocket of Abu al-Tunisi, the Tunisian al-Qaida 
leader in Iraq who was responsible for bringing foreign fighters into 
Iraq--the ones from Iran, Syria, Yemen, and others, with all of the 
resources they had. Al-Tunisi had written letters to his leader, 
saying: I am suffering. They are strangling us. I cannot get support.

We have hurt them and we have hurt them badly. Yes, al-Qaida is a 
threat, but al-Qaida is not basing that threat from Iraq. Their leaders 
are probably in the mountains of Pakistan or Afghanistan. I can assure 
you we are doing everything we can--and we obviously cannot discuss 
what we are doing--to capture and kill those leaders. Right now, we 
have taken advantage and the counterinsurgency strategy is working. I 
commend our troops and General Petraeus.

I thank the Chair and I yield the floor.