---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO
## `4aedbda10eedd5f70b578f8b24522683`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 7 November 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I thank the Senator from California for 
the tremendous work she has done on this critical bill that supports 
the infrastructure across the country and for her diligence in keeping 
to the task to make sure we are finally here at this point where we are 
just a vote away from having this signed into law.

Madam President, I wanted to come to the Senate floor tonight to urge 
the Senate to override the President's very shortsighted veto of this 
Water Resources Development Act. This is a bill that, as the Senator 
from California said, renews critical flood control, navigation, and 
water quality projects that are important across the country but are 
important in my home State of Washington as well.

This bill ensures our waterways can continue to be used to move 
goods. It helps restore our beaches and our wetlands, which are 
important to our coastal communities, and it makes sure we are 
protected from catastrophic floods. These projects in this bill are 
essential for our economy. And as we saw with Hurricane Katrina, they 
can also be a matter of life and death. That is why I was astonished 
that President Bush vetoed this bill.

More than 2 years after Katrina flooded 80 percent of New Orleans, 
destroyed coastal Mississippi, and killed 1,600 people, I couldn't 
believe the President said no to this bill. Even after he failed to 
respond to the devastation on the gulf, he is now standing in the way 
of projects that will protect the people of that region. Madam 
President, 81 Senators approved this bill in October because we 
understood our responsibility to invest in these important projects 
that provide for public safety and that keep our economy healthy.

The President's veto is another example of his misplaced priorities. 
Throughout this year he has been insistent on playing political games 
at the expense of our Nation's economy and our health and safety. So, 
again, I


urge our colleagues to override this veto and show the President he got 
it wrong.

I know most of the Senate agree it is critical for us to address 
these issues now. This bill will help us avoid another catastrophe such 
as we saw in New Orleans, and it will help ensure our environment and 
our economy stays healthy.

Too many years have passed since the Water Development Resources Act 
was reauthorized. It is 5 years overdue now, and the needs are piling 
up. I again thank Senator Boxer and Senator Inhofe because their 
leadership in the first year of this Democratic-controlled Congress 
made sure that this bill did finally get to the President.

The tragedy in New Orleans provided a dramatic example of how 
necessary this bill is, but there are hundreds of communities across 
the country that have been waiting for years for Congress to act on 
this bill and ensure that these vital projects finally get started.

WRDA creates a national levee safety program and ensures thousands of 
miles of levees across the country will get a general safety 
inspection. It enables the Federal Government to act quickly on 
critical flood control projects, and it helps our local communities 
prepare for damaging and deadly floods.

This bill is also about economic development. It ensures that 
shipping can continue on our waterways and helps us to move everything 
from wheat to cars to wind turbines from port to port. And it is about 
making sure our lakes and our beaches are clean and safe. It protects 
our environment and promotes recreation and it provides jobs.

By vetoing this bill, the President said no to the communities that 
have been waiting for years to go ahead with these critical 
environmental, safety, and economic development projects. And, Madam 
President, some of those communities are in our home State. From 
shipping, to boating, to fishing, our waterways in the Pacific 
Northwest are vital to our way of life. That includes, by the way, a 
major shipping route on the Columbia River, with container ships and 
bulk carriers and tankers and car carriers that travel back and forth, 
as the Presiding Officer knows, carrying goods in, and shipping lumber 
and grain and countless other products out.

So it is vital to the economy of our region the Columbia get regular 
dredging and maintenance. This bill, the WRDA bill, lifts restrictions 
on the number of days Federal dredges can operate to make sure that 
happens. And it helps our region in a number of other ways too. This 
bill gives the Corps of Engineers another tool so they can eliminate 
that huge backlog of permit applications for people who are trying to 
do everything from building piers to expanding ports. That will save 
our local governments millions of dollars.

By vetoing this bill, the WRDA bill, the President essentially said 
no to the economy, to the safety, and to the environment in my home 
State of Washington.

Sadly, the Water Resources Development Act is not the first important 
and bipartisan bill this President has blocked. It happens to be the 
fifth. Besides this bill, President Bush has vetoed children's health 
insurance; lifesaving stem cell research, twice; and our efforts to 
change course in Iraq and bring our troops home. He has, by the way, 
threatened to veto many of our appropriations bills. He says he objects 
to our spending bills because they invest $22 billion more than he 
asked for.

President Bush is pretty happy to talk about pork and complain, but 
what he will not do and has not done yet is tell the American people 
what he wants to cut. Would he cut health care funding? Would he cut 
the money to build our deteriorating bridges and roads? Maybe he would 
cut investments to the FBI or the DEA. Perhaps it is the millions of 
dollars of funding we have in these bills for job training or education 
that he objects to. We don't know because he would not say.

But he ought to know this. We stand by these important investments 
because our bills ensure our roads and our bridges and our airports and 
our railways are in good and safe condition. They ensure our kids can 
see a doctor. They ensure we can do cutting-edge research so we can 
find cures for diseases such as diabetes or MS. But as we have seen, 
the President has insisted on blocking these ideas and priorities and 
keeps repeating his apparent favorite four-letter word, which is 
''veto.''

Instead of investing in our communities, he has continued to play 
political games. Instead of progress, all we have gotten are vetoes. I 
hope it is time for us to send a message to President Bush: We are not 
going to stand idly by and watch you veto these investments in our 
communities. I hope our colleagues override this veto on this important 
legislation, and I believe by standing together, as our friends in the 
House did, we can send a strong message to him about who has the right 
priorities for America. I hope by doing this we can finally unite with 
our Republican colleagues in choosing a new course for the other 
important bills--the children's health bill, all of our appropriations 
bills, even the stem cell research bill.

I think it is time for Congress to turn a page on the President's 
obstruction. This is the first step. I hope there are more to come. As 
I have said before, and I will say it again now, people around this 
country are eager for a change. They want to see a light at the end of 
the tunnel, and we want to make sure the President does not put out 
that light.

I yield the floor.