---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `4afa790409b6529f5ef9247c5d405f41`
`Mr. BEGICH — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. BEGICH. Madam President, I rise in support of S. 1963, the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009. I am 
pleased we are now considering this bill. S. 1963 is comprehensive 
legislation that addresses many of the needs of our veterans and our 
Nation's heroes. The bill before us is a compilation of two earlier 
bills introduced by Chairman Akaka to improve veterans health care and 
provide much needed benefits to their caregivers. I thank the chairman 
of the Veterans' Affairs Committee for his leadership on this bill and 
in committee. He understands the importance of providing the Department 
of Veterans Affairs the necessary tools and policies to serve the needs 
of veterans.

This legislation ensures that wounded warriors returning from Iraq 
and Afghanistan can receive care in their home by providing caregivers 
the necessary benefits to stay at home and care for them full time. 
This is especially important in rural States such as my State of Alaska 
where obtaining a caregiver from remote areas is extremely challenging. 
In those areas, families take care of their injured servicemembers. To 
further help rural veterans, this bill will allow servicemembers who 
are severely disabled or require emergency care to seek medical 
attention at non-VA facilities without being billed. For a veteran in 
one of the many remote villages of Alaska, this is especially 
important, for they already face many economic challenges.

The bill takes other steps to alleviate shortfalls in rural veterans 
health care. Telemedicine progam expansion, authority to collaborate 
with Indian Health Services and community organizations are just some 
of the additional efforts taken.

In addition to providing for caregivers and improving health care for


rural veterans, S. 1963 will finally require the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to identify and take action on shortfalls in health care for 
women veterans, mental health care, and outreach to homeless veterans.

Thirteen veteran organizations support S. 1963 as introduced by 
Chairman Akaka. Unfortunately, one of my Senate colleagues disagrees 
with me and my other Senate colleagues and the 13 veteran organizations 
about this initiative and this bill and whom they serve. My Senate 
colleague has offered an amendment that almost doubles the cost. 
Although he claims the bill is discriminatory against veterans from 
previous wars, the expansion of rural, women's health, mental health, 
and homeless initiatives are not limited to any particular group of 
veterans. Additionally, my colleague's amendment offsets the cost of 
the bill by requiring the Department of State to transfer money to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs from the United Nations.

Sitting here for a few minutes listening to my colleague, I have to 
say a couple comments that are not written here. First, my colleague, 
who voted for the war supplementals that had no funding at all other 
than to make the cost there and no offset to them, sent people to war. 
When you do that, you have to also remember the costs associated over 
the long term. I wasn't here during those votes. I wasn't here when $1 
trillion went to the richest of the rich for tax breaks that had not 
one dime of offset. I am paying for that. My son is paying for that. So 
it is interesting to hear this debate now.

We have to think long term. We have to think when we go to war, there 
are costs. If we don't fund them on the front end, we have to deal with 
them on the back end. That is what we are doing now.

I think his amendment is worthy to a certain degree, but I disagree 
with the funding source. Listening for the last 2 minutes as a new 
Member surprises me. My Senate colleague is forcing us to make an 
inappropriate choice with this amendment that will cost us more in the 
long run. He is asking us to choose between providing for veterans and 
maintaining America's essential role in the world. His amendment pays 
for this bill by breaking U.S. international obligations. If his 
amendment passes, it would threaten ongoing peace operations in Haiti, 
Sudan, and Lebanon.


By breaking our international promises, we undermine our national 
security by opening opportunities for instability, conflict, and 
strife. If there is instability, conflict, and strife, then it means 
more troops will have to serve and more come home wounded. Then we will 
have to pass another bill to pay for those troops and their care when 
they return.

U.N. peacekeeping operations are eight times less expensive than U.S. 
forces, according to a GAO study in 2006. If my Senate colleague were 
truly concerned about costs, he would not have chosen, as I mentioned, 
to cut accounts, which undermines our national security and breaks 
international obligations. His amendment just does not make sense. It 
is fiscally and politically irresponsible. I urge him to withdraw this 
amendment and to remember he has voted for billions of dollars in 
funding that was not offset for these wars. Funding the wars is just as 
important as fulfilling our promises to our veterans when they return.

So many issues facing our veterans today are addressed in S. 1963. 
Passage of this legislation and its enactment into law will improve and 
increase services for our veterans and acknowledge the sacrifice of 
their caregivers.

I urge my colleagues to vote no on the amendment and support passage 
of S. 1963 as it has been introduced.

Again, I thank the chairman, Senator Akaka, for his unwavering 
support and advocacy for our veterans.

Madam President, I yield the floor.