---
---

# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `4afc130d98f76ac1d4db7c1624adf846`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York — 6 March 2008`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. One of the themes of the GIVE Act is to 
increase opportunities for veterans to serve in national service 
programs and to increase the amount of national service programs 
responding to the needs of veterans.

At committee, two amendments were adopted to address these issues. 
First, we directed the Corporation to reserve 3 percent of funds 
allotted to AmeriCorps for competitive grant programs that focus on 
veterans, particularly those that are recently returned from a 
deployment, and their families. The second amendment required the 
Corporation to conduct a study of how the national service laws would 
better serve veterans and increase veteran participation and service, 
and to create a pilot program based on that study.

This amendment builds up on those efforts. Under current law, States 
and corporations are charged with establishing priorities to 
determining the types of programs to be assisted under the national 
service law. This amendment would require States and the Corporation to 
include priorities for veterans when establishing priorities for the 
distribution of assistance under these programs.

Those priorities would be geared towards programs that recruit 
veterans into service opportunities, promote community-based efforts to 
meet the unique needs of military families while a family member is 
deployed, and promote community-based efforts to meet the unique 
service of military families when a member of the family returns from a 
deployment.



In addition, this amendment encourages the corporation to report to 
Congress on its efforts to increase the number of veterans serving in 
AmeriCorps and other positions that are eligible for the educational 
award. Veterans, particularly those recently deployed to Afghanistan 
and Iraq, deserve opportunities to reintegrate into their communities 
through service programs funded under the national service laws. This 
amendment will increase those opportunities.

At a time when our servicemen and -women are sacrificing on behalf of 
our country around the world, we should be doing all we can to repay 
that sacrifice. This amendment will make it the explicit policy of the 
Federal Government to encourage national service programs to focus more 
on the unique needs of these heroes and their families and to encourage 
more veterans to take advantage of service opportunities under these 
laws.

I certainly urge its passage, and I thank Mr. McKeon for offering 
this. It's a very good piece added to our legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.