---
---

# None
## `4afc21ec986883f6353ecaa5eb212b55`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 5 September 2007`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like to thank the 
gentleman from Tennessee for having this hour this evening where we can 
come and tell you what our observations are about Iraq. And also, I 
would like to thank his family for the service of his nephew. I know he 
is in our thoughts and prayers for his safe return. I would also like 
to thank really the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have loved 
ones who are serving. I would like to thank the very brave men and 
women who are serving around the world for us today.



They truly understand the threat in the world, and they understand 
the consequences if we were to just pull out, and I think this is one 
of the most overwhelming things.

When you do make a trip like ours this year, it was my third trip 
into Iraq, and this year was my first trip into Afghanistan, but when 
you arrive in these Nations, the most overwhelming feeling immediately 
is that every single one of the young men and women that you're looking 
at serving in the U.S. military have volunteered to serve our Nation, 
and that is an incredible feeling.

The first thing that we did on our trip, it was very early August, we 
went into a neighborhood north of Baghdad. There was six of us on the 
trip, and we had the opportunity to meet with four Iraqi sheiks, two 
Sunni and two Shia. Now, like most Americans, I think I was of the 
impression that Sunni and Shia would never even speak to each other, 
much less work together to rid Iraq, their neighborhood, of the enemy. 
Well, they were in that room together and they sat Sunni, Shia, Sunni, 
Shia, as they talked to us about what they've done.

And the reason for what they've done, of course, is the incredible 
amount of violence that is taking place in Iraq against Iraqi 
civilians, executions, torture, and it's brought those sheiks into a 
position to join together for their neighborhood, for their region and, 
as they told us, for Iraq, that they did what they did for Iraq. They 
joined with our military. They worked together for 2/1/2/ months, and 
when they were ready, combined with our military, these four sheiks and 
their citizens ridded that neighborhood of the enemy in only 4 days' 
time. They were so proud of themselves.



They told us repeatedly how their children could go out and play. Our 
military told us that this was the most dangerous street in northern 
Baghdad, the most IED attacks of all of Baghdad. They told us that they 
can go out and walk to the store now because of what's taken place.

What the incredible change that you're seeing in Iraq right now is 
that our military is helping local leaders to develop the capacity to 
govern at that very local level, the most important area, and to work 
on a regional level to bring that about.

Now, those sheiks are a little bit disappointed in their national 
government. I asked them about the Sunni members who had walked out of 
the government. Their answer is my favorite quote of the entire trip, 
and the quote was, they won't be reelected. I thought that's quick that 
they learned that.

They're extremely concerned about the involvement of Iran and Syria. 
Our military knows full well of the involvement of those two 
governments and weapons that are coming in and help that's being 
provided. They need services. Our military brought in the governor of 
Baghdad to look at their neighborhood and to see what could be done 
differently.

They also were very clear that they want their government to succeed, 
and they were very clear in telling us that they need our help and they 
want our help.

We also met with the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister 
Barham Shala, who is a Kurd. The Iraqi Government, and we don't ever 
talk about this, is set up, when your prime minister is the Shia, your 
two deputies, one's a Kurd and one's a Sunni. Your president is a Kurd, 
so your vice presidents are Sunni and Shia so that you bring in all 
three together to be able to have the involvement of all three sects 
within the country. It's not just one person telling you what to do.

Of course, the Deputy Prime Minister expressed a little bit of 
disappointment in how far the national government had come. There were 
meetings that were taking place even while we were there. He was very 
clear, and I thought this was very important, that he said their focus 
is to establish the institutions of government so that their government 
would continue, regardless of who was in power, and that no one would 
be able to just grab power and do something different in Iraq, but that 
they form a stable government just like here in the U.S.

When we had a shift in January from Republican control to Democrat 
control, there was no change in the way our government functions. Our 
courts functioned, and actually, Admiral Fallon, in addressing the 
Senate just recently, made the same types of comments, how important it 
is that we set up a rule of law, that we protect human rights.

So I was encouraged to hear him talking about that. He did stress 
that it was going to take time, and I asked him, because it's been very 
important here to us in America and our benchmarks, that there are 
pieces of legislation that we want the Iraqi Parliament to pass. And I 
asked him if it was true that he actually had the votes to pass that 
legislation. His answer surprised me. He said, Oh, yes. He said, I have 
75 percent approval for the legislation. I reminded him that in America 
we pass major pieces of legislation with one vote.

But he looked at me and said something critically important. He said, 
if I pass this legislation with 75 percent, it means I've cut out the 
Sunni from the government. They would feel they had no power and they 
would feel they had no voice.

Now, just today in the Armed Services Committee, we received the GAO 
report on Iraq and the status of these 18 benchmarks. About six of the 
benchmarks deal with legislation that we'd like to see passed, and we 
failed on that, that that legislation has not passed, as we all know. 
But there was another benchmark that was stressed in it, that there be 
political involvement of minority parties and minority rights be 
protected. Now, we've passed on that benchmark, but I would say to the 
gentleman from Tennessee, to you, Mr. Speaker, that if we had passed 
that legislation against the wishes of an entire group of people, that 
we would have failed in meeting the benchmark that minority parties be 
included.

He talked to us about Anbar and about how it's been stabilized. Our 
trip was due to go there, and we weren't able to because we were 
detained here in Washington for that extra day. But he talked to us as 
well about the $10 billion that's been appropriated by the Iraq 
Parliament for reconstruction efforts. That joins with the 60 countries 
that have joined with America in our reconstruction efforts there. 
There is $200 million that's been appropriated to use just in Anbar 
province, and those contracts are now being let because the security 
level there will allow those construction projects to go forward.

I'd also like to add that we do have a policy in Iraq, and that's 
called Iraqis First. Whether you're an Iraqi company or you're an Iraqi 
civilian, that if you're able to be hired by us, that we want to hire 
Iraqi first.

The Deputy Prime Minister was clear that they are a country in 
transition, and he did caution us that they would not meet their 
benchmarks by September 15, but I would really want us to focus on not 
did we meet 18 benchmarks but what are the goals and what are the 
objectives and how do we develop a fully functioning Iraqi Government 
and how do those benchmarks play into that, how do they make 
responsible decisions there like I think they just did in not forcing 
legislation that would have cut an entire section of their country out.

I think that's critically important. We all support benchmarks, but 
we want those benchmarks to reflect achieving the goals that we've set, 
and we want to show where are those positive developments, and people 
are frustrated when they don't hear them, when American people don't 
hear of the progress that's being made or four sheiks coming together 
to stabilize their own region and asking that we not leave them and 
that we give them their help.


We did meet with General Petraeus. We met with Ambassador Crocker. We 
will receive their report on Monday. I know you have others who are 
here to talk. I just wanted to close by talking about the last thing we 
did that day.

We met with Iraqi security forces, and they were actually special 
ops. They were so impressive that I would have thought I was here in 
the U.S. watching special operation forces do a demonstration. Our 
military was very clear that they are very easy to train, and the good 
news that we haven't heard is that these Iraqi forces are able to train 
their new recruits that are coming in. I want you to know they were so 
proud of themselves.

Think of the risk to those men who are serving in Iraqi security 
forces. In our country, we know our men and women are in harm's way. 
That's painful for us as Americans, to have our men and women in harm's 
way defending this Nation. But in Iraq right now, anyone who joins the 
Iraqi security forces is in harm's way simply for joining, not in the 
threat of battle but simply for joining.

So I want to thank you for letting me tell you about them, tell you 
about what I saw on our trip to Iraq. It was critical for me to see 
Afghanistan for the first time because there's a lot of similarities in 
Afghanistan. We're doing the same thing.

We are looking at the local level now. We understand that that's the 
way we need to win this fight, but the change that's come about is like 
you have seen in Iraq, where local leaders join with us. Remember, they 
have to make a choice. Are they with us and their national government 
or are they with the Taliban in Afghanistan or with the al Qaeda in 
Iraq.

And they have to make the right choice, because if they make the 
wrong one, they're dead. And what's the message that we've sent to the 
world is that we're going to leave? How do you choose us if we're going 
to leave and you would be left there with an enemy? It's critical that 
we establish political, economic and security measures in Iraq so that 
this nation can function, can establish a government that will take 
them into the future and not just short term.

I did ask one question, and your article made me think about it, in 
armed services not long ago. We had witnesses come and talk about the 
National Intelligence Estimate, and my question to them was what would 
be the impact


on America if we were to leave, if we were to have done everything that 
we've done but if we were to leave before that government can govern 
itself, secure itself and develop itself economically? What would be 
our standing in the world? Would we be a paper tiger? What would our 
allies think of us? And would anyone ever trust us in the future?

The answer to me was we haven't studied that issue. Well, I think not 
only do we need to study the issue. We need to make sure that Iraq has 
made such progress that I've seen in my three trips. We need to make 
sure that these people aren't the victims of the violence that will 
take place. The Deputy Prime Minister pointed that out to us. He told 
us the consequences that would happen if we were to leave. He told us 
that Iraq is the heart of the Middle East and that everyone is watching 
what we we're doing.

So thank you for letting me join you tonight and thank you for the 
service of your nephew.