---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4b0c71124e8edf42973d85609d9ba635`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I rise to share with the Senate my 
concerns and frustrations with S. Con. Res. 21, the fiscal year 2008 
budget resolution, and to discuss two amendments I will offer tomorrow 
to try to improve the resolution.

Frankly, the resolution before this body ignores the dire state of 
our financial future and uses smoke and mirrors to mask our long-term 
fiscal challenges. I have come to the Senate floor numerous times over 
the past 8 years to express my concern that the Federal Government 
continues to spend more money than it brings in and that this Congress 
is running a credit card for today's needs and shamelessly leaving the 
bill for future generations. We all know this recklessness threatens 
our economic stability, our competitiveness in the global marketplace, 
and our future way of life.

Since I arrived in the Senate, the national debt has increased from 
$5.6 trillion to $8.6 trillion. That is an increase of more than 50 
percent in 8 years. This amounts to $29,000 of debt for every American. 
Can my colleagues believe that? What is of even more concern, however, 
is that 55 percent of the privately owned national debt is held by 
foreign creditors, including the Chinese Government. That is up from 35 
percent only 6 years ago. Yet these numbers, which represent our past 
behavior, pale in comparison with the budget problems looming in our 
future as the baby boom generation begins to retire over 9 months from 
now.

Forty years ago, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid accounted 
for 3 percent of our GDP. Today, they are up to 9 percent. In another 
40 years, they will be up to 18 percent, equal to total Federal 
revenues and crowding out all other spending. In other words, all of 
the money the Federal Government spends currently will be used up for 
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. There won't be any money for 
anything else.

Looking forward, we face a long-term fiscal imbalance of $55 
trillion. That is hard to even grasp, but it translates into $440,000 
of future Government debt for every American household, up from a mere 
$175,000 only 6 years ago. This is all documented. If we listen to 
David Walker, who is the Comptroller General, he is going all over the 
country--he was in my State in Cincinnati for a fiscal wake-up--working 
with the Concord Coalition to let Americans know. He is like the Paul 
Revere out there telling Americans we better be concerned about this. I 
remember Ross Perot, who ran for the President of the United States, 
and all of his charts. His charts looked like nothing compared to the 
charts we would use to show how bad things are.

Imposing a crushing debt burden such as this on future generations at 
the same time they are going to have to compete with rising powers such 
as China and India is unacceptable. All of us have a responsibility to 
try to guarantee that they enjoy the same standard of living and 
quality of life we have enjoyed, if not better. This young page here in 
front of me--I am worried about him. What kind of a life is he going to 
have? What kind of an opportunity is he going to have in terms of his 
standard of living and quality of life? We are concerned about him. 
What kind of a legacy are we going to leave him? What about my seven 
grandchildren? What kind of a world are they going to live in? That is 
why the chairman of the Budget Committee and I have spoken over the 
past few years about the growing debt and the impact it will have on 
future generations.

Yet we are here today with the majority's budget resolution that 
increases the national debt by $2.4 trillion over the next 5 years. 
That is assuming Congress doesn't take advantage of all of the 
loopholes that are in the budget. We are back at square one. Neither 
Republicans nor Democrats have offered a budget that even comes close 
to reestablishing our fiscal sanity. The administration's budget is 
unrealistic, and the Democratic budget is even worse.

I am going to vote against the Democratic budget. If this were the 
Republican budget, I would vote against that budget, too. Both of them. 
Once again, we have pulled the wool over our own eyes. That is what is 
going on.

Some of my colleagues, especially my new colleagues, may wonder why I 
take such offense at the budget. Unfortunately I am a product of my 
experiences. The Bible says the Lord never gives you a challenge you 
cannot overcome. Well, he has tested me before, and he is testing all 
of us right now.

As mayor of Cleveland, I inherited the first city in the country to 
go bankrupt since the Great Depression. We made cuts, we raised taxes, 
and we


righted the ship. When I took the helm as Governor of Ohio, I inherited 
a $1.5 billion budget shortfall that can only be described as a 
financial crisis. During the first biennial budget, we had to make four 
rounds of cuts. These were dire economic times which required honesty, 
leadership, and management. I was forced to make a lot of hard choices. 
We had to reform our tax policy, scale back spending, and target our 
resources to the people who needed them the most. We worked harder and 
smarter, and we succeeded at doing more with less. In fact, my years as 
Governor represent the lowest rate of growth in State spending in 30 
years.

Here in Washington, it seems as if no one is willing to make the 
tough choices. I cannot understand it. Too many Members won't do 
anything if it doesn't bolster their side politically or fit into a 10-
second sound bite. Instead, both parties are using gimmicks to cover up 
the state of our Nation's long-term fiscal health.

Let me offer some examples. The administration released its fiscal 
2008 budget request in early February and projected a deficit of $239 
billion. This number is the deficit left over after spending every 
dollar of Social Security surplus. But the Social Security surplus must 
be reserved for future retirees. As far as I know, you can't spend the 
money twice, but Congress keeps pretending that it can. If you remove 
the Social Security surplus from the equation, that $239 billion 
deficit they are talking about almost doubles to $451 billion. If you 
use the accrual way of figuring it, it is about $640 billion.

The administration goes further to achieve its surplus by assuming 
nonsecurity discretionary spending will peak in 2007 and go down every 
year after that. So we are reducing our deficit by eating our seed 
corn. That is a real problem today.

What we have to understand is that only one-sixth of the budget is 
nondefense discretionary. All of the hits are being made against that 
one-sixth to try to balance the budget. We are ignoring so many things 
this country ought to be doing.

Furthermore, the administration calculates the security-related 
discretionary spending will peak in 2008, and that supplemental 
spending for military operations will end after 2009. Give me a break. 
We are going to end that in 2009? We are going to be over in Iraq and 
Afghanistan for a long period of time. But the President just increased 
the number of troops going to Iraq by more than 21,000. These estimates 
are not based on reality. Why don't we tell the American people the 
truth? Let's tell them the truth.

Meanwhile, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are using 
tricks that even are more egregious. The majority's budget allows for a 
dramatic increase in entitlement spending through the use of more than 
20 reserve funds. They are not included in the overall budget totals. 
They simply conceal what they intend to spend and it gives the 
appearance of a more responsible budget.

The majority's budget hides increases in discretionary spending 
through the use of seven cap adjustments. Appropriations for seven 
favored programs and agencies will not count toward the budget limit. 
Just like that, poof, and they are gone.

Furthermore, the majority's budget allows for unlimited emergency 
spending. I think we all understand that on occasion we have natural 
disasters or unanticipated crises, such as Hurricane Katrina, that 
require emergency resources. For this reason, we cannot estimate all of 
our emergency spending in the budget. But a great deal of the spending 
that is currently designated as ''emergency'' is actually quite regular 
and predictable.

For example, every year we spend emergency funds on drought relief. 
This is difficult for me to understand: If we spend it every year, why 
can't we account for it in our budget? This is why we ought to have a 
rainy day fund such as I had when I was Governor that set aside 
designated funds for legitimate natural disasters so the ''emergency'' 
label is not abused for otherwise anticipated events.

My friend from New Hampshire, Senator Gregg, created a rainy day fund 
with a fixed dollar limit in last year's budget resolution, and I 
thought: That is a great idea. But the new majority has already 
eliminated that fund from the budget and has created an open-ended 
source of emergency spending that is not subject to any financial 
limitations.

There is one trick after another in this budget resolution. We are 
already raiding the Social Security trust fund and a bunch of smaller 
trust funds to make our bottom line look rosier than it is. This budget 
exacerbates a problem the Budget Committee chairman himself and I have 
spoken out against for a great many years.

I have a great deal of respect for the Democratic chairman of the 
Budget Committee. I think he is one of the most responsible guys, but 
he has also got to do his thing in terms of the politics of this 
Senate. In fact, in the last Congress, the Budget Committee chairman 
and I introduced legislation that would invest the Social Security 
surplus in non-Federal bonds to prevent the surplus from being used to 
fund other Government spending. We plan to reintroduce this bill again.

In other words, what we are saying is we are going to take the money 
that is now being used to fund the budget and instead of borrowing it 
from trust funds--Social Security--we are going to take the Social 
Security funds and put them in a non-U.S. account--municipal bonds--so 
they will accrue interest; and when the time comes that we will need to 
use that money, there will be something there besides an IOU from the 
Federal Government that says: We are going to take care of it.

The bill would require the Government issue more Treasuries to the 
public in order to pay for other spending instead of borrowing from 
Social Security. What we basically are going to say to the American 
public is: We are borrowing all these funds from Social Security, all 
the other trust funds, and we are going to put that aside, and we are 
going to borrow that money from the public so you know how much 
borrowing is going on. We are not going to mask this thing, as we have 
done for so many years.

We thought, finally our children and grandchildren will have a clear 
picture of how fiscally irresponsible we are. But today the Budget 
Committee chairman is relying on the very same gimmick--borrowing from 
the Social Security trust fund--to claim a balance in 2012.

What about taxes? The majority's budget claims that $400 billion in 
revenue will be collected from ''closing the 'tax gap' ''--in other 
words, collecting more of the taxes that are currently owed but not 
paid. Yet the President's proposal to collect just 2 percent of this 
$400 billion caused small businesses to howl in protest that the new 
administrative and compliance burdens would overwhelm them.

In other words, it is easy to talk about closing the tax gap, but 
from a political point of view, it is not going to be very easy. We 
should do that. There is no question about it. I talked to Charles 
Rossotti, who was the former head of the Internal Revenue Service. He 
said with more filings and more people in the Internal Revenue Service, 
we should be able to pick up another $50 billion. That is a realistic 
way of looking at it. But just to say: $400 billion; we are going to 
come up with it somehow; close the tax gap, and it is all going to be 
there--voila.


In fact, the Greater Cleveland Partnership and the Council of Smaller 
Enterprises, which represent small business in northeast Ohio, describe 
the administration's tax gap proposals--by the way, this is not a 
Democratic proposal; this is the administration's tax gap proposals--as 
''an unreasonable tracking and reporting burden for small business.'' 
And that is just for 2 percent of the revenue the majority claims it 
can raise by going after small businesses. We should try to collect 
money that is owed, but if it were that easy--as my friend from Iowa 
Senator Grassley suggests--we would have found the money to fix the AMT 
years ago.

But, sadly, these gimmicks are not the worst part of the budget. What 
is more disturbing about this resolution is what is not included. The 
majority did not designate one dime in Social Security, Medicare, or 
Medicaid savings to help slow the impending entitlement tidal wave 
heading our way--not one dime. Entitlement spending threatens to flood 
our budget and soak up every Federal dollar, as I mentioned


earlier, leaving no revenue for education, the environment, 
infrastructure, or scientific research. The majority's budget ignores 
this problem.

In fact, this budget does worse than ignore the problem. It will pile 
billions of dollars in new entitlement spending on top of the existing 
problem. It is so obvious that this budget resolution simply satisfies 
a political agenda. It is a public relations campaign that the majority 
is using to avoid telling the American people the truth. I am accusing 
them of that, and I have to say the same thing for my side of the 
aisle. We are both guilty. All of our hands are dirty.

To add to insult, since Republicans switched to 5-year budgets a few 
years ago, Democrats have repeatedly called for 10-year budgets because 
5-year budgets hide our long-term problems. In other words, the other 
side of the aisle kept complaining: You are using 5-year budgets 
because if you use 10, the American people are going to find out how 
much money you are spending. So we went to the 5-year budget. We want 
to hide that figure about the next 5 years. If the Democrats wanted to 
do it this time, I would have said: Do the 10-year budget. Let the 
American people know what the truth is about how much money this budget 
is going to cost.

For example, the CBO currently projects that total outlays for 
Medicare and Medicaid will more than double--more than double--by 2017, 
increasing by 124 percent. This is roughly two times as much as the 
economy is expected to grow during the same period. A 5-year forecast 
hides this explosion in entitlement liabilities. Tell the truth--
transparency. Let the American people know what the score is.

Yet, here we are, with Democrats in control of both Chambers, and 
they are trying to pass a 5-year budget that continues to cover up the 
gathering fiscal storm looming on our horizon. Shame on us. Shame on 
them. They are playing the game we played starting in 2004, after 
promising to do better.

I take our Nation's fiscal health very seriously. I am concerned 
there is a lack of transparency in this budget. There are gaping 
loopholes the majority can exploit to cause spending and deficits to 
rise much higher than the budget resolution claims. In an attempt to 
close some of these loopholes, tomorrow I am going to offer two 
amendments.

First, we need to reform our Nation's entitlement programs. I have 
been begging on my knees trying to get the White House to take on the 
responsibility of reforming our Tax Code--we need it; it is overdue--to 
take on entitlements, to reach out to Republicans and Democrats and 
say: The time has come. Let's put everything on the table. Let's reform 
our Tax Code. Let's do something about entitlements. The fact is, 
silence--silence. I have to tell you, if we do not do this, then our 
children and grandchildren are going to drown--they are going to 
drown--in a sea of debt.

I am concerned, however, that if we reform entitlements and save 
billions of dollars, Congress might grab those savings and spend some 
of them on other programs instead of paying down the debt. So what I am 
saying is, I am hoping--and I know the chairman of the Budget 
Committee, the Senator from North Dakota, has said he wants entitlement 
spending reform--I am hoping we get it. All this amendment says is: If 
we do get entitlement spending reform, it is going to be used to pay 
down the debt and not fund other entitlements.

I previously introduced legislation called the SAFE Commission Act 
that would guarantee a fast-track, comprehensive approach to reforming 
our Nation's tax, entitlement, and budget systems. If the 110th 
Congress enacts entitlement reform, either by way of legislation or as 
a result of another bipartisan effort, we must use those savings to 
reduce the deficit and, as I say, pay down the debt and not on 
entitlement spending.


Specifically, my first amendment would require any savings from 
legislation that slows the growth of entitlement spending by $5 billion 
or more be dedicated to deficit reduction. Some of my colleagues are 
asking: George, why are you worrying about this? Well, I hope we have 
this problem where we have to decide what to do with these entitlement 
savings we have enacted. Because, as I said earlier, the majority has 
not included even one dime's worth of savings in this budget 
resolution. We do nothing--not one thing--in this budget about 
entitlement spending.

Second, every time we enact new entitlement spending or tax cuts, 
which are financed through additional borrowing, we increase the level 
of interest payments the Government has to make on its debt. I have 
talked about this debt and the interest costs. These new interest costs 
represent additional Government spending. Yet, CBO cost estimates 
ignore the effect of these interest payments on spending and the 
national debt.

In other words, we are spending money on reducing taxes--and we are 
paying for it by borrowing--or we are spending money on new programs--
and we are borrowing the money--because we keep ratcheting up the debt 
and we do not calculate the interest costs that are involved in either 
tax reductions or the spending for these new programs.

These ballooning interest costs add up to $370 billion in 2008. Think 
about this: That interest cost will be 13 percent of the budget. The 
public needs to know that in addition to spending additional money on 
new programs, we are paying interest on that money. I am concerned 
about these growing interest costs because they are part of our 
mounting national debt.

Frankly, our interest rates are low right now, but they could 
skyrocket. The first couple years I was mayor of Cleveland, interest 
rates at the time were 13 percent. Some Americans remember savings 
passbooks that were paying 14 and 16 percent. I will never forget it 
because I had the money for my children's college education in mutual 
funds. I sold the mutual funds and put them in the passbook savings 
because we were getting--can you imagine--we were getting 16 percent--
16 percent--on a passbook investment.

I think we need to wake up to the fact that if we get a change in the 
international marketplace--as I mentioned earlier, 55 percent of our 
budget is with foreign investors--if those central banks get a little 
bit nervous about the United States of America--and I have talked to 
Alan Greenspan about this; we could see interest rates skyrocket to 12 
percent, 13 percent--that would suck up an enormous amount of money.

So the fact is, we ought to pay attention to letting people know when 
we either reduce taxes, and borrow the money, or we spend money above 
the budget, somebody has to pay some interest on that cost. We must 
stop this charade once and for all. Both sides of the aisle have a 
clear, moral obligation to improve the fiscal health of our Nation. It 
starts with formulating a fair and honest budget. Yet we are being 
dishonest and masking the long-term challenges that confront our 
Nation.

We must deal with these problems head on and work on a bipartisan 
basis to reform our tax system, control the growth of entitlement 
spending, and slow this freight train that is threatening to crush our 
children and grandchildren's futures.

Experts say the most important step you can take is to first admit 
you have a problem. I will never forget when I was mayor of Cleveland 
and came in, the easiest thing sometimes in life was just to keep the 
problems in a drawer and not look at them and hope they would go away. 
I found a long time ago that if you take those problems and pull them 
out and deal with them, you are so much better off than if you just let 
them lay around and get worse.


The question today is, Do we have the moral courage to fix it? Do we 
have the moral courage? Can we do that? It is a moral issue.

I will never forget Frank Wolf. I gave a speech last year and Frank 
called me and he said: I am going to put a bill in, and we are going to 
set up a commission that is going to do something about tax reform and 
entitlement.

He said: I have--I think he said 11 or 12 grandchildren. He said: I 
thought about it. I am a fiscal conservative. He said: But you know 
something. We have a moral obligation to our children. We just can't 
let this thing keep going. The fact is, do we have that moral 
conviction to fix it or are we too darn interested in protecting our 
political hides--our political hides--to do anything? Do we have the 
courage to do it? Do we have the courage?

I am 70 years old. I have seven grandchildren. I care and worry about 
them.


My concern is what legacy am I going to leave my children and my 
grandchildren. I was fortunate. We were fortunate. We had others before 
us who were responsible--others, for example, who were willing to pay 
for the wars that we were in. Today, in this country, let's see, it is 
up to $510 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan, and if we pass the 
supplemental, it is going to be $610 billion. The only sacrifice that 
is being made today in this country is by the families that have the 
body bags returned to them. Twenty-six thousand of our men and women 
who have been injured, half of them disabled for the rest of their 
life, and we are not doing anything. We are not doing anything.

Last year, I said if we can't get tax reform to raise the money that 
we need to take care of things, then we ought to have a temporary tax 
increase to pay for our war. We should. It is the right thing to do. 
But, no, we will let it go and let somebody else worry about it the 
next time around--the new President.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.