# None
## `4b14c9ef45bd92daf2c903327e42f7ba`
`Mr. PAUL — 15 December 2009`

---


Mr. PAUL. The chairman states that the main purpose of this bill is 
to prevent the Iranians from getting a nuclear weapon. That isn't even 
as powerful a statement as was made that enticed us into the Iraq war. 
There was the claim that they already had them. But now, this is a 
pretense, and yet here we are taking these drastic steps. My main 
reason for opposing this bill is that I think it's detrimental to our 
national security. There's no other reason. It doesn't serve our 
interests. So I am absolutely opposed to it.

In the late 1930s and the early 1940s the American people did not 
want to go into war, but there were some that were maneuvering us into 
war, and they used the argument that you needed an event. So, in June 
of 1941, sanctions were put against Japan, incidentally and ironically, 
to prohibit oil products from going into Japan. Within 6 months there 
was the bombing of Pearl Harbor. And there is now talk,


there's been talk in the media, and we've heard about it, we need to 
bomb Iran. And that's what the people hear.

The sanctions are a use of force. This is just not modest. This is 
very serious. And the way this is written, it literally could end up 
with a blockade. It could be trying to punish our friends and cut off 
trade, and this cannot help us in any way. We would like to help the 
dissidents. We'd like to encourage them to overthrow their government. 
But hardly should we have our CIA, with U.S. funded programs, going in 
there with a policy of regime change. They know these kind of things 
happen. We've been involved in this business in Iran since 1953. And it 
doesn't serve us well. It backfires on us, comes back to haunt us.

One of the goals explicitly expressed by al Qaeda and their leaders 
has been they would like to draw us into the Middle East because it 
would cost us a lot of money and it could hurt us financially. And the 
second reason they want us over there is to get us bogged down in an 
endless war. And for the last decade, that is what we've been doing. We 
are bogged down to the point where it's very discouraging to the 
American people, very frustrating, no signs of victory, no signs of 
peace. But we're bogged down. These were the precise goals of the al 
Qaeda leadership.

And also, one of the purposes of enticing us over there and being 
involved is to give a greater incentive to recruit those individuals 
who become violent against us. And this has been unbelievably 
successful. So we've been involved in Iraq. We've been involved 
in Afghanistan. We're bombing Pakistan and almost, this is like another 
bonus for those who want us to be attacked, is that we're over there 
and just fomenting this anger and hatred toward us.


That is why I believe this is not in our best interest. It actually 
hurts us. Once we say that we're going to do something like using force 
and prevent vital products from going in, it means that we've given up 
on diplomacy. Diplomacy's out the window. And they're not capable of 
attacking us. You know, this idea that they are on the verge of a bomb, 
you know, our CIA said they haven't been working on it since 2003. And 
the other thing is, if you want to give them incentive to have a bomb, 
just keep pestering like this, just intimidate them. Provoke it. This 
is provocative. They might have a greater incentive than ever.

They can't even make enough gasoline for themselves. I mean, they are 
not a threat. They don't have an army worth anything. They don't have a 
navy. They don't have an air force. They don't have intercontinental 
ballistic missiles. So it is not a threat to our national security. I 
see the threat to our national security with this type of policy which 
could come and backfire and hurt us.

I want to read number 5 in the bill, that particular item, because it 
makes my case, rather than making the case for those who want these 
sanctions. I think this literally makes my case. Number 5 says, on 
October 7, 2008, then-Senator Obama stated Iran right now imports 
gasoline, even though it's an oil producer, because its oil 
infrastructure has broken down. If we can prevent them from importing 
the gasoline that they need and the refined petroleum products, that 
starts changing their cost-benefit analysis, that starts putting the 
squeeze on them.

The squeeze on whom? On the people. This will unify the dissent. This 
will unify the Iranian people against us. If we want to encourage true 
dissent and overthrow that government, which is more spontaneous and 
honest, I would say this is doing exactly the opposite.