---
---

# U.N.: HAVEN FOR INTERNATIONAL TYRANTS?
## `4b20e8ca04bf66e1dd75678c6b5aa665`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, Libya is about to get $2.5 million in 
aid from the American taxpayers. And $200,000 each is marked for 
foundations run by Omar Qaddafi's two kids.

Omar Qaddafi is an international terrorist. He gave the order for the 
bombing of the Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988. And then 
he led the cheers for the killer when he was returned to Libya. Men, 
women and children boarded that airplane headed for New York's JFK 
Airport. A Libyan official checked a suitcase with a bomb in it. The 
airplane exploded, killing 243 passengers and 16 crew members, mostly 
Americans. Eleven people on the ground in Scotland were killed when 
large chunks of the plane fell out of the sky and hit their town.

What are we doing giving this man and his family U.S. taxpayer 
dollars? Has America lost its way?

The United Nations is starting to look like the bar scene in the Star 
Wars movies. Murderers, thugs, and terrorists freely roam the halls, 
and they are asked to speak before the General Assembly. There was a 
time when the United Nations was a threat to tyrants, but now it seems 
like it is their home.

Omar Qaddafi said at the U.N. that Lee Harvey Oswald, the person who 
killed President Kennedy, was an Israeli spy. He called for a civil war 
in Iraq. He condemned the war on terror in Afghanistan, and he said the 
swine flu is a biological weapon created in laboratories. Can't tell 
who he blames that on, however.

Omar also said in his 100-minute rambling rant that we should call 
the United Nations Security Council the terrorist council, made up of 
the United States and other nations.

Omar's twin terrorist tyrant, Ahmadinejad, also had some choice 
things to say at the United Nations this week. The little fella from 
the desert of Iran said that Israel is committing genocide. He said 
that capitalism has caused all of the misery in the world. The tiny 
tyrant also praised himself for his glorious election this year. You 
know, Mr. Speaker, that is the election where he and his government 
beat and killed unarmed peaceful protesters that opposed him.

He says the Holocaust is a myth. He wants the destruction of Israel 
and the United States, and he is building nuclear weapons. Who do you 
think those weapons are for? And what is the United States' reaction? 
Well, we canceled our missile defense system in Poland, a defense 
system that was to protect the United States from intercontinental 
ballistic missiles from Iran. And our Polish allies think we betrayed 
our commitment to them and Eastern Europe.



Mr. Speaker, has America lost its way?

And let's not forget Hugo Chavez, the tyrant of Venezuela who railed 
against the United States. He spoke also at the U.N. He is good buddies 
with the desert rat of Iran. And a New York district attorney recently 
said that there is evidence that Venezuela is setting up a Venezuelan 
missile crisis for the United States. Now isn't that lovely. Why do we 
send U.S. taxpayer money to the U.N. at all? Twenty percent of U.N. 
funds come from the United States, and the American public is asking: 
Why? Why do we finance the U.N. that embraces thugs, dictators, 
terrorists and everyone who hates America and Israel.

Mr. Speaker, since nobody else over at the U.N. has said it, I will, 
and I will say this without apology: The United States is the greatest 
country in the history of the world. We have more freedom and liberty 
than any people in the history of the planet. We have done more than 
any other nation to help some of the most ungrateful people around the 
planet in history.

We should not abandon our missile defense system in Poland. We should 
reevaluate our financial commitment to the United Nations, and we 
should never give American money to tyrants of nations in the hope of a 
blissful illusion of buying peace.

Mr. Speaker, has America lost its way? We shall see.

And that's just the way it is.
