# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `4b31bcca21e21f6c774133ddc15dd345`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support of the 
National Defense Authorization 2009.

This bipartisan bill authorizes $531 billion for the DoD and national 
defense programs of the Department of Energy and reflects Congress' 
commitment to supporting our troops and their families while protecting 
the national interests of the United States and improving the oversight 
and accountability of funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I believe passage of this bill will be welcome news to our service 
members and their families. To help our troops readjust to civilian 
life and to help military families deal with the economic pressures 
here at home as a spouse serves overseas, the bill provides a 3.9 
percent pay raise for all servicemembers and extends the President's 
authority to offer bonuses and other incentive pay. The bill provides 
tuition assistance to help military spouses establish their own 
careers, authorizes funds to assist area schools with large enrollments 
of children from military families, and reverses the rise in health 
care costs by prohibiting fee increases in TRICARE and the TRICARE 
pharmacy program.

As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, 
where oversight of war contracting has been a priority, I am encouraged 
by language in the bill to increase transparency and accountability of 
federal contracts. The Defense Department has made over 180,000 
payments to contractors from offices in Iraq, Kuwait, and Egypt. These 
payments are for everything from bottled water to assault rifles. But 
due to poor DoD accountability and oversight, billions of dollars of 
taxpayer money are unaccounted for or have simply gone missing.

Today, the DoD Deputy Inspector General told the Oversight and 
Government Reform Committee that, after reviewing approximately $8.2 
billion in Defense spending in Iraq, they estimate that the Department 
failed to properly account for $7.8 billion. Additionally, the IG 
reported that the Defense Department has paid $135 million to Britain, 
South Korea, Poland, and other countries to conduct their own 
operations in Iraq. The DoD Inspector General tried to find out what 
this money was used for, but could find no answers.

The bill addresses the lack of accountability in war contracting in 
two ways. First, by requiring a separate budget request for operations 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, it will be easier for Congress and American 
people to follow more closely how U.S. tax dollars are being spent. 
Second, with the passage of the Waxman amendment to the bill, anti-
fraud measures will be enhanced and transparency in contracting 
Increased by limiting the use of abuse-prone contracts and by 
rebuilding the federal acquisition workforce.

I am also supporting this bill for the assistance it provides the 
many thousands of federal employees who work for the DoD and who are 
fearful of administration efforts to use the OMB A-76 Circular to 
compete out their jobs. I am pleased that I was able to help ensure 
that the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act included a provision 
that prohibits the Pentagon from undertaking, preparing for, 
continuing, or completing public-private competitions of federal jobs 
as directed by the Office of Management and Budget. The provision also 
overturns the mandatory requirement that the jobs of federal employees 
be re-competed every 5 years.

The Department of Defense has yet to issue guidance to the Department 
to implement past congressional A-76 recommendations nor has it 
listened to the recommendations of military commanders who have warned 
that these A-76 competitions are harming the Pentagon's mission. So, 
the National Defense Authorization Act again urges the Pentagon to 
immediately implement guidelines recommended by Congress.

Like most bills, this one contains provisions that I would not have 
included. However, on balance it is a good bill that strengthens our 
national security.