---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4b3195f0688cf02846a0b229ca62e039`
`Ms. BEAN — 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. BEAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, the gentleman from 
Massachusetts, for yielding.

I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 63 and in opposition to the 
proposed troop surge in Iraq.

When I visited Iraq in 2005, like the soldiers I met there, I was 
hopeful that democratic elections would allow Iraq to move forward as a 
unified sovereign nation. While the elections demonstrated a commitment 
from the Iraqi people to do that, the situation on the ground has 
instead worsened, sectarian violence has increased, and the escalating 
death toll for American and Allied troops and the Iraqi people demand 
serious scrutiny of our strategy in Iraq.

When I met with the President's military and national security 
advisers last month to learn about their new plan, I anticipated that a 
new course would be proposed. Regrettably, this surge does not 
constitute a new course.

We have tried multiple troop surges. After the most recent surge last 
summer, conducted in Baghdad, the U.S. military declared that it had 
''not met our overall expectations of sustaining a reduction in levels 
of violence.'' In fact, attacks increased by 22 percent, and already 
after 20 percent of the current surge has been deployed, violence has 
not decreased.

Instead of sending more troops, our military mission in Iraq must 
shift from attempting to secure Iraq to better equipping and training 
the Iraqi Security Forces so they can secure their own country. Like 
most Americans, I have supported the President's objective that we will 
stand down as the Iraqis stand up. We have already trained nearly 
325,000 Iraqi Security Forces toward that end.

For 4 years Americans have seen the brave men and women of our Armed 
Forces perform their duty courageously. We have seen over 3,100 
American husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, sons, and daughters make 
the ultimate sacrifice, including 116 servicemen and women from my 
State of Illinois. We have seen $400 billion in hard-earned tax dollars 
invested in this effort to support those fighting. What we haven't seen 
is real accountability for results.

That is why I have joined my colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition to 
introduce the Iraq War Cost Accountability Resolution. This resolution 
requires accountability in four ways: spending accountability; 
contractual accountability; budget accountability; and, importantly, 
Iraqi accountability.

To ensure spending accountability, this resolution requires the 
Department of Defense Inspector General to provide an accounting of all 
military and reconstruction spending and to report to Congress every 90 
days, including how and where our tax dollars are being spent, 
transparency in contracting and procurement methods, and levels of 
participation from other countries, additional funding required, and, 
importantly, sanctions applied for fraud, abuse, and war profiteering.

To enforce contractual accountability, a select committee akin to the 
Truman Committee would be created to investigate the awarding of 
contracts and their execution to protect our tax dollars. To provide 
budget accountability, this resolution requires funding requests for 
the war in Iraq in fiscal 2008 and beyond must come through the regular 
appropriations process, not continued emergency supplementals. And to 
demand Iraqi accountability, the administration should firmly condition 
further American financial and military support upon steady and 
measurable improvement in Iraqi progress towards principal 
responsibility for internal security in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, increasing the number of troops without increasing the 
level of accountability perpetuates the same policy that has led to 
this crisis in Iraq.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support both of 
these resolutions. Instead of sending more troops, let us provide the 
high degree of accountability that the American people demand and that 
our valiant men and women serving in Iraq deserve.