---
---

# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `4b3c6638971c90ee63b730304df045ff`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Ross, I had an opportunity with 
my oldest daughter and two of my grandchildren to go fishing. We were 
going to spend probably a couple hours there. We wound up spending over 
7 hours. The last day that I spent in my district, I did the same 
thing, not intentionally. My middle daughter called and came up on 
Sunday, and I spent, as I did my first Monday home, my last Monday home 
I spent fishing in the rivers there below Sergeant York's home in the 
mill pond. Now, Sergeant York was a great American hero. But we have 
had other great American heroes, as well, Eisenhower being one of them.

I want to mention something about Eisenhower in just a moment. But 
first of all, I want to talk about what someone that America respects 
greatly said a few years ago. Clark Clifford and Richard Holbrooke 
wrote a book in 1991 called ''Counsel to the President.'' After Winston 
Churchill had made his ''Iron Curtain'' speech in Fulton, Missouri, 
they were traveling back on the train from Missouri. President Truman 
and many of his staff members had already retired for the evening. The 
three people who were basically sitting in the room at that time were 
Charles Ross, who was the press secretary for Truman, and Clark 
Clifford and Churchill. They talked about how our lives are influenced 
strictly by the accident of our birth.



What Churchill said, and I am quoting him as quoted in the book, ''If 
I were to be born again, I would wish to be born in the United States. 
Your country is the future of the world. You have natural resources, 
the spirit, the youth, the determination, which will steadily increase 
your global influence.'' He was correct in making that assessment over 
60 years ago as he made this speech. He was correct then. And we are 
correct today to say that America's presence in the world today is 
recognized.

But why has it changed? Why would a great Brit, who is considered the 
Brit's Britishman, say, ''If I were to be born again, I would love to 
have been born an American''? How many people in the world today would 
say that? I would say that because when God put my soul in the body of 
a woman who lived in America, it was a great blessing for me just to be 
born in this country. We have got to regain and recapture throughout 
the world that spirit that folks from nations abroad have seen in this 
country, and I think we can recover it, to where we are looked upon, as 
Ronald Reagan said, as that shining light of freedom that folks can 
look at and aspire to.

We need an Eisenhower moment in Iraq. It has been said that after 
Eisenhower was elected President in 1952 that as he was ordered up he 
asked, as a general, from the military people in the field, the Army, 
if he could be able to have a few small planes that he would fly over 
South Korea and in parts of North Korea. It is also said, and his 
memoirs pretty much confirmed this, that after they landed he was 
silent for a few moments. And he basically said, We cannot win this war 
the way that we are fighting it, but we can't afford to lose it, 
either. We cannot win this war the way we are fighting it. He knew we 
would have to engage in a much greater, larger war that would include 
perhaps even China, which would have stretched America's resources and 
I think America's fiber to the breaking point.

Eisenhower understood that we were in a war that we should not have 
been in. Now some will question what I am saying. But that was 
Eisenhower's comments. It is a war that we are not ready to win. It is 
a war that we can lose, and we can't afford to lose. In his first 6 or 
8 months of his Presidency, he brought about a resolution of a cease-
fire in Korea. Did we stay there? Sure, we have been. Will we stay in 
Iraq? Sure we will. Every resolution that we passed on this floor that 
calls for a date certain authorizes this administration and authorizes 
the Defense Department to keep adequate personnel in the field and 
military presence in the field to help protect the resources, the 
assets of this country and protect our friends in the area and to help 
train the troops and the soldiers of the armies, the policemen, and the 
civilians of Iraq. We will be there several years from now, just as we 
were in South Korea, as we were in Western Europe. It is how we stay 
that makes the difference. It is how we stay that will make the 
difference.

The way we are there now I don't believe is the way we ought to be. 
We can no longer be the army for Iraq. We can no longer be the 
policemen in the streets, on the beat, providing security for the folks 
in Iraq. The Brits just pulled out. This great British leader named 
Winston Churchill, his country just pulled their troops out of Basra. 
Are we going to have a surge in Basra with American troops?

Mr. Speaker, let's ask the President that. Is that our intention now, 
that we will have a surge and resupply the troops there? Because it 
seems in southern Iraq obviously there is a lot of turmoil, a lot of 
killings, basically a civil war between the Shias, now some folks say 
are happening. In northern Iraq where the Kurds are, we are not there 
operating as the army or the policemen on the beat. In northern Iraq 
where the Kurds are, they are providing their own autonomy.

It is my opinion that the longer we stay in Iraq, the worse we will 
be. We need an Eisenhower moment in Iraq, not a General Custer moment, 
not a charge into the Little Big Horn to where we get destroyed. It is 
time that we reassess our situation in Iraq to a war that we win in 
Iraq.

I am saddened as I watch TV. I am seeing Iraq being sold by TV 
commercials as if we are selling an automobile to the American public. 
That saddens me when I see some of our wonderful soldiers, and I 
applaud them, who are saying, We cannot cut and run. I agree with them. 
We can't cut and run. But we don't need to be selling this war on TV 
commercials as the right thing to do.

The thing that we have not done, in my opinion, is that we have 
allowed Afghanistan to be left pretty much as an island to themselves. 
Oh, we are there. But just think what we could have done if we had 
spent the time and resources and kept the number of troops in 
Afghanistan that we moved to Iraq.

It is my belief that Karzai would have probably been, and still may 
be, someone that we may call their George Washington. We now see 
troubles in Pakistan. We are now seeing countries in Central Asia after 
the dominance of the Soviet Union for many years, many are floundering 
around trying to figure which is the best route to go. Each feels, I 
believe, that democracy is the best route to take. Many are struggling 
with their democracies in Central Asia. Just think of what we could 
have done in Afghanistan if, in fact, we had stayed there, helped build 
that country to take out those that would do harm to them, to destroy 
Afghanistan. We could have helped build a democracy that I believe 
would have been infectious, and an epidemic of democratic nations would 
have been springing up all over to continue to bloom and to progress in 
Central Asia.

It would have been infectious, in my opinion, in the Middle East, as 
well, and we would have seen I think the tumbling of the strongman-type 
governments. In every one of those countries surrounding Iraq, there is 
a strong person who runs those countries. If we had stayed and 
continued in Afghanistan, we would have seen, in my opinion, a much 
different Middle East than we see today and a much different Central 
Asia.

One of the real problems we have today is I think even Pakistan would 
have seen the success in Afghanistan and might have wanted to move 
further in that direction. In fact, the Taliban-type warriors and al 
Qaeda led by Osama bin Laden did attack us. I keep hearing these folks 
from the side saying, If we don't fight them there, we will fight them 
here. What do you think happened on September 11? They were here. And 
we have forgotten who attacked us. It wasn't Iraq. It was Osama bin 
Laden and the al Qaeda network. They are now, in some folks' opinion, 
in the areas of Waziristan and Pakistan. If, in fact, we allow, or if, 
in fact, Pakistan were to fall, guess who gets the nuclear weapons?

So our foreign policy, in my opinion, needs to be revisited. All of 
us need to start being American Democrats and American Republicans, not 
right-wingers and left-wingers. It looks like we have chosen up sides 
here and we have started to listen to the talk shows on one side or we 
look at the liberal communications on the other side, and all of a 
sudden that is what drives us in this country. It is time we start 
being Americans again, American Democrats and American Republicans, and 
look at our failures. Eisenhower understood it. George Custer found it 
out. We don't need a Custer move. We don't need to have advertisements 
telling us we need to have a war in TV commercials.

We need honesty, Mr. President. We need honesty. My request to you is 
that you have an Eisenhower moment, one of honesty. Let's get on with 
making sure we rebuild that area, put our troops out of the kill zone 
and stop requiring them to be the soldiers. Because if in Basra and 
southern Iraq and northern Iraq our troops are not there, and the only 
place where it seems the most violent actions that take place is where 
our troops are, that should tell us something.

We need to be sure that we keep enough troops to keep Syria or Iran, 
or quite frankly even our friend called Turkey, from invading Iraq for 
their own beneficial gain and let Iraq work its problems out. It is 
time. We have given them a government. They have accepted their 
government. They have elected their government. It is time for them to 
start leading and taking on the responsibility. I call upon this 
President, this administration, and this Congress to work together to 
make that happen.




We have built and helped build in South Korea over a period of 30-40 
years one of the strongest democracies in the Asian-Pacific rim and 
Asia, the strongest economy called South Korea. It took a long time. It 
will take a long time to resolve the differences in the Middle East. It 
will take a long time to resolve the differences in Iraq. But we cannot 
do it the way we are doing it today.