# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `4b42bf5a5d2d92029dfc02a6832842e1`
`Mr. LEAHY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I will vote against the fiscal year 2007 
emergency supplemental conference report. Although there are many sound 
and worthy provisions in this bill--such as assistance for Afghanistan 
and other countries, and additional funds not requested by the 
administration to help address the backlog of equipment for the 
National Guard--the inescapable fact is that this legislation would not 
reverse this administration's disastrous Iraq policy. I simply cannot 
vote in favor of a bill, containing tens of billions of additional 
dollars for the President's policy in Iraq, that does not begin to 
bring our troops home.

As one of the 23 Senators who opposed authorizing this war, I believe 
it is vital that we send a strong signal that Congress is going to 
exercise its article I constitutional powers and end our central 
involvement in Iraq's civil war. Every Senator--for or against this 
military adventure--must take a stand on whether to continue the status 
quo or change course. That, at the end of the day, is what this vote 
represents.

Congress had a workable and I believe widely acceptable plan in the 
original version of this supplemental bill. Taking a page from the Iraq 
Study Group recommendations, the plan was to end the military mission 
in Iraq as we currently know it. We would reduce American forces to the 
contingent necessary for limited Iraqi troop training, counterterrorism 
operations, and protecting remaining American personnel.

I and others joined with Senator Feingold in an effort to strengthen 
that position by ensuring that no funding could go toward deployment, 
beyond those narrow purposes. About a month ago, we all saw the 
President veto the supplemental bill. Then last week, the President 
muscled his congressional allies to vote against the stronger Feingold-
Reid-Leahy provision.

So what we are left with is this new version of the supplemental--the 
status quo, more of the same old stay the course. The reality is that 
this new conference report does nothing to stop the President's open-
ended escalation. It will not force the Iraqis to make the difficult 
political compromises which they need to make. Nor will it begin a 
redeployment of American forces. The final legislation drops the 
mandatory timetable for planning and commencing redeployment with a 
targeted completion date. Beyond some reporting requirements, there is 
no limitation on troop levels.

What the legislation does do is limit our aid to the Iraqi government 
if actions toward reconciliation are not taken, although the President 
may waive these limitations.

I agree that we should tie our aid to the Iraqi government to clear 
benchmarks. But that alone is not sufficient. The reality is that 
despite spending hundreds of billions of dollars in Iraq, the violence 
has increased. We all know that the trends are going in the wrong 
direction. This piecemeal approach assures that our troops will remain 
in the middle of harm's way for the foreseeable future.

And when it comes to changing the dynamic in Iraq, it is troop levels 
that matter. The introduction of more forces through this open-ended 
escalation that the President calls the surge is sending the wrong 
signal to the Iraqis and to countries in the region that have interests 
there. It says they do not have to make the tough decisions because the 
American forces are there to do the dirty work, to spill their blood 
and to contain sectarian militias or deal with unwelcome foreign 
fighters.

Rory Stewart, a perspicacious observer with hands-on experience in 
Iraq, rightly pointed out in a recent public forum that our presence 
there is fundamentally undermining Iraq's political system, 
''infantilizing'' Iraq politics, to use his phrase. He notes that Iraqi 
politicians are far more capable of making deals and reaching 
compromise than we think, but that our troop presence allows them to 
play hardball with each other. ''Were we to leave,'' Mr. Stewart says, 
''they would be weaker and under more pressure to compromise.''

As I have said, there are many aspects of this supplemental that I 
support. We have, for example, included $1 billion in unrequested 
funding to help rebuild our National Guard, which is suffering from 
dangerously low equipment stocks because so much of the Guard's 
equipment has been sent to Iraq. We have funded the Marla Ruzicka Fund 
to aid innocent Iraqi civilians who have suffered casualties, and a 
similar program to aid civilian victims of war in Afghanistan. There is 
other funding for refugees and humanitarian assistance in Africa and 
the Middle East, as well as for Kosovo. I am gratified that we have 
been able to include funding for elections in Nepal, to support 
reintegration of former combatants in northern Uganda, and to begin the 
clean up of dioxin-contaminated sites in Vietnam and for health 
programs in nearby communities.

These are just a few of the things carried over from the original, 
vetoed version of the bill that I support and for which I have worked 
hard. I thank Senator Gregg, the ranking member of the State, Foreign 
Operations Subcommittee, and our counterparts in the House, Chairwoman 
Lowey and Ranking Member Wolf, for working together in a bipartisan way 
to allocate the foreign assistance funding in this bill.

Yet there is a central fact that we must meet head on. This war has 
been a costly disaster for our country. Our ability to fight terrorism, 
pursue our larger national security and foreign policy goals, and 
secure the welfare of every American has been diminished because of it. 
Thousands of our troops have lost their lives or suffered grievous, 
life-altering injuries. Tens of thousands--and possibly hundreds of 
thousands--of innocent Iraqis have lost their lives. We have opened a 
gaping wound in the Middle East and severely damaged our image and our 
influence. This war has been a foreign policy failure of epic 
proportions.

It is time to bring our troops home. It is time to show the Iraqi 
people that they cannot expect us to make these sacrifices if they 
won't make the hard decisions that are spread before them. I regret 
that this legislation whitewashes what was a reasonable, good faith 
effort to bring real pressure to bear in Baghdad and beyond. I cannot 
in good conscious vote for it.













defense subcommittee funding
