---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008
## `4b4385decbab1d14ef171af2f66af580`
`Mr. KIND — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6081, 
the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax (HEART) Act of 2008. This 
bill provides a number of much needed and deserved tax benefits to 
members of the military, their families, and veterans. Specifically, I 
am proud that the Qualified Veterans' Mortgage Bonds (QVMB) program, 
which impacts my home State of Wisconsin, was renewed and reformed so 
that the dream of home ownership will continue to be a reality for 
thousands of veterans.

Under the HEART Act, the QVMB program will be expanded to allow $100 
million annually in tax exempt bonding for the Wisconsin Department of 
Veterans Affairs (WDVA) State veterans home loan program--enough 
funding to aid about 600 State veterans in obtaining low interest rate 
home loans. This program is more important now than ever before with 
the ongoing credit crisis in this country, and I am proud we were able 
to expand it. In Wisconsin alone, the WDVA has made over 54,000 home 
loans to veterans through this program.

Other important provisions in this bill include allowing combat pay 
for troops to count as earned income for the Earned Income Tax Credit 
and making permanent the Internal Revenue Code provision that allows 
active duty reservists to make penalty-free withdrawals from their 
retirement plans.

Our military service men and women have sacrificed a great deal to 
protect the freedoms that we so deeply cherish in this country. Their 
sacrifices and extended tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, however, 
have placed greater economic hardships on their families here at home. 
The bill before us today will help alleviate some of those hardships by 
giving military families much needed and deserved tax relief and making 
permanent some of the temporary provisions that Congress has previously 
enacted.

The HEART Act is one simple but significant way we can thank our 
troops for their service to our country. I thank Chairman Rangel and 
Ranking Member McCrery for their bipartisan leadership on this 
legislation, and I urge my colleagues to support our men and women in 
the military by passing this legislation.