# IRAQ
## `4b5731f949ac865f824a087177ddfe16`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I was a Member of the Senate when we 
voted to authorize the use of force against Iraq. It was not just a 
rapid, quickly done deal, we talked about it for months. We talked 
about primarily the 16 or 17 resolutions that Saddam Hussein had failed 
to comply with that he agreed to with the United States and the United 
Nations; that he was setting about systematically to break out of the 
box of the embargo placed on him because he failed to comply with those 
resolutions.

We were flying, if you remember, aircraft over Iraq on a regular 
basis, and they were shooting missiles at us, trying to bring down our 
aircraft. We were dropping bombs on them on a weekly basis. This was 
the context of the debate that we entered into.

At the end, a great deal of emphasis was placed on the question of 
weapons of mass destruction by the President and others. But for most 
of us, I think it was a strategic American decision based on the 
fundamental questions: Were we going to give up? Were we going to let 
the embargo elapse? And would Saddam Hussein be able to continue to 
say--actually say with conviction and some honesty--that he had won the 
1991 gulf war? He said he won the war. He never complied with the 
agreements that he entered into and, as a result, we entered this 
conflict.

The initial invasion went far better than most of us believed 
possible, than many predicted--those who supported the war and those 
who did not. The aftermath has been much more troubling and difficult. 
I have been one of those who shared General Abizaid's view of let's 
keep the number of our troops as low as we can, let's push as hard as 
we can to train and bring on the Iraqi forces, and let's let their 
government be responsible for its own activities as soon as possible. 
But I have to be honest, it has been more difficult than most of us 
would have thought. We now have many soldiers there in dangerous 
circumstances. So I am concerned about that. I respect anybody who is 
concerned about that.

I am not here to say I know you are wrong, that I know this is the 
only way and the only right policy, and I guarantee you it will be 
successful. I want to say that in the beginning. We have some difficult 
choices to make, and I respect people who don't agree.

I am not able, however, to justify a resolution that appears to be 
designed to embarrass the President, appears to be contradictory to our 
Nation's policy, that would indicate to our adversaries and enemies 
that we are divided. I cannot see that as a positive step for us. I am 
inclined to agree with the view of General Petraeus. He finished at the 
top of his class at West Point. He was No. 1 in his class at the 
Command and General Staff College. He got his Ph.D. at Princeton. He 
was in Mosul, right after the initial invasion, commanding the 101st 
Airborne Division. He was a Ranger, a soldier, a fabulous leader. I saw 
him in operation when some of the Alabama National Guard members had 
felt they were not being fully utilized right after they got to Mosul. 
I told General Petraeus, and he said:




 Let's go over and meet them.


He told them:




 You are part of our effort. I will be bringing you right 


 away the Screaming Eagle patch and you are going to put it on 


 and be one of ours. There won't be any difference in the 


 Guard and Reserve.


That was such an example of leadership, I thought. Later, he showed 
how they captured Uday and Qusay under his command. He showed how they 
formed the government. He had a Sunni, Shia, Christian, and a Kurd on 
the city council. He formed a court system. He was a fabulous leader 
and everybody recognized that. He finished his tour and came back.

We realized that we needed to spend more effort and be more effective 
in training the Iraqi Army. So we sent him over there. We asked him to 
go back. He went back to specifically be in charge of training the 
Iraqi security forces. During that time, he got to know virtually every 
major Iraqi military leader. He knows them personally and he worked 
with them and with most of the Iraqi leadership. He said he didn't know 
Prime Minister Maliki, but he knows most of them.

After some 15 months at that, well over 2 years in Iraq, he came back 
home and he was placed in charge of writing the doctrine for the U.S. 
Department of Defense on how to confront and defeat an insurgency 
operation, the so-called Counterinsurgency Manual. It is a real serious 
document. A lot of people don't know this, but there are ways--proven 
ways--to confront and defeat insurgency operations. In fact, one 
military historian recently pointed out that very few insurgency 
operations ultimately become successful. They can cause great distress 
for substantial periods of time, but they usually fail. There is a 
fairly significant number--70, 80, 90 percent--that fail, according to 
this report. So this manual that he painstakingly put together had 
incredible subtleties in it about how to handle various situations 
because every situation is different. What might be true in the Kurdish 
north may not be true in Bosra, the Shia south, or in the Sunni west. 
Every part of the Sunni and Shia and Kurdish areas are different 
themselves. Their tribes and their heritage and their religious sects 
are different. You have to handle them all differently.


President Bush asked General Petraeus to help formulate a plan to be 
successful in Iraq. He committed to him five additional brigades, over 
20,000 soldiers. That is a bitter pill to me. I was very pleased--and I 
spoke out when some were critical--and in favor of General Casey over a 
year ago saying he hoped to be able to bring troops home. He brought 
some home. He asked for more at different times. What happened? Well, 
violence began to pick up substantially in Baghdad. The Sunni and al-
Qaida terrorists saw the country beginning to come together, and they 
decided to make a devilish decision, and that decision was to 
deliberately provoke a sectarian conflict. They began to attack the 
Shia in the marketplaces and they attacked their holy mosque at 
Samarra. They blew up that mosque and killed people. It began to work. 
Shia militias began to grow and strengthen and develop, feeling they 
were not being protected by the government. They began to kill Sunnis, 
and people would find bodies that had been killed execution style. It 
was a very grim thing to happen. It still is going on to a substantial 
degree.

But I believe that this can be reversed. I cannot guarantee that, but 
I believe it can be reversed with the leadership of the United States, 
with increased effort on behalf of the Iraqi military and the country 
of Iraq, that they can begin to reverse this trend. I will just cite 
that recently General Conway testified at a hearing. He commanded the 
Marines in the western part of Fallujah and during some of the toughest 
fighting. Now commandant of


the Marine Corps, he testified a few days ago. I told him about the 
visit Senators Levin, Warner, Pryor, and I made to Iraq last fall. The 
briefing that we had gotten by the Marines in the Ramadi area really 
concerned me. Some of the information they gave--and the Presiding 
Officer and I traveled over there, and I know he cares about these 
issues. That briefing was one of the more troubling things I had heard 
in visiting there five times, as I have. He pointed out how, in just a 
matter of weeks, that made a dramatic change; that 12 out of 16 tribal 
leaders in that area have gotten fed up with al-Qaida and their 
murdering ways, their parasitic ways, and their domination. And they 
have made agreements with the U.S. military. We are helping them create 
their own law enforcement entities, hiring their young people, and they 
are resisting al-Qaida. There has been a dramatic change in the 
toughest area, the Sunni area, the area where most of al-Qaida has 
been. So that is good.

I say to my colleagues that can happen in Baghdad. Don't think that 
because things have been very difficult in the last year they cannot 
begin to get better. General Petraeus has stepped up. We are going to 
increase our forces. The Iraqis are going to increase their forces. I 
think the Iraqis know this may be their last chance to save this 
country as a decent and progressive country that treats people fairly 
and equally. I think they are beginning to wake up to that fact--I hope 
so. They are moving substantial numbers of troops in there. They are 
not as good as the American troops in many ways. They have a lot of 
difficulties. We know that. But they have taken more casualties than we 
have, and they continue to sign up. We have an opportunity, I believe, 
to make a difference.


If this effort does not succeed and we do not begin to notice that 
more progress has been made, that the Iraqis do not meet certain 
benchmarks we have called on them to make, then we do need to review 
our policy. I have to say it. What we will do then, I am not sure. But 
we need to be smart about it. We don't need to be aberrational or 
spasmodic in how we face those challenges.

What happened on the floor of the Senate is not something that I 
think has brought credit to this body. After approving General Petraeus 
to go to Iraq 94 to 0, after making clear we intend to fund the policy 
the President, as Commander in Chief, is executing, our soldiers are 
executing, and soldiers have been sent over there as part of this 
surge--some have already gotten there as part of this surge--it became 
a goal of the majority leader, Senator Reid, and the Democratic 
leadership, apparently, to vote on a resolution that disapproved it, 
that criticized the President, I guess to make happy some of the people 
out there who oppose this war so deeply, some with great passion and 
legitimate concerns and some with fevered brow who believe we are over 
there trying to steal Iraqi oil. But that crowd is out there. They want 
a resolution that is critical of the President and this policy.

Our leader, the Republican leader, said: You can have that vote, that 
will be all right, let's have that vote, but Senator McCain has a 
different view. Senator McCain's view is we need to set some benchmarks 
for the Iraqis and we need to support the President. Senator Gregg said 
it is most important when troops are in harm's way, when they are 
placing their lives at risk for us, that we tell them we are going to 
support them financially. Oh, no, we can't vote on those amendments. We 
are only going to vote on the one we want.

This resolution, by the way, should have come, by historical 
tradition and rules of the Senate, out of the Armed Services Committee, 
but it didn't come out of the Armed Services Committee. Why didn't it 
come out of the Armed Services Committee, of which I am a member? 
Because it doesn't have the votes. It wouldn't have passed out of the 
Armed Services Committee. So what Senator Reid did is, he filed it as a 
bill instead of a resolution. He filed it and, under rule XIV, brought 
it to the floor and determined that no other amendments could be 
accepted or even voted on, only his view should be voted on. And they 
carefully calculated, I am sure, to make sure they had over 50 votes, 
so they would be able to pass one resolution that was deemed an attack 
on the President and a rejection of the policy we are now funding and 
is being executed by our soldiers who are far more worthy, in my view, 
of maturity and respect than a Congress that gets itself tied up in 
this kind of mess.

I think most of us on this side--even some Republicans and some 
Democrats who supported the resolution--have refused to vote for 
cloture to bring it up for a vote because they think Senator McCain's 
and Senator Gregg's resolutions deserve a vote too. Senator McCain 
said: I would just be satisfied if you vote on Gregg if you don't vote 
on mine.

I would like to vote on both of them, and I am not afraid to vote on 
the Democratic resolution. I would vote on all three of them. I am not 
afraid to talk about this war or to talk about the resolutions. But 
somehow the media has adopted the Democrat's talking points and 
suggests Republicans don't want to debate and vote on the issue. That 
is not true. How many times do we have to say that? I don't think what 
I said is inaccurate. If it is, I would like to be corrected on the 
fundamental debate in which we find ourselves.

But what I wish to say to my colleagues is we are, at this very 
moment, in reality, financially supporting the policy with which they 
disagree. Advice and suggestions from business, athletics, church, and 
families needs to be welcome, but naysaying after a decision is reached 
is nearly always destructive, in my opinion. People have to pull 
together once a decision is reached. We only have one Commander in 
Chief. We have the absolute power to shut off every dime going to Iraq 
and bring our troops home immediately. That is the constitutional power 
this Congress has. But while we are executing this effort in Iraq, we 
only have one Commander in Chief. And for the life of me, I can see no 
advantage to our Nation, to our foreign policy or to our soldiers in a 
resolution that disagrees with the President's plan, a plan to which we 
have our soldiers committing their lives this very moment.

Congress should either support it or stop it. But, of course, we all 
know the awesome responsibility that voting for a precipitous 
withdrawal out of Iraq would entail because stopping the funding for 
Iraq is real, just like funding Iraq is real, just like voting for 
General Petraeus is real. It is not positioning, it is not an 
expression of concern or an effort to distance oneself from a war that 
over three-fourths of us in this Senate voted for but has now become 
very difficult.

The President studied the Baker-Hamilton report, he met with his 
commanders in Iraq and in the United States, and he met with retired 
officers, elder statesmen. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
General Peter Pace, started a bottom-up review of our Iraq policy in 
August. I called him about that time to raise some questions and urge 
that he do that. He said: Senator, I have started that already. After 
all of this evaluation and receipt of ideas for improvement, both 
public and private, our President, the one given the power to decide 
such issues in our system, made his call. He changed his policy. 
Perhaps he should have done it earlier. I think this kind of review 
would have been more appropriate earlier.


The President has gone through a deliberative process, though, and 
made his decision, and I have decided the right response for me, as a 
Member of this Senate trying to serve the national interest, is to 
support that policy, at least for the immediate future, and to support 
those who will execute it--our military personnel.

Others may disagree. An official expression of disagreement, though, 
about a policy we authorized and we are now funding and our soldiers 
are executing does not meet, I believe, high standards of 
responsibility to which a great Senate should adhere. Please remember 
also that what we do is not contained just in these Halls. I am not 
persuaded there can be any effect, other than a pernicious one, on 
those allies and other nations that are assisting us in our efforts. 
Nor do I see how the threat of an imminent withdrawal could cause the 
Iraqi Government and the leaders of the various sects and groups to be 
more willing to reach an accord than would be achieved if we continue 
assistance in restoring


order, particularly in the nation's capital. I don't know. I don't 
think so myself. If it was so, I would be persuaded. If that would be 
the result of a rapid withdrawal, that they would all get together and 
reach an accord, then I would support it because I don't think we need 
to be an occupying force in Iraq. But this is not what our generals 
tell us. It is not what we have heard from the intelligence community.

Some people said: I talked to a retired general; that is what he 
said. Maybe that is what he said. Maybe that retired general is right. 
The people we are hearing about are not saying this is any kind of 
panacea, to pull out, and there is going to be harmony and compromise 
reached all at once.

In fact, many are saying the violence in Baghdad is so significant 
that if we allow it to continue to grow, it makes it harder for the 
warring factions to get together and reach an accord.

Still, despite the difficulties, our experts in public and private 
conversations believe there is hope for stability with this new policy 
in Iraq, this new surge. They give that evaluation with full and 
realistic evaluations of all the challenges we face. The new Iraqi 
permanent Government has only been formed for 8 months, maybe 9 months 
now. That Government has only been up for 8 or 9 months. The forces of 
violence, oppression, and extremism have attacked it full force. They 
are determined to bring it down. But it still stands, and it has made 
new commitments to taking the necessary steps toward security and 
progress.

This is a test for them, no doubt. Maybe they will fail. Maybe they 
would not meet the commitments they have made. But perhaps not. Perhaps 
this fragile Government and the Iraqi Army working in new and better 
ways with General Petraeus and our forces together can be successful, 
as our experts tell us is possible and realistic.

I, thus, have concluded this Congress should fund this new strategy, 
not adopt a resolution that has any tendency whatsoever to lessen the 
chance of that strategy being successful.

Finally, I do not see how a congressional resolution that disagrees 
with, or one that rejects the President's new policy will have any 
other effect than to reduce the morale of our soldiers.

Right out here a couple of days ago, I talked with a group from 
Hartsville, AL. The man pulled me aside and said his son was an 
infantry officer at Fort Benning. He said: Senator, I want you to know 
one thing. When you make your decisions, don't think they don't know 
what is going on. He said: ''They are watching you like a hawk.''

We have a responsibility to them. Yes, we have a responsibility to 
say pull out if we have to pull out, if that is the thing to do--and I 
don't think it is yet; I think we have a chance for success. If that is 
our decision, so be it. But when we send them over there, they should 
be supported. They should have no doubt that we are going to be with 
them.

We are waging a war against violent extremists who bomb markets, who 
behead people who disagree with them, who murder, who kill, who destroy 
teachers because they teach young girls how to read and write. So this 
is a complex effort. It is an important effort that to date has 
protected our homeland from further attack.

We didn't choose this duty. It has fallen to us. By working together, 
I believe we can achieve more in Iraq than many people think.

And I will say this, while we are being very serious about the 
challenges we face. I have had personal meetings with Secretary Gates, 
the new Secretary of Defense, and an extended meeting with GEN Peter 
Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and I had a good long 
conversation with General Petraeus, the new commander in Iraq, and 
Admiral Fallon, who is going to be the Central Command, commander. I 
have asked them, and each one of them stated to me that they fully 
understand their responsibility to give us their best military advice, 
and if at any time this conflict in Iraq becomes untenable, if at any 
time they conclude that putting more soldiers into harm's way will not 
be successful and will not achieve the aims which we are seeking there, 
they will tell us.

I asked Peter Pace that in an open hearing, and he said: ''Yes, sir, 
Senator, I understand that.'' Secretary Gates cut in and said: 
''Senator, I fully understand that, and I feel like that is my number 
one responsibility.'' I asked General Petraeus that, and he said the 
same. And I asked him if he believed he could be successful. Remember, 
this is the man who spent over 2 years in Iraq. He is the best of the 
best. He has written a manual on how to confront and defeat an 
insurgency. His answer to whether he can be successful, in sum, was: 
''Senator, I do, and I wouldn't be going over there if I didn't think I 
could be.''

I know people are worried about this conflict. I am worried about it. 
I talked to a widow yesterday, whose fabulous husband was killed in 
Iraq, and I don't take it lightly at all. But we are a nation that has 
been attacked and we have a responsibility to defend our just national 
interest, and our just national interest would be greatly served by a 
prosperous, free, democratic Iraq, where terrorists do not find haven 
and which is not subverted by hostile forces. We have a national 
interest in that, as well as a humanitarian interest.

I think we need to give General Petraeus a chance. I think we may 
find that progress in Baghdad can occur, even when it is dark, as it 
did in Al Anbar Province a few months ago. I was feeling pretty 
discouraged about what was happening there, but great progress has been 
made in the last few weeks there. It is time for us to stick together.

I don't think this resolution is good. If we are going to vote on it, 
we ought to vote on the Gregg resolution and we ought to vote on the 
McCain resolution. Because only together will that convey to the world, 
our allies, and our soldiers the real feelings and insights of this 
Congress. As I have said from the beginning, I don't favor any 
resolution. We have done what we have to do. We sent General Petraeus 
and we sent money to execute the policy. I don't know why we have to 
have a resolution at all.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.