---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4b5713ddb399f7957e5c949d571b2d73`
`Mr. CHANDLER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHANDLER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from New Jersey for 
yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, as we debate this resolution on Iraq, we are reminded of 
the uncertain world in which we live. While the 5-year anniversary of 
9/11 has passed, the memories of that day are still with us, as are the 
actions of this administration that led us into this war.

Following 9/11, our country missed an important opportunity that will 
forever change our history. Instead of building coalitions and using 
that support to maximize our strength, we alienated much of the world. 
We lost sight of the simple truth: A respected America is a more secure 
America.

But this administration insisted on going it alone in Iraq. They 
refused to let U.N. inspectors complete their work, and they launched 
an invasion without the support of the international community. We are 
now faced with lasting repercussions of that decision. And it appears 
the President still has not learned from that mistake.

Once again, the President is going it alone with his call for more 
than 20,000 additional troops in Iraq. He does not have the support of 
the international community, and he has lost the support of many in the 
military, the Congress, and, most importantly, the American people.

I fear, Mr. Speaker, the President is once again missing an important 
opportunity. He is missing his chance to send a strong message to the 
Iraqi people that we will no longer police their civil war, and that it 
is time for them to assume responsibility for their own country so that 
our troops can be removed from harm's way.

In my judgment, this war is beyond the scope of our men and women in 
uniform. The situation in Iraq is in dire need of a diplomatic 
solution. Sure, we need to be ready to take down al Qaeda training 
camps in the region, but we do not need to be refereeing age-old 
religious disputes.

This is an untenable situation and unfair to our brave troops who 
have become targets of insurgents. If we are going to support our 
troops in every way possible, it is vital that we not only support them 
with the supplies and armor that they need, we must also ensure that 
they are being deployed in such a way that they have a realistic chance 
of success. We must make certain that the funds we are sending to Iraq 
are going to our troops and not into the pockets of no-bid contractors 
and war profiteers.

Mr. Speaker, I support this resolution, because I support our men and 
women in uniform. I have heard speakers on the other side say that this 
debate will demoralize our troops. Well, I submit that nothing can 
demoralize our troops more than having them police a civil war. And 
that is what this administration is asking them to do.

All of us in this body believe in the spread of democracy and 
freedom. But that grand responsibility cannot solely rest on the 
shoulders of our troops. It must rest on the shoulders of free nations 
across this world. And it must rest on the shared sacrifice of all 
citizens of this country.

No doubt we have real enemies. They are the Islamist jihadists, and 
they must be opposed. These same enemies are shared by all free 
nations. But escalating the war in Iraq is not the right approach to 
defeat the jihadists. It is an approach that will cost more American 
lives and mire us even further in the Iraqi civil war.

We can win the long-term struggle if we are smart, if we focus on the 
real enemy, if we build our alliances properly, and if we do not let 
our own pride get in the way.