---
---

# A TRIBUTE TO RODNEY D. HUDSON
## `4b596e5e3ed4eb165328f323a3ce49ba`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
Rodney D. Hudson, founder and president of QuickSilver Analytics. 
Graduating with a bachelors degree in chemistry from Cameron University 
in 1974, Rodney went on to earn a master's degree in chemistry from the 
University of Delaware in 1982. QuickSilver Analytics is a registered 
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, specializing in chemical 
and biological warfare-related services and products. Rodney Hudson has 
been named the SBA's Veteran Small Business Champion of the Year for 
2008.

Mr. Hudson was an Army Chemical Officer for over 21 years. He managed 
numerous chemical warfare materials (CWM) sampling and analysis (S&A) 
projects. Mr. Hudson has been directly involved with all aspects of 
chemical warfare agents for over twenty years, including CWM storage, 
laboratory procedures for environmental S&A, the operation of equipment 
for air monitoring, quality assurance/control, and major project 
management.

Mr. Hudson is a veteran of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. 
While in the Middle East during Operation Desert Storm, Mr. Hudson 
evaluated and briefed the Army Headquarters Staff on the potential 
chemical downwind hazards from destroyed Iraqi chemical storage igloos. 
He managed the collection, reporting and deployment of the only remote 
chemical monitoring and biological detection teams in the theater of 
operation and coordinated the transportation of all suspect chemical 
and biological samples to U.S. laboratories.

President of the Maryland Chapter of Elite Service-Disabled Veteran-
Owned Business (SDVOB) Network, Rodney is also a member of the American 
Chemical Society, the Association of the United States Army, the 
National Defense Industrial Association, and the Society of American 
Military Engineers. Rodney has been a strong advocate for service-
disabled veterans, lobbying the Maryland State Legislature to award 
three percent of all Maryland state contracts to service-disabled 
veterans. He has counseled several business owners on techniques and 
opportunities currently available to SDVOB owners and on ways to 
improve their business volume.

Mr. Hudson has worked tirelessly taking from his personal time to 
offer counsel to veterans who are considering starting a business. He 
has garnered the support of the MD Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
his efforts and has provided a conduit for information flow to state 
legislators and the governor on issues important to Maryland SDVOB 
owners. Mr. Hudson has reached out to county government procurement 
personnel and introduced the Maryland Chapter of the Elite SDVOB 
network at last year's Maryland Association of Counties Conference.

Madam Speaker, I ask that you join with me today to honor Rodney 
Hudson. His legacy as a successful business owner in the defense 
industry is surpassed only by his tireless advocacy for service 
disabled veterans. It is with great pride that I congratulate Rodney 
Hudson on his being awarded the SBA's Veteran Small Business Champion 
of the Year.
