---
---

# INTRODUCTION OF THE ``AFGHANISTAN-PAKISTAN SECURITY AND PROSPERITY  ENHANCEMENT ACT''
## `4b5ebafe24863f7ad50f992afee4edcf`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 4 March 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise to introduce the Afghanistan-
Pakistan Security and Prosperity Enhancement Act. The legislation is 
aimed at protecting our national security and that of our allies in the 
fight against Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. I am pleased to be joined by 
Mr. Hoekstra, Mr. Levin, Mr. Kirk, Mr. Burton, Mr. Smith (WA), Mr. 
Crowley, Mr. Moran, Mr. Ackerman, Mr. Welch and Ms. Jackson-Lee. 
Senator Cantwell has introduced the companion measure in the Senate.

This bill authorizes the President of the United States to designate 
Reconstruction Opportunity Zones, ROZs, in Afghanistan and in certain 
areas of Pakistan. Qualified businesses operating in those zones will 
gain duty-free access to U.S. markets for designated products, thereby 
providing significant employment opportunities where few currently 
exist. A ROZ program could go a long way toward bolstering economic 
development in this critical region of the world where extremists have 
tried to exploit the lack of economic opportunities to gain recruits 
for their radical agenda.

The 9/11 attacks against the United States resulted from Al-Qaeda 
exploiting a safe haven in Taliban controlled Afghanistan. We cannot 
allow this to happen again. These extremists pose a threat to the 
people of Afghanistan, Pakistan and the United States.

I commend President Obama for his focus on the threat that this 
region poses to our national security. I am pleased that the President 
and Secretary Clinton have appointed a seasoned negotiator, Ambassador 
Holbrooke, as the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.

U.S. and NATO forces are essential to confronting the threat. 
However, the President has recognized that the threat cannot be 
neutralized by military force alone. We need a comprehensive strategy 
to deal with these countries. Such a plan must include programs to 
expand the economic opportunities of the people in this region.

Towards that end, hopefully Congress will revisit the foreign 
assistance bill that was introduced by Senators Biden and Lugar in the 
last Congress. The Reconstruction and Opportunity Zone bill that we are 
introducing today is another vital tool to bolster these economies. In 
my recent trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan, the importance of this ROZ 
bill was specifically raised by Presidents Zardari and Karzai. I urge 
the House to pass this bill quickly to assist these countries in 
achieving economic sustainability.
