# HONORING ARMY STAFF SERGEANT ALEX JIMENEZ
## `4b5f4e4e2f1ae3df5f039349d81d337b`
`Mr. CROWLEY â€” 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. CROWLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor, 
salute, and pay tribute to one of our brave fallen soldiers.

Army Staff Sergeant Alex Jimenez went to Iraq for the first time in 
2005. Already fluent in Spanish, he quickly taught himself Arabic and 
became a translator for fellow soldiers who needed to communicate with 
the Iraqi people they had been sent there to protect. Army officials 
always praised his leadership and strength.

Alex took pride in the Army and his responsibilities as a soldier. He 
once told his cousin, ''Honestly, I signed the contract, and it doesn't 
matter what my opinion is. I just think about the guy to my left and 
the guy to my right making it home. That's all I care about.'' He 
recognized the importance of his duties, writing, ''I believe that in 
the United States Army, I may reach my goals which are--making positive 
differences, bringing peace to the innocent, and making justice my duty 
as a U.S. soldier.''

Without a doubt, Alex achieved all of these goals.

Without a doubt, Alex made his family, his army, and his hometown 
community of Corona, Queens very proud.

And, without a doubt, Alex's services to our country was honorable 
and distinguished.

Sadly, however, on May 12, 2007, Alex Jimenez, along with six of his 
fellow soldiers, was patrolling a deserted highway south of Baghdad, 
looking for insurgents planting roadside bombs, when he and the group 
came under fire. Staff Sergeant Alex Jimenez, who was on his second 
tour in Iraq, Specialist Byron Fouty, and Private First Class Joseph J. 
Anzack Jr. were taken prisoner.

The four soldiers who died in the attack were Sergeant Anthony J. 
Schober, Private First Class Daniel W. Courneya, Private Christopher E. 
Murphy, and Sergeant First Class James D. Connell, all of Delta 
Company, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 10th 
Mountain Division. Private First Class Joseph J. Anzack Jr.'s body was 
recovered on May 23, 2007.

The Queens community mourned for the loss of Alex's fellow soldiers 
and, together, we prayed for the safe return of Alex and Byron. Despite 
our wishing and hoping for the best, the bodies of Staff Sergeant Alex 
Jimenez and Specialist Byron W. Fouty were found on July 8, 2008.

So many worked tirelessly to bring Alex home, and the Queens 
community and Alex's family are so appreciative and grateful for their 
efforts. Because now, we have the opportunity to say goodbye to Alex 
one more time and to lay his body to rest.

As a parent, I know that this loss will stay with Sergeant Jimenez's 
family forever. But, I hope that in some small way, Alex Jimenez's 
parents have some relief now that they finally have the opportunity to 
lay their son to rest. Those closest to him will always remember his 
love for music and his family, and his loyalty as a soldier and friend. 
I extend my deepest and most sincere sympathies to the family of Staff 
Sergeant Alex Jimenez, and thank them for their sacrifice for our 
country.

I would like to close my remarks by reading a few pieces of the U.S. 
Army Soldier's Creed, which exemplifies the type of person Staff 
Sergeant Jimenez was; a man who loved his family and his country.



 I am a Warrior, and a member of a team.


 I serve the people of the United States, and live the Army 





 Values.


 I will always place the mission first.


 I will never accept defeat.


 I will never quit.


 I will never leave a fallen comrade.


 I am a guardian of freedom and the American way of life.


 I am an American Soldier.



