# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR  FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `4b609ac9419e8652dbd23623665455ec`
`Mr. NADLER — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, today we have an opportunity to affirm 
America's values and our respect for the rule of law. This bill 
includes language drawn from the American Anti-Torture Act, introduced 
by myself and Representative Delahunt, that would extend the 
interrogation standards in the U.S. Army Field Manual to all 
interrogations conducted on persons in the custody or effective control 
of any element of the intelligence community. This will ensure a 
single, uniform baseline standard for interrogations. That means no 
more torture, no more waterboarding, no more clever word play, no more 
evasive answers, no more dishonesty.

People in nations do terrible things in war, but civilized nations 
long ago recognized that there must be limits on their conduct even 
during military conflict. Our Army Field Manual is an outstanding 
example of a modern military dedicated to observing international norms 
of conduct while waging war effectively. It is a credit to our men and 
women in uniform that they continue to abide by these rules. It is 
unforgivable that some civilians here in Washington seem to think that 
they know better and we must be more brutal than our military and 
professional interrogators.

I understand the critical role that intelligence plays in protecting 
ourselves, but torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, 
besides being contrary to American values and traditions, have proven 
not to be effective in obtaining actionable intelligence.

Current and former members of the military have made this clear. 
General David Petraeus, the commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, recently 
wrote in an open letter to U.S. troops that the standards in the Army 
Field Manual ''work effectively and humanely in eliciting information 
from detainees.''

Lieutenant General Kimmons, Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence 
similarly stated ''no good intelligence is going to come from abusive 
practices. Any piece of intelligence which is obtained under duress 
through the use of abusive techniques would be of questionable 
credibility.''

The Bush administration has long argued that it does not torture but 
it does waterboard. And we prosecuted, we sent to jail Japanese 
officers for waterboarding prisoners after World


War II. We knew then that waterboarding was torture, and despite 
statements from the Bush administration or the nonstatements, we know 
now that it is torture. Torture places our servicemen and women and our 
allies at grave risk. We must accept that whatever we authorize and use 
against our enemies will be turned against our own men and women.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to restore the honor of the United States. It 
is time to restore the good name of the United States in a world that 
has been so sullied by the conduct of this administration. It is time 
to compel the administration to act in a manner consistent with the 
Constitution of the United States.

I applaud the leadership of the conferees in including the 
antitorture language in this bill. I urge support for the conference 
report. I hope this will begin the process of restoring the honor and 
the integrity of the United States.