# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `4b6894ea956684d140c82b878232d370`
`Mr. KYL â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, that is an extremely important question 
because there is a lot of rhetoric about this war. The question is, 
What is the action line here, what can Congress do? Actually, it is a 
question of what Congress must do.

As I understand it, looking at General Petraeus's testimony, he was 
very adamant that Congress needed to pass the supplemental 
appropriations bill that will actually fund the troops in the field. 
This money was requested over a year ago. It represents a little over 
$100 billion.

According to his testimony, it is critical not only to the military 
needs but also he importantly talked about the Commander's Emergency 
Response Program, the State Department's Quick Response Fund, and the 
USAID programs.

The Senator from South Carolina was talking a moment ago about this 
two-part process, not only the political reconciliation but the 
economic reconstruction of the country.

General Petraeus himself, who clearly wants to get the troops funded, 
noted the interrelationship of the funding to help reconstruct the 
country, as well as to support the troops.

We are very soon going to be in a situation, according to Secretary 
Gates, where the Armed Forces are going to have to allow money to be 
borrowed from their regular operational accounts to fund the operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. He said the results of that would be a 
slowdown in training and equipping Iraqi forces, the halting of 
military operations and pay of defense personnel, and losing the 
ability to replace lost and damaged equipment by ongoing operations 
and, finally, that some operations simply would not be started because 
they will not know in advance that the funding will be there to 
complete the operation, something with which I am sure no operational 
commander in the field would want to live.

My understanding of his testimony is he very strongly urged the 
Congress to quickly pass the supplemental appropriations bill so the 
troops in the field can be funded and do the mission, after all, we 
have sent them to do.