---
---

# SERGEANT MARCUS MATHES POST OFFICE
## `4b69cd494cb5995d1e1a82c03be11a1e`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 21 April 2009`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
And I also thank the gentleman from Massachusetts for the speedy 
consideration of this bill.

I rise today in support of H.R. 1516, which is the bill that I 
introduced to rename the post office in Dade City, Florida, after 
Sergeant Marcus Mathes. Marcus was a resident in my district who gave 
his life for his country while serving in Iraq.

Inspired by the events of September 11, Sergeant Mathes joined the 
Army and left for boot camp on his 23rd birthday. He was proud to serve 
and hoped to make a career out of his service in the Army.

Before serving in Iraq, Marcus was deployed to Afghanistan for a year 
and a half. He volunteered in not one, but two very dangerous war zones 
to protect the freedoms that all Americans hold dear.

While repairing an equipment truck outside Baghdad 1 year ago this 
week, Marcus was struck and killed by enemy rocket fire. His brother-
in-law, who was on patrol with Marcus at the time, recovered his torn 
Bible from the battle scene, which gave his brother-in-law strength 
throughout his multiple tours.

Marcus leaves behind a young widow, Julia Mathes. All the people of 
Pasco County, where Dade City is located, mourn his passing. My heart 
goes out to this brave, young widow who stood behind her husband when 
he made the decision to serve our Nation in its time of need.

Julia remembers that she used to visit the Dade City Post Office to 
mail packages to her husband in Baghdad. By passing this bill, we can 
make sure that all who visit the post office will remember Marcus and 
the sacrifices that he made. I hope that the very simple act of 
renaming this building will memorialize Marcus' brave and selfless 
life.

Sergeant Mathes epitomized the courage and patriotism of our all-
volunteer military, and we must never forget his sacrifice. I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.