---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `4b74f7f7bfdd097cf71c3210fc99c563`
`Mr. REID — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Gates, told 
all of us the Wednesday before we broke for Thanksgiving that the 
troops would be fine--the Army until the first of March, the Marines 
until the middle of March. That is what he told us. I believe him. I 
have talked to him since then. He has confirmed that. I know there is 
spin from the White House that they are going to start laying people 
off. Let's be realistic.

We have a request before the Senate to allow a registry to be created 
so we can try to find a cure for a dread disease. We are going to be 
out of here hopefully in a few days, hopefully a week or 10 days. We 
are going to complete the funding for our country prior to that time. 
Part of that consideration--I have spoken to my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle--is what do we do about the President's request, his 
$196 billion request for more money for Iraq. We have to take a look at 
that. We want to take a look at that.

I am concerned that we fund the Government. We don't want a 
Government shutdown. Maybe some people in the White House would like 
that. We don't want a Government shutdown. We are going to work very 
hard to accomplish that.

Today, there are going to be a number of requests for pieces of 
legislation that are important. I believe people with Lou Gehrig's 
disease deserve a few minutes of our time today. That is what I asked 
that we pass. It was objected to. I understand that, but that is really 
too bad. That is legislation creating a registry so people can try to 
find out what causes this disease,


where the disease occurs in our country. It was objected to. That is 
too bad.
