---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `4b75ab2119c2aee225b08bb00bf6ca01`
`Mr. DURBIN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I am aware of it. I will tell my colleagues the Senator 
from Maryland probably recalls that over the last 10 years or so, this 
has kind of been an area of real bipartisan cooperation. We may fight 
like cats and dogs over everything else, but we said: Come on, when it 
comes to the National Institutes of Health and medical research, 
Democrats get sick and Republicans get sick, too, and our kids do as 
well, so let's all join hands and promise we are going to increase the 
spending for medical research, not just to find the cures but also, as 
the Senator from Maryland says, to build up the infrastructure of 
talented professionals who will devote their lives to this medical 
research. The President says: No, we can't afford it.

Madam President, $1.4 billion, we can't afford to spend $1.4 billion 
more on cancer research, heart disease, diabetes, Parkinson's, 
Alzheimer's? We can't afford that? Well, for $12 billion to $15 billion 
a month, we can obviously afford a war in Iraq, but the President can't 
find money for the war against disease and death in this country. That 
is truly unfortunate.

Since I see my colleague from Maryland, I will surrender the floor 
and give her a chance to speak. I hope this veto today will not go 
unnoticed. Elections have consequences. In the last election, the 
American people said: We are going to give you--the Democrats--a 
majority in the Senate and a majority in the House. Now do something 
with it.

We have tried. We have succeeded in many areas. But we have run into 
the opposition of this President more often than not. When we tried to 
change the course and policy of the war in Iraq, the President used his 
first veto as President of the United States to veto on foreign policy, 
to veto that decision. When we tried to change his horrendous decision 
to stop medical research involving stem cells, he used his veto pen 
again. When we tried to provide children's health insurance for 
millions of kids across America who are not poor enough to qualify for 
Medicaid but not lucky enough to have health insurance in their family, 
he used his veto pen again. He used it again today.

Why is it a recurring theme that we see this President stopping 
efforts by this Democratic Congress to address the issues people care 
about: Health care, making sure we have the best; medical research to 
find those cures; making sure our schools are preparing the next 
generation of leaders; making certain that as a country, we move 
forward in providing health insurance protection for kids. It is a sad 
moment.

I hope the House of Representatives can rally the votes to override 
that veto. I hope a few of our Republican friends who joined us in 
passing this bill, with over 70 votes, if I am not mistaken--I think 
close to 75 votes--I hope they will stand with us again and override 
this President's veto--a mistake, a mistake this President made at the 
expense of America's families.

I yield the floor.