---
---

# LANCE CORPORAL MATTHEW P. PATHENOS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `4b797e4e571f212a8ae128af53bfdbe6`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

As a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I am pleased to join my colleagues, particularly the gentleman 
from Missouri, in the consideration of H.R. 6208, which names a postal 
facility in Chesterfield, Missouri, after a fallen hero, Lance Corporal 
Matthew P. Pathenos.

Introduced on June 9, 2008, H.R. 6208 is sponsored by Congressman 
Todd W. Akin, representative of Missouri's Second Congressional 
District, and cosponsored by the entire Missouri congressional 
delegation and a total of nine Members of Congress. H.R. 6208 was 
reported from the Oversight Committee on July 17, 2008, by voice vote.

A native of Ballwin, Missouri, Corporal Pathenos lost his life while 
serving in Iraq. According to military records, Corporal Pathenos was 
assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 24th Marine Regiment, from the 4th 
Marine Division out of Bridgeton, Missouri, 108th, when he was killed 
on February 14, 2007, while conducting combat operations in the Anbar 
province of Iraq. Described as a disciplined, dedicated, and patriotic 
gentleman, Corporal Pathenos served his country proudly.

In tribute to his sacrifice, Mr. Speaker, let us honor the life of 
Corporal Pathenos and pass H.R. 6208 and designate the post office 
building in Chesterfield, Missouri, after this fine American Marine.

I urge its passage.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.