# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST--H.R. 6532
## `4b91abc6a9e9dd6f937bf34f289a66cb`
`Mr. GREGG — 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. I appreciate the enthusiasm of the Senator from California 
for her position. I don't think it accurately reflects my position. 
When you are voting for war costs, you are voting for supporting 
soldiers in the field. Basically, there is a big difference between the 
obligation of a Federal government to defend the Nation and support 
soldiers in the field and the obligation of the Federal Government to 
borrow from our children in order to do construction which should be 
paid for from taxes which go into the highway trust fund. That is a 
fairly significant difference. In fact, the two, as a matter of public 
policy, have basically no touch point.

The issue is, the highway trust fund does not have enough money in it 
right now to pay for the costs which have been obligated as a result of 
construction commitments.

We knew 3 or 4 years ago, when we passed the highway bill, that as a 
very practical matter we were setting up this scenario because we put 
in place thousands--actually, tens of thousands--of projects in that 
bill which we knew could not be paid for under the projected cash flows 
into the highway trust fund. We knew this point was going to occur when 
we passed that bill. So now we are here, and suddenly we hear these 
statements: Well, I am sorry, we are out of money. So we have to go 
into the general fund--which doesn't have any money, by the way--and 
take money out of the general fund and put it in the highway trust fund 
in order to pay for these costs. Well, who pays for that? That is 
borrowed debt. That is debt on debt. Our children pay for that.

The purpose of the highway trust fund was to build roads and to do it 
in a fiscally responsible way. If the highway trust fund does not have 
enough money to build the roads that are proposed, then you either, A, 
get more money into the highway trust fund; B, take the money from 
someplace else that is part of the trust fund, such as the mass-transit 
fund, which was the proposal of the administration initially and which 
makes probably the most sense here; or, C, you raise more money for the 
highway trust fund, something I do not happen to support, but that is 
the responsible way to approach this. You do not go into the general 
fund and set a precedent of borrowing from the general fund for the 
purposes of funding the highway trust fund because all that means is 
our children will get the bill and you will set up a scenario where the 
next time we get the highway bill, there will be even more projects in 
it because people will know the relevance of the highway trust fund, 
and the revenues coming into it, has no relationship to the number of 
projects you put in the bill because they will know that the precedent 
has been set that you can raid the general fund for the purposes of the 
highway trust fund. This is not good policy. It is not good fiscal 
policy.

It has nothing to do, by the way, with funding troops in the field. 
Now, the Senator from California alleges that I am supporting funding 
Iraq. By the way, I am not. Iraq reconstruction--I actually put the 
language in the appropriations bill which stopped money from going for 
Iraq reconstruction. So don't accuse me of something I didn't do. I 
have supported funding the troops, but I do not happen to believe we 
should be sending any more money to the Iraq Government. I think they 
should be sending us more money, if we get down to the basics here, for 
all the money we have spent on reconstruction, especially the money 
that has been stolen.

But, in any event, that is a red herring. The issue here is whether 
we are going to set the terrible precedent of using general fund money 
to fund the highway trust fund because, believe me, once you open that 
floodgate, there is no end to it--no end to it--and


the next time we get a highway bill around here, there will be no end 
to the amount of spending that is involved.

Now, I understand the construction industry is not really too 
concerned about that. I mean, they want those dollars and they want 
them now. If they get access to the general fund, they are probably 
pretty excited about that. But it is terrible policy. Remember, these 
projects will not be terminated. The spend-out will continue. It will 
continue at a slower rate. As money comes into the general fund, it 
gets spent out of the general fund. That is called--wow, a surprise--
pay as you go.

Now, I hear a lot from the other side of the aisle about pay as you 
go. Well, this is the ultimate test of pay as you go. We should be 
paying for highway construction as we go or, alternatively, if you 
really want to start raiding different funds, you should raid within 
the highway trust fund. There are significant dollars in the mass-
transit fund. You could take that money and put it in the highway trust 
fund if you really wanted to be consistent about funding the 
transportation needs of this country or, as I said earlier, you could 
raise the taxes, which I do not happen to support, to go into either 
one of those funds in order to make this a more responsible fiscal 
action. But what we are setting here is a precedent that makes no sense 
at all from a standpoint of fiscal policy.

The majority leader is absolutely right. We have been spending money 
around here in a very profligate way, and regretably it has not been a 
partisan event, it has been bipartisan. There has been a lot of money 
spent here that should not have been spent. But that doesn't justify 
creating a new precedent which will create significant debt for our 
children, on top of debt which already exists, when we know that is not 
the policy that was set up under the highway trust fund.

Now, if the theory of the chairman of this committee is that the 
highway trust fund is essentially a nonexistent event, that it is 
basically something that is there, it is a political statement--you 
know, the gas taxes should come in and be spent, but if we run out of 
gas taxes, we go into the general fund--if that is the position of the 
majority, the chairman of the committee, which appears to be the 
position, well, then let's abolish the highway trust fund. Let's 
abolish it. Let's put the gas tax into the general revenue base, and 
then you can argue, effectively, that it should come from general funds 
for construction--not necessarily a good policy. In fact, it moves away 
from good policy. If we wanted a good policy, we would actually have a 
much more structured capital budget around here, and we would fund it 
from independent sources such as gas taxes.

So we have a difference of opinion. It is a difference of opinion, 
however, that is pretty significant because it goes to the question of, 
How does a government spend money when it runs out of money? Does it 
borrow the money? Does it raise taxes or does it slow its spending to 
meet its income? And I would suggest that the best way to approach this 
is to slow spending to meet incomes.

The second way to address this is to keep the integrity of the 
highway trust fund by moving funding around within the highway trust 
fund. The third way to address this is to raise taxes, which I do not 
support. But absolutely the worst way to address this is to essentially 
make the highway trust fund a nonevent, neutralize it, neuter it, and 
essentially merge it with the general fund, which is what is going to 
happen as a practical matter if this bill goes forward in this form.

Now, I suggest to the majority leader, since I do not have the votes 
to sustain my position--I recognize that--the influence of the various 
forces that want to get this money is pretty significant, as always 
happens around here anyway, but in this case it is even more 
significant since the White House has changed its position just this 
week.

But I have suggested that we take up this bill, we spend a couple of 
hours on it, allow myself and Senator DeMint--I think Senator DeMint 
told me he wanted two amendments--I cannot speak for him, but I believe 
that is what he said--and that they would be relevant to earmarks, and 
my amendment would be relative to a better way to pay for this, which 
would be to pay for this by the transit fund or, alternatively, set up 
some sort of structure where the general fund gets paid back. But in 
any event, we could set aside a couple of hours here sometime this week 
and do it. I mean, we can do that on unanimous consent. I think it is a 
reasonable way to approach it, and as a very practical matter, it would 
give those of us who think a fiscally responsible approach at least 
requires a vote on it the chance to vote on it.

I yield the floor.