---
---

# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `4ba5462c299d5348455a5c220cf7aa73`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I will give the Senator from New York 
an A+ for creative imagination. Here we are wanting to debate the 
climate change bill--which is a 53-cent-per-gallon gas tax increase 
proposed primarily by Members of the other side, and which includes a 
$6.7 trillion slush fund that Members of Congress could spend as they 
see fit--and members of the majority party were so embarrassed by it 
they tried to bring it down and pull it from the floor. This is a bill 
we should be spending all month talking about. If it is really 
important to deal with gas prices and electricity prices and climate 
change and clean air and our overdependence on foreign oil, where are 
the debaters on climate change? That is the bill we are on today. We--
the Republicans--said let's continue to discuss this important issue. 
They said: No, let's bring it down. And for what purpose? To bring up 
their no-energy bill. Their solution to gas prices--very cleverly 
disguised by the Senator from New York--is more lawsuits, more taxes, 
and no exploration. Our solution is more American energy now.

The Senator from New York said: Well, why should we drill in the 2000 
acres of Alaska that would produce a million barrels of oil a day? It 
would be 10 years before we would see that oil. The answer is that it 
would be 1 million barrels of oil a day, which would add 1 million to 
the 6 million we produce. Ten years ago, President Clinton vetoed 
legislation passed by a Republican Congress to permit more oil 
exploration in Alaska. If he had not, we would have 1 million more 
barrels of oil a day of American energy.

So that is the reason we should go ahead. We need more American 
energy now. We are for it; they are not. We are for it; they are not. 
More American energy now.

We know the future is a different kind of future for energy. I have 
suggested--with support from many of my colleagues--that we have a new 
Manhattan Project, in effect, to focus on things we do not know how to 
do. How do we get solar power down to the cost of fossil fuel? How do 
we make plug-in electric cars commonplace? How do we safely dispose of 
nuclear waste by reprocessing it? How do we have more research for 
advanced biofuels, made from crops we do not eat? We want that kind of 
future, where America has achieved clean energy independence. We want 
to start today to move toward it with the same intellectual horsepower 
and speed and dollars that we moved toward splitting the atom and 
building a bomb in World War II.

But that is the future. The bridge to the future is to use more 
American energy now. Gasoline is made from oil. We use 25 percent of 
the world's oil. Until we get to this future, we are going to need more 
of it. We can either buy it from the Middle East and from Venezuela, or 
we can make more of it here. It is that simple.



Today, and in days to follow, I will be reading letters from 
Tennesseans who have written to me about the effect of gas prices on 
their families. I received 400 such e-mails in the last few days. Let 
me read one from Lounita Howard from Lascassas, TN, which is in 
Rutherford County:




 The high gas prices have hit my husband and myself 


 especially hard. We are both self-employed. Bobby is a full-


 time farmer (one of few remaining in Wilson County, 


 Tennessee), and I own a small community newspaper, The 


 Watertown Gazette.



 I live nearly 20 miles from my office, but working from 


 home is not an option. I'm spending close to $70 a week on 


 gas just commuting to Watertown from our farm in Lascassas. 


 (We live just in Wilson County.) Two years ago, it cost me 


 $30 to $35 a week.



 Diesel fuel is another story. Road fuel is running around 


 $4.70 a gallon. Off-road fuel for tractors is around $4.30 or 


 $4.40.


She goes on to tell about her husband Bobby, who is a seventh 
generation farmer.

I have a letter, also, from Jonathan Henry, a marine for 18 years, 
who is a Tennessee native who returned from 12 months in Iraq. His 
family was given a flat rate for moving costs. Gas is so high, they 
have had to make cuts in about everything else, he says. He had to 
forego his family vacation. It is too expensive to go on now.