# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4bac192c38ef7260cc06f75202073b4a`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

The question is, where are we today? We are looking at this conflict 
today and the consequences that it has upon tomorrow and tomorrow's 
military readiness.

I spoke about the lack of readiness last summer. Others did as well. 
We had a hearing on it a good number of months ago, our committee 
responded, and we thank the gentleman from California for helping in 
that massive effort to re-equip our Army as was necessary, and 
hopefully we will be able to do more in the future.

But where are we today? Yesterday regarding the issue of readiness of 
our Army, the Army Chief of Staff, General Schoomaker, said that the 
increase of 17,500 Army combat troops in Iraq represents only the tip 
of the iceberg and will potentially require thousands of additional 
support troops and trainers as well as equipment, further eroding the 
Army's readiness to respond to other world contingencies.

In the last 30 years, there have been 12 military engagements, some 
large, some small, that our country has engaged in. The Pentagon says 
they would only need some 2,500 support troops for the 20,000-plus 
combat troops. The Congressional Budget Office says there is going to 
be a necessary 13,000 in additional support troops. But the issue of 
readiness is real, it is there today because of additional combat 
troops, and that is what we are debating today. That is exactly the 
issue today. The readiness of tomorrow is contingent upon what happens 
today.

I yield, Mr. Speaker, 5 minutes to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Stupak).