---
---

# None
## `4bb98bc9fa297c96e95cf6dddfdddadf`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as I listened to my very good friend from Vermont, my 
Rules Committee colleague, Mr. Welch, for whom I have the highest 
regard, he talked about the fact that the President was sticking his 
heels into the ground and was not willing to make any modifications 
whatsoever.

Well, I will acknowledge that the President has in fact, I would say 
to my friend from Vermont, Mr. Welch, stuck his heels in the ground 
when it has come to his quest for victory, to ensure that we keep the 
battle against al Qaeda and those forces that would want to do us in in 
Iraq. What he has done in recognizing that mistakes have been made, in 
recognizing that there have been challenges, as has historically been 
the case in war, we have seen a dramatic change.

I don't know if my friends have noticed, but there is a new Secretary 
of Defense, his name is Robert Gates; and there have in fact been a 
number of changes made. I don't know if people have noticed, there is 
in fact a new commanding general on the ground in Iraq. His name is 
David Petraeus. As I said in my opening remarks, he has enjoyed strong 
bipartisan support.

Obviously, these military leaders, the Secretary of Defense and other 
military leaders, are insistent upon giving a very sober assessment of 
what is taking place and not providing an unrealistic, rosy picture of 
what is happening in Iraq. And they have reported, they have reported 
that we have in fact seen success, especially, as I said in my remarks, 
in Ramadi, what was determined to be one of the most dangerous cities 
on the face of the Earth; and we have now seen stability there, and 
this alliance which exists, Sunni, Shia and American forces working 
together to bring about this kind of peace and stability.

So while I am not saying there aren't difficult days, weeks, months, 
and, Mr. Speaker, I hope not, but possibly difficult years ahead in 
Iraq, the fact of the matter is this President has made it very clear 
that he is willing to make modifications so that we can in fact ensure 
victory over those who want to do us in.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.