---
---

# None
## `4bb96dae30cf03c4431e250bfe42f2bf`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of this 
bill.

The conference report includes funding for many important programs 
and I recognize that the conferees had a challenging task in shaping 
the report because of budget constraints. Overall, I think the report 
is a good one and I hope that the President will change his mind and 
sign it.

This conference report funds our military construction needs and 
keeps our commitment to veterans, with the largest single funding 
increase in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The 
report provides needed funding for veterans' medical care--both for VA 
hospitals and clinics as well as for research into conditions such as 
Traumatic Brain Injury and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, both of 
which are common problems facing Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. The 
report also includes funding to provide 1800 new claims processors to 
address the 400,000 benefit claims backlog.

I am pleased that key funding for Colorado installations and 
facilities has also been included in this report.

The report includes $7.3 million for a new F-16 facility for the 
140th Air Wing of the Colorado Air National Guard at Buckley Air Force 
Base (AFB). I led the Colorado delegation this year in securing this 
funding, which will help the Guard replace an outdated facility that 
can no longer provide proper security and communications to support one 
of its key missions--to fly F-16s in support of homeland defense. The 
soldiers and airmen of the Colorado National Guard who are activated 
and deployed to support our homeland defense deserve this safe and 
modern facility.

The report also includes $61.3 million for the Fitzsimons Veterans 
Hospital, another key priority for the Colorado delegation. The funding 
will enable construction to begin on the facility's parking structure 
and energy plant. Denver's current Veterans Hospital is fifty years 
old, is at full capacity and does not meet the needs of our veterans. 
As Colorado's service members continue to be placed in harm's way, it 
is essential that we be prepared to meet their needs when they return 
home. This funding will put us on a path toward making the new campus 
at Fitzsimons a reality.

The conference report also includes an amendment, passed 
overwhelmingly in the House in June and later passed in the Senate, 
that prohibits the Pentagon from taking the first steps toward 
expanding the Army's Pinon Canyon training site.

After meeting with community members in La Junta and Trinidad in 
September, it is even more clear to me that the Pentagon has failed to 
convince Coloradans of a pressing military need for the Army to acquire 
an additional 418,000 acres at this particular location. I hope the 
Army hears the strong message Congress is delivering today that we will 
ensure that the livelihoods and property of Colorado citizens are 
respected and protected.

Another key provision for southern Colorado is the inclusion of $35.1 
million for the construction of on-site chemical destruction facilities 
at the Pueblo Chemical Depot.

We need to continue to do all we can to safely and expeditiously 
remove the mustard agent remaining at the Pueblo depot. The sooner we 
clean up these weapons, the sooner the surrounding communities will be 
safe--and a clean-up by the Chemical Weapons Convention treaty deadline 
of 2012 will come at a lower cost to taxpayers.

The conference report also includes nearly $170 million to support 
Fort Carson as it expands because of the stationing of two new brigades 
and the new headquarters of the Fourth Infantry Division. This includes 
$53 million for new barracks; $18 million for an addition to Evans Army 
Hospital and a dental clinic; $8.3 million for a Defense Access Road to 
allow personnel and equipment to deploy easily from Peterson Air Force 
Base; $4.9 million for a new indoor range; $72 million for new unit 
operation facilities; and $13.5 million for construction of new 
facility support operations for the 13th Air Support Operations 
Squadron.

The conference report also includes $24.5 million for an Air and 
Space Integration Facility at Schriever Air Force Base and $15 million 
to upgrade academic facilities at the Air Force Academy.

This conference report also provides funding for the Department of 
Health and Human Services, one of the most vital agencies in our 
government. This report will increase funding by $4.4 billion over the 
fiscal year 2007 budget--a 6.9 percent increase and one that I strongly 
support. This funding will be important both to Colorado and to our 
country.

This report provides funding for a broad range of important projects, 
from increasing funding for essential research at the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) to increasing health care access in rural 
areas. I strongly support include the 3.8 percent increase in funding 
for the NIH. This increase will be pivotal in jump starting a 
reinvestment in important medical discoveries.

Included in the report is important funding for Children's Hospital 
of Denver. Funding obtained to build the North Campus Ambulatory 
Surgery Center will broaden access to pediatric care in the north 
Denver metro area. This new development will also add more convenient 
alternative to patients, families, pediatricians, and physicians while 
also decreasing the burden on other health centers in the Denver metro 
area.

Making our health care system safe and more efficient is a goal of 
this Congress and I am happy to announce that Avista Hospital will 
contribute to that goal. Avista has been a leader in the Electronic 
Medical Record field and will continue to implement a cutting edge 
system thanks to funding included in the report.

The report provides for increases in the Center for Disease Control 
(CDC) which will fund important public health programs such as 
children's immunizations, environmental health and cervical and breast 
cancer screenings.

Our nation's youth are our greatest resource, and we must do all that 
we can to prepare them to lead our country in future years. This report 
would provide very important funding for the Department of Education to 
further the education of our children.

I supported the passage of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act in 
2001 because we need to create higher academic standards and 
accountability in our education system and close the so-called 
achievement gap in this country. However, NCLB has been underfunded 
since it was first passed, meaning that local school districts do not 
have the resources available to try to meet these new standards. This 
report takes a step in the right direction by increasing funding for 
NCLB over both the fiscal year 2007 budget and the President's request. 
I am also pleased to see increases in funding for the Individuals with 
Disabilities Act (IDEA). IDEA provides resources to meet the unique 
challenges in educating children with disabilities.


In an increasingly competitive global marketplace, higher education 
is more important than it has ever been. Yet skyrocketing tuitions are 
making college education increasingly difficult for many students and 
families to afford. Just a few weeks ago, the College Board announced 
that the average tuition at four-year schools in my home state of 
Colorado had increased 16 percent from last year. Pell Grants are one 
important and effective way that the federal government helps students 
and families afford college. The conference report will increase the 
maximum Pell Grant award to $4,925.

I am encouraged that the report includes an increase in funding for 
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). LIHEAP is a 
critical program that helps many Colorado families, who are struggling 
to get by, avoid having to make choices between paying their heating 
bill and putting food on the table. The conference report will increase 
funding for this program by $250 million over the fiscal year 2007 
budget.

I am pleased the labor provisions of this report reflect a new 
direction and commitment to


expanding job training and enhancing the safety of workers, by 
increasing funding for a number of employment, education, and 
protection programs for the American workforce.

With that said, I am disappointed the conference report does not 
include my amendment to increase the funding for the National Labor 
Relations Board (NLRB). The board plays a vital role in labor-
management relations. While funding is not the only problem that faces 
the NLRB I am concerned that without the additional funding, there is a 
danger they will have to layoff some of their staff in order to pay for 
their required overhead, including salaries.

The funding for programs included in this report is a cause for 
celebration, not a veto. The President suggested underfunding for many 
of these programs and has threatened to veto the report in its current 
form. I request that the President reconsider his veto threat and sign 
this conference report.

In summary, Madam Speaker, this is a good report that provides 
funding for many important purposes. It is good for Colorado and good 
for the country, and it deserves approval.