---
---

# None
## `4bc8e450260b855dbbbf1f0971c516f8`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 25 September 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on the Biden 
amendment, and I hope we are going to proceed with a vote on this 
amendment. I am an original cosponsor. I appreciate what Senator Biden 
has brought forward. He has talked about the semiautonomous region in 
Iraq for a long time--for over a year. Mr. President, so have I. I, 
too, have written an op-ed piece that says let's look at a long-term 
solution. I think we saw from General Petraeus in the last couple of 
weeks that we should be so proud of our military and what we have done 
to give security to the Iraqi people. It is not perfect, and it is not 
finished, but it is so much better than it has been before. Violence is 
down.


Mr. President, everybody who has been to Iraq, including myself and 
most Members of the Senate, can see clearly that American forces 
securing Iraq is not a long-term solution. We must have an Iraq that 
has an economic and a political solution. I don't think you can have a 
political solution if you don't have an economy, if people don't have 
jobs, if they cannot start small businesses, if they cannot take their 
children to school. You are not going to be able to have a long-term 
solution without the building of an economy and a political base. That 
is why I support this amendment, why I am an


original cosponsor with so many Republicans and Democrats coming 
together.

When I hear some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
talking about their view of the war, I differ with them about what we 
should do militarily. But I do think all of us are coming together to 
say we should have a long-term solution with fewer American troops in a 
support role, not a frontline role. The way to do that is to have an 
economy and political stability.

That is what I think the Biden amendment would suggest. We are not 
telling the Iraqi people what to do. They passed their own law to 
implement it. They have a much longer history there than we do. I think 
we should continue to promote this as a solution. I think we need to do 
a few other things in conjunction with this. I think we should work 
more closely with Iraq's neighbors. I think the Bush administration is 
doing that now. I think the Secretary of State is doing a great job of 
bringing the neighbors in and saying: You have a stake here, and 
certainly it is in everyone's interest in the region to have a stable 
Iraq that is not a terrorist breeding ground.

That should be pursued with the idea that they could also be helpful 
in regions that would work in a semiautonomous way. It is federalism 
with states that have their own self-governance.

Dr. Henry Kissinger, in an appearance before the Senate Committee on 
Foreign Relations, said:




 I am sympathetic to an outcome that permits large regional 


 autonomy. In fact, I think it is very likely that this will 


 emerge out of the conflict that we are now witnessing.


Secretary Kissenger went on to say, in a Washington Post op-ed last 
week:




 It is possible that the present structure in Baghdad is 


 incapable of national reconciliation because its elected 


 constituents were elected on a sectarian basis. A wiser 


 course would be to concentrate on the three principal regions 


 and promote technocratic, efficient and humane administration 


 in each. . . . More efficient regional government leading to 


 substantial decrease in the level of violence, to progress 


 towards the rule of law and to functioning markets could 


 then, over a period of time, give the Iraqi people an 


 opportunity for national reconciliation.


Mr. President, our efforts in the Balkans are instructive here. A 
little over 10 years ago, from 1992 to 1995, the war in the Balkans 
left 250,000 people dead and millions homeless. The Dayton Peace 
Accords ended that conflict. The agreement retained Bosnia and 
Herzegovina's international boundaries and created a joint multiethnic 
and democratic government charged with a very narrow power--to conduct 
foreign, diplomatic, and fiscal policy. That is the overarching 
national government of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

There is a second tier of government there now, comprised of two 
entities that are roughly equal in size. The Bosniak/Croat Federation 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led Republica Srpska. 
The Federation and the Srpska governments oversee most government 
functions. Since the Dayton Peace Accords was signed, the guns of 
Bosnia have been silent. More than a million people have returned to 
their prewar homes. The success in Bosnia has enabled the number of 
U.S. troops in the region to decline substantially.

At the end of 1995, there were 20,000 U.S. combat troops in the 
Bosnia region. I visited those troops seven times. The first time I 
went into Bosnia it was undercover. We had on flack jackets and helmets 
because the Serbs were shooting from the hills. In 2006, there were 600 
American troops in Bosnia. Today, there are no combat troops in Bosnia.

Mr. President, I think this should be a model for Iraq. I think we 
could have a national government that divides the oil royalties, that 
has the diplomatic function that represents Iraq internationally, and 
the national government could be a mixture, as it is today. But then 
you would have semiautonomous regions. We talked about it. You have 
Kurdistan in the north, the Shia area in the south, and the middle 
doesn't have to be one region. I have heard the disagreements about the 
ability to put that middle into one region because there are Shia and 
Sunnis in neighborhood to neighborhood. It will be more difficult, but 
it is also the best opportunity for a long-term solution.

So why not have smaller units across the middle of Baghdad? Why not 
have some smaller government with an educational system, with the 
religious sect that is the majority in that sector?

Mr. President, it is so important that we produce more options. Many 
of the best scholars in this country, the best writers in newspapers in 
our country, and many of the best diplomats in our country have said 
this is a potential solution. Some people in this category have said 
this isn't our first choice. Our first choice is to be a national 
government that is mixed--that works. That is all of our first choice. 
But that isn't the choice we have.

We have to recognize that we could not mold a country so quickly 
after thousands of years of strife along ethnic grounds. So we have to 
step back, in my opinion, and ask what could work to stabilize this 
country so that an economic and a political solution will work. With 
all of the people who are now saying this is an option that should be 
on the table, I hear people saying, in the end, that is probably the 
way it is going to be. That is where I come in and say: In the end? 
Wait a minute. We have a chance to push for leadership now. We have a 
chance to bring the others in the region together now, so that the 
American troops who have done such a wonderful job will have two 
victories. One is that their mission will be accomplished in the right 
way; two, all of the sacrifices they have made will not be for naught. 
We cannot walk away from Iraq. We cannot say it is too tough, we are 
going to surrender. That would make all of the sacrifices that have 
been made irrelevant. We cannot do it that way. But we do have a 
potential solution that can save American lives in the future by 
cutting down the violence right now, by saying if we can step back into 
a support role because Iraq is emerging as an economic, political, and 
stable country, then we will have done right by our American troops. We 
will have done the right thing for future generations of Americans 
because we will have stood our ground against terrorists taking over 
Iraq, and we will do it expeditiously.

We don't need to talk about this anymore. The Iraqis have adopted it 
in their constitution. They have adopted the implementation of the 
legislation. With some leadership among all of its neighbors in the 
region, along with the United States and our allies who have given so 
much in this cause, we can protect future generations of Americans from 
attacks. We will have built a stable country, which is what we said we 
wanted to do when we went in to take out Saddam Hussein, who was 
abusing his people.

Mr. President, some may call for surrender, but that is not the 
answer. The answer is to promote a real solution that is a long-term 
solution; that is, allowing the Iraqis to draw their own regions, where 
they can grow an economy and a government that works along the Bosnian 
model, and we will be able to stay strong and do the right thing and 
listen to what people are saying. But that doesn't mean we have to wait 
and say, oh, that is what is going to happen in the end. Well, how many 
American lives are going to be lost between now and the end? Let's 
allow our American troops to take the support role instead of the 
frontline role, as General Petraeus has started so ably. Let's do what 
is right for the Iraqi people and the Middle East region as well 
because a terrorist haven is not in anyone's interest.

I urge my colleagues to support the Biden amendment of which I am a 
cosponsor, along with a solid Republican and Democratic list of Members 
who are willing to stand up and say we want this war to end honorably, 
we want to complete the mission honorably, and we can do it in the 
right way. And that is to allow them to create their government, which 
would have a national overlay. The time is now, Mr. President.

I yield the floor.