# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4bca908bf299af6c5fc52eb99e89b014`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania â€” 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Thank you, Congressman Ross. I 
will make sure that when my wife and I retire today we will pray for 
your brother-in-law over in the Middle East. He is one of our heroes, 
and we are proud of his service to the country.

I rise today to bring an end to the pattern of systemic neglect from 
the White House. Last November, American families sent Democrats to 
Congress to bring about change. There are now 49 new Members in the 
House of Representatives. Five of those Members are veterans. Of those 
five, I am proud to say they are all Democrats. I am also proud to say 
that three of the five are from the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
in Admiral Sestak, Commander Carney, and myself.

Change from the neglect our military veterans are currently 
experiencing, as they try to get the health care they deserve, 
Americans have seen now the past few days what is going on in Walter 
Reed. It is our opinion that this is criminal neglect.



But when the people voted for change in November, they voted to 
change from the strategy in Iraq that has American troops refereeing a 
civil war while too many Iraqis sit on the sidelines, and a change in 
the way we pay for the war in Iraq.

The American taxpayers have spent more than $400 billion in Iraq. If 
they were to see an invoice, just one invoice, taxpayers would see the 
widespread waste, fraud, and abuse. And that is why, as Blue Dogs, we 
stood together with the Iraqi Accountability Act. Fifty-eight Members 
of Congress agreed to this act. Congressmen Allen, Altmire, Arcuri, 
Baca, Baird, Barrow, Bean, Berry, Bishop, Boswell, Boyd, Boyda, Brady, 
Braley, Cardoza, Castor, Chandler, Costa, Davis, Donnelly, Ellsworth, 
Gillibrand, Gonzalez, Hare, Harman, Herseth, Hill, Hodes, Holden, 
Israel, Mahoney, Marshall, Matheson, McIntyre, McNerney, Melancon, 
Marchant, Miller, Mitchell, Dennis Moore, Gwen Moore, Peterson, 
Pomeroy, Ross, Salazar, Schwartz, Scott, Shuler, Tanner, Thompson, 
Welch, Filner, Walz, Clarke, Ellison, Sires, Holt, Reyes.

All of these Members, all 58 Members are cosponsors to the Iraq 
Accountability bill, and they signed on because they have seen what is 
really going on. They have seen that over the past 4 years families of 
my district of Bucks County, Pennsylvania and northeast Philadelphia 
and across the country have heard a lot of bad news from Iraq.

But we are also hearing about money lost and weapons missing. 
Recently here in Congress we heard from the Special Inspector General 
for Iraq Reconstruction. He spoke to the Armed Services Committee, and 
he told us about $9 billion that has simply vanished. But as many as 
14,000 weapons have disappeared, weapons that could be in the enemy's 
hands right now. These are dollars and these are weapons that were sent 
to the Iraqis that have gone missing because of mismanagement and 
fraud. It is not just about the money, but it is also about the safety 
of our troops. Those missing weapons could arm an entire division of 
the Muqtada al-Sadr army, an entire division.

Mr. Speaker, it is long past time that we kept track of the money and 
the weapons that we are giving to the Iraqis and replace the fraud, 
waste, and abuse with proper oversight, responsibility, and 
accountability.

The legislation that the Blue Dogs are supporting addresses the 
glaring lack of oversight and accountability in Iraq and addresses how 
taxpayer dollars are spent on the war. It puts forward commonsense 
proposals that ensure that fewer resources are wasted and more 
resources get to the troops on the battlefield.

This legislation calls for transparency in how Iraq's war funds are 
spent. It urges the establishment of a Truman committee-type commission 
to track and curb the fraud, waste, and abuse. It calls for the Iraqi 
war to go through the normal budgeting process, not through emergency 
bills or supplementals. These are measures everyone should agree on 
regardless of the political party.

American families are frustrated with the war in Iraq. This 
legislation will go a long way toward providing the change that we all 
seek and the transparency that we all deserve. It is time for answers, 
Mr. Speaker, and it is time for accountability, and it is time to put 
an end to the pattern of neglect.