# None
## `4bddc410b9846d003de714c522617f81`
`Mr. LEAHY — 13 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, in a short while I am going to call up an 
amendment, and I will move at that time to set aside the pending 
amendment to call up amendment No. 4759. I am not going to do it yet 
because I want the distinguished Republican manager of the bill, 
Senator Enzi, to have a chance to see what it is before I do. But let 
me describe it a little bit before I do call it up.

The amendment would reauthorize and extend the Bulletproof Vest 
Partnership Grant Program. This is a program that some may recall the 
former Senator from Colorado, Mr. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, and I began 
some years ago.

This morning, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing about this 
important grant program. We heard compelling testimony from an officer, 
Detective David Azur of Baltimore, whose life was saved in 2000 when he 
was shot at pointblank range in the chest. He said he had enormous pain 
and a huge bruise from it, but the bullet did not penetrate his vest. I 
said to Detective Azur from Baltimore--and I know his family; his 
father served as a police officer in Burlington, VT, when I was a 
prosecutor--at least he felt the bruise. Had he not had the vest on, he 
would not have felt anything. He would have died instantly.

We also heard from Vermont State police lieutenant Michael Macarilla. 
I know Lieutenant Macarilla very well. He spoke about the assistance 
Vermont law enforcement officers have received from the program.

This week, thousands of law enforcement officers from around the 
country have come to Washington to honor the men and women who have 
given their lives in service over the past year. One thing everybody in 
this Senate could agree on, all Americans could agree on: We should 
offer our gratitude to the officers and their families.

On Thursday, May 15--this week--Congress and the American people are 
going to pause to reflect upon the sacrifices too many have made, as we 
celebrate Peace Officers Memorial Day. This week, at the Police 
Officers Memorial, we will recognize and remember the 181 officers who 
were lost in the line of duty during the past year. Every death is a 
tragedy, but 181, Mr. President--that is the largest yearly total since 
the extraordinary losses on 9/11 and in its aftermath. Think of that: 
181 officers lost, lost in the line of duty. It also means that a 
family lost a loved one: a spouse, a father, a mother, a son, a 
daughter, a brother, a sister. We need to do all we can for the men and 
women who risk their lives protecting us and the public's safety every 
day.

The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program saves lives. It makes 
a real difference to our officers and their families. The officers who 
testified before the Judiciary Committee today have firsthand 
experience with the importance of armor vests. So I am grateful to 
Detective David Azur from Baltimore and grateful to Lieutenant Michael 
Macarilla from the Vermont State police for their willingness to share 
their experiences with the committee and the Senate and the Congress.

I was proud to initiate the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Act with 
Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell in 1998. Both of us relied on our own 
experience in law enforcement, experience both of us had in law 
enforcement before we came to the Senate. Between 1999 and 2007, our 
program has assisted in the purchase of an estimated 818,044 vests. We 
have taken a giant step away from the days in which law enforcement 
officers were required to purchase their own vests or go without the 
vest. Actually, I do believe the bulletproof vests should be standard 
issue equipment for law enforcement, just as we have standard equipment 
issuing a badge and a weapon.

In addition, as we were reminded at this morning's hearing, body 
armor is not effective forever. You buy it but it wears out. In fact, 
manufacturers offer only a 5-year warranty for these lifesaving vests. 
They have to be replaced periodically. In fact, for Detective Azur, his 
warranty was just about to run out when he was shot.

Despite the fact that the President's budget has repeatedly--
repeatedly--neglected to request authorized funding for this program, 
Congress has stepped up and recognized its importance and appropriated 
the funds needed to keep it strong. I hope Congress will do so again 
this year. It may be easy to just look at Federal grant programs as 
just numbers, and say: Here's a number we can cut. It is a good way to 
reduce Federal spending. But when it comes to the safety of law 
enforcement officers, I can think of no rational excuse not to fully 
meet Congress's determined levels of support for the men and women who 
protect us all. Look what we have done in Iraq. This administration has 
provided the Iraqi police forces with a virtual blank check over the 
past several years. American taxpayers have seen hundreds of millions--
some would say billions--of dollars sent to Iraq and misspent, this 
just on the police forces there. Large sums of cash and weapons 
disappear. We sent over thousands of weapons, and we didn't even know 
where they went until some of them showed up in the hands of the people 
trying to kill our own soldiers. If we can afford to pay for training 
and equipment for the Iraqi police, we ought to be able to afford 
bulletproof vests for the officers who protect Americans here at home.


There is money in the President's budget for the Iraqi police forces. 
I would like a little bit of money in the budget for American police 
forces. I worked with these police officers for 8 years when I was 
State's attorney. I think we ought to start paying a little bit of 
attention here at home.

State and local law enforcement officers assist Federal authorities 
in many areas, and this grant program should


be viewed in the spirit of this cooperation. In an era when State and 
local law enforcement are shouldering more responsibilities on the 
front lines in the name of national security or in cooperation with 
Federal authorities in fighting interstate crime, then the Federal 
Government owes it to them to provide them with some support. Much of 
our Nation's strength lies in our rule of law, and Congress should 
support the men and women who uphold the laws and protect our 
democracy.

The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act expires next year, so the 
amendment I filed would reauthorize this program for another 3 years. 
It is drawn from the bill that Senators Specter, Mikulski, Shelby, 
Hatch and I have introduced today. It also includes giving 
discretionary authority to the Director of the Bureau of Justice 
Assistance at the Justice Department to waive the matching requirement 
for jurisdictions experiencing financial hardship. That provision is 
drawn from the Leahy-Shelby bill, S. 2511. I think that in a narrow and 
tighter budget and a troubled economy, it makes sense to give the 
agency making these plans the authority and the flexibility to ensure 
that no jurisdiction is excluded from such critical assistance simply 
because it can't afford to meet the matching requirements.

Local law enforcement agencies don't have oil revenues. They don't 
have outside sources of revenue. If we are going to have the 
administration say send money to the Iraqi police force, which does 
have enormous oil revenues, and ask the American taxpayers to pay for 
it, let's pause and do something to help American police forces.

I ask unanimous consent to set aside the pending amendment and call 
up amendment No. 4759.