# TRIBUTE TO ALL VETERANS
## `4be02bdcfb1a65ab5b80c7fb04d43590`
`Mr. QUIGLEY — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, President Abraham Lincoln said a 
Gettysburg, ''The world will little note nor long remember what we say 
here, but it can never forget what they did here.''

I rise today to honor those who have fallen in defense of our 
country, and I do so recognizing that history won't remember what a guy 
like me has to say.

But it's important for those who served, and those who serve, to know 
we will always take the time to remember, and say thank you.

I rise to recognize the sacrifices of the Solider holding the line in 
Gettysburg, the Sailor defending the fleet in the South Pacific, the 
Marine landing at Inchon, South Korea, and the Airman patrolling the 
skies over Vietnam.

Madam Speaker, we mark this holiday at a time when our sons and 
daughters are keeping watch over the streets of Baghdad and the 
mountains of Afghanistan.

We mark this holiday as a reminder that in conflicts past, present, 
and future, a generation of Americans will answer the call and pay the 
price of freedom.

While there is never doubt that they will do their duty and serve 
their country, let there never be doubt that we will stand by them and 
remember their service and their sacrifice.

You may know that my hometown, Chicago, has one of the nation's 
largest Memorial Day parades.

But you probably don't know about another, smaller, commemoration.

Dan Wenserski is a gentleman from my district who knows about paying 
tribute to his brothers and sisters who wore the uniform.

For as long as many can remember, Dan has paid his respects to those 
who served this country since its inception.

Each year, Dan unpacks flags that had draped the caskets of the 
fallen to create an Avenue of Flags at Rosehill Cemetery.

He believes it is important to pay tribute to all who sacrificed and 
served.

As an 85-year-old veteran of World War II, Dan shuns the spotlight, 
preferring to honor his fallen colleagues than receive honor himself.

But this Memorial Day, I ask all to join me in honoring and thanking 
Mr. Daniel Wenserski.

Mr. Wenserski saw combat in the European theater and returned from 
World War II as a 21-year-old with three purple hearts.

He is commander of Amvets Post 243.

Dedicated veterans like him are a national treasure.

We must remember them not only with memorials but in how we dedicate 
ourselves to the unfinished work of our Republic.

We must remember Lincoln's pledge to, ''care for him who shall have 
borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan.''

That means we can't just use this day to pay homage to those who are 
lost.

We need to remember those who remain behind.

We need to remember the mother or father who has to raise a family 
alone, and the children who are left with only a photo.

We have, and must continue to make great strides during this Congress 
to help that mother and that father.

We must not allow the lessons learned during this day go unheeded 
during every other.

We must dedicate every day to taking care of our veterans and their 
families, as they have taken every one of their days to dedicate to us.

I'd like to thank all of our veterans for the freedoms we all take 
for granted, and wish you and your families all the very best on this 
Memorial Day.
