---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `4be385542bfcf9b119b425b29e4df424`
`Mr. CONYERS — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2206, the 
U.S. Troops Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq 
Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007. The revised Iraq 
Accountability Act supports our troops while holding President Bush and 
the Iraqi Government accountable.

After vetoing the April supplemental bill that was supported by a 
majority of the American people, President Bush is once more asking for 
a blank check to continue his escalation of our military involvement in 
Iraq. Once again, the President has chosen confrontation over 
cooperation by threatening to veto the bill we are considering today. 
After a meeting during which lawmakers from his own party told him he 
had lost the confidence of the American people, the President issued a 
statement claiming to support ''benchmarks'' for progress in Iraq. But, 
unlike congressional Republicans, the President will not support 
consequences for failure to meet those benchmarks. It should be obvious 
to all that benchmarks without consequences are nothing but meaningless 
window dressing.

This Congress will not provide the President the blank check that he 
has requested. In last November's election, the American people 
demanded a new direction in Iraq, and we will continue to fight to 
responsibly wind down this war. Our revised bill will fully fund the 
troops, honor our commitment to veterans, hold the Iraqi Government 
accountable, and continue to press the President to change course and 
stop the bloodshed in Iraq. It also provides funding for urgent 
domestic needs that are emergencies in their own right and appropriate 
to include in this emergency supplemental legislation. These include a 
minimum wage/small business tax relief package, $6.8 billion for 
Hurricane Katrina recovery, $3.5 billion more


than the President's request, $400 million for the Low Income Heating 
Assistance Program, LIHEAP, and $396 million for the State Children's 
Health Insurance Program, S-CHIP.

I voted earlier today in favor of Congressman McGovern's bill 
providing for the redeployment of United States Armed Forces and 
American defense contractors from Iraq. That measure was defeated, but 
attracted far more support than many observers had predicted, 
indicating a growing momentum inside Congress for redeployment. I 
remain confident that as the tragedy in Iraq wears on, even more 
Members of Congress will join in demanding withdrawal of our troops 
from Iraq and prohibiting the further use of funds to continue 
President Bush's war. In the meantime, however, I will join with my 
colleagues in the Democratic Caucus to send the President a 
supplemental funding bill that demands accountability and guarantees 
further congressional consideration of war funding in just a few short 
months.

H.R. 2206 fully funds the troops over the next 2 to 3 months, 
ensuring that they have everything they need to conduct their mission. 
The bill also includes additional funding for the troops not requested 
by the President, including increased funding for military health care 
and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, MRAP, vehicles in Iraq. It 
includes funds to improve military readiness as well as $1.8 billion to 
meet our veterans' health care needs.

The bill would fence off $52.8 billion of the $95.5 billion provided 
to the Defense Department until it is released by subsequent 
legislation. It requires the President to submit a report to Congress 
by July 13 of this year regarding the success of the Iraqi Government 
in meeting key security and political benchmarks. Within 7 legislative 
days of receipt of the report, Congress would have the opportunity to 
evaluate the situation in Iraq and vote on whether or not to continue 
to fund the war. Expedited procedures are included in the bill to 
guarantee that this vote will take place in both the House and Senate 
by the end of July.

I would have preferred not to be taking this vote today, but the 
President has brought us to this point with his stubborn refusal to 
accept the will of the American people. I will continue to support any 
Iraq-related legislation that holds the President's feet to the fire. 
The inferno raging in Iraq is one of his own making, and he should be 
forced to feel the heat.