---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `4bea5ebef49d085c6f95cf8744edf9a8`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Thank you, Members. Nancy, John, David, I 
appreciate you all.

I rise today in support of a clean emergency spending bill for our 
troops, but this one is all smoke and mirrors. We must give our men and 
women in uniform everything they need to thwart the insurgency in Iraq 
and come home safely and soon.



You know, we can't tie the hands of the guys on the ground with time 
lines or benchmarks. And, worse, we shouldn't be using the emergency 
troop spending bill as the way to finance the political gimmickry of 
special interest projects. It is just exasperating that the Democrat 
leaders have turned the emergency troop spending bill into a pork 
barrel project giveaway.

This bill gives piles of money to shrimpers, spinach farmers, and 
peanut storage. You know, what does throwing money at Bubba Gump, 
Popeye the Sailorman, and Mr. Peanut have to do with winning a war? 
Nothing.

The special interest projects added to increase the likelihood of 
this bill passing are really an insult to the troops who want, need, 
and deserve our full support. The Democrats are trying to buy the 
majority vote today one pork project at a time, perhaps because the 
majority does not support their slow bleed surrender strategy.

Since the President announced his new plan for Iraq in January, there 
has been measured, steady progress. He changed the rules of engagement 
and removed political protections. Coalition forces nabbed more than 50 
suspects and dismantled a bomb factory in Iraq over the past few days. 
Coalition forces in Iraq detained seven suspects with reported ties to 
foreign fighter groups. In Ramadi, troops nabbed four other suspects 
with alleged ties to al Qaeda. In Mosul, coalition forces captured a 
former paramilitary leader who allegedly is responsible for setting up 
al Qaeda terrorist training camps in Iraq and Syria. During another 
operation, troops captured a suspected terrorist with alleged ties to 
al Qaeda car bomb and assassination cells.

We must seize this opportunity to move forward and not stifle future 
success and harm troop morale.

More importantly, I want to know, how many of you have ever asked 
your constituents, Do you want to lose in Iraq? I think if you ask that 
question, do you want to lose in Iraq, Americans will wholeheartedly 
say no.

We have smart, strong men and women serving in Iraq, and they need 
our help, and they need the full support of their country and their 
Congress.

Our troops don't need 435 generals in Washington declaring, we will 
send you money for bullets, but we won't send you bulletproof vests. 
Our troops don't need folks in suits sitting in wood paneled rooms on 
Capitol Hill saying, we will send you armored tanks, but we won't send 
you gas.

Literally, this bill forces our guys on the ground to fight a war 
with one arm tied behind their backs. That just smacks of defeat.

Most of you in the Chamber know that I spent nearly 7 years as a 
prisoner in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary. Well, 
that was during my second tour in Vietnam. During my first tour, I 
worked for General Westmoreland at MAC-V Headquarters, that is the 
Military Assistance Command Vietnam.

While working late at night, we had a bunch of men involved in the 
first real hand-to-hand combat using bayonets. You may remember that, 
John. That was war. It turns out someone sent back footage to 
Washington that would match the opening scene of ''Saving Private 
Ryan.'' In the middle of the night, the red phone rang and I answered 
it. I heard an earful that is not fit for this House Chamber, something 
like, This is the White House. What the heck is going on over there? I 
replied, I'll wake up General Westmoreland. They slammed the phone down 
and hung up. That was the control they had over our guys.

Starting in 1965, we had folks in Washington trying to tell the 
generals how to run things on the ground in Vietnam. A generation ago, 
we saw what happens when you stop the funding and America stiffs its 
friends. As a matter of fact, we all know just this morning Iran 
captured 15 British sailors. This bill prevents us from responding from 
Kuwait to help our strong allies of British in an emergency. We show 
weakness, and the world knows it.

Just think back to the dark day in history when we saw visions of 
American marines airlifting Vietnamese out of the U.S. embassy. You 
remember that. That is what happens when America makes a commitment; 
Congress cuts the funding, and we go home with our tails between our 
legs.

The brave marines who died on that day in 1975 while innocent people 
desperately clung to life on a rope tied to a helicopter are a 
testimony to what happens when Congress cuts the funding and we leave 
without finishing the job.

We can't let that happen again. And I don't think any of you on 
either side in this Chamber wants that to happen. Frankly, we all want 
our troops to come home, when the job is done. We want to win. 
Internationally announcing our timelines for withdrawal literally hands 
the enemy our war plan and gives them hope that they will win if they 
just wait it out. What world superpower would do such a thing?

We are the United States of America. We are the premier military 
force on the globe. We are the land of the free and the home of the 
brave. Surely we do not go around announcing to the world how we will 
conduct and win a war. Surrendering is not an option, and neither do I 
think abandoning our troops is an option.

Look around you. We are all America. Do you want to lose in Iraq? 
Voting to set a hard exit date for U.S. troops in Iraq and imposing 
strict standards for deploying forces gives hope to the enemy, and it 
is a prescription for failure. Worse, forcing Members of Congress to 
decide on this issue when the bill is cluttered with excess money for 
spinach and peanuts is abhorrent, infuriating, and ill-advised.

My dear colleagues, if you really want to debate the merits of a time 
withdrawal, give each Member in Congress an up or down vote so we can 
vote our conscience. The sweeteners in this bill are political bribery, 
and our troops deserve more than this.

Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot abandon our men and women in uniform 
for politically charged benchmarks wrapped up in fat-cat constituent 
projects. If we learned anything from the brave Marines who died trying 
to save innocent people that day at the embassy in Vietnam, and John, 
you know this, it is that the marines never quit. Neither should we.