---
---

# CLIMATE SECURITY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `4c204350bd9d27c3cf2667ee6e837bb0`
`Mr. BYRD — 2 June 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I am anxious to see action on this issue, 
but I keep asking myself, are we doing the right thing for the wrong 
reasons, or the wrong thing for the right reasons? Either way, I cannot 
support proceeding at this time. The Senate is not yet ready to 
consider this vastly important and highly complex legislation. It's 
ramifications are too unknown.

In December 2007, after several hearings and with written comments, 
the Environment and Public Works Committee reported S. 2191, America's 
Climate Security Act. It includes a hefty 334 pages of legislative 
text. Since then, a new bill has been drafted and placed on the Senate 
Legislative Calendar--S. 3036, the Lieberman-Warner Climate Security 
Act--which is what the Senate will consider if the motion to proceed is 
adopted. And yet another bill--a third bill--is expected to be offered 
as a substitute amendment by the chairman of the Environment and Public 
Works Committee. That bill includes 491 pages of legislative text. That 
is three bills, in 6 months, totaling 1,167 pages of legislative text. 
This new bill was circulated only days ago before the Memorial Day 
recess, and with an additional 157 pages that was not considered by the 
Environment and Public Works Committee--no hearings, no economic 
analysis.

In early April, after months of examination, the Congressional Budget 
Office produced a cost estimate on S. 2191, outlining the $1 trillion 
impact of that measure on the Federal budget, and the $90 billion 
annual impact on the private sector. Incidentally, this legislation 
would put hundreds of billions of dollars on automatic pilot, allocated 
by unelected, unaccountable boards, with little congressional 
oversight. However, no complete estimates exist for the substitute 
amendment that the Senate might consider. In addition, the 
Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Information 
Administration at the Department of Energy have produced their economic 
analysis of S. 2191, outlining the impact of that legislation on 
different sectors of the economy. But, again, no complete estimates 
exist for the substitute amendment that the Senate might consider if it 
proceeds to the underlying bill.

Industry and environmental experts differ widely on how these bills 
will impact the American economy and energy prices. Without better 
independent analysis of the facts, there is little to prevent Senators 
from simply talking past one another. This being a presidential 
election year, the atmosphere is already highly charged. There is 
already too much political posturing on this complex, albeit popular, 
issue. This Chamber, the world's greatest deliberative body, must 
investigate further in order to render an informed decision. There are 
all kinds of parliamentary tactics that can be used on both sides of 
the aisle to limit debate and amendments on this bill, or to force 
votes on dangerous measures. The process can get out of hand very 
quickly and very easily.

I am haunted by another election year debate, when the Congress was 
rushed to judgement in voting for war in Iraq. And last year, it 
obviously did not adequately consider the consequences of a fuels 
mandate, which has contributed to international crisis and famine. In 
both cases, the result has been far different and far worse than what 
was thought and said at the time.

We must not be rushed to judgement on this vital issue. If not 
properly drafted, climate change legislation could bring unilateral 
devastation to critical sectors of the U.S. economy. It could cause 
massive increases in energy prices for American consumers. If not 
properly drafted, such legislation could well result in more harm than 
good.

The language of this measure is obviously still evolving, and the 
American people must know what is being asked of them before the Senate 
commits to mandatory emission caps. Otherwise, we cannot expect them to 
long endure the consequences that will surely follow. Without long-term 
public support, any effort to address this issue will eventually, and 
quite certainly, unravel.