---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `4c383a1d791913f7d3c540ad78c162d0`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation.

As a veteran of the U.S. Army myself, I strongly support our troops, 
our veterans and their families. Our troops have done everything they 
have been asked to do and done it exceptionally well. I am tremendously 
proud of all the troops from North Carolina and across America who have 
done their duty so admirably. They are our heroes, and we salute them. 
But as the Representative for Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I am 
very concerned about the state of readiness of America's armed forces.

I have traveled to Iraq twice, and after I returned last year, I said 
the Administration must change this failed policy. Specifically, I said 
that we need more focus on the threat of international terrorists. The 
National Counterterrorism Center has released a report today entitled: 
''Al-Qaida Better Positioned To Strike the West'' that concludes Osama 
Bin Laden's network has been reconstructed while America's military is 
bogged down in the civil war in Iraq, with no end in sight.

H.R. 2956, written by Chairman Ike Skelton of the Armed Services 
Committee, one of the most respected Members of this body and an expert 
on military policy, is a good first step for this needed new direction. 
It requires the Iraqi leaders to begin to provide for the security of 
their own country by redeploying American combat troops from the 
sectarian civil war and reconstituting our readiness and transitioning 
American forces to the mission of effective counterterrorism anywhere 
in the world where radical jihadists threaten America and our 
interests. Let me be clear that H.R. 2956 maintains the flexibility of 
the Commander in Chief to direct the operations of the armed forces. It 
simply calls for a change in policy and public accountability for a 
comprehensive U.S. strategy for Iraq.

North Carolina's senior Senator stated it well this week when she 
said, ''It is my firm hope and belief that we can start bringing our 
troops home in 2008.'' This bill begins to do just that. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in voting for it.