# None
## `4c3ceb0dd440deee76dd2cbc21318782`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, were we seen as occupiers in Haiti, in Bosnia? Do we 
not, as some have said on Iraq, have a sustained military presence in 
these countries? Did we not intervene in Haiti to restore democracy and 
remain to prevent the increased violence?

In fact, as our distinguished Speaker, whom we'll be hearing from in 
just a few moments, when she argued for a sustained U.S. deployment in 
Bosnia, Speaker Pelosi said, Is the Bosnian mission without danger and 
risk? No. With strong leadership there are always risks. These risks 
have been minimized. They are risks for peace, risks for ending years 
of bloodshed, risks for freedom. We risk far more by failing to act.



We risk far more if we allow the tenuous peace to collapse and watch 
the flames of war ignite again. I agreed with Speaker Pelosi then when 
she said that on December 13 of 1995, and I agreed with her when she 
said on September 19 of 1994, when advocating for a sustained U.S. 
presence in Haiti, the Speaker said, setting a date certain for troop 
withdrawal will unnecessarily endanger both our troops on the ground 
and our efforts at promoting democracy in Haiti.

I say that we have no less at stake here in Iraq. The bill before us, 
as we have said before, is a fine bill. We support what it seeks to do 
because, in fact, it is law. It is already United States law.

We want to make sure that the Iraqi people have the same level of 
commitment that we have shown to other oppressed people throughout the 
world. We should not ignore the consequences of a rapid withdrawal from 
Iraq in a vitally important region of the world.

But, like I have said, this is not the issue addressed in this bill. 
Some have remarked about the greater issue of Iraq in their discourse 
today. On the bill before us, it is already public law. We have passed 
it six times in the House. It has been law three times, and we have no 
objection to the bill becoming law a fourth time, a fifth time or a 
sixth time.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of our time.