---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `4c5a6865f18657fb0a892361496df9fb`
`Mr. CARPER — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I rise in support of the Webb amendment. 
I have had a chance to think about this issue that is before us today 
wearing a hat other than my hat as Senator. During my time in the 
Vietnam war, I served 5 years active duty as a naval flight officer. I 
spent 3 tours in Southeast Asia with my squad. I spent another 18 years 
after that as a Naval Reserve flight officer, staying current in the P-
3 aircraft and was made mission commander of that aircraft.

Then for 5 years before I came to the Senate, from 1993 to 2001, I 
wore another hat. I was commander in chief of the Delaware National 
Guard, a force that served in the last 15 years in two wars--the 
Persian Gulf war and the Iraq war to date.

So I have had a chance to think about this issue, not just as a 
person who helps set policy for our country but someone who has worn a 
uniform on active duty in a hot war, wore a uniform in the Cold War, 
and then as commander in chief of my State's National Guard.

When I first heard of this idea that Senator Webb had come up with of 
equaling the Active-Duty deployed time with the dwell time folks have 
to catch up, to retrain, reunite with their families for Active-Duty 
personnel, I had some questions about it. I know others do as well.

One of the questions I had was, what if the President or what if the 
Secretary of Defense felt a particular individual with certain skills 
or unit that brought certain attributes to a fight were needed. Could 
the President or the Secretary of Defense intercede and be able to say: 
We need this individual, we need this unit. As it turns out, that 
concern has been addressed.

What if you had an individual who said: I know I am entitled to 12 
months downtime or 2 years downtime, dwell time back home. I don't want 
to use it. I want to go back and serve. The question is, Does this 
amendment allow that to happen? And it does.

A number of legitimate questions have been raised not just as to the 
intent but the practical effect of the legislation, and I believe they 
have been addressed in a good way.

Another concern was, if we adopt this amendment, if it is passed as 
part of a Defense authorization bill and the President signs it, does 
it take effect immediately. If this provision were to take effect 
immediately, I would not want to be Secretary of Defense or Secretary 
of the Navy. I would want to have time to try to make this work. It is 
not going to be easy, but given a reasonable amount of time, it could 
work.

To his credit, Senator Webb changed the early language of the 
amendment, I think after consulting with Secretary Gates, in order to 
say we are going to provide, after enactment of this provision, after 
it is signed into law, 4 months during which the Secretary of Defense 
and our services have a chance to figure out how we actually work with 
this provision and make it work.

I thank the Senator from Virginia for providing the kind of 
flexibility that is needed if we are going to enact this kind of 
legislation. I think it is good policy. I believe some major concerns 
that I and others had have been addressed.

My last point is I wish to talk about what it is like to be a 
reservist or guardsman. My Active-Duty squad flew out of the naval air 
station at Willow Grove, PA, north of Philadelphia. I tell my 
colleagues, if the men--and we were all men in my squadron at that 
time--if we thought we were going to be deployed a year or two, come 
back and then go back a year or two, we would not have had much in 
terms of reenlistment and reupping. They would be gone. It is not a 
question of patriotism, that is the fact. They have families to 
support. They have jobs. In their own lives, they have businesses, in 
some cases, to run. They need the kind of break that is envisioned in 
this legislation to enable them to not just be a patriot, to be a 
reservist, to be a citizen twice over but to always keep commitments to 
their families, keep commitments to their employers, and keep 
commitments, in many cases, to their employees, to the businesses they 
have started and gone on to run.

This is a good provision. It is a good proposal. It is better 
actually than the proposal we voted on several months ago. I urge my 
colleagues, particularly those who are on the fence--most people have 
made up their minds--particularly those on the fence, they can vote for 
this amendment not just in good conscience but I think knowing the 
questions that needed to be addressed have been addressed and that the 
people who will benefit from this will very much appreciate our taking 
this step.

I yield back my time.