# AMERICAN AND KAZAKHSTAN'S STRATEGIC BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP
## `4c5b453dc2476bfe8e4681be2694af1b`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam Speaker, on February 28th, President Nursultan 
Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan delivered his annual state of the nation 
address entitled ''New Kazakhstan in a New World'' which outlined the 
strategy of Kazakhstan's development for the next decade. The goals set 
forth in President Nazarbayev's speech serves as a roadmap for the 
future and improve the quality of life for the people of Kazakhstan.

In only a decade, Kazakhstan has achieved impressive economic growth 
and developed a strong framework of democratic government. President 
Nazarbayev rightfully stated in his speech that ''We are no longer a 
country of the Third World. This is the main result of our work for the 
past 10 years.

Kazakhstan is now expected to double the country's gross domestic 
product by 2008 as compared to the year 2000. Accordingly, the GDP per 
capita has grown considerably, reaching $5,000 dollars in 2006 with the 
forecast of $6,500 dollars in 2007.

Kazakhstan's stable economic development has allowed the government 
to devote more resources to social reforms. What is most impressive are 
the measures to improve social protection for motherhood and childhood, 
to increase pensions, and to raise government controlled wages. In 
other words, Kazakhstan is not just offering a better future for its 
people, but it is also securing its democracy on the rich soil of 
economic and social prosperity.

Kazakhstan is blessed with abundant natural resources. However, 
Kazakhstan is not going to rely upon those resources alone, realizing 
that only a diversified economy will give this nation true independence 
and stability. President Nazarbayev envisions Kazakhstan as a 
''regional locomotive'' of economic development and a successful player 
in the world economy by raising the effectiveness of extractive 
industries, ensuring the development of non-raw materials sectors, 
developing modem infrastructure, implementing swift administrative 
reform which takes into account international practices, and promoting 
the achievements and opportunities of a new Kazakhstan in Central Asia 
and the world. Central Asia needs and relies on Kazakhstan's leadership 
and strong presence that affirms democratic ideas and fosters economic 
values for the region.

Modernizing the political system in the region is among the most 
important goals, and its achievement will ensure political stability 
for the future. I will continue to monitor Kazakhstan's improvements in 
the coming months, and I applaud their ability to move forward with 
progressive reforms that will be of a great benefit to the U.S.-
Kazakhstan bilateral relationship and to the people of Kazakhstan.

Kazakhstan's policy of promoting tolerance and inter-religious 
harmony among ethnic and religious groups also has been recognized 
internationally. Kazakhstan is making a considerable effort to deal 
with religious diversity in its country and in the region. In fact, all 
of the world's great religions are present and thriving in Kazakhstan 
thanks to a climate of tolerance and openness. For this reason, I 
welcome President Nazarbayev's willingness to ''serve as an 
international intermediary for finding mutually acceptable political 
solutions for conflict situations [and] expanding and deepening the 
dialogue of civilizations.''


The glowing sense of confidence that is portrayed in President 
Nazarbayev's speech is a direct reflection of the optimism of the 
Kazakh people. I applaud President Nazarbayev's vision and leadership 
in bringing Kazakhstan into a new level of its progressive development. 
His vision for a prosperous and democratic Kazakhstan will be a beacon 
to other nations in the region.

Madam Speaker, recently I had a very informative and productive 
meeting with H.E. Kanat Saudabayev, Kazakhstan Ambassador to the United 
States. I share his optimism for the future of Kazakhstan and the 
growing strategic partnership between our two nations. Kazakhstan has 
proven itself as our firm ally and partner, and our bilateral 
relationship based on common values is strong as ever. The U.S.-
Kazakhstan partnership in promoting nonproliferation, combating 
terrorism, securing peace and stability for Afghanistan and Iraq is 
exemplary. We are grateful for Kazakhstan's support and friendship.

I strongly believe we should assist Kazakhstan as it continues to 
pursue a program of economic and democratic reform for it is in our 
Nation's best interest to have an economically strong and 
democratically developed Kazakhstan in this region of vital importance.
