---
---

# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `4c64d28a21ced4aa4895e6a9c4385e66`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. You know, it is very elemental: you get what 
you pay for, you account for what you buy, you are responsible to the 
people that hire you, you are responsible to the voters.

The opportunity that I have had about addressing some of these issues 
of accountability, maybe I can just tell a few stories about some of 
the hearings we have had, because it is worse than I expected. I come 
from Vermont, where we don't know how to waste things. We do it over 
recycle, reuse, do all of those things. But, you know, I am on the 
Oversight and Government Operations Committee, and we have had a number 
of hearings. And let me just tell a few stories, because I think rather 
than have me give some conclusions, let people just hear what some of 
the facts are.

We had some hearings on Iraq expenditures, Iraq relief money. And the 
Government Accountability Office has come up with an audit that 
suggests that a minimum of $10 billion was wasted. But a couple of 
graphic examples came forward that just stunned me, frankly. One was 
that our Federal Reserve, at the orders of the government, sent $12 
billion in taxpayer money, in cash, loaded in skids, shrink wrapped in 
plastic cellophane over to Iraq. Now, why did that happen? It wasn't 
accounted for, but it was sent over there to pay salaries for people 
who were working in Iraqi ministries. And of course it happened at a 
time when there was a desperate effort on the part of the 
administration to show some progress in Iraq. And one of the ways of 
trying to show progress is that we have these ministries up and running 
and we have employees who are working and doing the basic jobs of 
providing electricity, of dealing with pensions, and the things that 
are the functions of government.

Most of that money went missing because it turned out that some of it 
was literally handed out from the back of pick-up trucks in Baghdad, 
and it went to employees who were ghost employees. There were these 
various ministers in the Iraq Government who had a position of 
influence and saw an opportunity and they took it and made millions and 
millions of dollars of taxpayer money.

Now, you know, there is no Republican, there is no Democrat, there is 
no Independent who can fathom the idea of literally loading 347 tons of 
100-dollar bills on C-147 transports and sending it to a foreign 
country to be handed out on street corners. At home, when I go to 
Vermont and I tell this story, I almost pinch myself because it is so 
astonishing that I am wondering whether it is true. Unfortunately, it 
is true. That is something that is happening with taxpayer dollars.

Another example: $57 million was spent, Madam Speaker, awarded a 
contract to a Falls Church company that was going to construct housing 
in Baghdad, I think it was outside of the airport, it was going to be 
for, Congressman Hodes is on that committee, so if I get some of these 
details wrong, you can correct me. But basically it was a housing 
contract that was going to provide housing for trainees of the Baghdad 
police. Not a bad idea. One problem: the housing was never built. The 
only residue of the $57 million are hundreds of mobile homes that are 
now parked, unoccupied, on a tract of land outside the Baghdad Airport.

Now, even our government got embarrassed at this. And someone in the 
State Department suggested that what we should do, since we had all 
these homeless people in Baghdad but they couldn't live there, we 
didn't have housing units set up, we just had these facilities, the 
suggestion was why don't we donate these mobile homes to the victims of 
Katrina. And I had the opportunity to ask the question everybody else 
would ask, was it their plan to move the folks in New Orleans to 
Baghdad or was it their plan to move the mobile homes from Baghdad to 
New Orleans? That actually happened, all right.

A third example: this isn't so much about wasting taxpayer dollars; 
it is about violating basic rules of political integrity really.



This whole question of global warming that people now recognize is 
real, it is urgent, and it is immediate. And I believe it is becoming a 
bipartisan consensus. We are not arguing whether it is true.

Well, we were arguing whether it was true. In our committee we had 
before us a press person that worked for the administration, and his 
job was to edit reports. Editing apparently included


taking scientific conclusions that were reached by scientists doing a 
scientific method, experimentation, drawing conclusions, maintaining 
academic integrity, and then putting them through what was an edit that 
was a political filter that actually changed the outcome of the 
scientific conclusions. And it was all intended to meet the political 
agenda of the administration that wanted to resist the conclusion that 
global warming was real, urgent, and immediate.

There are certain lines you can't cross, and that is one of them. The 
people of this country, obviously, are entitled to the benefit of 
honest science. Then we have to make a decision, all of us, about what 
to do with it, what policies should we pursue. But, bottom line, we 
have to have that integrity.

So these are just a few examples that I was exposed to as a Member of 
Congress serving on committees. And I think it reinforces the point 
that you are making because every American wants and is entitled to 
accountability, honesty in whatever element of the government we are 
working in, with our finances, with the services of scientists, and 
every other sector.

So my friend, Mr. Klein, those are a few of the experiences I have 
had serving on a committee here.