# None
## `4c744d50331fca25e67fa5e6890511a4`
`Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. I thank my good friend for the 
opportunity to join you tonight to recognize Congressman John McHugh.

Unlike my colleague from New York, I didn't know Congressman McHugh 
when he served in the State legislature, nor previously prior to 
January, at my arrival here in Congress.

I got a chance to know Congressman McHugh since January--and his 
leadership record. And I stand today not just as a Member of Congress 
to mark all of his contributions, but, frankly, as a father of a United 
States soldier in the U.S. Army. I am so appreciative of what 
Congressman McHugh's service has been as now he has been sworn in as 
the 21st Secretary of the Army, that swearing-in occurring on September 
21.

Today, in his new role, being responsible for the Army's annual 
budget, more than $200 billion, what a tremendous responsibility that 
is, a workforce of more than 1.1 million active duty Army, National 
Guard, and Reserve, that includes 221,000 Army civilian employees and 
213,000 contracted service personnel.

Additionally, in his new role, Secretary McHugh will be a steward for 
more than 14 million acres of land under the jurisdiction of the U.S. 
Army.

He served more than 16 years as a Member of Congress representing 
northern and central New York. Over those last 8 years, McHugh had made 
10 official visits to Iraq and four visits to Afghanistan and other 
deployed locations to visit U.S. forces. And quoting at his 
confirmation hearing about wounded warriors, ''I've been so struck how 
these heroes, facing pain and loss and uncertainty, ask one question, 
'What else can I do to serve?' ''

He served as the ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee 
and previously was chairman of the House Armed Services Committee's 
Military Personnel Subcommittee. As chairman of the Military Personnel 
Subcommittee, Congressman McHugh exercised leadership on overseeing our 
military forces, personnel policies, compensation, health care, morale, 
welfare, recreational activities, dependent schools, and other 
benefits. He advocated for the military's people and programs.

When Congress passed the fiscal year 2006 National Defense 
Authorization


Act, H.R. 1815, Congressman McHugh had a role in developing a bill that 
does so much for the members of our Armed Forces. The measure provided 
the basis for our Nation's defense policies and programs. This 
legislation relieved the tremendous pressures placed upon our military 
services, active Guard and Reserve alike.

The military personnel provisions aim to improve quality of life for 
active duty and Reserve troops through pay and bonus increases, 
improvements in living and working conditions, and enhancements in 
health care coverage. This legislation reflects Congressman McHugh's 
commitment and dedication to serving not just his constituents in New 
York, but the men and women serving as our heroes in the Armed Forces.

During his nine terms in the United States House of Representatives, 
Representative McHugh has been a champion of fiscal responsibility and 
lower taxes, protecting Social Security and Medicare, providing 
stronger and better schools, and protecting America's farmers. We wish 
him well in his newfound role as the 21st Secretary of the Army.

I thank my good friend for yielding.