# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `4c83486f17ee85bf865d5730251d7e89`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 13 December 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my support for 
several of the initiatives in the State and Foreign Operations bill for 
fiscal year 2010, contained within the 2010 consolidated appropriations 
bill. Specifically, I want to highlight five specific areas that I view 
as critical to our national security: first, staffing resources for the 
Foreign Services of the Department of State and the U.S. Agency for 
International Development, or USAID; second, the Civilian Stabilization 
Initiative and Complex Crises Fund; third, economic and security 
assistance to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq; fourth, public diplomacy 
and international broadcasting; and fifth, reducing carbon emission and 
contributing to a global agreement on climate change. Our deepened 
investment and commitment to these issues are critical to maintaining 
America's leadership and defending U.S. security interests globally.

As we face the reality of engaging in two wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, it is essential that we recognize the civilian role in 
counterinsurgency. A strong civilian presence is essential to building 
governance, promoting economic development, and providing essential 
services to increase popular support for local governments facing 
insurgencies. As Secretary Clinton has highlighted, U.S. national 
security is about the three Ds--development, diplomacy, defense. If we 
invest more in development, we may prevent future conflicts through the 
critical work of civilians and avoid future burdens on our military.

Today, our Foreign Service officers at the Departments of State and 
USAID are on the frontlines in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq and 
around the world in places like Lebanon, Indonesia, and Haiti. At the 
same time, our military often ends up responding to crises because 
civilian agencies do not have the staff or the funding to do so as 
quickly, robustly, or efficiently. This is a trend we must seek to 
reverse, ensuring that all U.S. personnel--military and civilian--have 
the tools they need to succeed in increasingly difficult missions 
globally.

Today, there are more musicians in our military bands than diplomats 
in the State Department, which total less than 7,000. A report last 
year by the American Academy of Diplomacy documented the need for 
nearly 3,000 additional State Department and more than 1,000 additional 
USAID foreign service officers by fiscal year 2014. And this assessment 
was done before our increasing civilian needs in Afghanistan became 
clear.

I am encouraged that this bill begins to address this critical issue 
by providing for 745 new State Department


officers and 300 new officers at USAID. And as the requirements 
continue to grow, we must continue to build the size of the Foreign 
Service to meet increased needs globally. Finally, as more civilians 
serve in dangerous areas and warzones, they deserve our full support 
and gratitude for their service and sacrifice, especially the time 
these posts require away from their families.

The second area of the bill I would like to highlight is the Civilian 
Stabilization Initiative, which is led by the Office of the Coordinator 
for Reconstruction and Stabilization, or S/CRS, at the Department of 
State, in close cooperation with USAID and with the contribution of 
several other Federal agencies. S/CRS's mission is to enhance our 
institutional capacity to respond to crises involving failing, failed, 
and postconflict states and complex emergencies. S/CRS it tasked with 
leading and coordinating U.S. civilian efforts across the interagency 
to help stabilize and reconstruct societies in transition from conflict 
so they can reach a sustainable path toward peace, democracy, and a 
market economy.

I also welcome the funding component of this mission with the 
creation of a $50 million Complex Crises Fund for USAID to prevent and 
respond quickly to emerging or unforeseen complex crises, in 
coordination with the Departments of State and Defense. It is my hope 
that we can continue to increase this funding through civilian 
accounts, especially as we phase out section 1207 funding in defense 
appropriations. The more robust our civilian agencies, the less burden 
we will impose on our already overstretched military.

The third program I would like to address is our foreign assistance 
budget in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. This funding will help 
address some of our most critical foreign policy challenges and global 
security priorities. More girls will be in school, more families will 
have access to health care and other essential services, and more 
communities will thrive thanks to the more than $2.6 billion for 
Afghanistan, more than $1.4 billion in Pakistan, and $467 million in 
Iraq. These are critical investments in the economic infrastructure and 
development of these countries and in the long-term security of the 
United States.

The fourth program I want to highlight is public diplomacy, 
specifically, U.S. international broadcasting and the work of the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, BBG, which provides credible news 
programs and serves as an example of a free press worldwide. The bill 
we will soon vote on contains just under $734 million allocated for 
international broadcasting operations. The more we can do to fund 
programs like the BBG, the better we will be able to compete with the 
forces of disinformation.

U.S. international broadcasting began during the early years of World 
War II, when Voice of America broadcast into areas formerly under Nazi 
occupation. The programs began by saying ''daily at this time, we shall 
speak to you about America and the war. The news may be good or bad. We 
shall tell you the truth.''

This tradition of journalistic integrity has continued to this day, 
as the BBG's entities--consisting of Voice of America, Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio Free Asia, Radio and TV Marti, and the 
Middle East Broadcasting Network--broadcast in 60 languages to an 
estimated weekly audience of 175 million people globally.

In the Foreign Relations Committee this October, Senator Boxer was 
gracious in allowing me to chair a hearing in her subcommittee to 
examine the BBG's work in Afghanistan and Iraq. In both countries, the 
BBG has created sources of credible news and information readily 
accessible to the local population, in some cases for the first time in 
their history. In this sense, the role of broadcasting in war zones is 
particularly critical because it creates channels of communication with 
and among the population, which plays a role in winning hearts and 
minds. This is why it is critical to continue to fund objective, 
reliable broadcasting.

While U.S. international broadcasting is essential to make sure facts 
are available worldwide via television and radio, the Internet and 
mobile networks are the medium of the future. And in repressive 
societies where there is no access to a free press, populations use the 
Internet and cell phones to evade government censorship. This year, we 
saw such examples dramatically played out--when the Uighurs of western 
China began protesting a brutal government crackdown and when 
demonstrators in Iran protested after the June presidential election.

In both cases, blogs, short-message services, and social networking 
sites were heavily utilized, and popular movements sought to evade 
state censorship with proxy sites and other technology. That is why, in 
the case of Iran, I introduced the Victims of Iranian Censorship, or 
VOICE Act with Senators McCain, Lieberman, Casey, and Graham. This 
bill, which was signed into law with the Defense authorization bill in 
October, authorized funds to continue the development online censorship 
evasion technology. I am pleased that $30 million in this omnibus has 
been appropriated for the Internet Access and Freedom Account, so that 
such programs can be expanded, with a particular focus on Iran and 
China.

Finally, one of the most pressing issues we are facing is climate 
change. As we speak, representatives from more than 190 countries have 
gathered in Copenhagen to find common ground on averting the worst 
consequences of our changing climate and adapting to the changes we 
have already inflicted on the globe.

This will be the subject of much discussion on this floor in the 
coming months. Today, I want to acknowledge that this bill takes bold 
and tremendously important steps toward creating a better and safer 
climate. More than $1.2 billion are intended to help us face the 
threats of climate change, from contributions to multilateral funds 
that will bend the curve toward clean development around the world to 
assistance to the people most vulnerable to rising sea levels and 
changing rainfall patterns.

Mr. President, there are many provisions in this bill to be 
applauded, but I believe these five areas demonstrate significant 
investments in our national security. I look forward to casting my vote 
in favor of this bill, which I believe supports a stronger and better 
resourced American foreign policy.