---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `4c844aff06463e9e607ede78094631dd`
`Mr. KIRK — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KIRK. Madam Speaker, I feel compelled to rise today as the only 
Member of this body who has deployed twice to Afghanistan, both times 
as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer in Kandahar in 2008 and 2009. 
I'm not worried about the outcome of this debate. My colleague from 
Ohio will be defeated today more decisively than during his 
Presidential campaign.

I am worried about why the Speaker scheduled this debate. In the face 
of record job losses, a trillion-dollar health care takeover bill, and 
serious corruption charges leveled by the bipartisan Ethics Committee 
on some of the most powerful Members of this House, the Speaker has 
thrown an irresponsible bone to the far fringe of her party by 
scheduling this debate on the only unqualified success of the Obama 
administration, his surge to Afghanistan. By setting up this pointless 
debate, she risks undermining the Obama administration's admirable 
combat record in Afghanistan. Parts of this debate will now be replayed 
and misquoted by the Taliban and Iranian radios in ways that will hurt 
the elected government of Afghanistan, our NATO allies and Americans 
who wear the uniform now in the field.

I can speak from personal experience. There are no Republicans or 
Democrats in Afghanistan. There are American troops, our troops, who 
delivered a stunning set of military successes just in the last 3 
months. General Nicholson and his marines took the narco-Taliban 
stronghold of Marjah in a single week, sending the Taliban fleeing. 
This is the heroin heartland that has funded the rerise of the Taliban.

In a quiet shadow war, our allies then captured the Taliban's top 
military commander, the equivalent of our Secretary of Defense. And 
when he was interrogated, we then followed up by capturing the Taliban 
governors of several provinces and key military leaders. If the Taliban 
military was a company, it has lost its CEO, its vice president, and 
its best salesman. At this rate, the guy who is running the mail room 
will now be attempting to run the Taliban soon.

We all witnessed 9/11. Especially for those of us representing large 
cities, the lessons that we learned on that day have now come to the 
core of our public service. It's obvious to say that President Obama, 
Secretary of State Clinton, and Secretary of Defense Gates fiercely 
oppose this resolution. Given our overwhelming bipartisan opposition to 
the resolution, many of our troops would ask, Don't they know that 
we're winning? What are they doing in Congress? And I would ask, given 
the growing ethical cloud over this House, given record unemployment in 
the United States, given a trillion-dollar flawed health care bill, why 
would the Speaker choose to schedule a forum to question of one of the 
biggest successes of our President?