---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `4c8c8d32e62d0351305f90b6f25fa066`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I voted for the non-Iraq portion of the 
supplemental because it included a number of provisions I support, such 
as Senator Webb's GI bill, an extension of unemployment insurance, 
funding for LIHEAP and Byrne grants, and a number of important Africa-
related provisions. The Webb GI bill represents one of the best ways 
that the Federal Government can support members of our Armed Forces who 
might not otherwise have the opportunity to obtain a higher education. 
Expanding educational benefits is the least we can do for the men and 
women in uniform who have been asked to do so much for our country.

However, I am disappointed that the Senate was prevented from voting 
on the fiscally responsible House version of the GI bill. We should not 
be piling up more debt for future generations to repay, and I will work 
to try to make sure that the cost of this benefit is paid for. The 
Senate should not get into the habit of using nonoffset emergency 
supplemental bills to bypass the regular appropriations process. Just 
because the President refuses to pay for the cost of the war in Iraq 
doesn't mean we should follow his path of fiscal irresponsibility.

I am deeply disappointed that neither the House nor the Senate 
version of the supplemental contains language that would end the Iraq 
war. In fact, both bills--particularly the Senate Appropriations 
Committee bill--are actually weaker in this respect than the first 
supplemental we passed just over a year ago. Democrats took power of 
Congress last year pledging to work to bring an end to the war. While 
we have made significant progress in other


areas, we are actually moving backward, not forward, when it comes to 
Iraq.

What do I mean that the current supplemental is weaker than the one 
we passed a year ago? The new House supplemental requires redeployment 
of troops from Iraq to begin in 30 days, with a goal of completion 
within 18 months, or approximately the end of 2009. The supplemental we 
sent to the President a year ago set a goal of completing redeployment 
no later than the end of March 2008, or around 11 months from passage 
of the bill. So we have gone from an 11-month goal to an 18-month goal.

And the exceptions have become even broader, meaning that even more 
U.S. troops could be allowed to remain in Iraq. In the new version, the 
administration is no longer limited to conducting targeted missions 
against ''members of al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations with 
global reach.'' Now, it can leave troops in Iraq to go after any 
''terrorist organizations'' in that country. Going after al-Qaeda and 
its affiliates makes sense because they represent a direct threat to 
the United States. Leaving U.S. troops in Iraq to launch missions 
against any organization that the administration labels ''terrorist,'' 
regardless of whether they pose a threat to our country, doesn't make 
sense. It is just a continuation of the current administration's 
muddled, misguided approach, which focuses so much of our resources on 
one country while largely ignoring the threat posed by al-Qaida around 
the world.

In addition, the House language allows U.S. troops to not just 
conduct training and equipping of Iraqi troops but also to provide 
''logistical and intelligence support,'' which wasn't in last year's 
supplemental. That could mean our troops would still be fighting on the 
front lines, embedded with Iraqi forces, or providing air power, as we 
saw during the recent clashes in Basra. If you are looking to keep tens 
of thousands of U.S. troops in Iraq indefinitely, then you won't have a 
problem with this new language. If, however, you want to bring our 
involvement in this war to a close, then you can and should be troubled 
by these big loopholes in the House bill.

The House bill may be bad in this respect, but the Senate bill that 
we actually voted on and passed is far worse. It doesn't have any 
loopholes--it doesn't need them because it doesn't do anything. It 
simply expresses the sense of Congress that the mission in Iraq should 
be transitioned to a few limited purposes by June 2009. That is it--
nonbinding language that may make a few Members feel better about 
themselves but that won't do a thing to bring the war to a close.

To make matters worse, the Senate bill includes a provision requiring 
a report on transitioning the U.S. mission in Iraq but leaving 40,000 
troops in Iraq at the end of the transition. Based on existing 
estimates, it would likely cost $40 billion a year to maintain such a 
presence in Iraq. We should be promptly redeploying our troops, not 
studying the option of transitioning to an open-ended, significant 
military presence in Iraq.

Both the supplemental bills, and the process by which we are 
considering them, seem devised to maximize our political comfort, 
rather than put pressure on the White House to end a disastrous war. 
This shouldn't be about allowing ourselves to cast votes that make us 
feel better and look good.

Now I realize, like my colleagues, that we have limited options to 
try to end the war before the next President and the next Congress take 
office. But that doesn't mean we can simply ignore Iraq or write off 
the next 10 months. More brave Americans will die in Iraq over the next 
10 months, and our national security will continue to suffer while we 
focus on Iraq to the exclusion of so much else, including the global 
threat posed by al-Qaida. We have a responsibility to our constituents 
and to the American people, who have been demanding an end to the war 
for far, far too long, only to have that call go unheeded.

At a minimum, we should be voting on an amendment I filed to safely 
redeploy our troops by setting a date after which funding for the war 
will be ended. The Senate has voted on such an amendment several times, 
offered by myself and the majority leader. I am under no illusions 
about whether such an amendment would pass. But Members of Congress 
should have to put themselves on the record as to whether they are 
serious about wanting to end the war. That may make some of them, even 
members of my party, a little uncomfortable. But making tough 
decisions, casting tough votes, standing on principle--that is what our 
constituents expect of us.

As all of this weren't bad enough, this so-called supplemental 
spending bill doesn't just include Iraq spending for the current fiscal 
year. It also includes tens of billions of dollars to keep the war 
going in the next fiscal year. That means we can spare ourselves the 
inconvenience of taking up another Iraq spending bill this Congress. 
That may make us all feel better, but it is another way of showing that 
we aren't serious about putting pressure on the President to bring the 
war to a close.

Instead of negotiating backroom deals, instead of trying to devise 
procedures and votes that minimize our discomfort, instead of acting 
like we are against the war without following through, instead of all 
that pretense and posturing, let's act like a legislative body and do 
some actual legislating. Let's have debates, and amendments, and votes. 
Let's do this in the open, on the record. That way our constituents 
will see whether we really are committed to ending the war, to fiscal 
responsibility, and to the other principles and goals that matter to 
the folks back home but that seem to have been forgotten here.