# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `4c90c7d4c861bad10373979776e68cc1`
`Mr. DORGAN — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, let me make a couple of comments. I will 
not take a long time.

I have to observe that there was a time when there was substantial 
courage in this Chamber. I recall we had some very large budget 
deficits growing over a long period of time, and we passed a new fiscal 
policy. I was here then some long while ago. It passed by one vote in 
the Senate and one vote in the House. That took some courage. Some 
people who cast those votes did not come back here, because they were 
very controversial votes.

But we turned our fiscal policy around in this country by making 
tough choices. We turned the Federal budget deficit into a Federal 
budget surplus and began paying down the Federal debt. In 2001, on this 
floor, in this Chamber, we had a debate about fiscal policy again. A 
new President came to the White House. President Bush said he was a 
conservative.

He said: Well, now, we have all of these surpluses. He and his 
friend, Alan Greenspan, were worried that the biggest problem facing 
America was that we were going to pay down our debt too rapidly. The 
President and the White House said: We have got all of these surpluses. 
Let's decide to give the wealthiest Americans some large tax cuts 
because I believe in trickledown economics. Put a lot in the top, and 
see if some will drain down a bit.

Some of us stood on the floor of the Senate and said, you know what, 
we have just finally turned this economy around, turned these huge 
budget deficits around. The plan under the Clinton administration 
worked, and we turned big deficits into big surpluses and began to pay 
down the Federal indebtedness.


Some of us stood on the floor of the Senate and said: Mr. President--
to President Bush--maybe we ought to be a bit conservative. What if 
something happens? These big surpluses for the next 10 years do not yet 
exist. Yes, there is a surplus now, but we do not have a 10-year 
surplus that exists. That is the projection. What if something happens? 
Why do we not be a bit more conservative in how we deal with this?

The President and his supporters said: No. No. No. What we are going 
to do is we are going to give very large tax cuts to the wealthiest 
Americans. We want to do it right now. They won. They had the votes to 
win, and they turned this economy around, all right. They turned budget 
surpluses, in a period where we were actually paying down the Federal 
debt, into some of the largest Federal deficits in this country's 
history--once again, unbelievable.

So when I hear people talking about courage, let me say we had some 
courage on the floor of the Senate. I am proud to have been one of them 
who cast a vote that passed by one vote, that turned around this 
country's fiscal policy. And now we leave an example of a fiscal policy 
that was reckless, one of the most reckless fiscal policies I can ever 
imagine, given to us in 2001 by a new President who said he was 
conservative but who was not.

In fact, my colleague just described what we are spending and not 
paying for. Yesterday in the Senate Appropriations Committee, President 
Bush sent his Defense Secretary, he sent the Assistant Secretary of 
State, he sent the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to ask us for 
another $189 billion to prosecute the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. And, 
oh, by the way, the President said: I do not intend that we pay for any 
of that; put that right on top of the debt. We are going to charge it 
all.

That is the direction this White House is leading. That is what 
brings us to the floor of the Senate tonight, with a fiscal policy that 
has rung up an enormous amount of additional debt; the worst possible 
fiscal policy you can imagine.

You know what happened? Some of us said, maybe we ought to be a 
little bit conservative, a little bit careful. The President said: No. 
No. No. We are not going to do that. We are going to take these 10 
years of estimated surpluses and we are going to spend them with tax 
cuts.

Here is what happened very quickly. We were in a recession. The 
President likes to say he inherited the recession. He did not. But very 
shortly after he took office, we experienced a recession. Then we 
experienced the terrorist attack of 9/11, and then a war in 
Afghanistan, then a war in Iraq, then an economic slowdown.

Would not it have been smarter to have a fiscal policy that was a bit 
more careful, one that would have given a bit more thought about how to 
best care for this country's finances? I know it is easy to blame. I 
watched today as we had people come to the floor of the Senate blaming 
this, that, and the other thing. It is easy to take the negative. I 
understand that. Mark Twain was once asked if he would engage in a 
debate. And he said: Oh, sure, as long as I can take the negative side. 
Somebody said: We have not told you the subject. He said: Doesn't 
matter. If I take the negative side, it will take no preparation.

So I understand those who come to the floor of the Senate and tell us 
what is wrong. But I can tell you about a fiscal policy that was right, 
because I supported it and am proud to have done it some years ago, 
that turned big deficits into budget surpluses and began paying down 
the Federal debt. That is the kind of fiscal policy we need. It is the 
kind of fiscal policy we had, and this administration and those who 
supported it in this Chamber turned their back on it 6 years ago. Now 
we have paid the price for those votes.

I hope those who describe these issues remember, remember what a good 
fiscal policy was and how to recapture it once again. Yes, it take a 
little political courage. Those of us who supported a fiscal policy 
that works understand how it worked when it happened.

We have a lot to be thankful for, living in this great country of 
ours; only one spot like it on the planet. We have responsibilities 
that are very significant here in this Chamber. There is plenty wrong 
with this country, plenty of things that need fixing. But it is a 
wonderful place that requires our stewardship to do the right thing. I 
only came to the floor as I listened this evening to point out that we 
have seen good fiscal policy and bad fiscal policy. I, and I think many 
others, recognize the difference. If all of my colleagues will 
recognize that difference, we can put this country back on track once 
again. That is what the American people deserve and expect from us.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.