---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4cbe7041a8d7dcf6ed1eb43fc394ca6a`
`Mr. STEARNS â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. STEARNS. I thank my distinguished colleague, the ranking member 
of the Foreign Affairs Committee.

And I want to have the opportunity to speak. I have spoken earlier on 
this debate, but I thought I would bring some simple common sense to my 
colleagues that perhaps was best brought forward by David Broder in the 
Washington Post. Now, David Broder obviously is more sympathetic to the 
Democratic point of view than they are to the Republicans, but I think 
he makes three points which I will also echo in my conversation today.

Basically, we are at the end of the debate, but we are all moving 
towards a decision most of us already have decided, but I have some 
simple common sense that I would bring to the attention of my 
colleagues.

When General Petraeus was unanimously supported by the Senate, it was 
with the idea that he would bring his new thoughts, his new strategy to 
this plan in Iraq. So don't you think, as members of this body, we 
should give General Petraeus an opportunity to implement his plan and 
not immediately come forward with a resolution that says that it is a 
disapproving of the decision to deploy more troops to Iraq?

When we deployed more troops for the Iraqi elections, why didn't you 
complain then? That happened twice before. We went up to almost 
160,000. When we deployed more troops to ratify the Iraqi constitution, 
why didn't you complain back then? That went up to almost 160,000.

So now you are coming against a simple new strategy with the best we 
have in America who actually has written the manual on how to do it. 
You are not even willing to give him a chance. No breathing space. This 
nonbinding resolution shows your motives, which are to eventually 
reduce all funding for Iraq.

My third point is, you are so willing to do this, you are not even 
willing to look at what could happen with this new strategy. Let's say 
it works. Are you still going to offer these resolutions to cut off 
funds even though this strategy works and General Petraeus is 
successful? No matter what, you seem hell bent on reducing funds for 
Iraq. Yet we didn't hear any time before when we increased the surge 
for the Iraqi elections or for the ratification of the Iraqi 
constitution.

You know, in a way, Bush went to your retreat with a willingness to 
listen to your ideas. He is showing bipartisanship. In fact, he has a 
quote here which I think illustrates what the American people are 
saying. ''What really matters,'' quote, ''is what happens on the 
ground. I can talk all day long, but what really matters to the 
American people is to see progress.''

So he realizes also that he must show progress. And we are asking for 
this new strategy to have a chance, and we owe it to them.