# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT
## `4cbe3513cdc88bb4ad9dabf80186c14f`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask to be notified when I have 30 
seconds remaining.

We are called today by the ancients, the Founders of this Republic. 
Are we going to form a more perfect union? It was in this Chamber a 
number of years ago that we knocked down the great walls of 
discrimination on the basis of race, that we knocked down the walls of 
discrimination on the basis of religion. We knocked them down regarding 
national origin, we knocked them down with regard to gender, we knocked 
them down with regard to disability. Here in this Senate we were part 
of the march for progress.

Today, we are called on again in that exact same way. This issue is 
of the historical and momentous importance that those judgments and 
those decisions were. When the Senate was called upon, it brought out 
its best instincts, values, and its best traditions. We saw this Nation 
move forward. Who among us would retreat on any of those commitments? 
Who among us would say no to that great march for progress that we had 
in this Nation?

The question is: Is it alive? Is it continuing? Is it ongoing? Those 
who vote ''aye'' say it is ongoing, that we are continuing that march 
toward progress.

Year after year, we have had broken borders. Year after year, we have 
the exploitation of workers. Year after year, we see people who live in 
fear within our own borders of the United States of America. This is 
the opportunity to change it. Now is the time. Now is the time to 
secure our borders. Now is the time to deal with the national security 
issue. Now is the time to resume our commitment to family values, to 
people who want to work hard, men and women of faith, people who care 
about this country and want to be part of the American dream, who have 
seen their sons and daughters, in many instances, fight and lose their 
lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. That is the challenge.

Now is the time. This is the place. This bill is strong. It is fair 
and practical. Today, my friends, we have the choice: Are we going to 
vote for our hopes, or are we going to vote for our fears? Are we going 
to vote for our future, or are we going to vote for our past?

This is the place. Now is the time. This is the vote. Vote ''aye'' 
for America's future.