---
---

# None
## `4ccbe5209c54f783afb5a43858aac958`
`Mr. GINGREY — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank the gentleman from Iowa so much for being with 
us.

As we rapidly approach the conclusion of this hour, I wanted to make 
a few other points. The gentleman from Iowa spoke of it when he said we 
are not there for their oil. We are not there for their land. We're not 
there for anything except to try to bring a democracy to the Middle 
East. And you think about the history of this country in other battles 
that we have been in, in World War I in Belleau Wood, in World War II 
on the beaches of Normandy, or in the Argonne Forest, in the Korean 
war, in the rice paddies of Vietnam or the sands of Iwo Jima, whom were 
we fighting for, and what did we ask for in return? We were fighting 
for other people as much as we were fighting for ourselves, and the 
only thing that this country asked for in return was a little


bit of dirt to bury our dead. We don't bury our fallen soldiers anymore 
on foreign soil, but that's really all we ever asked for.

The 4,000 that we have lost in this battle, how can we possibly turn 
our back on them? How can we turn our back on the Veterans For Freedom 
that I talked about that we met this morning?

And, Mr. Speaker, I have sufficient time, and I hope you will allow 
me to read these 25 names from my district, the 11th of Georgia, who 
have paid the ultimate sacrifice in this conflict to bring a little bit 
of democracy to the Middle East. And let me read quickly, Mr. Speaker:

Sergeant Michael Hardegree from Villa Rica; Lance Corporal Samuel 
Large, Jr., also from Villa Rica; Specialist Joshua Dingler from Hiram, 
Georgia; Sergeant Paul Saylor from Bremen; Captain Hayes Clayton from 
Marietta, my home; Private First Class Jesus Fonseca, Marietta; Lance 
Corporal Stephenen Johnson, Marietta; Airman First Class Antoine Holt, 
Georgia; Sergeant Brian Ardron, Acworth; Private First Class Marquis 
Whitaker from Columbus; Staff Sergeant John McGee, Columbus; Sergeant 
First Class David Salie from Columbus; Corporal Tyler Dickens, 
Columbus.



Staff Sergeant Rickey Scott, Columbus, Georgia; Corporal John Tanner, 
Columbus, Georgia; Sergeant Thomas Strickland, Douglasville, Georgia; 
Spec. Marvin Camposiles, Austell; Spec. Benjamin Bartlett, Jr., 
Manchester, Georgia; Lance Corporal Juan Lopez, Whitfield; Private John 
M. Henderson, Jr., from Columbus; First Lieutenant Michael Fasnacht, 
from Columbus; Lance Corporal Kristopher C. Warren, from Resaca; 
Specialist Justin Johnson, from Rome, Georgia; First Lieutenant Tyler 
Brown, president of the student body at Georgia Tech, died in Iraq, 
from Atlanta, Georgia; Jack Hensley, a civilian contractor from 
Marietta, Georgia was beheaded by the brutality known as al Qaeda.

Mr. Speaker, as I conclude my time, again, I thank you for allowing 
me to read those names.

And my colleagues, I hope that some of those families are listening 
because I pledge to you we will not turn our back on them. They have 
paid the ultimate sacrifice. You are continuing to pay the sacrifice, 
but God bless you for the support of this commander in chief and with 
your patience and our determination here in Congress, we will give 
victory a chance, and we will achieve victory.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
