# THE DEPLOYMENT OF THE OKLAHOMA NATIONAL GUARD'S 45TH INFANTRY BRIGADE  COMBAT TEAM
## `4ccfb1b64b10da5e0a3f2f05c9648d0e`
`Mr. SULLIVAN — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the Oklahoma 
National Guard's 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCT) which is set 
to deploy to Iraq early next year in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

Today, a farewell ceremony honoring 2,400 deploying soldiers in the 
45th IBCT is taking place at the Lloyd Noble Center in Norman, 
Oklahoma. Families and friends throughout the state will have an 
opportunity to celebrate the patriotism and courage of Oklahoma's 
citizen soldiers. This will be the largest single deployment of 
Oklahoma's citizen soldiers since the Korean War, an important event in 
the history of the Oklahoma National Guard.

On October 19, 2007, the 45th IBCT will begin to move their soldiers 
to the mobilization station at Fort Bliss, Texas. While at Fort Bliss, 
the brigade will undergo 10 to 12 weeks of intense mission specific 
training which will prepare them for any mission unique tasks that they 
will be required to perform while deploying to Iraq next year.

The stakes could not be higher for success in the Global War on 
Terror. The 45th IBCT will play a critical role in securing Iraq from 
al-Qaeda and other militants seeking to undermine Iraq's growth and 
security, and protect America from future threats.

I know this is not the first deployment for many of these brave men 
and women and their families back home. Their collective sacrifice for 
our Nation's security is symbolic of the pride Oklahoma has for our 
citizen soldiers serving in times of war and conflict.

I am confident the 45th IBCT is ready to answer the call in the 
defense of our Nation. With this deployment, they are carrying forward 
the proud history of this brigade. It is an honor to represent many of 
these brave citizen soldiers in Congress, and I look forward to 
supporting the 45th IBCT's critically important mission to the fullest 
extent possible.
