# NEW START TREATY
## `4cd7bd98901c3a1423e27f69a6ad43b5`
`Mr. CASEY — 2 December 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I commend my colleague from New 
Hampshire, Senator Shaheen.

I am proud to join my colleagues this morning in support of the New 
START accord. Next Sunday will mark 1 year since American inspectors 
were on the ground in Russia. We need to vote on the resolution of 
ratification for this important treaty because it will indeed make 
America safer. Without ratification of this treaty, we are less safe 
and less secure. We have to maintain what we have always maintained in 
this country as it relates to our arsenal: a safe, secure, and 
effective nuclear arsenal. This treaty is consistent with that goal.

The agreement provides for predictability, transparency, and 
stability in the U.S.-Russian nuclear relationship.


Former National Nuclear Security Administration Administrator Linton 
Brooks put it best when he said:




 Transparency leads to predictability; predictability leads 


 to stability.


It is that stability that we seek. The opportunity to examine Russian 
nuclear forces helps to limit the surprises, mistrust, or 
miscalculation that could result from a lack of information. By 
building trust with regard to our respective nuclear arsenals, progress 
on other important issues such as the war in Afghanistan and our policy 
as it relates to Iran becomes more likely.

Some have asked whether we have lost any valuable elements of the 
original START treaty's inspection regime. In June of this year, I 
chaired a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee that addressed 
this very issue. We examined the implementation of the treaty with 
respect to both inspection and verification and how the treaty would be 
executed in Russia and the United States.

Critics point out that under the original START treaty, the United 
States was permitted 25 data update, reentry vehicles, and facility 
inspections a year, while under New START the United States can inspect 
18 facilities annually not 25. However, in a previous hearing on the 
New START treaty, Admiral Mullen noted that when START entered into 
force there were 55 Russian facilities subject to inspection, but now 
there are only 35 Russian facilities subject to inspection.

I would also assert that the inspection regime has also changed to 
reflect the current security environment, an enhanced relationship with 
the Russian Federation, and more than a decade of experience in 
conducting START inspections. The inspection regime is simpler and 
cheaper than what was conducted under the first START treaty. We 
conduct fewer inspections under this treaty because there are fewer 
sites to inspect. Yet, proportionally, the number of inspections 
concluded under this treaty has increased not decreased. During that 
same hearing, Dr. James Miller, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy said:




 Inspections will help the United States verify that Russia 


 is reporting the status of its strategic forces accurately 


 and complying with the provisions of the New START Treaty. 


 Inspections will not be shots in the dark. Using information 


 provided by requiring data exchanges, notifications, past 


 inspections, and national technical means, we can choose to 


 inspect those facilities of greatest interest to us. Then, 


 through short-notice on-site inspections, our inspectors can 


 verify that what the Russians are reporting accurately 


 reflects reality.


So said the Under Secretary of Defense, Mr. Miller.

After more than 20 hearings by the Senate Committees on Foreign 
Relations, Armed Services, and Intelligence, and comprehensive 
deliberation, it is time to vote on New START. We have examined all 
sides of the issue. We heard from Republican experts and Democratic 
experts alike. We have heard from former Secretaries of State and 
experts in international relations. The U.S. military leadership 
uniformly supports this treaty. More than 900 questions were submitted 
from the Senate to the administration on New START, and the 
administration answered every single question.


I wish to close on a historical note. On October 1, 1992, the first 
START treaty was ratified by the Senate by a vote of 93 to 6. As the 
debate on the treaty wrapped in this room, the Senate majority leader 
at the time, George Mitchell, commended President Bush for his role in 
negotiating the agreement. He read a letter from Acting Secretary of 
State Lawrence Eagleburger which encouraged ratification.

This expression of bipartisanship at that time was made remarkable by 
the fact that the Senators assembled would soon return home to campaign 
in the 1992 election. That election was 1 month away and Democrats and 
Republicans came together and supported ratification.

We all remember the contentious nature of that election, similar to 
the period we are living through now. Yet even within that environment, 
both parties came together to do the right thing for national security. 
We have to do this again. It is critically important that this treaty 
be ratified.

With that, I yield the floor.