---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4cd9f2c44d24e66b05a2bfcbcb9de7b9`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I have a different view than my 
distinguished colleague from New Mexico. This week, what we are seeing 
is the proof of new leadership in this Congress. I am proud, as a 
member of the Budget Committee, that we have a budget resolution before 
us that provides a blueprint for how we can build a stronger nation--a 
nation that will not be drowning in debt but can save for its 
children's future, a nation that will not undermine the education of 
its young people but that invests in building global competitiveness 
from start to finish, a nation that will not abdicate its 
responsibility to provide health insurance to those most in need but 
that is committed to covering every child, and a nation that will not 
neglect the needs of its soldiers and veterans but that will provide 
the level of care their sacrifices deserve.

Our budgets are indicative of the values we hold, individually and 
collectively. In this budget, one thing is very clear: We see a 
different set of priorities and values for our Nation. From health care 
to education to our veterans to the safety of our communities, 
Americans will see that this budget charts a new course. Perhaps most 
importantly, however, this budget reaches all of these priorities in a 
framework that is fiscally responsible. With this budget, we will end 
the days of spending now and figuring how to pay for it later. Instead 
of making lofty promises we cannot afford, instead of pretending we can 
have it all while we are sinking deeper and deeper into debt, instead 
of leaving a multibillion-dollar mess for our grandchildren to clean up 
years from now, with this budget we make a clear declaration: We must 
pay for what we spend as we go along, not push it off for another day. 
This is something Americans do every day. It is how all of us conduct 
our personal daily lives. Yet, until recently, it is something which 
Congress has been incapable of. With this budget, we have a chance to 
change that.

Without question, one of our highest priorities is the health care of 
our Nation's most vulnerable children. I find it embarrassing that some 
in Washington, those who have some of the best health care coverage in 
the world, have proposed to cut coverage to America's neediest 
children. Yesterday, we defeated an amendment that would have 
jeopardized the health care of children and parents all over America. I 
know the battle is not over, but let me assure my colleagues, we will 
win the fight so children across this country will have the health 
insurance they deserve. I applaud the Budget Committee chairman for 
working to make this funding a priority in the resolution.

I am proud of the Senate's support for the Baucus amendment to 
increase funding for SCHIP. I am proud that a majority of this Chamber 
realized we had a responsibility to fix the shortcomings of the 
President's budget that would have had millions of children across the 
Nation not insured and that we ensured America's neediest children have 
the care and health coverage they need.

In this budget, we make it clear who our focus is. We will no longer 
follow blindly down the President's path to provide costly tax breaks 
for the wealthiest Americans while we rack up trillions in debt for 
future generations to pay off. That is why I am proud this


budget includes an amendment by Senator Baucus to extend key tax 
provisions which will benefit millions of students and hard-working 
families but which do not drown us in debt. The message is clear: We 
Democrats believe we can extend tax credits that help students afford 
college. We can ensure families continue to claim the child tax credit. 
We can provide income tax relief, and we don't have to do it while 
sweeping the cost under the rug for another day.

In this budget, we provide a light at the end of the tunnel for so 
many children, teachers, and administrators who have been strained to 
meet requirements without resources, who have seen promises broken year 
after year. With this budget, we start to fix the many holes in our 
education funding. This budget funds education $9.2 billion above the 
President's request. We increase grant aid so that students who rely on 
Perkins loans, work study, and other grants will continue to have the 
extra assistance that will help them earn their degree.

For me, this is not a policy debate; it is real life. I would not be 
here in the Senate today without the help of Pell and Perkins when I 
was trying to go to college. Having grown up poor, in a tenement, and 
being the first of my family to do so, that educational opportunity 
created a foundation that helped me achieve what I have today. I want 
to make that a birthright for each and every one of our children who 
has the ability and is willing to work hard and give something back to 
their country.

We provide the largest increase in elementary and secondary education 
since 2002. We will have done more in this budget resolution in 3 
months than has been done by the administration in the past 4 years so 
that we can start to fill the massive shortfalls that have plagued our 
schools and denied opportunities to students. We restore programs such 
as Safe and Drug-Free Schools, education technology, and other critical 
investments that have been on the chopping block year after year.

Our budget also marks a turning point for an area which has been 
shamefully neglected--the care of our Nation's veterans. I recently 
visited veterans at the VA hospital in East Orange, NJ, and soldiers 
who have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan currently at Fort Dix and 
service men and women from across the country, not just New Jersey. I 
have seen how without adequate funding our VA system has become 
overloaded, new veterans hang in limbo, and soldiers who have made 
unimaginable sacrifices are left wondering just how much the Nation 
values their services.

Too many of our soldiers are trapped in a system that keeps them in 
limbo. They are too injured to serve, yet they cannot be fully 
discharged until their paperwork has been processed and their health 
determinations have been decided. The time they spend waiting can grow 
from weeks to months and, yes, even years. It is appalling. It is 
unacceptable. We have to work to improve this process.

This budget allows for that. It would increase veterans funding $3.5 
billion above and beyond the President's request. It will ensure 
funding is dedicated to improving the claims backlog that is plaguing 
our discharge process.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 2 minutes.