---
---

# None
## `4ce721b36eca7037c83b2e4cfc3d4002`
`Mr. FEENEY — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. FEENEY. Madam Speaker, the world has recently witnessed the 
deaths of two bloody despots: one--Saddam Hussein--was executed for 
crimes against his own people; the other--President Saparmurat Niyazov 
of Turkmenistan--was able to escape justice by dying in his sleep.

Under President Niyazov, Turkmenistan became a secretive police state 
modeled after North Korea. Declaring himself President-for-life, 
Niyazov banned all political parties except his own; threw his 
opponents in jail or drove them into exile; and established a state 
monopoly on media, exercising control over the editorial content.

With the death of the dictator, one would hope that the people of 
Turkmenistan would finally wake up from their long nightmare and 
reclaim their rights, chief among them the right to elect their leaders 
in free and fair elections. However, the interim government has pledged 
to continue Niyazov's policies and has brought into question their 
ability to hold truly democratic elections

The interim government's most competent opponents--the exiled 
community of business leaders and intellectuals--have effectively been 
prevented from contesting the elections, even though their leader 
Khudaiberdy Orazov, whom the united opposition chose as its 
presidential candidate, would win the majority of the popular vote 
according to the most recent polls. As former chairman of the Central 
Bank and a renowned economist, Mr. Orazov is precisely the kind of 
leader whose insights are badly needed if Turkmenistan is to rebuild 
its crumbling infrastructure and revive its ailing education and 
healthcare systems.

I urge my colleagues in calling for free, fair, and democratic 
elections in Turkmenistan and for the interim government to allow its 
opponents the opportunity to contest the February 11 elections. In 
order to maintain our commitment to democracy, both at home and abroad, 
we can do no less.

I am including for the Record a copy of Jan. 3 Washington Post 
article, ''New Future for Turkmenistan,'' which was written by a well-
respected pro-democracy opposition leader in exile, Nurmukhammet 
Hanamov, whose two sons were assassinated in retaliation for his 
outspoken opposition to Niyazov's regime. The U.S. government would do 
well to hear the heartfelt plea this courageous man makes in his 
article.












 [From The Washington Post]











A New Beginning for Turkmenistan













(By Nurmuhammet Hanamov)




 Last week Turkmenistan buried its brutal dictator, 


 Saparmurad Niyazov. His ruthless reign spanned two decades, 


 during which time his policies became increasingly irrational 


 and unpredictable. The long list of Niyazov's crimes against 


 our people includes: banning all political parties except his 


 own and jailing his opponents; preventing thousands of 


 disloyal citizens from traveling abroad; persecuting 


 religious and ethnic minorities; outlawing opera; and 


 shutting down regional hospitals, firing thousands of doctors 


 and nurses. Under Niyazov, Turkmenistan became a corridor for 


 heroin trafficking from Afghanistan to the West and gained 


 for itself one of the highest heroin addiction rates in the 


 world.



 Above all, Niyazov was a selfish and kleptocratic despot, 


 stashing billions in proceeds from the sale of the country's 


 enormous natural gas resources in personal accounts in 


 Western banks. He used this money to fuel his outlandish 


 personality cult, building opulent palaces and golden statues 


 of himself even as his people were deprived of basic 


 necessities and suffer one of the world's lowest life 


 expectancy rates. The West's indifference was striking 


 compared with the relentless criticism by the United States 


 and the European Union against the more benign regime of 


 Alexander Lukashenko, president of gas-poor Belarus.



 With Niyazov gone, the West has a historic second chance to 


 help our country make a peaceful transition to democracy. 


 Turkmenistan's interim rulers have unfortunately pledged to 


 continue Niyazov's policies, even ordering new statues of 


 him, and their efforts to grab power amount to a coup d'etat. 


 The former health minister--under the de facto control of 


 Niyazov's Presidential Guard--has arrested the speaker of 


 Parliament, who constitutionally is next in the line of 


 succession. He has sealed the country's borders and, using 


 other unconstitutional measures, has set the stage for his 


 own unchallenged victory in presidential elections scheduled 


 for Feb. 11.



 The United States must send a clear message to Niyazov's 


 holdouts in the interim government in Ashgabat: that they 


 will not have its support unless they agree to hold free and 


 fair elections--ones that allow all citizens of Turkmenistan, 


 including exiled opposition leaders and political prisoners, 


 to take part.



 We know that the United States has tried to help the people 


 of Turkmenistan in recent years, and thanks to American 


 educational exchange programs, there is a thriving community 


 of bright Turkmen students and intellectuals who are living 


 in Western countries and are ready to return and help rebuild 


 their country. This community is largely held together by the 


 efforts of Khudaiberdy-Orazov, a former chairman of the 


 National Bank and an accomplished and energetic leader who 


 was forced into exile several years ago. He was unanimously 


 nominated to be a candidate in the February presidential 


 elections by a broad coalition of opposition groups inside 


 and outside of Turkmenistan. According to a recent poll, 


 Orazov's candidacy would have the support of a majority of 


 Turkmen voters. Until Orazov and other opposition candidates 


 are allowed to contest the February elections, the United 


 States and the European Union must refrain from recognizing 


 the junta in Ashgabat and freeze all personal accounts of 


 Niyazov and his cronies abroad. We hope that members of 


 Congress and other government officials will visit 


 Turkmenistan soon to personally deliver that message.



 We must rebuild our country, and with the help of our 


 friends and neighbors we can do it in an open and transparent 


 way. Priorities for a democratically elected government 


 during the initial post-Niyazov reconstruction must be to 


 release all political prisoners, conduct open tenders and 


 allow Western companies to bid for a stake in developing 


 Turkmenistan's oil and gas fields; to consider new ways of 


 getting our gas and oil to Western markets; to restore 


 private property that Niyazov confiscated from Turkmen 


 citizens; and to create a reconstruction fund using Niyazov's 


 personal bank accounts and proceeds from the sale of oil and 


 gas to revive the health-care and education systems.





 The United States is spending billions of dollars trying to 


 turn Afghanistan and Iraq--both deep in the throes of civil 


 war--into democratic nations while all but abandoning their 


 peaceful post-Soviet neighbors to the north. Turkmenistan is 


 ready for a new beginning, and the West must finally step up 


 to the plate. To do otherwise would waste a historic 


 opportunity and allow yet another case of popular discontent 


 with an illegitimate government to become an anti-Western 


 lost cause.
