---
---

# ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `4ce999abe984d34b933a9644d3c9d4e3`
`Mr. STARK — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of increasing 
fuel efficiency and taking the first steps toward ending our costly 
addiction to fossil fuels.

The Energy Independence and Security Act, H.R. 6, will provide much 
needed increases in energy efficiency and investments in clean energy 
and green buildings. Most importantly, for the first time in a 
generation, this bill will raise the fuel economy, CAFE, standards for 
new cars and trucks. By increasing CAFE to 35 miles per gallon by 2020 
this bill will reduce oil consumption by 1.1 million barrels a day in 
2020. This is the equivalent of taking 28 million vehicles off the 
road. Although I believe we can and should get to 35 mpg faster, this 
bill represents real progress in our efforts to combat global warming 
and achieve energy independence.

It is no secret that our addiction to oil and coal is having 
increasingly dire consequences for our Nation and the planet. The price 
of oil hovers near $100 a barrel. An endless war continues to rage in 
Iraq while the President continues his saber rattling in the direction 
of Iran. The specter of catastrophic global warming becomes more real 
each day. The time to take action is now and this legislation is a good 
starting point, but we must do more. I agree with the numerous 
economists and environmentalists who think an aggressive carbon tax is 
the only sure way to make the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions 
that are needed to reduce global warming. A carbon tax must be part of 
the conversation as we move forward with comprehensive global warming 
legislation.

This bill is not perfect. Republican obstructionists in the Senate 
have stripped provisions to mandate production of electricity from 
renewable sources like wind, solar, and biomass. They also demanded 
that giant oil companies maintain their preferential tax status. I am 
also troubled that we are continuing to subsidize and ratchet up 
production of corn-


based ethanol, which will do little to ease global warming, but drives 
up food prices and contributes to water pollution. I hope that the 
environmental safeguards contained in the Renewable Fuel Standard--
which mandates production of 36 billion gallons of biofuels by 2022--
will quickly push production away from corn ethanol and toward advanced 
cellulosic fuels. In the meantime, we have a responsibility to protect 
families hit by rising food prices.

Despite these shortcomings, this legislation represents real progress 
for both consumers and the environment. I urge all of my colleagues to 
embrace this new direction in energy policy and vote ''yes.'' We must 
realize that this bill is only the beginning and that more fundamental 
changes are needed if we are serious about addressing global warming 
and energy independence.