---
---

# WELCOME HOME VIETNAM VETERANS DAY
## `4cf784be21427e479570bf7e2c073f87`
`Mr. CAO — 24 March 2009`

---


Mr. CAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 
234, to establish a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day. My family and I 
are direct beneficiaries of the sacrifice and service of the men and 
women who served this great Nation during the years of conflict in 
Vietnam.

I was born in Vietnam in 1967, during the most turbulent year of the 
war and while American troops were engaged in combat there. In 1975, my 
father, an army officer, was captured by the communist forces and sent 
to a re-education camp for nearly 7 years. I was 8 years old when I 
left my home country and came to America to make a new life with the 
tools of freedom and democracy that this great Nation stands for.

To the hundreds of thousands of veterans who returned from the 
Vietnam War, I say to you that your dedicated service to your country 
and mine is remembered by millions every day. I thank you for having 
fought for democracy and freedom even in the farthest reaches of the 
globe.

To each of the 58,256 servicemembers whose names appear on the solemn 
granite wall along the National Mall, I say to you that your ultimate 
sacrifice will never be forgotten. Your memories live on today through 
the millions of people throughout the world enjoying the opportunities, 
liberties, and freedom that you have fought so long and hard for.

Mr. Speaker, as we reflect today on the sacrifice and service of 
Vietnam veterans, I ask all Americans to consider our servicemembers 
engaged today around the globe. Currently, in Iraq and Afghanistan, we 
have nearly 200,000 service men and women serving this Nation 
honorably. During the course of these conflicts, 4,716 servicemembers 
have lost their lives and another 33,852 have been wounded fighting 
nobly to defeat terrorism and to bring freedom and democracy to 
oppressed people. We thank them and their families for their service, 
and they will never be forgotten.

As we chart the way forward in these conflicts, it is our obligation 
to ensure that the gains we and our coalition partners have made are 
not for naught, and that we continue on the fight to bring peace, 
democracy, and freedom to these nations that have been damaged and 
broken by brutal regimes.

Mr. Speaker, while I am struck by the fact that it is only today, 
some 34 years later, that we are establishing a day to welcome home 
from the Vietnam War some of America's bravest, I am pleased that I, a 
direct beneficiary of their service, can take part in this historic 
event.