# None
## `4cfc0ae0f1b4a6f18d01988054ebd56e`
`Mr. REID — 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I came here earlier today anticipating there 
would be Republicans who would rise above the partisan clamor. I 
looked, as the vote was being cast: no, no, no, at the people I thought 
could do this.

Sixteen agencies are all responsible for gathering intelligence 
information for our country.

Mr. President, let's call it the way it is. Vice President Cheney 
runs the intelligence operations of this administration. He has for 6 
years. It apparently is not going to stop. We could not even improve 
the intelligence-gathering operations for the 16 agencies because it 
may interfere with the Vice President.

Mr. President, even the vice chairman of the committee voted against 
moving forward. I heard his conversation with the chairman, why he was 
doing this--because he had been asked to do it. We have had experiences 
in the past with the way the Republicans--everybody, hear that--have 
handled the intelligence-gathering information for our Nation. The 
Senate had to be closed using rule XXII to get some minimal information 
how the evidence was manipulated to take us to war in Iraq, and we got 
some of that information.


There has been a change in the leadership of the Senate. I was 
hopeful it would be better, and it has been for 3 months. There has 
been cooperation between the two Senators, the chairman and vice 
chairman. We are not dealing with--we have had to invoke cloture on 
everything we have done here because, as I said earlier today, I 
thought a minority of Republican Senators was standing in the way of 
our doing what we have done--minimum wage, stem cell, all that stuff.

But here we are dealing with our spies. That is what they are. We 
know from the situation where there has been an indictment and 
conviction that the White House was involved in that up to their neck 
with the ''Scooter'' Libby matter. Karl Rove appeared before the grand 
jury on three or four or five occasions trying to extricate himself. 
The President said anyone who had anything to do with leaking 
information would be dumped from the administration quickly. Of course, 
that has not happened. I guess there is nothing in the minds of Karl 
Rove and his minions that is not politics--even the spy operations of 
this country.