# QUESTION OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
## `4cfc72678886e1bef2d4dc839f6a58a2`
`Mr. PAUL — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise, reluctantly, in favor of the motion to 
table House Resolution 799, Impeaching Richard B. Cheney, Vice 
President of the United States, of high crimes and misdemeanors, and in 
favor of referring that resolution to the House Judiciary Committee for 
full consideration. I voted to table this resolution not because I do 
not share the gentleman from Ohio's desire to hold those responsible 
for the Iraqi debacle accountable; but rather, because I strongly 
believe that we must follow established protocol in matters of such 
importance. During my entire time in Congress, I have been outspoken in 
my opposition to war with Iraq and Iran. I have warned my colleagues 
and the administration against marching toward war in numerous speeches 
over the years, and I have voted against every appropriation to 
continue the war on Iraq.

I have always been strongly in favor of vigorous congressional 
oversight of the executive branch, and I have lamented our abrogation 
of these Constitutional obligations in recent times. I do believe, 
however, that this legislation should proceed through the House of 
Representatives following regular order, which would require 
investigation and hearings in the House Judiciary Committee before the 
resolution proceeds to the floor for a vote. This time-tested manner of 
moving impeachment legislation may slow the process, but in the long 
run it preserves liberty by ensuring that the House thoroughly 
deliberates on such weighty matters. In past impeachments of high 
officials, including those of Presidents Nixon and Clinton, the 
legislation had always gone through the proper committee with full 
investigation and accompanying committee report.

I noted with some dismay that many of my colleagues who have long 
supported the war changed their vote to oppose tabling the motion for 
purely political reasons. That move was a disrespectful to the 
Constitutional function of this body and I could not support such 
actions with my vote.

I was pleased that the House did vote in favor of sending this 
legislation to the Judiciary Committee, which essentially directs the 
committee to examine the issue more closely than it has done to this 
point.
