---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `4d09346a26c8507883ed75516b783363`
`Mr. OBEY — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 10 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, we hear so many voices in this country and in this 
Chamber who are willing to fight to the last drop of someone else's 
blood. Those of us who are supporting this resolution today are being 
accused of being for ''precipitous withdrawal.'' I hardly think that 
seeing this war continue for another 14 months constitutes precipitous 
withdrawal.

Mr. Speaker, it is 56 months since the United States first launched 
its attack against Iraq. It is 4/1/2/ years since the President 
appeared before his ''Mission Accomplished'' banner on that carrier. It 
is almost 5 years since the administration ignored the advice of 
General Shinseki. It is 2/1/2/ years since Vice President Cheney said 
that he thought the insurgency was in its last throes. Since that time, 
we have had 3,800 Americans killed and 28,000 wounded. We have had 
8,000 Iraqi military personal killed and 38,000 civilians killed. We 
have had 4 million Iraqis displaced. 2.3 million of them have been 
displaced internally in the country. One and a half million have fled 
to Syria, 1 million to other countries. Not a pretty picture.

This war is the most colossal blunder in modern U.S. history. It is a 
mistake that has shattered our influence in the region, and it has made 
the one country in the region that we did not want to see strengthened, 
Iran, it has made them infinitely stronger in that region. We are in 
the process of borrowing $600 billion and we are not having the guts to 
pay the bill ourselves.

There is no sense of shared sacrifice in this country. The only 
families being asked to sacrifice are military families and they're 
being asked to sacrifice again and again and again and again. We aren't 
even willing to tax ourselves to pay for the cost of this war, so we're 
shoving off the cost to our kids. Shame on every one of us for making 
that decision.

In November, the public tried to send two messages to this Congress. 
The first was that they wanted a change in policy in Iraq. The second 
is that they wanted a change in domestic policy. And yet after blowing 
$600 billion in Iraq, after signing a Defense bill which adds $39 
billion to spending levels over last year, the President has yesterday 
blocked our efforts to add $6 billion to pay for investments in 
education, health and medical research here at home.



The President is telling the American people, ''Forget what message 
you think you sent in November in the election.'' He is stiffing the 
American people. He is saying, ''Forget what message you thought you 
were sending to Washington; I am the 'Great Decider' and we are going 
to do things my way.'' That is what we are getting out of the White 
House. Instead of compromise and instead of searching for common 
ground, the President is making clear that he prefers to govern through 
confrontation, he prefers to go it alone, with one-third support in the 
country and one-third support in the Congress.

The same is true in Iraq. This is the same President who decided to 
go it alone, with almost no allies, who decided to go it alone when it 
came to evaluating intelligence, ignoring the caution alerts that were 
sent by the State Department intelligence people and the CIA analysts. 
He bulldozed through. When Baker-Hamilton was produced to offer an 
opportunity for change, the President simply used that as an 
opportunity to say ''full steam ahead, no change in course'', and he 
has deepened and intensified our involvement in Iraq.

At home, he insists that Congress cuts 50 percent out of vocational 
education; he insists that we cut 1,100 grants out of medical research 
at the National Institutes of Health; he insists that we cut rural 
health programs by 54 percent; he insists that we cut low-income 
heating assistance programs by 18 percent; he insists that we cut 
financial support for programs under No Child Left Behind that he 
mandated in the first place. He insists that we cut all of that, and 
yet he demands $200 billion more for Iraq. I say enough is enough.



He gave a speech to the American people which was designed for the 
purpose of public deception, in my view, because it was designed to 
leave the impression that the President intended to reduce steadily our 
troop commitment in Iraq, when in reality it was intended to assure 
that 6 months from now we have the same number of troops we have there 
that we had 6 months ago.

Mr. Speaker, the President is asking for $200 billion more, and as 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I announced that I had no 
intention of providing that money, but I made it clear I'd be happy to 
provide it all, provided that the President would recognize that we 
needed a policy change and would get on board with the determination to 
have a goal of removing our troops from combat operations by the end of 
next year. That is hardly precipitous.

So what this measure does, instead of giving the President $200 
billion to continue the war, it gives him $50 billion to shut the war 
down. Instead of having troops there for the next 10 years, as the 
President indicated in his speech, we want to have them out by December 
of 2008. It requires redeployment to begin in 60 days, and it ends the 
authority for any agency of the United States Government whatsoever to 
engage in torture.

We are mired, Mr. Speaker, in Iraq because of the self-important 
illusions of hopeless romantics in the administration. We hear tell 
these days that the President talks a lot about Teddy Roosevelt and 
Winston Churchill. If that is the case, he is harboring dangerous 
illusions. He ought to heed the advice of a statesman 80 years ago who 
wrote the following. I will read excerpts from this letter.

''I am deeply concerned about Iraq. The task you have given me is 
becoming really impossible. Incompetent Arab officials are disturbing 
some of the provinces and failing to collect revenue. We overpaid on 
last year's account, which it is almost certain Iraq will not be able 
to pay this year, thus entailing a supplementary estimate. . . I have 
had to maintain troops in Mosul all through the year in consequence of 
the Angora quarrel. This has upset the program of relief and will 
certainly lead to further expenditures. . . . I do not see what 
political strength there is to face a disaster of any kind, and I 
certainly cannot believe that in any circumstances any large 
reinforcements would be sent . . . In my own heart, I do not see what 
we are getting out of it. I think we should now put definitely to the 
assembly the position that unless they beg us to stay, and stay on our 
own terms in regard to efficient control, we shall actually evacuate 
before the close of the financial year. I would put this issue in the 
most brutal way, and if they are not prepared to urge us to stay and to 
cooperate in every manner, I would actually clear out. . . .

''I think I must ask you for definite guidance at this stage as to 
what you wish and what you are prepared to do. At present, we are 
paying millions a year for the privilege of living on an ungrateful 
volcano out of which we are in no circumstances to get anything worth 
having.''

That was the real Winston Churchill speaking in 1922 in a letter to 
Lloyd George. It seems to me that the President in the White House 
today ought to heed the words of Winston Churchill so long ago and at 
long last reconsider a policy change in Iraq. That is what this 
legislation is designed to stimulate.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.