---
---

# TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007
## `4d2181e0a3c2306275ec6e74ea924ae8`
`Mr. HONDA — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. HONDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3056, the Tax 
Collection Responsibility Act of 2007. Among other provisions, this 
bill would repeal the authority of the Internal Revenue Service, IRS, 
to use private debt collection companies to collect overdue taxes.

I would also like to voice my support for an initiative being led by 
Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska to provide disabled veterans and persons 
with disabilities with gainful employment as tax collectors. The 
Disability Preference Program for Tax Collection Contracts would give 
an incentive to private collection companies to employ people with 
disabilities. Despite the pending repeal of these debt collecting 
contracts by the IRS, I sincerely believe this initiative can provide 
immediate benefits to people with disabilities and be used as a model 
program for other services and industries to encourage similar hires.

Even after enactment of H.R. 3056, complete repeal of private debt 
collection authority would still take a couple of years while the 
existing private contracts expire. In that time, Sen. Nelson's 
initiative could provide disabled Americans invaluable training and 
experience to help continue their careers in similar services, likely 
with the same debt collecting company or even with the IRS. Since much 
of the same background scrutiny in hiring and job training are used for 
both the debt collection companies and the IRS, these disabled 
Americans would have an advantage for employment in the IRS. 
Additionally, under current Federal law, the disabled veterans would 
have right of first refusal to become IRS collectors.

The extraordinarily large number of returning disabled veterans from 
Iraq and Afghanistan are facing new, unexpected challenges to restoring 
their lives in America. These disabled veterans face an unemployment 
rate three times that of the general population. After their personal 
and their families' sacrifices for their country, it is Congress's 
responsibility to open doors to the largest number of jobs for the 
disabled, and these debt collecting jobs are exceptionally suited for 
people with disabilities. Even multiple amputees returning from Iraq, 
with only a high school education and expecting their career is over, 
could easily perform and excel in this profession.

Mr. Speaker, while I do not generally support the privatization of 
Federal tax collecting, I applaud Senator Ben Nelson's initiative to 
provide career paths for disabled veterans and people with severe 
disabilities.