# HIGHWAY TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT OF 2007
## `4d26b7d87ab598a9dfdd8259b85fc58b`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, yesterday, the Secretary of Defense 
announced the 2008 Commander in Chief's Awards for Installation 
Excellence. These awards honor the best installation for each service. 
For the first time in the 23-year history of the award, the Air Force 
winner is a mobility base, Dover Air Force Base. Out of 117 Air Force 
installations, Dover AFB was chosen as the absolute best.

I cannot say that I was surprised. I believe they won because of the 
tradition of excellence imbued in each man and woman working at Dover.

It started in 1941, when the 112th Observation Squadron of the Ohio 
National Guard arrived to set up antisubmarine operations at the new 
Dover airfield. That mission and the others that helped America and her 
allies win World War II began an enduring tradition of excellence. In 
1948, the airfield was officially named Dover Air Force Base and the 
Nation moved into its Cold War posture. Some may not know this, but for 
7 years, 1951-1958, Dover was home to fighter squadrons defending 
American airspace.

In 1955, one of Dover's best known missions came to the base, the 
Aerial Port Mortuary. For over 70 years, the Dover team has given 
fallen Americans an honorable and compassionate homecoming. While it is 
only one mission on the base, every generation of air men and women 
stationed at Dover has taken pride in honoring America's heroes and 
ensuring the grace and dignity of their return to our Nation and their 
families.

By the late 1950s, Dover was transformed into a mobility base, under 
the Military Air Transport Service, which became Military Airlift 
Command, and eventually became Air Mobility Command. Since 1973, Dover 
has been home to America's largest military transport aircraft, the C-
5. Just last year, the Nation's second largest military transport 
aircraft, the C-17, was added to the base. As home to the Nation's 
great airlifters, Dover has always been busy--supporting American 
forces in every military engagement from Vietnam to Grenada to Panama 
to the first gulf war to the Balkans to Afghanistan and Iraq; 
supporting our Israeli allies with critical supplies during the Yom 
Kippur War; evacuating Americans from Iran in 1978; assisting with 
clean-up from the devastating Exxon Valdez oil spill; assisting Central 
American nations, Turkey, and Taiwan that have experienced devastating 
earthquakes; providing humanitarian aid around the globe after major 
natural disasters; and supporting Presidential travel around the world. 
This dual mission, to provide lethal force and vital humanitarian aid, 
makes Dover critical to America's use of both hard and soft power and 
has made it all the more important that every generation serving at 
Dover carry on the tradition of excellence.

This year, Dover's tradition of excellence and the entire Dover team 
have been recognized with the Commander in Chief's Award. What does it 
mean to be the best base in the Air Force? It means that the entire 
Dover team has found innovative ways to make the absolute most of the 
resources they have. They have not only saved the taxpayers money, they 
have also given the warfighter more capability.

They have also been unstinting in giving back to the local community 
and the larger Delaware community. The Dover team is not just the air 
men and women serving on the base. It is also their families, civilians 
working on base, the businesses that support base operations and life, 
the State and local government that support base needs, and the entire 
Delaware military community working together to give the State and the 
Nation the very best.

Let me give you some examples from the seven categories that were 
considered in the competition. Keep in mind that all of these 
accomplishments occurred in 1 year. They were only possible because the 
people at Dover, despite full-time, 365/24/7 operations in support of 
Iraq and Afghanistan, constantly challenged themselves to do more and 
to do it better.

First, improvements to the infrastructure of the base and the working 
environment were considered.

Dover opened a state-of-the-art, $77.5 million Air Freight Terminal 
that increased cargo capacity and efficiency through Dover by 50 
percent. The base also invested $53 million in a major runway 
improvement project and another $3.5 million to repair 183,000 square 
feet of taxiway, improving both the efficiency and safety of airfield 
operations. After a close analysis of their budget, the Dover team 
found $32 million to use for base improvements, including a $5 million 
renovation of a squadron operations building, C-5 recapitalization, and 
projects needed for the C-17 squadron setup. Thoughtful planning 
allowed Dover to keep the bed down of a new C-17 squadron on schedule 
because base personnel proactively made $780,000 necessary basic 
infrastructure improvements. In addition, they installed solar lights 
on the runways and reinforced the taxiway so that C-17 aircrews could 
do navigation training and combat off-load training.

Dover also improved security operations by installing over 450 
removable bollards on the base, including some at the gate in a ''Lazy 
S'' curve to prevent reverse entry threats. The bollard installation 
reduced the force protection squadron's time spent on contracting by 50 
percent, freeing them for security missions. Security was further 
enhanced by the installation of a $450,000 crash-rated airfield gate, 
U.S. Transportation Command's No. 1 priority for force protection, and 
by the use of radiological detection equipment to screen over 91,000 
trucks in 1 year alone. This valuable equipment, valued at $150,000, 
was obtained by base personnel at no cost. In addition, by renovating 
the Security Forces firing range at a cost of $4.8 million, the base 
was able to increase the range's capacity by 15 percent and save 1,000 
manhours per year.



Second, improvements to the quality of life on the base were 
considered.

Dover has pioneered Air Mobility Command's privatization effort for 
base housing. Dover built 240 homes in 2007 and was named the 2007 
Outstanding Housing Installation Team-Privatized Location for the Air 
Force. The $250 million housing project is the benchmark for the 
command and will ultimately increase the housing standards for 980 
families when complete in 2009. Dover's Services Squadron was 
recognized as Air Mobility Command's 2007 Youth Program of the Year and 
the Outdoor Recreation Program earned the Air Force's 5-Star Program 
Award. Quality of life for airmen was further enhanced by finalizing 
the design of a $13 million, 144-room dormitory that exceeds command 
standards and will be a model for other bases.

Keeping the Dover team, including families, healthy is critical to a 
high quality of life. Dover is the only base in the command with 100 
percent of its pharmacy technicians nationally certified. In addition, 
the base was first in the command and third in the Air Force for flu 
immunization rates, at over 99 percent.

Third, efforts to enhance the productivity of the workforce were 
considered.

Dover has taken the lead role in reducing the time needed for 
Isochronal, ISO, inspections and, as a result, was made the regional 
center for all east coast C-5 Isochronal inspections in July of 2007. 
This is the first such regional facility in the Air Force. 
Historically, an ISO inspection took up to 38 days to complete. The 
436th Maintenance Team reviewed the entire process to increase velocity 
while maintaining quality. This led the team to one record-breaking 
effort in which an ISO inspection was completed in only 13.2 days. 
These initiatives were also a key reason the 436th Maintenance Squadron 
won the 2006 Air Force Maintenance Effectiveness Award.

In order to reduce the time planes are on the ground, the 436th 
Maintenance Squadron did a complete review of how they maintained 
ground equipment. As a result, they were able to reduce the steps each 
mechanic takes from 763 to 73, saving 29.7 minutes per inspection, 
while reducing wait time by 34 minutes. They also saved 63.7 minutes 
per inspection or 26.54 manhours per year and vacated 17,660 square 
feet of floor space to be designated for other use. The cellular work 
design they came up with is considered the benchmark for such designs 
in the command and is a model of how the Air Force Smart Operations for 
the 21st century initiative and use of Lean Six Sigma, a process 
improvement approach first used in the private sector, can make better 
use of existing resources.

The Dover Operations Group improved throughput for aircraft by 
creating the only C-5 one-stop/jet-side service system in the Air 
Force. The Required Flight Manual, Flight Information Publications, 
weapons and tools needed by an aircrew for a mission are delivered 
directly to the aircraft. This reduces travel time by 20 minutes, 
allowing a 12-percent reduction in the C-5 launch sequence and 
providing more duty days for the crews to complete their missions.

Dover was able to reduce the amount of time needed to overhaul and 
rebuild C-5 jet engines, TF39, by 12 days, going from 75 to 63 days. 
The process improvement also allowed two production crews to be 
reassigned to other sections, regained five critical manning positions, 
and saved 36 manpower positions and $3.8 million in operating costs. On 
the whole, by reducing wasted motion for support equipment and tools, 
the 436th Maintenance Group has saved 73.3 annual man-days and 
expedited engine repairs so that they are done 5 days faster than the 
original standard and freeing 1,944 square feet of floor space for 
other work.


Another key initiative was the effort to ensure that Basic Post 
Flight inspections be done within 10 hours of mission completion. This 
initiative was begun in 2005 by the Dover Maintenance Group Commander 
and brought completion time down to 6 hours, a 40-percent improvement. 
The complete process review improved Home Station Logistics Reliability 
rate by 40 percent and overtime man hours were reduced by 75 percent. 
Overall, this means the team saved 23,000 labor-hours and $1.168 
million. The mission benefits included the following: a reduced number 
of tail swaps, increased number of aircraft ready for flight, reduced 
number of late take-offs, and dramatically improved efficiency in the 
launch sequence of events.

The Dover team also ensured a seamless transition for the new C-17 
squadron, ensuring that Dover's first C-17 was able to fly its first 
combat mission within 36 days of arrival. In the squadron's first 
month, they had a 100-percent on-time departure rate and a 99-percent 
mission capable rate.

In addition, once investigators were done with the 2007 C-5 crash 
scene, Dover personnel took the initiative to save and recover parts. 
Their efforts ensured that 127 parts were recovered, inspected, and 
restocked into the Air Force supply system, saving $7 million.

Fourth, increases in customer satisfaction or improvements in 
customer service were considered.

Today, Dover's key mission, or customer service, is to support 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Twenty-seven percent of the entire 
Department of Defense airlift requirement last year went from Dover. 
The 3rd and 9th Airlift Squadrons flew more than 8,000 hours, with more 
than 2,000 combat hours and 460 combat missions. The two squadrons 
combined airlifted 59.4 million pounds of cargo and more than 12,000 
passengers.

Dover is the second busiest en route airfield in the Department of 
Defense. It supported 3,000 en route missions in 2007 with a 95-percent 
departure reliability rate.

In addition, Dover assisted America's diplomatic efforts and the 
State Department by supporting foreign military sales to 32 countries, 
handling 85 missions and 950 tons of cargo.

The Dover team also made sure that it provided the best possible 
services to military personnel and their families on base. Access to 
mental health care was increased by 35 percent, despite a 40-percent 
decrease in manning. This exceeded the command's goal for access by 20 
percent. In order to keep basic operations functioning, the 
Communications Squadron answered 99 percent of their 2,700 assistance 
requests within 2 days. That is 4 percent better than the Air Force 
standard.

In an effort to improve safety and provide instantaneous responses to 
emergencies with existing resources, the Civil Engineer Fire Department 
teamed with the Medical Group to provide 24/7 ambulance service. The 
Medical Group Airmen who provide ambulance response are now co-located 
at the emergency call center at the base Fire Department.


Fifth, efforts to encourage bottom-to-top communication and team 
problem solving were considered.

Dover has been a true leader in implementing Air Force Smart 
Operations for the 21st century. The key to the success of this 
initiative to make operations more streamlined and ''lean'' has been 
clear communication and a team approach. In recognition of this 
excellence, Dover has hosted numerous training sessions for units from 
five major commands, Air Force senior leaders, and for the Royal Air 
Force. Dover instructors have trained 4,200 students in Basic Lean 
Awareness including a program at the First Term Airmen Center.

Dover is the first base in the command to have two fully qualified 
level-2 facilitators. These facilitators certified seven level-1 
facilitators and trained another 20 level-1 students. They have 
successfully made operations more efficient in over 50 areas in just 1 
year. In addition, Dover's trainers ensured that 210 future Ramstein 
Air Force Base and Charleston Air Force Base facilitators understood 
the basics of lean initiatives. These efforts won the Dover team praise 
from the Logistics Director at Air Mobility Command Headquarters.

Sixth, the promotion of unit cohesiveness and the recognition of 
outstanding individual effort was considered.

The Dover team won two Department of Defense, one Secretary of the 
Air Force, 12 Air Force, and 93 Air Mobility Command Awards in 2006. In 
addition, they won the 2007 U.S. Small Business Administration Award 
for the State of Delaware. One critical example of why these awards 
were won is in antiterrorism, where they won command honors for the 
ninth consecutive year for best


antiterrorism and force protection programs. Dover was able to obtain 
$1.2 million in Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiative Funds that it 
used to resolve installation vulnerabilities, resulting in winning the 
Department of Defense's Best Antiterrorism Operational Unit in 2006 and 
the Department of Defense's Best Antiterrorism Program Manager Awards 
for 2007. The Dover team won these awards by completing over 20 
antiterrorism and force protection initiatives that created a hard 
target security signature. These efforts paid off by deterring Fort Dix 
terrorists from attacking Dover AFB. This event permeated Air Force 
culture and is commonly referred to as the ''Dover Effect.''

Seventh, the promotion of energy conservation and environmental 
safety, including compliance, remediation, and stewardship, was 
considered.

The maintenance squadron at Dover was able to dramatically improve 
the process for cleaning ground equipment while also making it more 
environmentally sound. Formerly all ground equipment had to be moved to 
a separate wash facility primarily used for aircraft. Through careful 
research, a completely self-contained wash system with zero 
environmental impact was selected, designed, and installed in the 
ground equipment facility. This decreased travel time from 190 hours to 
12 hours a year, a 94-percent savings. This increased the capability 
and availability for ground equipment, alleviated contractual issues 
that had arisen with the old cleaning system, and reduced the chance 
for aircraft delays. The new process is environmentally friendly and 
captures, filters, and recycles all waste water.

Dover also received the 2006 Secretary of Defense Environmental 
Restoration Award for Best Environmental Restoration Program for its 
restoration of natural resources used to support the base's warfighting 
mission. Dover reached the Defense Department's environmental goals 4 
to 8 years ahead of schedule. Activities at Dover Air Force Base which 
earned this award include, but are not limited to: obtaining regulator 
signatures on six Records of Decision for 39 sites in 6 months; 
achieving Response Complete status at 27 of Dover's 59 sites; opening 
up 54 acres of formerly restricted land for use in supporting the 
base's mission; and completing Remedial Designs and Work Plans for 17 
sites in only 3 months.

In addition, Dover won the 2006 Air Force General Thomas D. White 
Environmental Award which recognizes the efforts of installations and 
individuals to improve environmental quality, restoration, pollution 
prevention, recycling, and conservation of natural and cultural 
resources. Dover is 6 years ahead of schedule in its environmental 
remediation program.

These are the areas that the selection committee looked at when it 
decided which base was the best in the Air Force this past year. It is 
obvious that in every area, the Dover team took seriously the challenge 
to improve base operations and the quality of life wherever possible. 
From the smallest process improvements to the largest investments in 
critical infrastructure, Dover personnel found ways to do more. The 
result is not just that they upheld the base's long tradition of 
excellence, they surpassed it. In so doing, they have truly given our 
Nation their best and have made me and every Delawarean proud. We have 
always known Dover is the best in the Air Force. It is time the rest of 
the Nation knew about your excellence.

Congratulations, Dover Air Force Base!