# COMMENDING AGRI-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TEAMS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD FOR  THEIR EFFORTS IN WAR-TORN COUNTRIES
## `4d332ccdfab14c813be6dff4365ed23a`
`Mr. LUETKEMEYER — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of House 
Resolution 1075, commending the Agri-business Development Teams, or 
ADTs, on their work. I want to thank Chairman Skelton along with 
Ranking Member McKeon, as well as the rest of the Missouri delegation 
for their support and efforts in helping the Missouri ADTs. In 
addition, I would like to thank the senior Senator from Missouri, Kit 
Bond, for his support of the ADT program from the very beginning.

There are many people who made the efforts of the ADT a great 
success. First, I want to commend Colonel Marty Leppert, Chief Tony 
Romano, and the entire team of men and women dedicated to using their 
skills and knowledge to improve the situation in Afghanistan. They have 
met a massive challenge with determination to see their goals achieved.

The National Guard's Agri-business Development Teams started as a 
pilot program in Missouri. The Missouri team partnered with the 
Missouri Farm Bureau, the University of Missouri, and Lincoln 
University to draw a blueprint that is being followed by other Army 
National Guard units from around the United States. In addition, ADTs 
get resources and guidance from the National Guard Bureau, the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and the United States Agency for 
International Development.

The National Guard ADTs have a big mission. They help to modernize 
agricultural practices and increase food production in a war-torn 
country. ADTs are made up of Guard members who have a civilian 
background in farming or a related agricultural business, and they are 
using those skills to teach Afghan farmers sustainable farming 
practices. This task is not easy, but the units from 11 different 
States have been working long hours with farmers and community 
officials.

The farming practices used today by the Afghans are very primitive, 
almost medieval-level farming. The teams that have been deployed work 
with Afghan farmers to provide basic agricultural requirements. Their 
goals include: improving irrigation systems, providing effective 
methods for fertilizing, planting, harvesting, marketing, and storage 
of agricultural crops. In addition, they have established modern 
slaughter facilities to help contain spreading diseases, set up markets 
to trade crops and livestock, developed a juicing and canning facility, 
and improved livestock health through mobile vet clinics.

They have been quick to use alternative energy resources such as 
wind, solar, and small water dams as well. Maintaining a reliable water 
source still remains one of the biggest problems. The Guard units are 
using sustainable methods for pumping water and working on watershed 
management to capture snow melt and rainwater runoff for irrigation. 
Since a national energy grid and 24/7 energy is not available, these 
alternative energy sources actually provide a better solution.


There is no easy fix for the situation in Afghanistan. There are 
problems with local customs, tribal leadership, and issues of property 
rights that must be solved on a routine basis. If a team wants to 
construct a building or dig a well, it has to find out which village 
elder has authority to grant permission to use the land. In many 
villages, property usage and ownership is decided in meetings with 
family elders. However, our young men and women labor vigorously and 
diligently in search of solutions to these many challenges.

The work in Afghanistan is important, where agriculture makes up 45 
percent of the gross domestic product and employs more than 70 percent 
of the population, but where farming practices are inefficient and 
outdated. Many Afghan fields are used to grow opium poppy plants, which 
provide the


raw material used to make heroin. It is my hope that establishing a 
viable agricultural industry will provide farmers throughout 
Afghanistan with alternatives. And quite frankly, Mr. Speaker, in my 
judgment this is the way that we are going to be successful in 
Afghanistan, by turning the Afghan people and their economy around and 
earning their trust to be able to work with us in running the Taliban 
out of the country.

The bill we consider today recognizes the good work that these men 
and women are carrying out every day. I encourage other States to look 
at ways they can contribute to the mission of the National Guard ADTs.

I urge my colleague to join me in passing this legislation.