---
---

# SUPPORT FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY IN HONDURAS
## `4d3e022e4df07a3f57fce4b882a93339`
`Mr. SCHOCK — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. SCHOCK. Correct. Thank you, Mr. Diaz-Balart.

Look, shortly after I was born, which was in the 1980s, much of Latin 
America and Central America was struggling with the issue of democracy. 
Through much of that decade, it was the goal of the administration and 
the goal of this country to promote and to transition to democracies in 
that region. So, through much of my life, I have watched these 
countries continue to grow, to continue to strengthen their 
relationships with the United States, to continue to be friends and 
allies to the United States. That was my understanding of that region 
of the country.

Now, I'm not an attorney. I'm not a constitutional law expert. I 
certainly do not know the Honduran Constitution chapter and verse. So 
when the events took place on June 28 and when our State Department and 
this administration quickly said, Well, this was a coup d'etat and that 
what occurred there was wrong and that what occurred there was a 
violation of their Constitution, and when they began demanding that the 
Honduran people and the government there turn back on the decisions 
they had made, I didn't know what to think. Before jumping to 
conclusions, before getting on board with our State Department's 
position or opposing our State Department's position, I enlisted the 
support of the many resources that we have as elected Members of 
Congress, namely, the Congressional Research Service.

In July, I wrote to the Congressional Research Service, and I asked 
them to look into the events that had occurred in Honduras. I asked 
them to look at the Honduran Constitution and to tell me chapter and 
verse whether or not what occurred there in Honduras was, in fact, in 
keeping with Honduran law or whether or not it was a violation of their 
Constitution.

The Congressional Research Service then reached out to the law 
library--to the Library of Congress--and I patiently waited for over 2 
months for them to generate this report. In September, they provided 
this report on Honduras and on the constitutional law issues that we 
had raised about this situation. They did a very thorough analysis, and 
they went through, basically, chapter and verse of the Honduran 
Constitution and on what had occurred in Honduras.


Basically, they came to the conclusion that what had occurred there 
was in keeping with the Honduran Constitution, that the Congress and 
the Supreme Court have the authority to hold their elected 
representatives accountable, that they have the authority to vote and 
to take action when they believe that the leaders of their country are 
dilatory in their duties and to ask that they be removed.

However, the report also found that the expulsion of Mr. Zelaya from 
the country was a violation of their Constitution, and they cited the 
portion of the Constitution that clearly says, even if you violate 
Honduran law, you are to be prosecuted, and you can be imprisoned, but 
you cannot be expelled from the country.

Now, it's pretty clear to me what was legal and what wasn't legal. In 
stepping back and in looking at the current State Department's 
position, I kind of scratched my head, and wondered, Well, where is 
their justification? Where is their chapter and verse? Where is their 
black-and-white outline of justifying their position which says that 
what occurred there was not legal? Other than to say, well, we don't 
like what happened, that we don't like the tone, that we don't like the 
precedent, and that we don't like the way it looks, I haven't seen a 
counterpoint. I haven't seen a counter report from the State Department 
that has gone through chapter and verse and has given a legal opinion 
on why this was a violation of the Honduran Constitution.

Furthermore, we can all have a debate here tonight about what should 
happen with those issues which we all agree should not have occurred, 
namely, the expulsion of Mr. Zelaya from the country, but what I want 
to say is this:

First of all, we as a country must uphold the rule of law, and we as 
a country must respect other countries' constitutions. Whether they're 
the way we would write the constitutions or whether we like the way the 
constitutions are written really is irrelevant. The fact of the matter 
is, for us to suggest otherwise--for us to suggest, well, your 
constitution has to look like our Constitution, and your process has to 
look like our process--really is giving us the symbol of the ugly 
American, if you will, in the world, that somehow we believe everyone 
should look like the United States of America in all of our forms, 
including in our Constitution. What is important, however, is that the 
constitution is written by the local citizens, that it is respected and 
that the rule of law is upheld.

I have to think back to just a year ago at about this time. Prior to 
my being in Congress, I was in the statehouse in Illinois. In December 
of last year, our legislature, of which I was a member, started a 
process according to our constitution in the State of Illinois to 
remove our duly elected leader--our Governor. Now, our Governor had not 
been convicted of any crime. He had not been indicted for any crime. He 
had not been brought to trial for any crime, but our constitution 
clearly said, in the State of Illinois, when a majority of the 
legislature deems that the Governor is dilatory in his duties, it can 
have him removed, and our legislature followed that constitution, and 
had him removed.

I'm going to tell you right now that not everybody in the State of 
Illinois agreed. Certainly, not everyone in this country agreed with 
removing a sitting officeholder from office, namely, a Governor, prior 
to a conviction. However, it was allowed for in the constitution. You 
saw no one in the Federal Government, certainly not our President of 
this United States, who happens to come from Illinois, call out and say 
that this would somehow fly in the face of democracy or that some great 
injustice had occurred.

A few years earlier, in the same decade, the citizens of California 
decided that their Governor was dilatory in his duties and that their 
Governor, who was duly elected, who had not been convicted of any 
crime, and who had not gone to trial for any malfeasance, should be 
removed from office. However, their constitution required that his 
removal be done by a different process--through voter referendum and 
through a recall provision.

Now, the reason I point this out is that we have 50 States in the 
Union, and every State has a different constitution. Every State has a 
different process. Each process is different, and each process is 
unique. What is important is not that each process is the same but that 
the rule of law is upheld.

I would argue, Madam Speaker, that the same is true in Honduras. The 
Honduran people have a different Constitution. However, based on the 
findings of this law review and based on the findings of many legal 
experts, what occurred there up until the point of Mr. Zelaya's 
expulsion was in keeping with the Honduran Constitution.

What is important in moving forward is not necessarily whether or not 
Mr. Zelaya is held in the Brazilian Embassy or whether he is brought to 
trial or whether he gets amnesty or whatever. What is important is that 
we continue to promote democracy and that we continue to promote free 
and fair elections around the world, specifically in Honduras.

I can't help but think that, as we start to celebrate the elections 
that are upcoming in Afghanistan, which will take place in less than 2 
weeks and where men and women from our Armed Forces have fought and 
died, much the similar in Iraq, we would look to a friend of the United 
States for over 30 years, a democracy in Central America, and say to 
them, You know what? Because of this issue with the removal of your 
president, we're not going to uphold democracy in your country. We're 
not going to seek free and fair elections in your country.



It seems preposterous, and so I really, tonight, am asking the State 
Department, show us your plan. What is the end game for Honduras? What 
is the end game for democracy in that region?

My friends who join me here tonight, we only see one solution to 
continuing to promote democracy in that region, and it's free and fair 
and open elections


in Honduras. Six candidates were nominated by their parties in May. Six 
candidates have campaigned for this position for nearly a year, and six 
candidates will be the options for the Honduran people to vote on on 
November 29.

Whomever the Honduran people vote for, the candidates for office we 
met with made it very clear they will support the outcome of the 
election. The interim President Micheletti made it very clear upon 
those elections he looks forward to surrendering the power to the 
incoming President and going back to his duties in the Congress.

The end of the game that I see is we need to be pushing for free and 
fair elections. We need to be pushing for the rule of law and democracy 
in Honduras and making sure that the will of the Honduran people is 
respected on November 29. We, as the United States of America, 
promoters of freedom around the world, send election observers, send 
the resources and the support necessary to ensure that free and fair 
elections occur on November 29 in Honduras.