---
---

# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `4d42cdb6f78cdbbac99c6f7180224aec`
`Mr. OBEY — 24 February 2010`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, this is a very human institution, and it's 
affected very much by our personal relationships with one another. Very 
frankly, for the first 20 years that Jack and I served on the 
Appropriations Committee, we were often adversaries. There were some 
issues that we differed on. He was, as has already been said, very much 
old school, and I was more of a reformer.

In fact, when I ran for the chairmanship of the committee against a 
senior member of the committee, Jack managed the campaign of my 
opponent and, unfortunately, he did a pretty good job. After I was 
elected, we had pretty much an arm's-length relationship for a couple 
of years.


But if you care about your country, and you care about this 
institution, you swallow your differences and you learn to work with 
everybody. Jack and I soon had developed a solid working relationship, 
and we became allies on a host of issues. One of our most important was 
our view of the war in Iraq and how to get out of it; and another was 
our concern about the dubiousness of our continued involvement in 
Afghanistan if we didn't have a better ally in that government to rely 
upon.

We often talked together, and we traveled together. We went to the 
Middle East together. We shared something special as well in a 
different place on this globe. A few years ago, he and I and Dave 
Hobson and our staffs became concerned about the visitors center at 
Normandy. It was really pretty much of a cracker box affair, and it was 
not at all fitting to the history of that place. So we determined that 
there ought to be a new visitors' center at Normandy. With the three of 
us working together with our staffs, that visitors center was built.

Today, if you visit it--and it's truly beautiful--there is a little 
plaque behind that visitors center in front of a small tree with the 
names of Murtha, Obey and Hobson on it. I know I am proud of that, and 
I know Jack was proud of that. I think it symbolizes what happens in 
this place. Two people who started out as adversaries became reasonably 
good friends, never fully agreeing, because no two people in this place 
ever agree on everything, but we had a solid working relationship.

I learned one thing about Jack a long time ago. He had the courage of 
his convictions, and he fought hard every way he knew how for those 
convictions, and he cared deeply about the welfare of the men and women 
who served in the Armed Forces and defend this country's freedom.

I am proud that at Normandy there is that little note of the three of 
us having gotten together, all for one purpose, to honor the people who 
did so much on those beaches to build and preserve America's freedom 
and the freedom of the world.