---
---

# None
## `4d467188f19089a63c573c8ae7df43b1`
`Mr. POE — 31 March 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, the youth of our Nation have always been 
willing to


volunteer and take care of the rest of us in times of war. Sometimes 
those young men and women give their lives for the rest of us. United 
States Army Corporal Scott A. McIntosh, of Humble, Texas, was one of 
those noble few. He was killed in Iraq on March 10, 2008 by a suicide 
bomber, and he was awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star.

Not only was he a loyal and courageous soldier, but he was a beloved 
son, a caring brother and a friend to many.

His life was special not just because of how he died, but also 
because of how he lived. He was both the kid next door and a proud 
soldier defending this Nation.

He was born on February 4, 1982 in Humble, Texas, and he graduated 
from Cypress High School in 2001. After trying college for a little 
while he decided it wasn't ready for him, and he joined the United 
States Army. He was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 64th Armor Regiment, 
2nd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, in Fort Stewart, 
Georgia. He re-enlisted for three more years when his first tour of 
duty was over.

His parents, Alex and Gwenn McIntosh, did an excellent job raising 
such a fine son. His family described Scott as someone who loved 
people. His mission in life was to meet and make friends with every 
person he came in contact with. He shared his hearty laugh and always 
had a smile to give. Scott always had a positive outlook on life. He 
loved to hunt and fish in his spare time, but most of all he loved his 
family, the Army, the country he lived in and his life.

His smile matched his fun-loving personality, which carried over into 
everyday tasks, like work, with humorous results.

Eric McIntosh described his brother's comical attempt at being a golf 
caddy. When Scott went to work, he said, ''it was like a scene right 
out of the movie Caddy Shack. Scott barely showed up on time, still 
tucking his shirt in his pants and tying his shoes, and he would grab 
the golf bag and march down the fairway with all the clubs and balls 
falling out all over the place.''

Scott would have fun with everything that he did and his joyful, 
worry-free personality was contagious to those that knew him and 
everybody around him. Not only did he love to laugh, but he truly cared 
about others, especially his family in Texas.

Scott was always looking out for other people, and that's why he 
joined the United States Army. He wanted to protect and serve those he 
loved. And as the Good Book says in John 15:13, ''Greater love has no 
man than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.'' Scott's 
life was a shining example of this greater love which he demonstrated 
for family, friends and country.

Scott went off to war because he was a faithful son of America. Over 
Easter weekend this past weekend I had the opportunity to be in Iraq 
with our troops. And Mr. Speaker, there is no finer military in the 
long history of warfare than our troops that are in Iraq that proudly 
wear the uniform of the American fighting man. Scott McIntosh was among 
those elite fighting forces.

Scott's wonderful life is a huge loss to those that were close to 
him. His father said, ''My family is devastated by this loss, and it is 
something that we will have to carry with us for the rest of our lives. 
At the same time, however, we are bursting with pride for our son's 
service to this country. We understand the sacrifices required to keep 
this country free. And Scott was the best son anyone could ever have 
asked for. I will love and cherish him for the rest of my days.''

Mr. Speaker, this is a photograph of Scott McIntosh. He was a real 
person and he was proud to wear the uniform of the United States 
soldier.

In a moving speech at his brother's funeral, Eric told hundreds of 
friends and family that he loved his big brother. He thanked Scott for 
being such a good friend, a good son, a great person and the best 
brother anybody could ever have.

In a final act of sacrifice for others, his family has established 
the Scott McIntosh Memorial Fund. In the attack that took Scott's life, 
four other soldiers were also killed. Three of them were married and 
had small children. And the purpose of the fund will be to raise money 
for those kids who lost their fathers that were soldiers in Iraq. Even 
in death, the eternal spirit of Scott's love and care for others will 
continue.

We do not forget, as a Nation, Corporal Scott A. McIntosh and all 
those who sacrificed their lives on the altar of freedom. Scott's 
memory will live on in the hearts and minds of friends and family, 
while his life will always be an inspiration to Americans.

We can honor his sacrifice by following his example, to live life to 
the fullest and to take care of those people around us.

In 1940, a reporter, right before the great World War II, made this 
comment, he said, ''This nation will remain the land of the free only 
so long as it is the home of the brave.''

Our country, Mr. Speaker, will long survive and live free because of 
the likes of Scott McIntosh and his band of brothers.

And that's just the way it is.
