---
---

# TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT MICHAEL CARDENAZ
## `4d4be00094f08a031988138f50fde826`
`Mr. CALVERT — 20 April 2010`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, Staff Sergeant Michael Cardenaz, United States 
Army. Today I ask that the House of Representatives honor and remember 
this incredible young man who died in service to our country.

SSG Cardenaz was born in Corona, California in 1980. He attended 
local schools in Corona and loved his hometown. He joined the Army 
after high school and had been previously deployed twice to both Kosovo 
and Iraq. On February 20, 2010, SSG Cardenaz had been serving nine 
months with the 2-12 Infantry, 4th BCT, 4th Infantry Division in 
Afghanistan when he was killed by a rocket propelled grenade (RPG) in 
Kunar. He was 29 years old.

SSG Cardenaz is remembered fondly by friends and family as an avid 
Dodger fan who loved fishing, listening to music, visiting new places 
and making people laugh. He was also an exemplary soldier and had been 
awarded the Soldier's Medal which is awarded to an Army soldier of the 
United States who has distinguished himself by an act of heroism 
involving personal hazard and the voluntary risk of life under 
conditions not involving actual conflict with an enemy. A fellow 
service member wrote about an occurrence for which SSG Cardenaz 
received the Soldier's Medal in Baqubah, Iraq which said:




 Cardenaz and his platoon leader . . . risked their lives 


 numerous times underwater trying to save a rolled over humvee 


 with four trapped men inside. At times, both men ingested 


 filthy canal water. They choked, gagged and vomited, only to 


 go back under in attempts to get those men out. It was cold, 


 they were in full kit, neither quit until the bodies were 


 recovered. They were too late, but words can not begin to 


 describe their sense of loyalty to their own. Every solider 


 should be lucky enough to be around men who never quit to 


 bring them back.


In addition to the Soldier's Medal, SSG Cardenaz also was awarded the 
Bronze Star and the Army Commendation with Valor. SSG Cardenaz is 
survived by his wife of seven years, Macarena; five children, Jason, 
Jasmine, Mariella, Mariliz and Marianna; parents, Miguel and Rosellen 
Cardenaz; three sisters, Priscilla, Sandra and Monica; brother, Steven; 
many aunts, uncles, and cousins; one niece and one nephew.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like SSG Cardenaz, 
who bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story 
is unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they 
have faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day the 
Cardenaz family learned of their husband, father, son and brother's 
death was probably the hardest day they have ever faced and our 
thoughts, prayers and deepest gratitude for SSG Cardenaz's sacrifice 
goes out to them. There are no words that can relieve their pain and 
what words we can offer only begin to convey our deep respect and 
highest appreciation.

SSG Cardenaz's family have all given a part of themselves in the loss 
of their loved one and I hope they know that the goodness he brought to 
this world and the sacrifice he has made will never be forgotten.
