# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO
## `4d607ebe23c6a7913d6a90917e98a20a`
`Mr. LOTT — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, if I could, I will take a couple minutes at 
this time.

I have been watching the Congress pretty closely now for 35 years as 
a Member of the House and the Senate, and I have been involved in end 
of sessions 19 times in the Senate, but I must say, it is about as big 
a mess as I have ever seen. We are not going to have a single 
appropriations bill down to the President signed for the whole year, 
even by the end of this week.

The bill that is on the way, the Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education appropriations bill, which is $9.8 billion above what the 
President asked for and has lots of problems, is going to be vetoed, 
and will be back up here next week. Hopefully, we will find a way 
before this week is out to pass the Defense appropriations bill so our 
men and women will know they are going to get the assistance they need, 
the equipment they need, the protections they need. That would be the 
first appropriations bill to get to the President that he might 
actually sign.

It is true right across the board. All year long, it has been about 
political positioning. It has all been about fighting over Iraq. There 
are so few things where we have come together and worked together and 
gotten something produced.

Thank goodness a couple weeks ago we did the Amtrak authorization 
bill. I have urged, all year long: Let's quit finding issues we can 
fight over, and let's find some issues we can work together on, get 
bipartisan agreements on that would help the American people.

I believe, actually, the WRDA bill, the Water Resources Development 
Act, is one of the few things we can look at and say we did something 
good for our country and for our constituents this year. It is 
bipartisan. It has been laboriously developed over the last 5 or 6 
years--a long time coming.

It is one of the few areas where we actually do something 
constructive, where you can see physically something the Federal 
Government has done. It creates jobs. It provides safety and 
protection, safe drinking water. It is one of the only bills that I 
think actually produces a positive result.

I have always been proud of the Corps of Engineers because the Corps 
of Engineers is one of the few Government entities that actually does 
something, produces something--something you can see and feel and helps 
the quality of life. We are always involved in social welfare programs, 
giveaway programs, and we are always trying to find a way to raise 
taxes and do things that are not good for our constituents. This one 
actually does something good.

Sure, there are disagreements. There are some programs in here that 
probably are not sufficiently justified. I know from past experience, 
almost every President has opposed this type of bill. I remember Jimmy 
Carter did not like the Corps of Engineers. We had a fight with him 
over river projects, water projects, the same thing with George H.W. 
Bush, the same thing with Bill Clinton. He had people in his 
administration, in the Office of Management and Budget--oh, they didn't 
like water resources projects.

Here it is again. The President has vetoed this bill. So I must say, 
I am not boasting about it, but I have no qualms about saying the 
President's views notwithstanding, I will vote to override his veto on 
this legislation.



This is about flood protection. This is about water and sewer 
projects. It is about doing something about water and the proper 
salinity in the Gulf of Mexico. These are good, deserved, justified 
projects that should go forward.

So I will vote to override the veto. Perhaps the President did the 
right thing in some respect, but I buy the argument it is an 
authorization. It is not an appropriations bill. I have always in the 
past found that if you get a project authorized and then you go get the 
appropriations, you do not have a problem. Well, we kind of got away 
from that. We have gotten into difficulty. But I understand why the 
President vetoed it. He is trying to hold the line on spending. 
Congratulations. That is good. I am going to be supporting him on most 
of his vetoes.


I cannot imagine any vetoes that might be forthcoming where I would 
not support the President--beyond this. But in this case, I believe 
this bill is in the best interests of the country. I know it is very 
beneficial to my State. A quarter of the State probably would not exist 
if we did not have flood control projects. My State is a poor State. We 
are still struggling to make sure people have safe drinking water, so 
they do not have to haul the water to their house, believe it or not, 
here in 2007. Ports and harbors are critical for the future economic 
development and competitiveness of this country in a global economy.

So I look forward to having a brief discussion. I look forward to the 
vote. I will vote to override the President's veto.

I yield the floor.