# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `4d64f82f489b1d34a68a8ffa449e2ada`
`Mr. INHOFE — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, the House of Representatives has recently 
passed the Ethiopian Democracy and Accountability Act of 2007, H.R. 
2003.

Although this legislation states that its purpose is to encourage and 
facilitate the consolidation of democracy and security in Ethiopia--
words right out of the resolution--in reality it focuses on the 
shortcomings, on the problems that they face, and not on the successes 
the country has made.

Ethiopia takes great pride in being the oldest independent country in 
Africa. It continues to be a close friend of the United States, a 
strong ally in the war on terrorism in the Horn of Africa. I have to 
say that this is significant because if you kind of use your mental map 
of northeastern Africa and you think about the terrorist activity that 
has taken place in the Middle East and how it is now coming down 
through the Horn of Africa, through Djibouti and that area into the 
Uganda-Ethiopia area, it is a very significant area right now.

Now, as many of you know, I have had quite an extensive background in 
Africa. I think I am safe to say that I have been to Africa more than 
any Senator in the history of America. I have been really tied to that 
continent and recognize the significance in the future of our country 
as well as their country. It is an area of strategic importance 
globally to this Nation.

I have traveled to the country on several occasions, both on my own 
and as a Member of the Senate and the House. A short while ago, I was 
there with Congressman Boozman from Arkansas. Throughout my travels in 
the region, I have met and developed friendships with many political 
and religious leaders.

In Addis 6 years ago, we found a little baby. The little baby was 3 
days old. The baby was almost dead. It was not unusual. In some 
countries in Africa, they throw away mostly young baby girls. Then 
after about 3 days, when they die, the dogs get them. We were there 
before the dogs got there. I have 20 kids and grandkids of whom I am 
very proud. My daughter Molly had nothing but boys. She always wanted a 
girl. So we were able to take this little girl from Ethiopia and nurse 
her back to health. She had several very close calls. She is healthy 
and has now been here in the United States and is my adopted 
granddaughter. Her name is Zegita Marie, which is a very common name in 
Ethiopia. I say that because I do want to impress upon this group that 
I know something about Ethiopia. I know something about its background. 
I know something about its significance to our safety.

In Ethiopia, recently, I met with Prime Minister Meles, his wife. I 
met with members of the Parliament and with all the individuals there 
who are trying to do a good job. While there, I saw firsthand their 
democratic progress and commitment in fighting terrorism. Although I 
appreciate the increased attention being given to Africa, particularly 
Ethiopia, I believe the bill is misguided and takes the wrong approach 
by placing demands on a friend and ally that has made obvious 
advancements in democracy and human rights. While I continue to agree 
that the violence and intimidation that took place after the 2005 
election was an unnecessary use of excessive force, the Government of 
Ethiopia has taken significant steps again to regain a democratic 
process that is fair and respectful of human rights.

On July 20, 2007, following convictions and sentencing, 38 opposition 
leaders were granted full pardons. All remaining members of the 
opposition were pardoned and released on August 18, 2007. Since these 
events, reforms have been made in the election process. So often we use 
America as a standard by which to measure democracy in other countries. 
It is the same problem we have in the Middle East. People say they are 
not reaching the goals we want them to reach, having a democracy in 
Iraq. Why would they? It took this country several years to come up 
with a democracy. Why should they be able to do it?

The same thing is true in Africa. There are some 52 countries in 
Africa. Just recently have they come into democratization. It has been 
incredibly successful in many of those areas. The United States has 
recognized the ongoing efforts by the Government of Ethiopia and 
continues to play an important role for human rights in Ethiopia. The 
State Department recently hosted a group of opposition political 
leaders and members of Parliament in DC, providing an opportunity for 
dialog and reconciliation. By providing training in public relations, 
human rights and logistics planning and coordination for military 
procedures, the United States is developing the Ethiopian National 
Defense Force into a professional and apolitical machine.

We need to understand the significance of what is going on right now. 
We made a decision about 6 years ago to help the Africans establish 
five African brigades. They are located in the north, south, east, 
west, and central. It happens that Ethiopia is the headquarters for the 
East African Brigade. This is not something we are imposing upon them, 
but we are saying to them: If you want to do these, we are here to help 
you. Our idea is, as I mentioned, there is a squeeze in the Middle 
East. As terrorism starts going down through Djibouti and the Horn of 
Africa into northeastern Africa, this is an area where if they are 
prepared to take care of themselves, we would not be sending our troops 
there. It is a well-conceived idea. There is no one area in Africa that 
is as significant as northeastern Africa.

Let me digress a little bit. Go to their next-door neighbor, Uganda, 
northern Uganda. We hear so much about problems in the Sudan and other 
areas. But we don't hear anything about Uganda. In northern Uganda 
there is a butcher by the name of Joseph Knoy who, for 30 years, has 
been mutilating little kids. You have heard about the children 
soldiers. Those soldiers are taken over by these people and trained to 
fight at ages 10, 11, and 12. Then once they learn to be soldiers, they 
have to go back to their villages and murder their parents and family. 
If they don't do that, they dismember them. I have been up there to 
Gulu and other areas, and I have seen that taking place. This is right 
next door. This is what is happening in that region. Ethiopia has been 
our strong ally in the war on terror and stands on the frontlines of 
the conflict in Africa. The growing instability in Somalia and the 
Ogaden region, combined with the unresolved border disputes between 
Ethiopia and Eritrea, creates serious problems. Remember what happened 
the other day. A few weeks ago, we were sending our troops down to 
Mogadishu and the Ethiopians were fighting right there by our side. 
That was not an easy thing for them to do. That endangered them because 
there are many opposition groups who would then go into Ethiopia, and 
they paid dearly for supporting us. But they did so. They have remained 
committed to promoting regional stability and eliminating any staging 
area for al-Qaida or other terrorist organizations. In 2006, they sent 
roughly 100,000 troops with us into Somalia, into Mogadishu. We were 
successful in defeating the Islamic coalition. They did that for us. 
Despite these advancements, Somalia remains a continued concern for 
growing extremism and the violence continues to escalate. The Ogaden 
region which borders Somalia is also a growing place of hostility and 
Islamic terrorism. The ongoing insurgency in the region has taken a 
drastic toll on the civilian population, significantly affecting 
commercial trade and humanitarian aid.

In April of 2007, due to escalating violence, the ENDF initiated a 
campaign against the insurgency in Ogaden. The ongoing border dispute 
between Ethiopia and Eritrea threatens the stability in the Horn of 
Africa. I have talked to Eritrea, trying to get the two parties 
together. It hasn't happened yet. But the Eritrean Government, along 
with extremist organizations in Somalia, is providing support and 
assistance to the Ogaden National Liberation Front. Our friend in this 
fight is clearly Ethiopia. The United States remains concerned about 
human rights violations and the lack of religious and political 
freedoms in Eritrea. The United States will continue to work with 
Ethiopia to bring stability to the region and foster respect of human 
rights and freedom from political or religious persecution.



Ethiopia is so significant to the Horn of Africa. It remains an area 
of strategic importance in the war on terror. This area is critical to 
stability of the entire continent of Africa and is a national security 
interest of the United States. Ethiopia continues to be the central 
bulwark in the fight to deter the growth and disrupt the influence of 
Islamic extremism in the region. Our country's strong support of 
Ethiopia during this significant time is imperative.


In spite of all these successes, in spite of what we have talked 
about and the significance of Ethiopia, I think we have to oppose H.R. 
2003. I have talked to several people who didn't know any differently. 
They didn't object to this. I think it went through on a UC over there. 
But a lot of people couldn't find Ethiopia on a map. I don't think they 
realized the significance. This resolution's idea of encouraging and 
facilitating is to impose restrictions and ultimatums. These punitive 
actions could damage the bilateral relationship between the United 
States and the Government of Ethiopia, as well as derail progress 
Ethiopia has made in furtherance of democracy and supporting human 
rights.

I fully support the State Department's assessment. Quite often I am 
criticized for coming down here and opposing the State Department. More 
often than not, that is the case. But in this case they are exactly 
right. They say: The bill risks damaging our ability to influence the 
Government of Ethiopia, advance reform, and to deliver effective 
development assistance.

I will only say, then, this is a success story we have had. I can't 
think of anything worse for the surrounding states, and I would say all 
other 51 countries in Africa, than if we were to punish the very 
country that is being friendly to us, is helping us, fighting with us 
side by side, sending 100,000 troops with American troops down to 
Somalia and working on our side.

I hope when it comes to this side, if it does come in this form, that 
we will be able to resoundingly defeat it. I look forward to being in 
Ethiopia in about 3 weeks. I will certainly hope that I don't have to 
go over there after having something like this pass the Senate.

With that, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.