# PROVIDING FOR PASSAGE OF H.R. 2101, WEAPONS ACQUISITION SYSTEM REFORM  THROUGH ENHANCING TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE AND OVERSIGHT ACT OF 2009
## `4d7194a2088e4c986dfe38901a57eea4`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 13 May 2009`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman for giving me this 
time.

We hear a lot about waste, fraud and abuse in Federal Government, and 
this bill that I support, H.R. 2101, answers


just that. I think it is critically important legislation to reform the 
Pentagon's major weapons acquisitions systems.

By now we have all heard the alarming reports from the GAO, the 
statistics that show that 96 of the Department of Defense's major 
weapons systems experienced $296 billion in cost growth and an average 
of 22 months' delay in delivering these weapons to our warfighters. At 
a time when so much has been asked of the American taxpayer, we can do 
better, and we must do better. Runaway cost growth for many of these 
major weapons systems threatens other vital defense priorities at a 
time when our men and women in uniform are involved in active combat 
both in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McHugh and my colleagues on the 
House Armed Services Committee recognize the Pentagon's acquisition 
process is on an unsustainable path. The most important element to this 
legislation, in my view, is the strict oversight and accountability 
applied to the early development stage of major weapons acquisitions.

This legislation requires the Department of Defense to track cost 
growth and schedule changes that happen prior to milestone B, the point 
in the process when the systems and development start. This is critical 
because 75 percent of the systems costs are locked in as systems emerge 
from the development stage.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 2101 represents a strong bipartisan approach to 
reforming major weapons systems acquisition. But it is only a start. As 
a member of the Armed Services Committee's Defense Acquisition Panel, I 
will continue to work with Chairman Rob Andrews and Ranking Member Mike 
Conaway to review where action is needed to ensure greater return on 
our investment.