---
---

# None
## `4d76c609aa45a483bd194eccb0fe0fb6`
`Ms. SUTTON — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman for 
yielding me this time.

Mr. Speaker, for 4 long years our country has endured a tragic war, a 
treacherous journey down a dark and winding path, with no clear routes, 
no clear destination and fatal hazards lurking around every blind 
corner.

Today I rise again with Chairman Skelton and my colleagues to act to 
clear the road ahead, to bring its end into the light. I rise again to 
push, to prod, to urge my colleagues to help us end the President's 
failed policy; to help us change the mission to a mission based in 
reality; to help us end the ravages that our brave soldiers who have 
performed so heroically, remove them from the crossfire in which they 
are caught, to remove them from the snipers' bullets and the life-
ending IEDs.

I rise with the hope that those who have stood with the President and 
have given his Iraq policy a chance to succeed and another chance to 
succeed and another chance to succeed, that they will today choose a 
responsible change in direction based in reality that will establish a 
comprehensive and clear strategy for our role in Iraq.

Congress has allowed the President to lead our troops down this path 
for too long. It is time to demand accountability, to demand an exit 
strategy that is clear, and to demand an end to the injury and death 
that our brave soldiers face every day as they courageously proceed 
down this undefined road on which the President has placed them and 
they have dutifully traveled.

The President's ambling course has led our troops through the 
deadliest 3 months of the war in April, May and June of this year. 
During those three deadly months, 329 American soldiers died in Iraq. 
The cost of continuing down this path is too great. We must act to 
bring direction and accountability to the United States' mission for 
the sake of our troops and the families that love and support them.

It brings me great sadness to report that, since the war began in the 
spring of 2003, 163 brave men and women from Ohio have been killed. And 
25 of those precious lives have been lost since the surge. The 
President's escalation of this war means six more grieving families in 
Ohio since when I last spoke in favor of the redeployment bill in May 
of this year. How many more times will we come to this floor to demand 
responsibility and accountability from our President? How many more 
families will be devastated by the loss of a loved one? How many more 
times will we hear the administration continue to argue that we are, 
quote, ''just about to make progress''?

Last November, the people of the 13th District of Ohio made their 
voices heard when they went to the polls. Their voices joined with the 
voices of people across this Nation. They voted for a change in 
direction, and today we act to give it to them.