---
---

# MILITARY RESERVIST AND VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION AND  OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007
## `4da0cfe558b8588bc86f051e025db363`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 5 December 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

In their service to the Nation, veterans have demonstrated strength, 
discipline and dedication to preserving security. At home, they have 
proven to be invaluable components of a strong economy.

We have already seen the impact veterans can have on the business 
community. Currently, approximately 22 percent of servicemembers in the 
United States have either purchased or started a new business. These 
entrepreneurs are significant contributors to job growth and expansion 
of local economies.

I wish to commend Congressman Jason Altmire and Congressman Vern 
Buchanan for their leadership in crafting this bill that will further 
this effort. H.R. 4253 promotes veterans' continued pursuit of self-
employment and provides them with the support for growth that they 
deserve. It accomplishes this objective by comprehensively updating 
several of the Small Business Administration's programs to better meet 
the current needs of veteran entrepreneurs.

The bill addresses several of the impediments to veterans' success as 
entrepreneurs. Because servicemembers are removed from the workforce 
for an extended period of time, they can often then face difficulties 
securing capital or technical assistance upon their return from 
service. Additionally, while many veterans receive specialized skills 
during their service, it is often quite difficult transforming those 
skills into profitable resources. We can increase veteran 
entrepreneurial opportunities by creating the right tools to ensure 
their success.

H.R. 4253 responds to these challenges by establishing a strong role 
for the Federal Government to help veterans overcome obstacles to 
entrepreneurship. The legislation increases veterans' access to 
affordable capital, enhances entrepreneurial development resources, and 
sharpens the focus of Federal resources on this key member of the small 
business community.

Veterans will have improved access to capital with specially tailored 
initiatives in the SBA's 7(a) and disaster loan programs. This will 
help returning servicemen and women bridge the gap for financial 
capital that they need to start and grow a new endeavor. By increasing 
outreach assistance centers and entrepreneurial development program 
resources, the bill also improves access to assistance that will help 
veteran entrepreneurs evaluate business ideas, conduct market research, 
and receive technology training.

This legislation will also establish an interagency task force that 
will take a lead role in altering the institutional culture at the 
Federal level to promote increased veteran entrepreneurship. This will 
significantly improve the coordination of various Federal agencies' 
veteran service programs. Additionally, new initiatives will improve 
transition assistance for separating servicemembers, and provide 
customized support to service disabled, women veterans, and the members 
of the reserves. This will ensure that all sectors are considered in 
Federal veteran policymaking.

As new troops are added to the already 13,000 that have returned home 
just from Iraq and Afghanistan, it is imperative that our resources and 
initiatives are designed to effectively prepare them for economic 
success.

With their tremendous potential to thrive as entrepreneurs and their 
critical service for which we all greatly benefit, we must continue to 
work to allow these budding entrepreneurs to realize the American Dream 
of business ownership. I believe this bill is a major step towards 
realizing this goal, and I strongly support this legislation.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 4253.

I reserve the balance of my time.