---
---

# None
## `4da1c1a1a1db94ee43aabc3c7550be3d`
`Mr. CUMMINGS â€” 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, this evening I rise, along with my 
distinguished colleagues, for the next hour, which shall be ours, to 
salute and to mark the 60th anniversary of the integration of the 
United States Armed Forces.

I rise today to celebrate this historic occasion as a step toward 
greater social justice for minorities and women alike, which shaped the 
road to equality within the United States and strengthened the very 
foundation and moral character of our great Nation.

On July 26, 1948, President Harry Truman signed executive order 9981, 
requiring the integration of the Armed Forces regardless of one's race, 
religion, or national origin.

President's Truman's brazen action back there in 1948 set the stage 
for later victories, including the Supreme Court's ruling in Brown vs. 
Board of Education, the Civil Rights Act, and the Voting Rights Act.

We are aware, Mr. Speaker, as our history attests, that the shared 
sacrifice of African Americans in the defense of our great Nation did 
not begin in 1948. Individuals such as William Williams, a Maryland 
fugitive slave, overcame the odds by enlisting as a private in the 
United States Army and defending Fort McHenry of Baltimore, Maryland in 
1812. Countless others also served prior to the issuance of executive 
order 9981, including the Buffalo Soldiers of the 9th and 10th Cavalry 
Regiments, members of the Navy and Marine Corps' Stewards Branch, and 
the highly distinguished and honored Tuskegee Airmen. These brave 
servicemembers paved the way for minority men and women who proudly 
wear the uniform today. Sadly, back then, Mr. Speaker, they were often 
unseen, unnoticed, unappreciated, unapplauded and unsung, but today we 
pause to celebrate their lives and their contributions to our great 
Nation.

It is because of their sacrifices that I, along with the 42 other 
members of the Congressional Black Caucus, serve in the Congress of the 
United States today. It is through their sacrifices that I serve on the 
Board of Visitors at the Naval Academy, as a member of the House Armed 
Services Committee, and Chair of the Coast Guard and Maritime 
Transportation Subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee. As 
such, minorities have played a pivotal role in shaping this Nation's 
armed services, and I'm proud to say that this role continues today.

With the benefit of historical hindsight, we know that the sacrifice 
of brave Americans on the battlefield had to become a shared experience 
for America to truly move toward becoming ''one Nation, indivisible.'' 
Therefore, a segregated Armed Force could not be a foundation for an 
integrated society, nor could it truly offer ''justice for all.''

However, just as President George Washington initially refused to 
recruit African Americans in the American Revolutionary War despite the 
British welcoming the enlistment of minorities in 1775, President 
Truman's executive order was also met with much opposition by the 
Marine Corps and the Army. Consequently, this significant change and 
transition in racial policy took nearly 15 years before the executive 
order was fully implemented by all of the Armed Forces.

Because of President Truman's unyielding vigilance in ensuring the 
complete integration of the Armed Forces, all Americans today are more 
secure and remain free.

As we remember and honor the brave men and women of every race who 
have served our Nation, we should also remember those visionary leaders 
who gave to our Nation, including our colleagues, Representative 
Charles Rangel of New York, John Conyers of Michigan, Representative 
Bobby Rush of Illinois, Edolphus Towns of New York, Bobby Scott of 
Virginia, and so many others, the opportunity to share in that 
sacrifice which has preserved the America we all love so much.

We know that the transformation of our military has not been easily 
accomplished, and we honor those soldiers, sailors, airmen, guardsmen 
and women, and marines who, over the years, have challenged the status 
quo to do what is simply right.

All too often in our past, minorities in our Armed Forces have been 
forced to endure injustice and discrimination. All too often, 
promotions, choice assignments, and desired occupational fields have 
not been open to all on the basis of merit alone. Yet, the patriotism 
of our countrymen and women has kept the transformation and vision by 
President Truman alive.

Today, minorities continue to serve with distinction throughout our 
Armed Forces. Of the more than 1.8 million servicemembers who have 
participated in support of Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom, more 
than 20 percent have been minorities.

Mr. Speaker, it was just today that we congratulated Ensign DeCarol 
Davis for her selection as being the first African American and the 
first African


American woman to serve as valedictorian of a graduating class of the 
Coast Guard Academy. However, despite these advancements, minorities 
and women continue to be overlooked in being promoted fairly to Flag 
Officer rank or other leadership positions within the armed services. 
In fact, minorities remain over-represented in the enlisted ranks of 
our armed services, but clearly under-represented in the officer ranks.

African Americans constitute less than 6 percent of the general 
officers serving on active duty, amounting to merely 53 officers. And 
today, 60 years after executive order 9981, the Department of Defense 
still lacks a comprehensive plan and definition of diversity that can 
be applied Defense-wide.

Moreover, while the number of minorities and women admitted into the 
service academy has increased, reaching 24.1 percent of minorities for 
the graduating class of 2007 to 2011 at West Point and 22.7 percent of 
the United States Naval Academy, reports of the hate-inspired display 
of nooses at the United States Coast Guard Academy certainly 
demonstrate how much further we have to go as a Nation.

Mr. Speaker, we can do better. Not only can we do better, but we must 
do better. There is no excuse today for having one Four Star minority 
general officer, just as there was no excuse 60 years ago for the 
failure of the Army and the Marine Corps to immediately implement 
President Truman's noble orders of integration within the services.

That is why, together with Representatives Kendrick Meek, Hank 
Johnson and Kathy Castor, I successfully sponsored the ''Senior 
Military Leadership Diversity Commission'' amendment to the 2009 
National Defense Authorization Act.

And I would be more than remiss if I did not say that our whip, Mr. 
Jim Clyburn of South Carolina, has made this entire cause of promotions 
within the ranks one of his major, major themes and something that he 
has worked on very, very hard, and I want to thank him for all of his 
efforts.

The commission that I spoke about a minute ago will study diversity 
within the senior leadership of the Armed Forces with the goal of 
enhancing the role of minorities and women. As I previously observed, 
Mr. Speaker, shared sacrifice and service to our Nation must be 
balanced by a fair and equitable sharing of responsibilities, 
opportunities and promotions.



For this reason, the commission's mission will be to evaluate and 
assess the opportunities for the advancement of minority and female 
members within the military branches as well as the challenge of 
retaining our Nation's best and brightest.

The Armed Forces continue to be a great career opportunity for the 
young men and women today. As a Nation, we have a compelling need to 
further increase the retention and recruitment of minority officers; 
yet as the co-chair of a task force on minority recruitment in the 
academies, and as a member of the Board of Visitors of the Naval 
Academy, I remain deeply concerned.

Mr. Speaker, this Nation's long march toward shared opportunity as 
well as shared sacrifice in the defense of America will continue, as it 
must. The security and the honor of America are at stake.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, I yield to my distinguished colleague, 
Ms. Watson of California.