---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `4da60574ef86810c4df6405fb0336dfa`
`Mr. WAMP — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Speaker, I want to make five points.

First, we need to realize that this threat is real. And I say to the 
members of the Get Out of Iraq Caucus that if we were not in Iraq 
tomorrow, this threat is not going away. We don't spend enough time 
focusing on this fact that the jihadists within Islam are insulated 
within the Islamists and the moderates, and there is not enough 
confrontation from them to each other. This threat is mounting 
globally. It is spreading. Europe is basically lost. And I don't want 
America to end up alone, but this threat is not going away, and we need 
to know it.

Former Senator Fred Thompson said here 2 weeks ago, and he is right, 
that when we do leave Iraq, it is either going to be a dangerous world 
or a more dangerous world, and it depends on what we do in Iraq as to 
whether it is dangerous or more dangerous, and this legislation is at 
the heart of that challenge.

Number two, words matter. The majority leader of the United States 
Senate saying that the war is lost was on the front page of al-Jazeera 
in Arabic. That is not good for our country, not in this conflict or 
the future. Words matter.

Number three, this legislation was flawed. We said it early on. You 
shouldn't have this kind of micromanagement, tying the hands of the 
generals, telegraphing retreat, and then adding a bunch of extraneous 
matters to this legislation that should go through the regular order 
and the regular appropriations process. It was a bad bill. You porked 
it up and slowed it down.

Number four, the veto was the right thing to do. The President is not 
popular. We all know that. But isn't it refreshing that the President 
is doing the right thing even though it is unpopular because he is 
putting the interest of our country above that of his party or even 
this moment doing the right thing? That is leadership.

Our distinguished Speaker came and said a few minutes ago that she 
was substituting the President's judgment for her judgment. And I say 
respectfully to our Speaker, I have served under three Speakers. She 
has her constitutional role, and it is not the Commander in Chief. She 
is the Speaker, not the Commander in Chief. She is also not General 
Petraeus, and this is a wrong-headed approach. We can do better.

Lastly, the solution is for the leadership to go and sit down with 
the President of the United States and put our troops above our 
parties. Clearly ask: What do you require?



The President should clearly ask what can I do for the Congress, and 
let's not go through this again.

My nephew is on his way to Iraq, as many Members of this House know. 
Let's make sure they have what they need. Let's not give up here. We 
don't need another Somalia. We don't need another Beirut. We don't need 
to lose this war. We need to stay and improve and do better and come 
out with our head up.