# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `4da929ddcdb742b7e6c1a780d192140a`
`Mr. HODES — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Well, it is really an important point to underscore, and I 
appreciate your saying it, which we all agree, that there is nobody on 
whatever side of the debate you're in about Iraq who doesn't understand 
that our troops have served with extraordinary bravery and courage. 
They have performed. It is really up to the policymakers. It is up to 
the administration, who makes the policy. It is up to Congress, who 
makes the policy, the Senate. It is up to the policymakers, who send 
our military to do the job to make the right judgments and right 
decisions about when they should be sent, under what conditions they 
ought to be sent, and what their mission is.

Mr. Speaker, one of the real sad failings is that the mission here 
has changed so many times, nobody knows what it is anymore. Seventy 
percent of the American people now understand that whatever it is that 
we have tried to do in Iraq hasn't worked. The Iraqi Government has not 
stood up. We have spent lives, our brave troops have given their lives, 
thousands and thousands of wounded, at a huge cost, because so far we 
have spent about half a trillion dollars in direct costs for the war in 
Iraq.


Half a trillion dollars. That has got so many zeroes that I really have 
trouble figuring out and contemplating wrapping my brain around what 
half a trillion dollars is. That is $500 billion.

That is an awful lot of money to experience what we have experienced 
in Iraq, because it's clear now that the war hasn't made us safer and 
more secure. It's clear that, unfortunately, al Qaeda and the Taliban 
are still strong and resurgent in the Pakistan-Afghanistan area, and 
still threatening to us. The region is more unstable.

Mr. Speaker, it is clear we need a new course. But we don't often 
talk about the costs, because it is not just the $500 billion or half a 
trillion dollars we have spent in direct costs in Iraq, but we are 
facing $1 trillion-plus in total costs for the care of all those who 
have served in Iraq, who are going to come home and need care on an 
ongoing basis as we go forward. And the costs in lost productivity to 
society are huge.

When you think about the comparison of the costs between what we have 
spent in Iraq and what we could spend that money on in terms of 
providing health care for our kids, as this Democratic Congress in a 
bipartisan way has proposed, because the SCHIP bill that we sent to the 
President was a bipartisan bill, we passed a bill in the House and then 
we sent it over to the Senate. They compromised. We worked with the 
Senate and we compromised on the bill. The Senate had some different 
ideas. They sort of reduced things in some areas and sent it back to 
us. We then sent this compromise bill to the President.

But even though it was a compromise bill, and even though it was 
supported by 45 Republicans in the House and numbers of Senators on the 
Republican side in the Senate, and I can talk about some of what they 
said later on, the President decided that $35 billion was too much to 
spend on our kids. He decided that $35 billion over 5 years for kids' 
health care wasn't worth the investment; that $35 billion for American 
kids who needed health care, American kids at the lowest income levels, 
struggling families trying to make ends meet, was not something that 
the President of the United States was willing to invest our money in. 
This, despite the fact that in previous speeches he had promised that 
he was going to cover millions of new kids for health care. But for 
some reason, when the Democratic-controlled Congress sent it to the 
President, he decided that it was too much. He also decided that he 
could ask us for $191 billion more for a failed policy in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, here is how it breaks down. Here are the facts. Here are 
the figures. They are shown on this chart that I have.

What this shows is that 37 days in Iraq would pay for 10 million 
children to have health care every year. It shows 37 days in Iraq, 10 
million kids with health care. One day in Iraq is costing us $330 
million. That money, $330 million in the SCHIP program, would cover 
more than 270,000 kids. Just stop for a minute and think about those 
numbers.

Dr. Kagen, I don't know about you, but where I come from, $330 
million is a significant amount of money. That is what we are spending 
every day in Iraq. It would cover more than a quarter of a million kids 
for a year of health care. When you get into a week in Iraq, we are 
spending $2.3 billion, that is billion dollars, $2.3 billion every 
week, and that amount of money, if we spent it on SCHIP, would cover 
1,891,000 kids. That is a huge number of kids, for 1 week of Iraq war 
spending. And it is hard to say we are spending our money wisely in 
Iraq.

Let me just tell you a little bit about a hearing that I was on. I 
have the privilege of sitting on the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee, and one of the issues we took up in the past couple of weeks 
was the issue of the cost of corruption in Iraq.

Now, the Middle East has always been a difficult place when it comes 
to how governments spend money, how they account or don't account to 
their citizens, what kind of accounting practices they have, and the 
issue of corruption has traditionally been one that throughout the 
Middle East has been a significant problem. So you would think, for 
instance, that maybe in Iraq, now that we are there in such strength, 
we have 160,000 of our troops fighting there, we have support 
personnel, we have a huge number of contractors, another bit of a 
problem that we ran into. But with all these contractors and all these 
people and all the American money and all the oversight and all the 
planning, you would think that maybe after 5 years of the Iraq 
occupation we would be in a position to do something about the 
corruption in Iraq, to make sure that money was being spent wisely, 
because if you are going to spend $2.3 billion in one week in Iraq, 
which otherwise would cover almost 2 million kids for health care for 1 
year, you want to make sure that it is going to be spent well. You 
would think you would want to make sure.

So at this oversight hearing we had on October 4, we had the chief 
judge from Iraq who was dealing with corruption and accountability 
under the new al Maliki government that we have supported come to our 
hearing. By the way, he is no longer in Iraq, because he fears for his 
life. So not only is there a problem on the money side, but there is a 
problem when people try to do something about it. He now fears for his 
life, so he is over in this country, and he came to testify. His name 
is Radhi Hamza al Radhi, former head of the Iraqi Commission on Public 
Integrity.

He took the oath, and testified as follows. He told us that the 
corruption within the Iraqi Government has cost the Iraqi people $18 
billion. So instead of its original purpose, infrastructure, new 
hospitals, electricity, things that the people need, he told us the 
money is now being used to finance terrorist militias in Iraq.

Also of note with this government of al Maliki that we are 
supporting, what the judge said was, when we asked him, why are you 
here and what happened when you tried to do something about the 
corruption? What he said was, well, I tried to investigate many cases 
of corruption within the government of Iraq and with Iraqi officials. 
It was my job. I was set up. I was supposed to coordinate with the 
Americans who were overseeing the corruption and coordinate with the 
Iraqis who were overseeing the corruption. My job was to investigate 
corruption.

But he ran into a bit of a roadblock. You know what he told us the 
roadblock was? The roadblock, for example, was Prime Minister Maliki 
himself, who blocked his attempts to uncover the truth and to deal with 
corruption. Why did he do it? He did it because the people that the 
judge was investigating were Shia, so the Prime Minister didn't want 
those people investigated, or because they were related in some way to 
the Prime Minister, so those people couldn't be investigated.

So with the money we have poured into Iraq, the money we have poured 
in for reconstruction and other things, the Iraqi Government is missing 
$18 billion worth in corruption. That is what we are dealing with in 
Iraq. That is where our money is going. And instead of covering our 
kids for health care, we want to spend another $191 billion more in 
Iraq.

Dr. Kagen?