---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `4dab40321494a7faf1ccca46cb93c5da`
`Mr. REID — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we all have memories. My memory is that 
during the time that Senator Lott was the majority leader we had very 
few opportunities to amend bills because he, in the vernacular in the 
Senate, filled the tree and there weren't opportunities to do that. 
Senator Frist did not do that nearly as much as Senator Lott when he 
was the leader, but certainly it was done a lot of times. We have 
chosen not to do that. We have chosen the amendment process. That is 
why I said earlier today: When is enough enough?

I have sent the cloture motions to the desk, and we will make that 
decision at noon on Tuesday.

While the distinguished Republican leader is on the floor, I will say 
a few more words on another subject.

The Republican leader and I have talked on several occasions about 
this Iraq situation. Anyone who reads the newspaper, listens to the 
radio or watches TV--we all know there are a number of resolutions 
around the Senate dealing with the escalation of the war in Iraq. The 
leader and I have talked about them.

We have pending in the Senate now, S. Con. Res. 2, which is a 
bipartisan resolution. Upon disposition of the minimum wage bill--and I 
have spoken to the leader, Senator McConnell--he is unable to clear 
consent to move S. Con. Res. 2 now. Members may not be available to 
clear it at the moment, and I understand that, so I am not going to put 
any unanimous consent request before the Senate because the 
distinguished Republican Senate leader has told me he is not able to do 
that. But in an effort to save time, I intend to move to proceed to the 
concurrent resolution today and file cloture on that motion. If on 
Monday the Republican leader is still not able to grant consent to 
proceed to it, we will be in a position, then, to look forward to the 
Tuesday vote. If he is able to give me consent to move forward to that, 
then we can vitiate the cloture motion.

Mr. President, I will be filing that motion on cloture today to 
proceed to a bipartisan resolution reported out by the Foreign 
Relations Committee earlier this week. We are moving forward to demand 
a new direction in Iraq, as we have spoken about a number times. 
Senator Lautenberg finished a speech on that today. We hope Republican 
leadership will join with us to fully debate this issue, permit votes 
on amendments, and ensure an up-or-down vote on the President's plan. 
Our troops and the American people deserve no less.
