# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4dadb83f11a609c437ecce58075c5b2a`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Georgia, a very active member of 
the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, Mr. Scott. I 
hope he will stay for the remainder of this hour as we discuss the 
President's budget for fiscal year 2008, as well as the Blue Dog 
Coalition-endorsed House Resolution 97 to demand accountability on how 
the hardworking people of this country's tax money is being spent in 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, in the 6 years of the Bush Administration, the 
government has posted the highest deficits in the Nation's history. The 
administration has squandered the budget surplus it inherited, 
transforming a $5.6 trillion projected 10-year surplus into a deficit 
of some $2.9 trillion over the same period, a swing of $8.4 trillion, 
based on realistic estimates of the cost of the President's policies. 
The President's new budget calls for a deficit of $244 billion for 
2007, and $239 billion for 2008, marking 6 years in a row of deficits 
of more than $200 billion.

This budget that the President delivered to Capitol Hill this week 
includes $244 billion worth of hot checks for fiscal year 2008 and $239 
billion worth of hot checks for fiscal year 2009. Unbelievable, Mr. 
Speaker. That means that this Nation will continue to borrow about a 
half a billion dollars a day every day, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Every day, under the Bush budget, 
we will borrow over a half a billion dollars, and that is before we 
spend a half a billion dollars each day paying interest on the debt we 
have already got.

America's priorities will continue to go unmet until we get our 
Nation's fiscal house in order. Meanwhile, this budget continues to 
climb the climb of decline of our Nation's debt, which has already 
grown by $3 trillion during this administration.

Put another way, this President, this administration has borrowed 
more money from foreign lenders, foreign central banks than the 
previous 42 Presidents combined. In fact, we had only borrowed $623.3 
billion in foreign holdings in 1993. Today, foreign lenders currently 
hold a total of about $2.199 trillion of our public debt.

I was with the President at a meeting Saturday morning. The gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Tanner) asked him about whether he believed 
borrowing so much money from foreign central banks and foreign 
investors was a security threat to our country. His response was that 
he didn't know how much money we had borrowed from foreigners.

So, Mr. Speaker, I hope the President is listening to us today, 
because, Mr. Speaker, I want to share with you, Mr. Speaker, what I 
refer to as the top 10 list. This is the top 10 list of the 10 
countries that we have borrowed the most money from: Japan, $637.4 
billion; China, $346.5 billion; the United Kingdom, $223.5 billion.

Can I go back to China for a moment? You know, we don't do business 
with Cuba because they are Communist, and yet we do business with 
Communist China out of a spirit of international relations. And while 
we are all focused on the Middle East and what is going on in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Cuba has hired China to drill for oil on their behalf 55 
miles from Key West, Florida, when the United States does not allow 
drilling within 100 miles of Key West. Can you imagine that? And yet we 
have borrowed $346.5 billion from China to give folks who live in this 
country who earn over $400,000 a year a tax cut and to leave our 
children and our grandchildren with the bill.

I yield to the gentleman from Georgia.