---
---

# SITUATION IN YEMEN
## `4dcbe6d1e4ce9076b02fc175c3728322`
`Mr. LEVIN — 5 August 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I would like to take a few moments to bring 
to the attention of my colleagues the burgeoning threat of a potential 
safe haven for extremists in Yemen. As I am sure is true of many of my 
colleagues, I continue to monitor the press reports surrounding the 
future of the Yemeni detainees currently being held at the Guantanamo 
Bay detention facility. However, what I believe too few people are 
following is the growing threat of Yemen becoming a failed state and 
potential safe haven for members of al-Qaida.

A recent New York Times article, ''Some in [al] Qaeda Leave Pakistan 
for Somalia and Yemen,'' highlighted the growing concern within the 
U.S. Government about relocations of some al-Qaida operatives to Yemen. 
The Washington Institute for Near East Policy also highlighted the 
growing threat in Yemen in a recent paper, ''Waning Vigilance: al 
Qaeda's Resurgence in Yemen,'' that discusses how the threat in Yemen 
has simmered in recent years and urgently needs the attention of 
policymakers. Mr. President, I will ask that the New York Times and 
Washington Institute for Near East Policy articles be printed in the 
Record following my comments.

To appreciate fully the concerns about Yemen's stability, it is 
important to recall the association of terrorist activities with Yemen. 
It is perhaps best known as the site of the U.S.S. Cole attack in 
October 2000. But Yemen is also one of the top sources of foreign 
fighters in Iraq and Afghanistan, the source of weapons trafficked into 
Gaza, and the country of origin of almost 100 of the remaining 
detainees at the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. It was also where 
many mujahedeen returned to after the Soviet withdrawal from 
Afghanistan and, often forgotten, it is the ancestral home of Osama bin 
Laden. Further, in 2008, the U.S. Embassy in the Yemeni capital of 
Sana'a was attacked twice--first by a mortar attack and the second time 
by highly trained terrorists using vehicle-borne improvised explosive 
devices, small arms, and suicide vests.

Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair also highlighted the 
significance of the situation in Yemen earlier this year in testimony 
before the Senate Armed Services Committee. Director Blair testified 
that losses within al-Qaida's command structure since 2008 have been 
significant and that sustained pressure against al-Qaida in the 
Federally Administered Tribal Areas, FATA, of Pakistan may eventually 
force it to vacate the FATA. He stated that it is conceivable that al-
Qaida could relocate to the gulf where it could exploit a weak central 
government and close proximity to established recruitment, fundraising, 
and facilitation networks.

Yemen is the type of country the Director is concerned about, and, 
for good reason. I would direct my colleagues to the most recent issue 
of Foreign Policy magazine, which ranks Yemen 18th on its failed states 
index, an annual index based on 12 indicators ranging from availability 
of public services to demographic pressures to refugee and internally 
displaced populations. The failed state index additionally says of 
Yemen: ''a perfect storm of state failure is now brewing there: 
disappearing oil and water reserves; a mob of migrants, some allegedly 
with al Qaeda ties, flooding in from Somalia . . . ; and a weak 
government increasingly unable to keep things running.''

The article goes on to suggest what many Yemen observers have been 
saying for years: ''Yemen is the next Afghanistan: a global problem 
wrapped in a failed state.'' Report after report reaches the same 
conclusion about--Yemen--it is a failing state with all the makings of 
an extremist safe haven. I believe it is critical that we monitor this 
situation closely; fund developmental and counterterrorism assistance 
for the Government of Yemen at robust levels; and urge the Obama 
administration to engage actively with the Yemeni Government. The 
consequences of inaction can be seen right across the Gulf of Aden in 
Somalia.

For its part, the administration has increased its focus on this 
threat. Earlier this year, Central Intelligence Agency, CIA, Deputy 
Director Stephen Kappes reportedly met with Yemeni President Ali 
Abdullah Saleh in Sana'a to discuss security and counterterrorism 
cooperation. This visit is one of many that the CIA and National 
Security Council officials have made in recent months, and in addition 
to a visit by General Petraeus shortly after taking command at U.S. 
Central Command.

All of these visits confirmed that the political landscape in Yemen 
remains fragile. Throughout his decades of rule, President Saleh has 
successfully balanced the various political forces in Yemen--tribes, 
political parties, military officials, political elites, and radical 
Islamists--to create a stable ruling coalition that has kept his regime 
intact. While in many cases this stability has been purchased via 
corruption and payoffs, in cases where groups and/or individuals have 
not been willing to join President Saleh, he has used law enforcement, 
military, and intelligence services to manage threats to stability. In 
recent years, al-Qaida has entered into the political landscape and 
complicated this delicate 30-year balance. President Saleh has 
addressed this situation by reportedly reaching understandings with al-
Qaida that it would be left alone to recruit fighters if it did not 
attack the Yemeni Government.

In the Washington Institute for Near East Policy article I mentioned 
earlier, the author makes a number of points that underscore this 
delicate balancing act and the role of al-Qaida in the political 
landscape of Yemen. The author argues that the Yemeni Government is 
preoccupied, and its security services overtaxed by increasingly 
violent calls for secession from the south, threats of renewed fighting 
in the north, and a faltering economy that is dependent on revenue from 
rapidly dwindling petroleum reserves.

Between 2002 and 2004, the Yemeni Government, largely with U.S. 
assistance, was able to disrupt al-Qaida-inspired terrorist activity in 
Yemen. However, in recent years, a new generation of militants, with 
either experience in Iraq and Afghanistan or time spent in the Yemeni 
prison system, has emerged. This new generation of militants is 
inclined to target the Yemeni Government itself, in addition to foreign 
interests in Yemen.

The start of this resurgence was a 2006 jailbreak, in which 23 
convicted terrorists escaped from a prison in the capital of Sana'a. 
Escapees from this jailbreak formed the core of a new group, al-Qaida 
in the Arabian Peninsula, AQAP, which is led by a 2006 escapee whose 
deputy is a former Guantanamo detainee. While many Yemen observers 
believe that AQAP is not yet strong enough to topple President Saleh's 
regime, it is capable of striking high value targets; contributing to 
instability across Yemen; and recruiting individuals to strengthen its 
ranks. The ideological demands of AQAP are


familiar: release militants from prison; end cooperation with the 
United States; renounce democracy; and implement a strict form of 
sharia law.

If al-Qaida operatives and their leadership in Pakistan look for a 
new home, Yemen will seem attractive. As in Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
it has large areas of naturally defensible land where President Saleh's 
regime has little authority; a robust tribal structure that could host 
relocating operatives; and a security infrastructure which lacks the 
capacity to defend Yemen's sovereign territory. It is also worth 
mentioning that these same tribes, in some cases, share the hard-line 
views of these relocating al-Qaida operatives and are inclined to help 
enlist their own family into AQAP's efforts. This reality only 
complicates further the work of President Saleh in balancing 
counterterrorism efforts and the survival of his regime.

In June 2007, al-Qaida officially announced its rebirth in Yemen with 
a suicide attack on a convoy of Spanish tourists. Since then, the 
organization has grown stronger and its attacks more frequent. In 
January 2008, it launched a series of attacks, culminating in the 
assault on the U.S. Embassy in September 2008. Earlier this year, a 
pair of suicide bombers targeted South Koreans, attacking first a group 
of tourists in the countryside and then the officials sent to 
investigate. Just last month, AQAP demonstrated that it is also 
adopting the kidnapping for ransom tactic, which has proven profitable 
for other terrorist groups. And, just last month, the Associated Press 
reported that security was upgraded in Yemen's capital after 
intelligence reports warned of attacks planned against the U.S. Embassy 
and other potential targets. In response, the Yemeni chief of 
intelligence has reportedly directed an increase in security around 
diplomatic missions in the capital and elsewhere in the country. The 
culmination of these developments gives the AQAP the ability to attract 
relocating foreign fighters and broaden its operational reach.

The United States is by no means the only player in the country. 
Saudi Arabia provides the most assistance to Yemen, some of it via 
official channels to the government and some portions of it 
unofficially. A myriad of countries are involved in the Yemeni energy 
sector, and Russia and China are the Yemeni Government's major arms 
suppliers. To complicate matters further, Yemen's tribal leaders, 
powerful within the Yemeni political landscape, are suspicious of U.S. 
policy in the region. These tribal leaders are often the proxies used 
by President Saleh, Saudi Arabia, and others interested in influencing 
the government and other elites.

Over the past several fiscal years, Yemen has received on average 
between $20 and $25 million annually in total U.S. foreign aid. For 
fiscal year 2009, the U.S. provided over $40 million in assistance for 
Yemen, an increase from its $18 million aid package in fiscal year 
2008. Between fiscal year 2006 and fiscal year 2007, Yemen also 
received approximately $31.5 million from the U.S. Department of 
Defense's section 1206 account to train and equip Yemeni 
counterterrorism units. The Obama administration also recently sent to 
Congress a new package of 1206 funded projects, which includes $65 
million in counterterrorism assistance for various Yemeni military 
units. The recently passed fiscal year 2009 supplemental included $10 
million for the U.S. Agency for International Development to support 
U.S.-sponsored rural engagement measures, focused on civil affairs 
activities and civilian capacity building in the ungoverned regions of 
Yemen.

While these programs are important and need to be funded, Yemen 
observers have expressed frustration with how little ''bang for the 
buck'' the U.S. gets for its financial assistance to Yemen on 
counterterrorism operations. This is one area where I hope the 
administration will continue to press the Yemeni Government. In the 
past, the Yemeni Government has complained that the United States has 
provided them with insufficient assistance. However, based on the most 
recent administration efforts, the situation has clearly changed, and 
it is time for President Saleh's government to be more responsive. And, 
just as in Pakistan, it is critical that our government make two things 
very clear: first, we stand ready to assist in training and equipping 
counterterrorism forces; and second, the threats confronting Yemen are 
ultimately a threat to its own existence. American security assistance 
will ultimately only be as effective as the Yemeni Government's will to 
execute an aggressive counterterrorism and counter-recruitment mission.

To date, the administration has not officially characterized Yemen as 
an al-Qaida safe haven, but should President Saleh prove unwilling to 
confront adequately the threat posed by relocating foreign fighters; 
the growing threat of AQAP; and the sympathy of some tribal leaders in 
his country to support extremist elements, the administration should 
consider more vigorous action. While the U.S. Embassy in Sana'a is 
working hard to find an amenable resolution for the transfer of the 
Yemeni detainees at Guantanamo, it is also working on these very 
complex counterterrorism efforts. I would urge my colleagues to look at 
the threats emanating from Yemen and to support efforts by the 
administration to cooperate with the Yemeni Government and other 
regional actors, particularly Saudi Arabia, to address the burgeoning 
threat in the country.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the New York Times and Washington Institute for Near East Policy 
articles to which I referred.