# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `4dd060d9c9b60d7effe6e3871404d49d`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Madam Chair, I'd like to take this 
opportunity to thank the committee members and Chairmen Skelton and 
Snyder for their support of the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program in 
this year's Defense authorization bill in the en bloc amendment. 
Inclusion of this program in the bill will move us forward as we seek 
to fill a gap that has only widened as our Nation has come to rely 
increasingly on the National Guard and Reserves to assist in combat 
operations.

Based upon his experiences as a returning Vietnam War veteran, 
Minnesota National Guard Adjutant General Larry Shellito took the lead 
to build a reintegration program for returning Guardsmen who lack the 
established support infrastructure of their active duty counterparts. 
General Shellito and the Minnesota National Guard leadership have 
developed an innovative program to change how returning soldiers and 
airmen are reintegrated back into their communities.

Through experiences drawn from the deployments of smaller units to 
Iraq and Afghanistan and Kosovo, they developed a unique combat veteran 
reintegration program with a focus on supporting soldiers and their 
families throughout the entire deployment cycle. This multifaceted 
program includes workshops for families and communities to help them 
for their servicemember's return and training events at 30, 60 and 90-
day intervals for servicemembers following their demobilization.

The training events have given Guardsmen and Reservists the 
opportunity to engage VA and health care representatives, while also 
allowing platoon sergeants and commanders to check in with their 
troops. Experience has shown that catching signs of post-traumatic 
stress disorder, substance abuse, or even marital problems early can 
prevent even more severe problems in the future.

I believe the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program represents the best 
ideas of not only Minnesota but also States and territories throughout 
the Nation that have stepped in to provide reintegration services to 
their troops.

As envisioned, the Yellow Ribbon program included members of the 
other Reserve components in only a voluntary, unpaid status due to 
financial constraints. So I would like to thank Chairmen Skelton and 
Snyder for their support in finding the additional funding necessary to 
expand this program beyond the National Guard to all Reservists.

Let me just close by saying that this program has the support of 
Lieutenant General Blum, the chief of the National Guard Bureau and 
many other organizations, the National Guard Association of the United 
States, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United 
States, the Naval Reserve Association, the Noncommissioned Officers 
Association, and the Retired Enlisted Association. I will submit those 
letters for the Record.

Again, I would like to thank Chairmen Skelton and Snyder for their 
hard work in making this possible.





















 Departments of the Army
























and the Air Force,




















 Arlington, VA, May 4, 2007.


 Hon. John Kline,


 House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Congressman Kline: As you describe in your letter, the 


 Minnesota National Guard's ''Beyond the Yellow Ribbon 


 Reintegration'' program does a great job filling the gap in 


 transition assistance services experienced by all Reserve 


 Component members returning from a combat deployment. I 


 consistently hear from Adjutants General, our troops and 


 their families that the current transition program conducted 


 at the active component demobilization station doesn't well 


 serve the needs of the National Guard and the other Reserve 


 components.



 We see, for example, that many DD Form 214, Certificate of 


 Release or Discharge from Active Duty, prepared at the active 


 duty demobilization station contain significant errors and 


 require correction at the home station. As you know from your 


 own military experience, the DD 214 is an essential ticket to 


 access veteran's benefits. The time required to correct these 


 forms is a burden on our veterans. Like the rest of the 


 transition assistance program of health care, education, VA 


 and employment counseling, Minnesota, among other states, has 


 demonstrated that it can be provided better at the home 


 station.



 Several states participated in a National Guard-wide 


 working group convened last fall to capture the best 


 practices nationwide. The recommendations of that working 


 group echo the results of previous twenty-four months of DoD 


 working groups in which my staff has participated. We have 


 just begun another DoD working group, this one chartered by 


 Congress on the subject of Guard and Reserve transition to 


 civilian employment. That report is due to Congress in 


 October 2007. There are several very effective programs in 


 our States to model--the solution set to this issue is well 


 defined. The National Guard Bureau has well documented 


 lessons learned from studying this issue. The need for more 


 time to accomplish transition assistance at the home station 


 is clear.



 Providing a better transition and reintegration experience 


 for our Guardsmen is a top priority for me and Lieutenant 


 General Clyde Vaughn, the director of the Army National 


 Guard. There are currently 37,000 Guardsmen deployed to fight 


 the war on terror. It's expected that another 60,000 will 


 deploy within the next 18 months. Almost a full third of the 


 National Guard and their families will require transition 


 assistance in the near term. A national program, implemented 


 swiftly, would arrive just in time for them. I salute and 


 appreciate your continuing interest in the welfare of our 


 National Guardsmen.



 Sincerely,
























 H. Steven Blum,



















Lieutenant General, U.S. Army,


















 Chief, National Guard Bureau.