---
---

# IN HONOR AND MEMORY OF ARMY SPECIALIST CASEY W. NASH
## `4dd310ce299ef7d7341838005210c797`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
Army Specialist Casey W. Nash, who died the eighteenth of May two-
thousand seven in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Specialist Nash and two other soldiers were killed by an improvised 
explosive device in Tahrir, Iraq. He died of serious injuries when the 
roadside-improvised explosive device detonated near his unit. 
Specialist Nash enlisted in the Army in February 2003, shortly after 
graduating from Eastern Technical High School, where he played 
football. Casey was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 12th Cavalry 
Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, 
Texas. Casey served as a fire support specialist and his duties 
included mapping coordinates and driving a Humvee. He was serving his 
second tour of duty in Iraq.

Casey Nash was born in Pasadena, Texas, and moved to Middle River, 
Maryland with his family when he was a child. He attended Victory Villa 
Elementary School and Middle River Middle School before attending 
Eastern Technical High School. Casey moved to Essex, Maryland with his 
mother, Sandra Nash, and his sister while he was in high school.

The Eastern Technical High School alumnus is succeeded by his father, 
Lewis Nash, his mother, Ms. Sandra L. Nash, his sister, Sara Nash, and 
many family members in Middle River and Essex, Maryland.

Madam Speaker, today I ask that you join with me in honoring the life 
of a man truly dedicated to serving his Country.
