---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `4dd39b0f7c5fe58fd31b3cb41ee00567`
`Mr. LaHOOD — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 2638, the Consolidated 
Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009:

STEM Education Research Center: $5 million will be used to create 
dedicated health sciences research laboratories.

Account: General Provision.

Requesting Entity: Bradley University, 1501 West Bradley Avenue, 
Peoria, IL 61625.

3D2 Advanced Battery Technology: $4 million will be used for 
continued research on graphite foam lead acid batteries. These lighter 
weight and higher energy-dense battery systems would be used in 
military vehicles. The porous and conductive nature of the 3D2 plate 
enables more efficient and deeper discharges coupled with faster and 
more reliable recharges.

Agency/Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army; 
Combat Vehicle and Automotive Advanced Technology.

Requesting Entity: Firefly Energy, 5407 North University Street, 
Arbor Hall, Suite A, Peoria, IL 61614.

Pediatric Medication Administration Product and Training: $800,000 
will be used to provide essential safe care technology and training for 
the proper medication administration by pediatric nurses at Walter Reed 
Medical Center and other Army hospitals, as well as in the field in 
Iraq and Afghanistan to guard against preventable adverse drug events.



Agency/Account: Defense Health Program; Procurement.

Requesting Entity: InformMed, 801 West Main Street, Peoria, IL 61606.

Advanced Trauma Training Course for the Illinois Army National Guard: 
$2.4 million will be used to continue to develop joint training 
opportunities for Rush University Medical Center, through the 
Department of Emergency Medicine, and the Illinois Army National Guard 
to address the issues of disaster preparedness. The Advanced Trauma 
Response training program is designed specifically to build medical 
readiness to respond to initial trauma in the field.

Agency/Account: Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard; 
Administration and Servicewide Activities.

Requesting Entity: Rush University Medical Center, 1653 West Congress 
Parkway, Chicago, IL 60612.

Small Caliber Trace Charging Facilitization Program: $1.2 million 
will be used to maintain a flexible small caliber trace charging and 
bullet/cartridge assembly production line and have the manufacturing 
capabilities reside in North America to reduce delivery risk.

Agency/Account: Procurement of Ammunition, Army; Provision of 
Industrial Facilities.

Requesting Entity: General Dynamics, 6658 Route 148, Marion, IL 
62959.

PGU-14 Army Piercing Incendiary, 30-mm Ammunition: $2.4 million will 
be used to procure 30-mm ammunition. The PGU-14 API has not been in 
production since the 1980s and the original prescribed shelf life was 
15 years. Currently the United States Air Force recognizes that the 
PGU-14 API war stocks are in a critical status with the majority of the 
inventory unsafe for even emergency needs.

Agency/Account: Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force; Cartridges.

Requesting Entity: General Dynamics, 6658 Route 148, Marion, IL 
62959.

25-mm High Explosive Air Burst Ammunition for Bradley Fighting 
Vehicles: $4.4 million will be used to develop much needed high 
explosive air burst 25-mm ammunition for Bradley Fighting Vehicles.

Agency/Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army; 
Tank and Medium Caliber Ammunition.

Requesting Entity: General Dynamics, 6658 Route 148, Marion, IL 
62959.

Scorpion Low Cost Helmet Mounted Cueing and Information Display 
System: $4 million will be used to develop a low-cost helmet mounted 
display and cueing system for the Air National Guard.

Agency/Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air 
Force; A-10 Squadrons.

Requesting Entity: GENTEX, 1444 North Farnsworth Avenue, Suite 604, 
Aurora, IL 60505.
