---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `4dd4f58837b159077a7ae6623a087d74`
`Mr. DORGAN — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. I thank my colleagues for their courtesy.

Madam President, I sat here enormously entertained by my friend from 
New Hampshire. It was an almost unbelievable presentation. I will deal 
with a couple of points in a few minutes.

Let me first say we have the nomination in front of us of former 
Congressman Nussle, who was part of the crowd who early on in this 
administration, as a new administration took shape, came to town with 
their allies in Congress, including Congressman Nussle, and said: We 
see at the end of the Clinton administration very large, proposed, 
projected budget surpluses. Let's put in place very large tax cuts, 
mostly to wealthy Americans.

Some of us said: Maybe that is not the conservative way to do things. 
Maybe we should wait a bit and see whether the actual surpluses do 
materialize.

No, no, they said. We are going to stick in these big tax cuts, most 
to wealthy Americans, because that is the way things work. We believe 
in the trickle down theory.

Guess what. That crowd had their way. I didn't vote for it, but they 
had their way. Mr. Nussle, the nominee, chairman of the House Budget 
Committee, the President, and others in the team had their way. The 
result, of course, we all understand: A $5.6 trillion projected budget 
surplus was turned in to a projected deficit of $3 trillion. That is 
during Mr. Nussle's time.

There was actually one person in the crowd who didn't go along with 
it. He got fired. His name was Paul O'Neill. Paul O'Neill said he tried 
to warn the administration that the growing budget deficits expected to 
top hundreds of billions of dollars posed a threat to the economy. The 
Vice President, Mr. Cheney, said, quoting from the book that was 
written about this:




 You know, Paul, Reagan proves that deficits don't matter.


That is the crowd we are talking about, deficits don't matter. That 
comes from the Vice President, but it could have come from the nominee 
before us because it is all part of the same crowd, believing in the 
same thing.

It is fascinating to me that the previous speaker talked about how 
wonderful things are going. This economic engine of ours is purring 
just fine. I guess it is, if you live in the right neighborhood and 
drive the right vehicle. A whole lot of folks got up this morning to 
work hard all day, struggle to pay their bills. They are the kind of 
people who know about seconds. They know about second shifts, second 
job, second hand, second mortgage, and they take second place every 
single day when we have this debate on the Senate floor by people such 
as my colleague who said things are going well for everybody.



Let me describe what we have in our Tax Code. The second wealthiest 
man in the world, Mr. Warren Buffett, a man I greatly admire, said he 
thinks our Tax Code doesn't work at all. He said: If this is class war, 
my side is winning. The second richest man in the world says he pays a 
lower income tax rate than the receptionist in his office. He thinks 
that is wrong. So do I. Why? Because my colleague is describing his 
philosophy. We need to reward investment.

How about rewarding work for a change? The philosophy on the other 
side is, let's exempt income from investment and tax work. Why is work 
less worthy than investment? Tell me. You think this works well. You 
believe this system this crowd has put together makes sense? When the 
second richest man in the world says: By the way, this system allows me 
to pay a lower tax rate than the receptionist in my office, are you 
proud of that? That is what you are bragging about?


And spending, I keep seeing the disjointed fingers point to the 
Democratic side on spending. There is no one who has proposed more 
spending in the history of this country than the Bush administration. 
Certainly, no one has proposed higher and larger deficits in the 
history of this country than this administration. So it is a little 
tired for us to hear about big spending. No one can match the big 
spending habits of this administration.

One more point: We have in front of us in this Chamber a $145 billion 
proposal for additional emergency funds for the Department of Defense 
for Iraq and Afghanistan. We read in the paper recently there is 
another $50 billion expected on the way which means there will be in 
front of us $195 billion in requested funding by this President for the 
war in Iraq and Afghanistan. Incidentally, he proposes it all be judged 
as an emergency so none of it has to be paid for. So we will continue 
to send soldiers to war and then ask them to come back to pay down the 
debt because we didn't as a country decide to do it. This President 
didn't want to do it. This President said: I want all of that money on 
an emergency basis. Talk about a fiscal policy that is out of balance, 
one that lacks values, one that I think shortchanges American workers, 
one that certainly shortchanges this country's future--this is the 
policy.

The fact is, this nominee is a significant part of the engine for 
that policy. He served as chairman of the House Budget Committee for 6 
years during the period of the origination of this policy. Three of 
those 6 years they couldn't even get a budget together. Three of those 
years had the highest budget deficits in history, and we still hear 
people bragging about the content of that fiscal policy? Are they 
kidding? It is unbelievable. It is, I suppose, because we all get up 
and shower in the morning before putting suits on. Those people who 
shower in the evening after a hard day's work, they don't have it quite 
so good. The fact is, they are the ones who pay the bills, pay taxes, 
struggle to make ends meet.

Talk about creating jobs in these years. The job creation is anemic 
with this administration. Take a look at the number of jobs created 
over the years of this administration and evaluate what we needed to 
create to keep pace. We are not anywhere close to that.

Finally, all this debt that has been racked up by this crowd with 
this fiscal policy, guess who holds a substantial amount of that debt. 
We borrow money from China and Japan to finance a war in Iraq. That is 
unbelievable to me.

From my standpoint, I don't intend to vote for this nominee. It is 
not so much about this nominee. I generally vote for a President's 
choices for the Cabinet. But in this case, it is time for us to decide 
to send a message, a message the American people already understand: 
This fiscal policy doesn't work. This fiscal policy is built on a 
foundation of quicksand. We already know the result. We see it year 
after year after year.

I intend to vote against this nominee. My hope is that, perhaps 
through this debate, we will decide there is a better fiscal policy, 
one that requires responsibility.

I yield the floor.