# None
## `4dd53c62905cbac6aeaa8106268c3f25`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, I thank the leader for the time 
allotted, and I wish to take this time to say that I do oppose the 
Levin-Reed amendment. I believe it is very important for the Nation at 
this point in time to not change course until September when we have 
had an opportunity to not hear from people in this Chamber but when we 
have an opportunity to hear from the general on the ground, General 
Petraeus, when he comes back and reports to us on the conditions in 
Iraq and what his recommendations might be.

I think this is too important. The danger to our Nation as a result 
of Iran's very aggressive tendencies, as well as al-Qaida's continued 
presence in Iraq, makes it essential that this mission not be 
terminated prematurely and certainly not until the time we have had the 
generals on the ground give us their assessment of this latest 
strategy, which we approved and put in place in order for us to see 
some progress forward.

There are signs of progress on the ground. I am encouraged by some of 
those things I hear in spite of the noise that doesn't allow it to 
break through. The fact is, it does appear things are improving 
somewhat on the ground. At the end of the day, the proper time for us 
to make a judgment is September and not now.

The amendment before us, the Levin/Reed amendment, would mandate the 
Bush administration begin reducing the number of troops in Iraq within 
120 days and maintain only a ''limited presence'' by April.

In 120 days, can we physically reduce our troops that quickly in a 
safe manner? What about our equipment? Can that be done in 120 days?

The issue clearly is not our shared desire to see our troops come 
home safely and at the earliest time within the needs of our Nation's 
security. All of us want our troops home. The question is, what is the 
correct policy for our country in Iraq? Last week we received an 
interim report on the status of the situation in Iraq. To be sure, it 
was a mixed report--showing just half of the benchmarks being met. But 
let's look at that report in its proper context.

There are those who would inflate this report's significance beyond 
its intended purpose and use it to prod a hasty end to the war. I think 
those efforts are misguided. This was not a report on the impact or 
effectiveness of the surge. It was a status report of where Iraq stands 
currently on its path to peace, stability, sovereignty, and democracy. 
And here are the areas where there has been satisfactory progress in 
Iraq:

The Iraqi Government has formed a Constitutional Review Committee and 
they have implemented procedures to form semi-autonomous regions.

They have established support committees for the Baghdad Security 
Plan and they have provided three trained Iraqi brigades to support 
Baghdad operations.

They are insuring Baghdad is not a safe haven for outlaws, regardless 
of their sectarian or political affiliation.

They have established all planned joint security stations in 
neighborhoods across Baghdad.

They are ensuring the protection of minority political parties and 
they are spending $10 billion Iraqi revenues on reconstruction 
projects.

These are the areas where there has been satisfactory progress. But 
more progress remains to be seen.

They have yet to solve the issues related to debaathification reform. 
They have yet to implement an equitable distribution system for oil 
revenues.

The Iraqis have only just begun to enact new election laws. They have 
yet to ensure that Iraqi Security Forces, ISF, are providing even-
handed enforcement of the law--and on that point, we are holding the 
ISF to an appropriately high standard. The problem is that there has 
been a tendency for some police to gravitate back to the old habits of 
sectarianism. Our presence is having a positive impact on ensuring that 
doesn't occur. And the interim report also notes there are areas where 
it is too early to assess progress.

So there is the status report. Take it for what it is. It is a 
snapshot in time about the condition of the Iraqi government and where 
they are on this path to stability and democratic rule. If we are going 
to measure progress, it is good to know how much is being made. This is 
that report.

To those who want to inflate it as an indicator of the effectiveness 
of the surge, I would say to my colleagues that the surge has only 
fully been in place for the last 3 weeks.

The question is what should happen between now and September when 
General Petraeus will report to the President. At that time the surge, 
now in its third week, will have had 12 weeks. That will provide a 
better gauge of where we are. But even then it will be a very short 
time. We know more time is necessary.

I am confident that by September, we will have a good assessment from 
GEN David Petraeus. He will know what progress the surge is making--
what progress is attainable--and whether it is having the desired 
impact toward our common goals.

And yet despite the fact that the surge for stability is less than a 
month in place, despite the fact that Iraq has become a battleground 
where al-Qaida is doing everything they can to fight the West, here we 
are today, again, debating precipitous withdrawal.

The senior senator from Michigan says of his amendment, ''Beginning a 
phased redeployment this year will add incentives for the Iraqis to 
make the hard compromises necessary to bring their country together and 
secure it.'' I disagree.

Beginning a phased redeployment will add to the security problems. It 
will add to the instability. It will add to the sectarian violence and 
the killing. It will destroy any chance of pushing that country toward 
the place where we all hope it will be. It may even put our forces at 
risk in a defeated dangerous and humiliating defeat.

I ask those supporting this withdrawal to consider the consequences. 
Consider what would occur if we left Iraq right now in a 120-day 
timeframe dictated by politics and polls and politicians in Washington, 
not generals on the ground. Is this a sound strategy for our military? 
Can this be accomplished?

Leaving now would leave a security void in Iraq. The vacuum created 
would be filled by al-Qaida and Iran. The Kurds would be threatened by 
Turkey.

Al-Qaida would have a training ground free from the threat of 
military


encroachment. Sectarian fighting would create even greater loss of 
Iraqi lives.

We have to be cognizant of the consequences of a precipitous troop 
reduction and withdrawal. If we leave Iraq now--will we have to return 
at a later date?

We will be back fighting a larger enemy, a strengthened enemy, a more 
brutal enemy, an even more determined enemy emboldened by our defeat.

Our leaving Iraq right now will strengthen our enemies; namely, al-
Qaida. Don't take my word for it; take the words of our military 
leaders on the ground.

MG Rick Lynch is quoted in recent news reports saying that American 
withdrawal would ''clear the way for the enemy to come back.'' He says 
troop pullout would ''create an environment where the enemy would come 
back and fill the void.''

General Lynch added that in the field, Iraqi citizens often ask two 
questions. The first is whether the U.S. is staying. The second is how 
can we help. Iraqis, tired of having their villages attacked, their 
homes destroyed by the so-called insurgents--are looking to America. 
But they want to know that we will be there if they make a commitment.

I appreciate those clear words from one of our military commanders on 
the ground. Would it be a good idea to consult them first? No one cares 
more about our troops than the officers who lead them. I rather take 
his view than that of a politician.

Come September we are set to receive an update from General Petraeus 
on the status of operations after the surge has been in place long 
enough for us to tell whether or not we are making the progress that 
needs to be made. At that point let us reassess. Are our goals 
attainable?