---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `4dd74deed40c78f6c7e6edc8d3de27a8`
`Mr. LANGEVIN â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. 
Res. 99, the Budget Resolution for FY 2008. This measure will provide 
robust funding for some of the most important programs to the American 
people, while simultaneously maintaining our commitment to fiscal 
discipline.

Last year, the Democrats promised to move the country in a new and 
better direction. The budget before us today restores many of the 
programs that the President proposed to cut, while allowing us to not 
only balance our budget but return to surplus by 2012. I am pleased 
that the Democratic budget meets our commitment to national defense and 
supports those who have served our country by providing significant 
increases for military and veterans' health care. We must not leave 
behind those who have risked their lives in defense of our Nation, and 
this budget includes $3.5 billion more than the President's to improve 
care in the areas of mental health, post-traumatic stress disorder, 
traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury--areas of great concern 
for our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

As the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging 
Threats, Cybersecurity and Science and Technology, I am proud to 
support a budget that properly invests in our homeland security 
initiatives. Unlike the President's proposal, we provide considerable 
funding for programs important to state and local law enforcement in 
Rhode Island, including the State Homeland Security Grant Program, 
which awarded approximately $50 million to Rhode Island from 2003 to 
2006, and the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, from which 
Rhode Island received $11.5 million from 2004 to 2006. By passing the 
Democratic budget, we can give first responders in Rhode Island the 
tools they need to keep our citizens safe.

In addition, the new Democratic leadership has made implementing the 
9/11 Commission recommendations a top priority for the 110th Congress. 
This task was completed in the first 100 hours, and today we underscore 
our commitment to those recommendations by providing sufficient funding 
to carry them out.

The Democratic budget also meets our Nation's domestic priorities, 
notably in the area of health care. While the President proposed to cut 
children from the State Children's Health Insurance Program, SCHIP, our 
budget includes a $50 billion reserve fund to expand SCHIP to cover 
more of the nine million children without health insurance in this 
country. In Rhode Island's RIte Care program, federal SCHIP funds are 
leveraged to provide health insurance to many children living in 
families with at least one working parent or an income below 250 
percent of the poverty level. RIte Care also covers certain pregnant 
women and parents, providing peace of mind for families who would 
otherwise face uncertainty about health care. Still, despite these 
relatively generous eligibility policies, there are still 18,680 
uninsured children in the state, or 6.6 percent of all Rhode Island 
children, which is why additional support is needed to protect our most 
vulnerable. The Democratic budget provides that support.

This budget will also increase funding for education, social 
services, and job training programs by almost $8 billion over the 2008 
program level in the President's budget, important steps that we must 
take to reverse 6 years of harmful cuts. Pell Grants, which offer so 
many American students the opportunity to access higher education, have 
seen a significant decline in purchasing power in recent years. Under 
this budget, we will raise the maximum Pell Grant to at least $4,600 
and take significant steps toward making college a possibility for all 
of our Nation's young people.

The budget we are considering today also restores critical community 
development and social services programs that the President proposed to 
cut. Community and regional development programs like the Community 
Development Block Grant (CDBG) provide vital funding for economic and 
community development in both urban and rural areas nationwide. This 
proposal will also restore funding to the Low Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program (LIHEAP) which helps lower-income families cope with 
rising heating and cooling costs.

In another effort to lower energy costs and provide a new vision for 
America's energy policy, the Democratic budget makes a major investment 
in alternative and renewable energy research, which will move us closer 
to energy independence and improve our environment. It includes an 
additional $300 million this year for the Department of Energy, which 
could be invested in renewable and alternative energy development and 
energy efficiency initiatives. It also establishes a reserve fund that 
could provide as much as $14 billion over 10 years to invest in clean 
and renewable energy resources. Just as our Nation rallied around 
President Kennedy's call to put a man on the moon, we must similarly 
harness the creativity and expertise of our citizens and private 
industry to develop new technologies and work toward energy 
independence.

The Democratic budget also recognizes the importance of preserving 
our environment and public lands for future generations by providing an 
additional $2.6 billion for environmental programs--9 percent more than 
the President's request. It also blocks the President's proposed cuts 
to vital environmental programs such as the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund, EPA clean water grants and our National Wildlife Refuge system. 
Rhode Islanders have a long history of protecting our natural 
resources, and I am pleased that this budget reflects those values.

Finally, this budget includes several greatly needed extensions of 
tax provisions that will continue to help middle class families and 
small businesses to prosper. The Democratic budget establishes a 
reserve fund that will continue to provide tax cuts to millions of 
working families nationwide, and it will reduce the burden of the 
alternative minimum tax (AMT) that adversely affects thousands of Rhode 
Islanders each year. Democrats are committed to reducing the increasing 
tax burdens on middle-class Americans in a way that adheres to the 
fiscally responsible pay-as-you-go rules adopted by this Congress.

For too long the American people have been forced to choose between 
losing funding for vital domestic programs and running record deficits 
that will ultimately be passed along for our children and grandchildren 
to pay. Today, we finally have the opportunity to support a budget that 
will fund programs thousands of Rhode Islanders rely upon, while 
maintaining our commitment to fiscal responsibility. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in voting yes on the Democratic budget 
resolution.