---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4de38ddc8cf9718c6c80bd1c3ea204c1`
`Mr. PETRI — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PETRI. Mr. Speaker, I plan to vote for this resolution, but to 
surge or not to surge, that is the wrong question. Just saying ''no'' 
is simple obstructionism. What we need is a new way forward to replace 
the old way that is not getting us anywhere. It has become clear that 
trying to establish a


multiethnic Iraqi democracy, while laudable, simply cannot be 
accomplished by non-Iraqis.

The fact is, Iraq has never been a unified country with enough common 
interest to foster the give and take of democracy. During the First 
World War, Britain seized the Mesopotamian region from the collapsing 
Ottoman Empire. Iraq was created out of three separate provinces to 
keep the Turks out while allowing the British access to the local oil.

Captain Arnold Wilson, the British civil commissioner in Baghdad, 
argued that the creation of the new state was a recipe for disaster. He 
warned that the deep differences among the three main communities, the 
Sunni, Shia and Kurds, ensured the new country could only be run by 
what he called the antithesis of democratic government.



After a rebellion in 1920, which resulted in the deaths of some 2,000 
British soldiers and 8,000 Iraqis, the British, through the leadership 
of Secretary of War Winston Churchill, largely extricated themselves by 
choosing a Sunni to be king and strongman.

In light of this history, we should seriously consider that we have 
two basic options:

First, choose a faction to stabilize and rule the country through 
force, much as all of Iraq's previous regimes did, and that is hardly 
an attractive option.

Or, second, bring about a partition of the country, to form a loose 
confederation where the Shias, the Sunnis and the Kurds can each govern 
themselves while leaving the others alone.

Our enterprise in Iraq has been carried out with the best of 
intentions, and our men and women in the Armed Forces have performed 
with great heroism, skill, and honor. But we have to accept reality. We 
have a responsibility to help stabilize the situation, and doing so is 
in our national interest.

But I don't think it is fair to ask our sons and daughters to be 
policemen in a civil war. Sadly, it seems that most Iraqis do not 
embrace democratic government unless it is dominated exclusively by 
their own individual groups.

The Sunnis, the Shia and the Kurds are willing and able to establish 
law and order within their own ethnically homogenous areas. The efforts 
to push out other areas currently underway in Iraq are deplorable, but 
it is surely not unexpected given Iraq's history and desperate 
situation.

The sectarian militias have popular support because they have easily 
understood plans to establish security within their spheres for their 
own people. Instead of fighting the militias, we need to co-opt them. 
We need to help acceptable local tribal leaders, government leaders and 
religious authorities establish authority over their areas.

We also need to seek the positive involvement of Iraq's neighbors. 
Some of them may be meddling, or may be tempted to meddle, but at the 
end of the day, instability in Iraq means instability for everybody in 
the region.

Let's set about the task of helping Iraq's three main groups to 
regroup and stabilize their own territories so that we can withdraw to 
our bases and ultimately get out all together.