---
---

# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL ANTHONY J. ``LAZER'' LAZARSKI
## `4de3a8d42eac35357b7db973fdfb36ab`
`Mr. INHOFE — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I am here today to recognize and pay 
tribute to COL Anthony J. ''Lazer'' Lazarski, Chief of the Air Force 
Senate Liaison, for his 25 years of exceptional service and dedication 
to the U.S. Air Force and our great country. Colonel Lazarski is a 
command pilot with over 2,300 flight hours in 12 different types of 
aircraft, including the RF-4, F-15, F-16, F-111 and F-117. He has 
supported combat operations around the world, to include the Libya Raid 
and Operations Desert Storm, Desert Fox, Allied Force, Southern Watch, 
and Iraqi Freedom. Throughout his military career, he has been 
recognized by his superiors and subordinates as a leader in the air and 
on the ground--an Airman with the ability to motivate and lead.

COL Lazer Lazarski grew up in North Arlington, NJ, and watched them 
build the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center from the basement up. 
He earned an appointment to the Air Force Academy and graduated in 1982 
with military honors. Upon completion of pilot training, he was 
selected to fly the F-111 and earned the distinction of Top Gun for 
both his T-38 Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals class and his F-111 
Replacement Training Unit class. While flying in Tactical Air Command 
with the 79th NATO Tigers at RAF Upper Heyford, he was selected as the 
wing's youngest instructor pilot. Shortly thereafter, he was selected 
as the youngest United States Air Forces in Europe flight examiner. As 
a pilot, I can attest to the fact that you only allow your sharpest and 
most mature pilots to set, evaluate, and enforce the standards for 
other pilots. I happen to be a flight instructor currently. I can 
assure you, they are the very best people. This is a major 
accomplishment he was able to achieve.

Colonel Lazarski later transitioned to the F-117 Stealth Fighter and 
earned Top Gun in his third aircraft, this time during a Southern Watch 
deployment over the skies of Iraq. Colonel Lazarski demonstrated he 
could not only deliver precise weapons on target on time, he could also 
motivate and lead others. In recognition of his extraordinary 
leadership, he was named 12th Air Force Flight Commander of the Year, 
and selected to attend the Naval War College.

After graduating from the Naval War College in 1994, he served 3 
years in Naples, Italy at NATO Headquarters, including as the aide-de-
camp to two different Commanders, Allied Air Forces in Southern Europe. 
One of these Commanders was then LTG Mike Ryan, who would later become 
Air Force Chief of Staff. During his tour, he was one of the first 
combat troops on the ground in Sarajevo as he helped set up the NATO 
Air Operations Center.

In 1997, he transitioned to the F-15 Strike Eagle, serving as the 
336th Fighter Squadron Assistant Operations Officer and deployed 
commander from Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, NC. During this tour he 
also served as Chief of the Command Post and integrated new command and 
control systems to include hurricane tracking/forecasting systems put 
to test in 3 years of multiple hurricanes.

In 2001 he graduated No. 1 from his Air War College Class, earning 
the Wright Brothers Officership Award and Military Outstanding 
Volunteer Medal. This honor earned him the right to serve the next year 
at Vance Air Force Base, in my home state of Oklahoma as the Deputy 
Operations Group Commander.

Due to the superb leadership Colonel Lazarski demonstrated at Vance, 
he was selected as the Director of Air Combat Command's Commander 
Action Group--the strategic ''think tank'' for our Air Force's lead 
combat command. In this position he was given the immense 
responsibility for developing strategy, doctrine, concepts, tactics and 
procedures for U.S. air and space power employment.


Colonel Lazarski's next assignment led him back to command, this time 
in Air Education Training Command as the Commander of the 479th Flying 
Training Group where he was responsible for training new pilots in the 
T-6, and new fighter pilots and weapons officers in the T-38. Colonel 
Lazarski oversaw 115 aircraft averaging 300 sorties a day, and despite 
five hurricanes in one season, no student ever graduated late under 
Colonel Lazarski's leadership.

In 2005 at the culmination of an exceptional military career, Colonel 
Lazarski was reassigned to Capitol Hill as the Chief of the Air Force 
Senate Liaison Division. Here Colonel Lazarski integrated his 
remarkable experience and leadership with ceaseless integrity, 
initiative, and persistence to result in unparalleled effectiveness on 
behalf of the Air Force and our Nation.

We offer our sincere thanks to Colonel Lazarski, his wife Stephanie, 
and their son Andrew for their unwavering support of our country and 
the freedom we hold so dear. We congratulate Colonel Lazarski on the 
completion of an exemplary active-duty career. Utilizing the theme from 
one of my favorite books, Message to Garcia, let me close by saying: 
Message delivered and job well done! Now a new mission awaits you, and 
I'm honored to have you serve your country again, this time as my 
Military Legislative Assistant. Congratulations and welcome!
