---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MR. ORVAL ALLEN KELSO
## `4de4cb2f59ad15f959fe64a447c55bdf`
`Mr. SALI — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. SALI. Madam Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me 
in recognizing the accomplishments of Mr. Orval Allen Kelso.

Today, deeply engaged in a war on terror, thousands of American 
civilians are working and serving in harm's way. Like the brave men and 
women serving in uniform, these patriotic citizens risk their lives 
everyday in an effort to rebuild a stronger future for the people of 
Iraq. However, they are not alone. American civilian contractors have 
been operating in combat theatres since as early as World War II, and I 
am here today to tell you about one of those.

Orval Allen Kelso was a civilian working on Wake Island during the 
early 1940s. Hailing from Emmett, Idaho, Orval worked as a baker in his 
father-in-law's bakery before going on to pursue better wages working 
overseas. Mr. Kelso worked as a heavy machine operator throughout the 
Pacific until April 8, 1943, when he was captured and taken as a POW to 
Camp 18, Sesabo, Japan. Orval later died in that camp. His remains were 
claimed by his son in 1949, when they were brought back to rest on U.S. 
soil at the National Memorial Cemetery, Honolulu, Hawaii.

It is fitting that we honor Mr. Kelso for his sacrifice and also be 
reminded of the many others who were taken prisoner or who paid the 
ultimate sacrifice working in harm's way. We often forget about the 
non-military Americans who gave their all for the freedoms we cherish 
in our great Nation. Let us help remedy that today by recognizing Mr. 
Kelso and the civilian POW's taken during World War II. They are an 
exemplary example of the selflessness displayed by Americans in an 
effort to bring peace and freedom to millions, and we thank them for 
their sacrifice.
