---
---

# None
## `4df705a6798883fe363430bc1cd64405`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 8 April 2008`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. I thank the gentleman for yielding. And he's exactly 
right. Security on the ground, a secure and stable environment. And 
that is what the counterinsurgency strategy has been about, and the 
results that it has yielded.

As we have just discussed, indeed, and as Americans know well, we had 
a surge from our troops. The Iraqis also carried out their surge, and 
what it has yielded is an environment where not only we saw the 
military progress, but also where political progress can take place. 
And there are some wonderful lessons learned here.

I think that one of those, when we are in Iraq visiting with our 
troops and working with some of the Iraqis and helping to mentor some 
of the women that we have mentored over there, one of the things they 
will tell you is, we are so glad that you have not left us. Thank you 
for not leaving us. We know people are frustrated. We know there are no 
guarantees. But we also know that it is important that we keep at it. 
It's not going to happen overnight. And thank you, thank you for not 
leaving. We fear what would happen if you left.

And they are, as the gentleman from Georgia was saying, Mr. Speaker, 
they are seeing progress. The Iraq parliament is seeing progress. And 
as the gentleman just listed some things, and let me touch on them 
again, a pension law for regime officials, that has happened. De-
Ba'athification reform, that has been carried out. An amnesty law, 
provincial election laws. And as he said, the sharing, the national 
government now sharing oil revenues with the provinces, something that 
a year ago many people said, it will never happen. But, here we are, 
and yes, indeed, it all is beginning to take place.

I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia.