---
---

# None
## `4dfb0b37b363d7d39be85ef0db0b9431`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 2 August 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I thank Chairman Baucus, and I thank 
both Senators Dodd and Senator Chambliss for their vigorous explanation 
and advocacy of the bill which we have introduced that we are proposing 
to have as an amendment to the current legislation pending before the 
Senate because we think the duty to honor our veterans, our 
servicemembers, and their families is urgent. This is a duty we take 
very seriously.

Clearly, based on the recently released report by the Commission on 
Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, chaired by former 
Senator Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services 
Donna Shalala, it is a matter of grave urgency for our Nation to do 
everything we can to improve support for our servicemembers and 
veterans.

The Commission found that one of the most important ways to improve 
that care is to improve support for families. That is why Senator Dodd 
and I have offered an amendment to the CHIP legislation, the Support 
for Injured Servicemembers Act.

We are proud to have the bipartisan support of Senators Dole, Graham, 
Mikulski, Chambliss, Brown, Salazar, Cardin, Menendez, Kennedy, Boxer, 
and Jack Reed because this is a matter that goes way beyond politics as 
usual. It is certainly way beyond partisanship.

During the course of the Dole-Shalala Commission work, they showed 
what many families across the country already knew, that the Family and 
Medical Leave Act--which Senator Dodd worked so hard on for so many 
years, and which was the first piece of legislation signed by my 
husband--has been a godsend to 60 million Americans over the course of 
the last years--people taking care of newborn babies, a family member 
with an accident or illness, caring for an aging relative. It has made 
it possible for so many Americans to balance the difficult 
responsibilities of family and work.

But what has been abundantly clear--with all of our wounded warriors 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan--is it has not been sufficient for 
family members to care for those young servicemembers who have 
sustained a combat-related injury.

Currently, spouses, parents, and children can receive only 12 weeks 
of leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act. All too often, as we 
have now learned, that is insufficient, as injured servicemembers 
grapple with traumatic brain injuries, severe physical wounds, learning 
how to use a prosthetic, trying to understand what post-traumatic 
stress disorder means to them and to their futures. Indeed, family 
members have dropped everything. They have tried to be at the bedside, 
stayed in the area to help their loved one, given up jobs even. That 
seems to us to be more than the sacrifice their loved one has already 
made demands.

Imagine if your husband or your wife or your son or your daughter had 
been injured. You would want to be with them. You would want to take 
care of them. But you would not want to lose your job in the process. 
It is not a choice that military families should have to make. 
Therefore, that is why we are asking our colleagues to join with us to 
pass the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act, and to allow us to 
fulfill this duty we all feel to our military families.

I appreciate very much Senator Dodd's leadership on this issue for 
many years, and on this particular piece of legislation. We invite even 
more cosponsors from both sides of the aisle to join us, and we hope we 
will have a vote on this legislation before we leave, before we finish 
the CHIP legislation, so we can go home and tell military families that 
help is on the way.

Thank you very much, Mr. President.