# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4dfd0dec48130958c90bea398f6d9455`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, this is the moment that a majority of 
Americans who voted last November have been waiting for, a time when 
Congress does something about Iraq. And that something that the people 
asked of us is to get us out of Iraq.

The resolution before us will not of itself get U.S. forces out of 
Iraq, but to paraphrase Winston Churchill, if it is not the end, it is 
at least the beginning of the end.

Our President is having trouble understanding the message from the 
American people. It is a simple message that I hear every time I go 
back home to Minnesota. Time to bring our troops home with honor. The 
people are telling me our mission in Iraq is accomplished. The 
President already declared victory. The goals of the U.S. invasion have 
been met.

Iraq's army was defeated, Saddam Hussein removed from power and 
brought to judgment. The Iraqi people held elections to establish a new 
government. Mission accomplished. Time to bring the troops home with 
honor.

No weapons of mass destruction were found, despite extensive 
searches. The Iraqis have a government, they have an army, a police 
force. There is no further purpose of American policy to be served by a 
continued military presence in Iraq.

What remains in Iraq is religious warfare between Sunni and Shia, 
with our troops caught in the crossfire. This is not the job our troops 
signed up for. This is not the war President Bush sold to Congress. 
People are telling the President, it is time to bring the troops home 
and to do it with honor.

President Bush has said he is concerned this resolution is prejudging 
the outcome of our involvement in Iraq. I would say the outcome is not 
in doubt. We have spent and are continuing to spend $9 billion a month 
in Iraq; 3,122 of our servicemen and -women have been killed; 23,550-
plus have been wounded; tens of thousands more Iraqis killed and 
wounded. The violence is escalating, our troops are the targets.

I do not think this resolution prejudges anything. The facts speak 
for themselves. And the people are saying bring the troops home with 
honor. I did not support this war at its outset. We had Saddam Hussein 
contained. Al Qaeda was not in Iraq. We had a job to do in Afghanistan. 
I supported going into Afghanistan to capture Osama bin Laden. But I 
saw no clear rationale for sending troops into combat in Iraq.

The resolution does offer a statement of support for the troops. 
Their service is an extraordinary gift. They volunteer to leave their 
homes and families and risk their lives every day, at the order of the 
President. All they ask is that we never ask them to go to conflict 
unless that conflict is absolutely necessary and in the national 
interest.

Lieutenant General William Odom, in a recent article in The 
Washington Post said, about the question that we have to continue to 
fight in order to support the troops, has anyone asked the troops? 
During their first tours, many may have favored staying the course. But 
now in their second, third, fourth tours, he writes, many are changing 
their minds.

We see no evidence of that in the news stories about unhappy troops 
being sent back to Iraq. The strangest aspect of the rationale, General 
Odom writes, for continuing the war is the implication that our troops 
are somehow responsible for deciding to continue the President's 
course.

That political and moral responsibility belongs to the President, not 
to the troops. Didn't Harry Truman make it clear that the buck stops in 
the Oval Office? The President keeps dodging it. Where does it stop, 
General Odom asks, with Congress? And that is why we are here today to 
say it is up to us to make a definitive statement with this resolution, 
a statement that it is time to end the U.S. involvement in Iraq, to 
bring the troops home with honor. And then if the President does not 
heed, then we must take more vigorous steps, steps that I voted for in 
coming to end the U.S. involvement in Vietnam over 32 years ago.

If that is what it takes, then we have to say that the buck stops 
with us in the Congress to stop the U.S. engagement in Iraq.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
