# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `4e0223855789450d0fad6fab11d600f7`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, last November was one of those truly rare 
moments in the short history of our country and our democracy. Any 
political science student taking a freshman lecture, of course, will 
hear how incredibly hard it is to remove entrenched congressional 
majorities. They know the statistics about how hard it is to defeat 
incumbents around here. It doesn't happen that often. But sometimes, 
the American people rise up in one moment, as they did last November, 
and they make history. Just six times in our 230-year history has one 
party lost both Houses of Congress, and 2006 was the first time the 
Republican Party failed to win a single House, Senate, or gubernatorial 
office previously held by the Democrats.

We Democrats have been in that predicament. In 1994, Democrats woke 
up to a landslide defeat some people thought would never come. It 
wasn't always easy, it wasn't always collegial, but we listened and we 
learned. Together, we reached across the aisle to balance the budget 
and reform welfare. We wrestled with why we had lost, and we wrestled 
with what we had to do in order to come together--not just as a party 
but as a country.

Evidently, some people still haven't wrestled with what happened last 
November 7.

Last November, Americans were appropriately angry. They saw our young 
men and women in uniform paying the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq for a 
failed policy that was stuck on autopilot. They saw the number of 
Americans without health insurance skyrocket to 45 million, with more 
hard-working Americans joining them every day. They saw record-high oil 
prices and global climate change--a reality denied and deferred and no 
serious national effort to address these issues. They saw staggering 
corruption and no accountability for the way the people's House had 
been turned into a refuge for the special interests. Americans saw a 
politics and a party that was broken, and they rejected the 
stubbornness, cynicism, corruption, and failed policies that made 
''Washington'' a dirty word. They voted for a change.

President Bush seemed to get the message the day after the 2006 
election when he said to America:




 The message yesterday was clear. The American people want 


 their leaders in Washington to set aside partisan 


 differences, conduct ourselves in an ethical manner, and work 


 together to address the challenges facing our Nation.


The President said he got the message, but the question has to be 
asked: What have Republicans done since then? Where are they 6 months 
after their worst electoral defeat in 50 years? What happened to the 
President's postelection statements when measured against the 
President's actions and those of the Republican minority in the Senate? 
Those actions tell a very different story. Before the dust had settled, 
before defeated Republicans had even cleaned out their offices, this 
President and his remaining allies in Congress have made a calculation, 
on issue after issue, that they would just set out to stop everything 
from happening and then they would turn


around and they would ask: Why is nothing happening under the 
Democrats? This is a pure political calculation. It is wrong for the 
country, and I respectfully would suggest, ultimately, it will be wrong 
for the party. They would rather spend their time attacking Harry Reid 
than attacking the Nation's problems. Delay is no longer just a former 
Republican leader; it has become a Republican way of life.

We have been busy debating progress in Iraq around here and measuring 
benchmarks. I can't help but think as we talk about measuring 
benchmarks that pretty soon the Iraqi Government is going to wonder 
whether the Republican caucus is going to meet any of its benchmarks or 
any of the country's benchmarks.

For 6 months now, the Democratic majority has worked in good faith to 
deliver on our promises to the American people. Because of the 
Democratic majority, the minimum wage earner in America now makes 70 
cents an hour more than they did under a Republican Congress--and soon 
they will be making $2 more. The longest streak without a raise in the 
minimum wage in the history of the minimum wage has ended but not 
before 4 months of Republican obstruction cost each minimum wage earner 
in America around $500 in earnings.

We passed legislation to make college more affordable and cut 
interest rates in half for millions of Americans with student loans. We 
stood up to powerful special interests and raised the fuel efficiency 
of our automobiles by 10 miles per gallon. Twenty years had passed 
since Washington raised the fuel standards, but Democrats took on the 
special interests and got it passed. We passed funding for stem cell 
research. We passed the 9/11 Commission recommendations. We passed 
ethics and lobbying reforms.

Just yesterday, we passed legislation that will fix many of the 
shortfalls in our care for injured troops and veterans, and, over yet 
another White House veto threat, we also passed a 3.5-percent raise for 
members of the military. Most importantly, we passed legislation 
demanding that the President face reality and begin redeploying troops 
from Iraq.

Regrettably, there is, on almost every one of these issues, today as 
I stand here a gap between how many of those policies that are aimed to 
help everyday Americans, which enjoy the majority support of the 
Senate, and how many have actually been signed into law. Why? One 
simple reason: The President and his allies in Congress have decided to 
use every means at their disposal just to slow it down and block it, to 
stand for a policy of obstruction and obstruction and obstruction, not 
accomplishment for the American people. They have vetoed and 
filibustered and killed bills in conference. They have wasted days and 
days with procedural motions and delays that have nothing more to do in 
their purpose than to waste time and squander the trust and patience of 
the American people and, ultimately, to hope to be able to blame it on 
the Democrats.

Just look at what they have blocked. They vetoed a Senate bill 
demanding a new strategy in Iraq. They vetoed a stem cell research 
bill, science that could prove crucial to cures for 100 million 
Americans with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or diabetes or other 
diseases. Now, another veto is threatened on children's health care--of 
all things, children's health care--a veto threat on a bill the 
President hasn't even read, because he was worried about the price tag. 
Well, we are talking about our children's health, and the bill offered 
just $7 billion each year for uninsured children, while we spend 1/1/2/ 
times that amount every month in Iraq. Those are just the bills which 
made it to the President's desk.

Senate Republicans blocked a vote on a bill to allow the Federal 
Government to negotiate lower prescription drug prices for 43 million 
Americans on Medicare. Republicans are blocking the passage of a bill 
that would provide crucial funding for the intelligence community. They 
are blocking ethics bills that would mark the most sweeping ethics 
reform since Watergate. They don't have the votes to stop it, so they 
are pulling a procedural maneuver and refusing to appoint conferees in 
order to hammer out the final details of the bill.


The Republicans are now setting records for filibusters and 
obstruction. The Senate record for filibusters is being set already, 
and it is only halfway through this term. To paraphrase Winston 
Churchill: Never, in the field of Senate legislation, was so much 
progress blocked for so many by so few.

Actually, they have made history, I suppose, because thanks to the 
Senate Republicans, L.A. is no longer the center of gridlock in 
America--it is right here. On issue after issue, the Republicans have 
chosen to filibuster--and to do so just 2 short years after they 
declared the filibuster, as their then-leader, Bill Frist, said in late 
2004, ''nothing less than the tyranny of the minority.'' After 
expressing outrage at the mere hint of a Democratic filibuster last 
session, the Republicans have suddenly become the principled champions 
of so-called minority rights in the Senate, but minority rights apply 
to legitimate filibusters for legitimate issues, not a policy of 
obstruction to stop everything that comes along.

After threatening the so-called ''nuclear option'' when Democrats 
stood up to defend the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, they have 
introduced a filibuster to stop everyday business in the Senate. Almost 
everything the majority leader tries to do here now requires us having 
a cloture vote in order to prevent a filibuster. In fact, the 
rubberstamp Republicans of the previous 7 years have now become the 
roadblock Republicans. The party of Abraham Lincoln has become the 
party of redtape--vetoes, filibusters--any means necessary to deny the 
will of the majority of the Senate and the vast majority of the 
American people.

If you don't believe me, listen to what the minority whip, Senator 
Trent Lott, told a reporter just this April. He said:




 The strategy of being obstructionists can work or fail, and 


 so far, it is working for us--


The ''us'' being the Republican Party and the minority in the Senate.

Well, I think the Senator is looking at it the wrong way. The 
question isn't, Is it working for Republicans, is it working for 
Democrats? The question is, Is it working for the American people? Is 
it working for the millions of low-income children whose health care 
funding the President has threatened to veto? Is it making us safer 
when you block the funding for the intelligence agencies? Is this 
obstructionist strategy working for the 12 million Americans forced to 
live in the shadows of American life while our borders stay broken? Is 
it working for the 554 soldiers who have died in Iraq since Republicans 
first blocked a measure to redeploy troops last February?

Instead of the Senate's highest shared principles of consensus and 
bipartisan accomplishment, the Republicans have chosen the lowest 
common denominator--a zero sum game in which they are willing to gamble 
the American people's loss for Republican gain. The Republican strategy 
seems to be to slash the tires of the Senate and then wonder why we are 
still stuck on the side of the road and blame somebody else for that 
problem.

Let me be clear what I am criticizing here. I support the right of 
the minority to filibuster. In fact, I have done so myself. Every 
Senator in this body has that right. I support that right. But when 
filibustering not for the principle of the issue at hand but for the 
generic, broad strategy of stopping what happens here so you can blame 
the party in charge for not being able to finish the work, that is 
unacceptable.

The rights of the minority in the Senate ought to be protected, but 
they also ought to be used responsibly too. Do I have a problem with 
time?