---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `4e09d360f7a78b1d7f0011dac42ed901`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you very much. It is certainly a pleasure 
to be with both the gentleman from Louisiana, and for you as well, Mr. 
Melancon.

This is definitely a major, major priority as far as the future of 
this country is concerned. Our energy policy is interwoven directly 
into our vital national security. There is no question about it.

We have, for the past 50 years, progressively gotten more and more 
dependent on oil from the Middle East. There is a reason why Iraq, 
Iran, Saudi Arabia, those Middle Eastern countries are so vital.

It is so important for us to try to hopefully find a way in which we 
can get peace in that region. We don't know the answer to all of this; 
it is largely going to be up to those Middle Eastern countries. But we 
are so directly tied to the future stability of that region, largely 
because of one thing, that is, our energy. And that has been a mistake, 
that we are tied to our future energy needs to the most unstable region 
in the world. And we now need to move very rapidly to excise ourselves 
from that.

The other reason why our energy policy is so vital and so important, 
and again, part and parcel of our national security, is because of 
global warming. Make no mistake about it, there may be differing 
opinions about global warming, there may be differing opinions about 
climate change, but one thing is certain, the facts do not lie. This 
Earth is getting warmer by the day, by the year.

Scientists have pointed out that the Earth's climate is increasing in 
warmth at a rate of one-tenth of a degree in each of the previous 
decades.



That may sound like a little. But when you look at just 2 degrees 
since the turn of the century, that is a major, major fact; the fact of 
dependency on oil in the Middle East, the most unstable region, the 
fact that we are experiencing the damage of global warming. The reason 
for the global warming is the excretion of carbon dioxides into the 
air, and that gives us the greenhouse effect.

So on those two points, we have no choice but to proceed directly 
ahead and provide the kind of sterling leadership this Nation deserves, 
as you so aptly pointed out, Mr. Matheson, in a very responsible way, 
in which both sides of the aisle can come together. Everybody can come 
together and understand that this is not a Republican issue. This is 
not a Democratic issue. This is an issue for the future of the American 
people and the people of the world.