---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `4e0de6208f44ff4b46751816bdb07a05`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.

There is no denying that Iran's bloodthirsty regime would gladly 
destroy the United States, annihilate Israel and destabilize Iraq. 
Iran's hand in terrorist activities around the Middle East is clear. 
Iran's President continues to threaten Israel. I believe he stated he 
would wipe Israel off the map. And he continues to pursue nuclear 
weapons so he can dominate the Middle East and threaten his neighbors.

We have tried to stop Iran from obtaining those weapons. We have 
increased sanctions on firms that do business with this dangerous 
regime. We have worked with our allies and the United Nations.

And yet with all of these efforts, just yesterday, we learned that 
the sanctions have done precious little to impede Iran's march towards 
obtaining nuclear weapons.



According to the IAEA, and by Iran's own bravado, Iran is now 
beginning to enrich uranium on a far larger scale than ever before.

Mr. Chairman, this is not the time to be tying our hands on Iran. We 
all seek a peaceful solution. No one wants another war. But if we don't 
take a tough stance on Iran and maintain the threat of military action, 
Iran will get the message that we don't care if it gets nuclear 
weapons. It will allow the most dangerous regime in the world to 
continue its quest for regional and world domination, and destroy the 
only democratic country and the United States' most reliable ally in 
the region, Israel. I urge opposition to this amendment.