---
---

# MAKE IT IN AMERICA
## `4e147479edf544afb914c616c4a6d4eb`
`Mr. GARAMENDI — 17 November 2010`

---


Mr. GARAMENDI. Well, Mr. Ellison, thank you so very, very much, and 
it's a busy night for all of us. We've just come back to reorganize 
ourselves and to go forward.

Earlier today we selected a minority leader for the next year. It is 
our current Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and as she left the caucus today she 
very clearly laid out an agenda for the Democratic Party. That agenda 
was Make It in America: Manufacturing Matters, and Take Care of the 
Middle Class. These two things go together. If we are going to have a 
robust economy, if we are going to be able to move up the employment 
and reduce the unemployment in America, then we must make it in 
America. As we do that, we will recreate those very, very important, 
critical, middle class jobs. There's a whole strategy that's underway 
here.



I used to play football when I was back at the University of 
California a few years back and did fairly well at it. But there is an 
analogy that I think we need to keep in mind here to the current 
economic situation in America.

Let's envision for a moment that the first quarter was the 8 years of 
the Bush administration. What happened? Well, I had a little chart up 
here a few moments ago, and maybe I ought to put it back up. The first 
8 years of the Bush administration--be with me for a moment here--were 
the years of the first quarter. What happened? It was a wipe-out. It 
was horrible. The American team was decimated. We were on our backs. We 
were losing 800,000 jobs a month in the last year of the Bush 
administration. It was 8 million jobs lost.

The second quarter, we brought in the Obama team. It didn't start off 
too good. The first few minutes of that quarter were rough, but it was 
an improvement. Each minute that went by, each quarter that went by, we 
saw an improvement; and by the end of that second quarter, we were 
building jobs. We were building jobs in the private sector.

Now, we're into the second half of the Obama administration. What's 
going to happen? The Obama team is still on the field. The President's 
in place. We have a strong minority position going forward in the 
Democratic Caucus. Our Republican colleagues will take over the 
management of the House, and we'll see how that goes. On the Senate 
side, the Democrats are still there. So let's continue the second half 
as the Democratic half.

Here's our plan: we are going to develop strategies--many of them are 
already in place--to make it in America so that America can make it, 
and it is based on this: manufacturing matters. That was the Speaker's 
message. The minority message going forward in this House next year 
will be ''make it in America so that Americans can make it.'' It's 
important to be able to take that paycheck home.

My oldest daughter, now a little bit older--well, I should say more 
than a little. I'll never forget the day she came back from her first 
summer job. She came back, and she showed us her check. She held it up 
like that; and she said, Dad, I've got my first paycheck. She was 
proud. She was so proud that she was a working American.

And I know for those millions of Americans out there today that can't 
find a job, they want to be able to come back to their home with that 
check in hand and tell their children, I'm back at work. I'm working 
again. I can take care of you. I can provide for your education. I can 
put the food on the table. That's what they want. And we have a 
strategy in mind on the Democratic side that will do that.

This first quarter that I was talking about, the strategy was 
basically to increase the wealth of the wealthy, to start two wars and 
never pay for them, and to take the referees off the playing field and 
just let it rip. And we were ripped to a fare thee well. Wall Street 
just went crazy with ultimate greed. And the result--we should have 
expected it--you take the referees off the field, take the rule book, 
throw it off into the shower; and what do you think's going to happen 
in an NFL


football game? Well, that's what happened when Wall Street was allowed 
to run amok during the George W. Bush years.

It was the Democrats in this House, in the Senate that laid out a 
structure to stabilize the financial industry. We got most of that 
money back, and we'll probably get it all back in the years ahead. It 
was stabilized, not as good as we would want; but it was stabilized.

And then the next piece was brought forward, which was the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act. By all accounts, by learned economists, 
3 million jobs were created or saved as a result of that. And that 
wasn't the only piece of legislation. There was in that piece of 
legislation reinvestment in science and technology and research, 
reinvestment in our roads and streets and bridges, building the 
foundation for the future of America.

Followed up later in this session by Democrats with legislation 
called the HIRE Act, to put people back to work, to give businesses the 
financial incentive to hire people, to bring people back onto the 
payroll, subsidizing those rehires so that people can take that 
paycheck home and say, Dear, I'm back at work. I've got a job again. 
That's what Americans want. And the Democrats were delivering that.

The last piece of legislation before we went into the election was a 
piece of legislation to help the governments of America, the cities, 
the counties, the States, keep people employed in the essential jobs 
that are the public sector jobs: police, fire, teachers. In California 
alone, 16,000 teachers are in the classroom this year as a result of 
that piece of legislation. We want people to work. We put those bills 
on the floor. Some were actually passed by the Senate, much to our 
delight; but many, many were not. There were many pieces of legislation 
that passed here without Republican support, but nonetheless were an 
effort on our part to put people back to work. We're going to take this 
thing further in the year ahead and up through the next session of 
Congress.

Let me put this up here for you to see. My colleague, Mr. Ellison, 
was talking about wind turbines and photovoltaic. Interesting, but not 
many of these are made in America nowadays. Most of these are imported: 
wind turbines from Europe and China; photovoltaic cells now mostly from 
China; buses from Europe and other places. We can make these things in 
America. We can make these things in America because we once made them 
in America. In my own district, in the Fairfield/Solano Counties area 
of California, we used to make a lot of solar panels. And in the Bay 
Area, there still is a bus manufacturer, one of the few left in America 
that actually produces buses, the GILLIG Corporation.

I will never forget the day that I went out to visit the wind farm in 
Solano County and talked to the companies that were putting those wind 
turbines up. I asked them, Boy, that's quite a tower. It's 400 feet 
high, a lot of steel. Oh, yeah, yeah. We bring that in from Korea. 
That's interesting. And those blades stretching out the length of a 
football field, 300 feet? Oh, yeah, those are brought in from Europe 
right now, but maybe we can begin to manufacture those once again in 
Colorado. And all the gear boxes and all of the electronics, all of it 
is imported.

And I told them, I said, You want me to continue to support American 
tax money, subsidizing your wind turbines and your business, and you 
want those things made overseas? Well, they don't make it in America 
anymore. And I said, Well, let me put it to you this way: if you want 
my help, if you want American taxpayer money for subsidies, then you 
damn well better make it in America; otherwise, our tax money ought not 
be used to support industries overseas. If it's private money, do what 
you want to do. If you want to buy a turbine from Europe, fine. If you 
want to buy a turbine from Japan or China, fine. But use your own 
money. Don't you use American taxpayer money. But unfortunately, far 
too much of that has gone on in the years of the past.

I have introduced legislation and others are following along so that 
our tax money is going no longer overseas for buses, for bridge steel, 
for photovoltaic systems, for wind turbines. Our tax money, when these 
Democratic bills pass this House and the Senate and signed by President 
Obama, our tax money will be used to support American industry.



Think of what that means. We spend $4 billion a year buying buses 
with our tax money, our gas tax money. Where is it going now? A lot of 
it is going overseas for foreign-made buses and trains and equipment. 
We don't want that anymore.

In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, some $12 billion was 
set aside for a high-speed rail, and a sentence was added to that 
particular piece of the bill that said that when high-speed rail is 
built in America, it will be built in America by American 
manufacturers.

There are some companies overseas that build these high-speed rail 
systems. Some of them whined, and others of them--Siemens, in 
particular--said, Well, if that is where the money is and that is the 
requirement, then we will build the Siemens high-speed rail system in 
America.

It makes a difference in how you write laws, and the laws that we 
should write that use our gasoline and our diesel tax money to buy 
buses, trains, other kinds of rolling stock, and to build bridges and 
to build highways, that is our gas tax money, that is our diesel tax 
money, then spend that money on American-made equipment, whether it is 
a bus, a high-speed rail, a train, or whatever. Again, if you want to 
use your private money, if you want to buy a Mercedes-Benz, go for it, 
but not with our tax money.

It also applies in the area of energy policy, the same thing. In the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, there were substantial 
subsidies for wind and solar and green technologies of all kinds, 
nuclear and the rest. Good. We need to change our energy policy. We 
have to move away from our dependence on coal and oil into new, 
renewable technologies that do not contaminate our atmosphere with 
carbon dioxide.

Are we going to do that successfully? If we allow our tax money, our 
subsidies to be spent on equipment made overseas, I don't think so. I 
don't think so at all. That is our money. We should spend it in the 
future on American-made equipment of all kinds. That should be our 
policy. That is legislation that I have introduced. That is legislation 
that is strongly supported. And, I dare say, it is legislation that 
will be a major part of Make It In America, the Democratic agenda to 
rebuild the manufacturing sector of this Nation.

There is another piece of this puzzle that we need to keep in mind, 
and that is tax policy. There was a lot of discussion during the 
campaigns, and a lot of Democrats lost their jobs on this issue. It is 
the big ''D.'' It is the deficit. A lot of our Republican colleagues, 
rightfully, said the deficit is a problem.

Well, you can go into economics. You can talk about Keynesian 
countercyclical economic policy and all the rest. And I happen to 
believe that when the economy is going in the tank, countercyclical 
measures, Keynesian, using the government purchasing to encourage the 
growth of the economy, to stabilize the economy, unemployment insurance 
and other benefits that provide a foundation are extremely important. 
And, we will soon, on this floor and over in the Senate, take up the 
extension of the unemployment insurance.

I know our Republican colleagues are opposed to this. They think that 
by ending the unemployment insurance, people will go out and find a 
job. I think not. And even a few Republicans lost their jobs in this 
election, and we will see if they get unemployment insurance. They may 
very well apply for it, and maybe some of my Democratic colleagues will 
also. But that unemployment insurance keeps food on the table, keeps 
families together, and provides the shelter that is necessary, because 
the jobs are not yet there, because these policies are just now going 
into legislation and eventually into the law and into place.

The deficit, what are we going to do about the deficit? We are going 
to have to get the economy going. That, all economists say, is the most 
critical part of dealing with the deficit. If the economy doesn't grow, 
the deficit cannot be dealt with. So we grow the economy. Policies such 
as we have talked about here are a way of doing it.



There is another thing about the deficit that needs to be taken into 
account, and that is: Where did it come from? Here is a fact. The day 
that George W. Bush took office in January of 2001, he was handed a 
$230 billion surplus. The day that President Barack Obama took office, 
he was handed a $1.3 trillion deficit. Why did it occur? Collapse of 
the economy, clearly a big piece of it. And the policies of the 
government just letting Wall Street run amuck, the housing industry run 
amuck without any rules, all of that was part of it. But there was more 
to it.

The Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 added billions and, over time, 
trillions to the deficit. And the Iraq war and the Afghanistan war, two 
wars that were financed by borrowing money from China, added to the 
deficit.

Those are the realities. The deficit is part of the economy now; it 
is part of our fiscal situation. It started, grew, and manifested 
itself during the George W. Bush years, and now we need to work our way 
out of it.

So how are we going to do that? How do we work our way out of this 
deficit? Well, with policies like Make It In America, clearly 
important. The countercyclical measures, providing unemployment 
insurance, using the power of government to bring jobs into reality, 
all of those are important. Tax policy, also.

A big debate will occur in this Chamber in the days ahead. Before 
December 31, a debate will occur as to what will be the tax policy of 
the United States. The George W. Bush tax cuts, which I talked about a 
moment ago that created a large part of that deficit, are up for debate 
because they expire on December 31, 2010. The expiration of those tax 
cuts, most of which went to the wealthy, are going to be up for debate.

Our Republican colleagues want to extend all of the tax breaks. The 
Democrats, President Obama and the rest of us, have a different idea. 
We think the deficit is really important. We believe that we have to 
address the deficit. The extension of all of the Bush tax cuts will 
significantly increase the deficit.

Now, on the Democratic side, we believe that the tax cuts to the 
middle class are extremely important, because they give the middle 
class the opportunity to have a larger paycheck, less taxes taken out, 
so that homeowners can pay the mortgage, put food on the table, provide 
for their families, give kids the books, the backpack, the things they 
need to go to school. That is our view. The tax cuts should be extended 
for the middle class.

Let's look at what happens in a very, very important policy 
discussion between the Democrats and the Republicans about taxes. There 
are a lot of bubbles on this page, but these bubbles represent real 
money. The George W. Bush tax cuts, if extended, have this effect:

For those people that are earning $10,000 or more, they will get $52 
in reduced taxes. And so it goes. Let's say a person is earning $75,000 
a year. They will get $1,800 of tax cuts. And then it continues to 
grow. The more income you have, the more wealth you have, the greater 
the break, the greater the tax cut for you, so that by the time you are 
a millionaire, your average tax reduction is $17,000.

Under the George W. Bush, that is average. That is between $500,000 
and $1 million. But if you are a millionaire and you have $1 million 
adjustable tax, you will receive an enormous benefit. And then, if you 
get up to the gazillionaires, here is where you are.



The Democrats have a different idea. Our idea is that every taxpayer, 
every taxpayer, the very wealthy and those who are making just $10,000 
a year, should receive a tax break on the first $200,000 that an 
individual makes and $250,000 for a couple filing joint tax returns. 
Let me make that clear: Every taxpayer gets a tax break, up to $200,000 
for an individual and $250,000 for a couple filing a joint tax return.

What is wrong with that? Millionaires get a tax reduction, 
billionaires get a tax reduction, every taxpayer gets a tax reduction. 
And this is our plan. But for those who are very, very wealthy, those 
who are making over $250,000, $500,000, $1 million, $1 billion a year, 
we think they have an obligation to America, and they should not 
receive a continuation of the tax break that they have had for the last 
several years, this kind of a tax break.

So we would suggest that their tax break go back to what it was 
before 2001. In the case of those earning up to $1 million, it would go 
from 33 percent to 36 percent. Oh, my goodness, a 3 percent increase. 
How horrible.

I think not. What does that amount to for somebody making $1 million 
a year? Three percent, $30,000. That is not going to bust their 
checking account. But it is certainly going to be important if you are 
concerned about the deficit. If you care one iota about the deficit, 
you better be caring about this, because here is where the real money 
is, right here.

For the tax breaks to continue, for those above $250,000 we are 
talking about over $700 billion of increased deficit. You can't have it 
both ways here. You cannot have it both ways. If you are concerned 
about the deficit, then why in the world would you want those people 
who are not hungry, who are not homeless, who are not working in our 
manufacturing plants, why would you want them to be responsible for 
increasing the deficit? Well, perhaps because that is your 
constituency.

That is not our constituency. The Democratic constituency is the 
hard-working middle class that will get a tax break, a continuation of 
what they have had for the last 7 years.

This is important. This is about the deficit. Remember, every 
taxpayer in America gets a tax break up to $200,000 or $250,000. They 
get a break. But you get more money above that, and your adjusted gross 
income is greater than $250,000, then for that amount, up to $1 
million, you are going to pay 3 percent more. For a millionaire, 
$30,000. For a billionaire, okay, it will be more dollars, but the 
increase is only going to be 4-plus percent. This is not going to bust 
their bank, and it is not going to hurt small business.

Let's be clear about this: Small business is not impacted, except for 
just 3 percent of the small businesses in America, meaning this 
proposal that the Democrats are going to put forward will provide a tax 
break for 97 percent of small businesses. It will not increase their 
taxes for 97 percent of small businesses.

For 3 percent, and here is the definition of small businesses, the 
world's largest construction company, Bechtel, in California, is by the 
definition that the Republicans use a small business. Billions of 
dollars of annual income. It is a small business. I think not, but that 
is the Republican definition.

Now, one of my colleagues earlier tonight did a little thing that I 
just have to do again, because it is very illuminating, so let me do 
that. I will take down our principal message for the two years ahead: 
Make it in America. Manufacturing matters. If America is going to make 
it, we must make it in America.

I was talking a moment ago about the Bush tax cut. Here is what it 
means. The Republican plan, if the Bush tax cuts are extended, will cut 
taxes for the rich an average of $83,347 a year. $83,347 a year is the 
average tax reduction for the 1 percent wealthiest Americans, the 1 
percent wealthiest Americans.

Well, what does that mean? Well, it means that for the next decade, 
they will be able to buy an $83,000 Mercedes Benz E-class every year 
for the next decade. Or maybe they want to buy their wife, girlfriend, 
whatever, a modest purse, a Hermes, just a handbag, $64,000, every 
year. That is a lot of purses for the next 10 years.

Now, if that is not sufficient, we like to characterize some of these 
fat cats with their cigar. Well, they won't have trouble buying cigars. 
These are top-line cigars. They can buy 800 cigars every year. And that 
is not all. They can light those cigars with a $100 bill. Every single 
cigar, that is 800 a year, and 800 $100 bills used to light them.

I could go on and on, but I see my colleague Paul Tonko has returned.

Here is the alternative, Americans. Here is the alternative to the 
Republican plan. Instead of giving $83,000 a year to the wealthiest 1 
percent of Americans, you can take that same amount of money and give a 
$30,000-a-year job to 3 million Americans.

Our work is about choices, our work is about values, and, frankly, 
our work is about morality. Tell me what is the morality of allowing 
the richest 1 percent of Americans to buy 800 cigars a


year and light those cigars with $100 bills, $83,347 in tax reductions, 
versus 3 million Americans, 3 million unemployed Americans who have a 
family, who are losing their home, who cannot provide food if the 
Republicans are able to block the extension of the unemployment 
insurance.

This is a moral question. This is a question of what is right and 
wrong in America. This tax cut shows the dividing line about where you 
stand in America.

Where do you stand? Are you with the richest 1 percent, so they can 
go out and buy a Mercedes E class $80,000 vehicle every year for the 
next decade, or do you stand with families and want to put a paycheck 
on the table? I think it is pretty clear.

Mr. Tonko, thank you for rejoining us.