---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `4e1692749a0f1c6aa14a6f3af78cd51d`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, in 2001 I voted in favor of the resolution 
to authorize the use of force in Afghanistan to hold to account al 
Qaeda and the Taliban for their unconscionable and unforgivable acts 
against our fellow citizens. I would do it again if faced with the same 
decision.

But after 8 long years, our mission has been vastly expanded and the 
policy is unclear. It has been a very hard decision to make because I 
appreciate the good work of Chairman Obey and many of the items in this 
bill; but I cannot support the supplemental appropriations bill.

I believe not just the United States but the international community 
made a promise to the people of Afghanistan, not to the Karzai 
government, not to the regional powers, but to the people of 
Afghanistan. We promised that we would stand by them as they rebuilt 
their country after ousting al Qaeda and the Taliban government that 
provided these terrorists safe haven.

Everyone I know, including President Obama, keeps telling me that 
there is no military solution in Afghanistan, only a political 
solution. And I believe this, too. So I am very concerned when we put 
billions of dollars into building up the U.S. military presence in 
Afghanistan without a clear mission and without an exit strategy.

Just as I insisted that the previous administration provide Congress 
with clear benchmarks and an exit strategy for Iraq, then we should do 
the same with this administration in Afghanistan. I am not advocating 
for an immediate withdrawal of our military forces from Afghanistan. 
All I am asking for is a plan. If there is no military solution for 
Afghanistan, then please, just tell me how we will know when our 
military contribution to the political solution has concluded.

I appreciate and I support the required reports on Afghanistan and 
Pakistan that Chairman Obey has included in this supplemental. But 
these reports don't tell us anything about the mission of our service 
men and women in Afghanistan and how we will know when it is time to 
bring them home.

I hope, at the very least, at some point in the near future we will 
have a full and thorough debate about our strategy in Afghanistan. 
Sadly, that will not happen today.

In preparation for that debate, I have introduced this morning a bill 
with 73 bipartisan cosponsors that requires the Secretary of Defense to 
outline for Congress by the end of the year the exit strategy for our 
military forces in Afghanistan. My bill doesn't withdraw our forces; it 
doesn't set a definite timetable. It simply asks the Secretary of 
Defense to outline what our strategy is.

I don't think that it is too much to ask that over the next 7 months 
the Defense Department tell us what is the


plan for completing our military mission in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, when I first ran for Congress, I promised my 
constituents that I would never vote to send our servicemen and -women 
into war without a clearly defined mission, and I am sticking to that 
promise. I am sick and tired of wars that have no exits, deadlines or 
an end. We owe our troops and their families much better, and I am 
deeply concerned about how long we will be able to sustain and pay for 
an expanded military presence in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, I simply want to know: What is the exit strategy that 
brings our servicemen and -women home? Until someone gives me a 
credible answer, I will be voting ''no.''