# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `4e1797f6b810e7e8db42f64ad1b086d3`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to pay special tribute to U.S. 
Army Ranger CPT Jonathan David Grassbaugh of Hampstead, NH. Sadly on 
April 7, 2007, while supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom, this brave 25-
year old leader and three of his fellow soldiers gave their lives for 
our Nation when an improvised explosive device detonated near their 
patrol in Zaganiyah, Iraq. Captain Grassbaugh was assigned to 
Headquarters and Headquarters Troop, 5th Squadron, 73rd Cavalry 
Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division, out of Fort Bragg, NC, and was 
protecting our country in his second deployment to Iraq.

Jonathan, or Jon to family and friends, was born in Ohio, but his 
family moved to Hampstead, NH, when he was in the third grade. He 
attended Hampstead Central School, graduated from Hampstead Middle 
School, where his mother Patricia is principal, went on to Phillips 
Exeter Academy, where he was a 4 year honor student, and then to Johns 
Hopkins University, where he studied computer science, graduating in 
2003. While at Johns Hopkins University he was a distinguished member 
of the Army ROTC program and Pershing Rifles, served as captain of the 
Ranger Challenge Team, commanded the ROTC Battalion during his senior 
year and won the National two-man duet drill team competition.

Following completion of the arduous U.S. Army Ranger School in April 
2004, Captain Grassbaugh was assigned to the 7th Cavalry in the 
Republic of South Korea. He was later assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 
505th Parachute Infantry Regiment where he assumed another leadership 
position serving as an antitank platoon leader. Jon also served as an 
aide de camp for the 82nd Airborne deputy commanding general, scout 
platoon leader, and logistics officer for the 5th Squadron, 73rd 
Cavalry. In July of 2006, he was deployed for a second tour of duty in 
Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Friends say Jon was laser 
focused, never questioned his service or his need to be in Iraq, cared 
deeply for the soldiers in his command, and always put a 110 percent 
effort into everything.

Captain Grassbaugh's awards and decorations serve as testimony to his 
stellar character and performance. They include the Bronze Star Medal, 
Purple Heart, Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, 4 Oak 
Leaf Clusters, Joint Service Achievement Medal, Army Achievement Medal, 
National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, Korean Defense Service Medal, Army Service 
Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon, Parachutist's Badge, Combat Action 
Badge, and the Ranger Tab.

Patriots from the State of New Hampshire have served our Nation with 
honor and distinction from Bunker Hill to Zaganiyah, Iraq--and U.S. 
Army Ranger CPT Jonathan Grassbaugh served, led, and fought in that 
same fine tradition.

My sympathy, condolences, and prayers go out to Jon's wife Jenna, his 
parents Mark and Patricia, brother Jason, and to his other family 
members and many friends who have suffered this most grievous loss. All 
will sorely miss Jon Grassbaugh, the caring husband, dedicated son, 
loyal brother, good friend, outstanding Ranger. Laid to rest at 
Arlington National Cemetery, Captain Grassbaugh joins his fellow heroes 
in eternal peace at our military's most sacred place. In the words of 
another son of New Hampshire, Daniel Webster may his remembrance be as 
long lasting as the land he honored. God bless Jonathan David 
Grassbaugh.
