---
---

# None
## `4e23b2b90c57bb5dab27c7916f521b46`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer, thank you 
very much for this opportunity regarding H.R. 5664, a bill that I 
introduced to correct a bureaucratic oversight in the way that the 
Veterans Administration advises contractors as they deal with 
renovating housing for disabled veterans.

Madam Speaker, our veterans have made difficult sacrifices and 
secured our freedom and the way of life. This Memorial Day we honor 
veterans with our words and our actions, and this bill is a reflection 
of that.

My bill seeks to ensure that veterans whose homes are updated under 
the program benefit from all that modern technology and construction 
practice can provide. Today's veterans, particularly those from Iraq 
and Afghanistan, are sustaining injuries that in past conflicts would 
have resulted in their death. The variety of these injuries requires a 
fresh look at the ways the VA provides guidance to veterans in using 
special adaptive housing grants. The primary guidance that the VA 
provides contractors who modify homes under this grant program is VA 
pamphlet 26-13, titled ''Handbook for Design: Specially Adaptive 
Housing.'' The guide was last updated in 1978. This bill requires an 
update of this guide at least every 6 years.

I would like to thank also Congressman Hall for his assistance in 
getting the bill in the Economic Opportunity Subcommittee and being 
able to make it happen as quickly as possible, getting the cost of it 
assessed, and I believe that the bill will go a long way in


assisting our veterans and making sure that we have good housing.

Let me just give you one of the examples that we had. For example, 
the particular bill required that arm bars be built in these homes, 
that arm bars be installed in a restroom for a veteran who had his arms 
amputated, and there are other types of options that can be utilized, 
keyless entries and other forms. So this is definitely a bill that is 
helpful, and the purpose is to allow construction contractors who are 
updating disabled veterans' homes to be more flexible in employing 
state-of-the-art technology.

Once again thank you very much for allowing me this opportunity, 
Chairman Filner.