---
---

# None
## `4e2d5a5fe40297345485583e19480496`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 16 November 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today to solemnly 
remember and honor the life and dedicated service of Staff Sergeant 
Kenneth Keith McAninch, a native son of Logansport, Indiana, and a 
proud member of the United States Army. Staff Sergeant McAninch died on 
October 21, 2010 in Paktika Province, Afghanistan of injuries sustained 
when his unit was attacked by small arms fire.

Kenneth attended Lewis Cass High School and enlisted in the United 
States Army in 2003. He was assigned to A Company, 1st Battalion, 506th 
Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division out of Fort Campbell, 
Kentucky. Kenneth's awards include the Joint Service Commendation 
Medal, Joint Service Achievement Medal, Joint Meritorious Unit Award, 
Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service 
Ribbon, Armed Forces Reserve Medal with Mobilization Device and Combat 
Infantryman Badge. Kenneth will be remembered by his friends, family, 
and fellow soldiers as a dedicated, reliable, and hard-working man who 
cared deeply for his family. He was an avid artist and also enjoyed 
fishing and hunting. He is survived by his wife, Shawnna R. McAninch; 
four sons, Jeremiah McAninch, Braxton McAninch, Brayden McAninch and 
Colby McAninch; one daughter, Shyanne Adam; mother, Cheryl A. Nance and 
her husband Richard; father, Marvin McAninch and wife Regina; sisters, 
Kayla Ann Wallace, Katie Lee McAninch and Brianna McAninch; brothers, 
Jason McAninch and Briar McAninch; stepbrothers David Jackson Nance and 
Richie Nance; stepsister, Melanie Bennett; maternal grandmother, 
Barbara Price and her husband Elmer; paternal grandmother, Mary 
Downing; and paternal grandmother, Carol McAninch. He will be missed by 
all.

It is my solemn duty, and humble privilege, to honor the life, 
service, and memory of Staff Sergeant Kenneth McAninch, which stand as 
a testament to the great honor possessed, and sacrifices made by our 
men and women in the armed forces. We mourn his passing and offer 
gratitude for his service and sacrifice.
