---
---

# QUESTION OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
## `4e2d6ed30ef3cd7fe7053bbb0b997ea4`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, the framers of our Constitution 
empowered the U.S. House of Representatives to impeach the President in 
cases of ''treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.'' 
They gave Congress a sacred responsibility to check the power of the 
President in order to preserve the liberty of the American people. With 
this responsibility came an equally important obligation to use 
congressional power only to advance the interests of the Nation. I am 
not convinced that an impeachment proceeding is in America's best 
interests at this time. That is why I recently voted to give the House 
Judiciary Committee time to substantively consider the articles of 
impeachment before bringing them before the full House for debate and a 
vote. At a time when Congress has so much work to do to repair the 
damage caused by this administration, Congress will best serve the 
American people by focusing our efforts on ending the war in Iraq, 
protecting civil liberties from executive overreaching and passing 
needed legislation to move America in a new direction.

With a little over a year left in office, attempting to bring 
impeachment charges against President Bush, or Vice-President Cheney, 
at this point, would prove counterproductive to the aggressive agenda 
our new majority in Congress has put forth. With many issues needing 
attention, Congress should focus on implementing the agenda the 
American people elected us to pursue.

As part of the new agenda, the 110th Congress has begun to do what 
the previous Congressional leadership would not do, and what many in 
this Congress still refuse to do: Stand up to this President. Under 
Representative Henry Waxman, CA, the House Oversight and Government 
Reform Committee has launched more than two dozen investigations of 
Bush administration actions. The committee's 75 investigators have 
probed everything from the behavior of contractors in Iraq to the 
politicization of the Federal Government here at home. Congress's 
efforts have already led to needed reforms in a variety of executive 
branch programs.

You may recall that in late July, it became apparent to me that 
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales's contradictory statements and 
actions raised serious concerns about his integrity and his respect for 
civil liberties. At the same time, Bush administration stonewalling was 
making it impossible for Congress to fully investigate Gonzales and 
restore America's respect for the Justice Department. On July 31, 2007, 
I joined with other former prosecutors serving in the U.S. House in 
calling for an investigation to determine whether Gonzales should be 
impeached. At the time, I believed investigation and, potentially, 
impeachment by the Congress provided the only way to hold Gonzales 
accountable.

In August, Alberto Gonzales did something he should have done long 
before: He resigned. His resignation provided needed change at the 
Justice Department, but it did not provide the answers that the 
American people demand and deserve. Congress still has an obligation to 
determine the legality of Gonzales's confusing, conflicting and 
misleading actions and statements. Just this week, Representative John 
Conyers, MI, took another step towards getting the truth about the 
Justice Department's actions under Gonzales. Conyers demanded the White 
House release key information regarding the Justice Department's firing 
of Federal prosecutors or face a congressional contempt citation. I and 
my colleagues will do everything in our power to compel the White House 
to cooperate with our investigation. I will continue to work with my 
colleagues to uncover the truth about the Gonzales Justice Department 
and its treatment of Americans' civil liberties, and I will fight to 
hold this administration accountable.

While Congress exercises its oversight role, we must also support a 
framework of laws that protects Americans from violations of our 
liberties and our right to privacy. I have always defended civil 
liberties. In 2001, I joined just 65 of my colleagues in standing up to 
post-
9/11 fearmongering and voting against the USA PATRIOT ACT. I have 
cosponsored legislation to restore the right of habeas corpus and undo 
the Military Commissions Act. And, most recently, I opposed changes to 
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA, that would have given 
this administration more power to spy on Americans.

The Bush administration has done real damage to the United States 
through its policies and its executive actions. Congress must respond 
in the manner that will most effectively protect the American people 
and promote the interests of our country. We have begun to rein in the 
president and restore integrity to the Federal Government. We will 
continue to do so.



