# FISA
## `4e587d2f4abf629bcd1c0fd651b0d5f0`
`Mr. DODD â€” 11 February 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, first, let me thank my good friend from 
Pennsylvania, whom I always enjoy listening to. I enjoyed particularly 
hearing his comments about President Musharraf and Benazir Bhutto, who 
I had the privilege and pleasure of knowing for some time over the last 
20 years. As do all of us here, I care deeply about what happens in 
Pakistan, and I admire remarkable leadership. I was stricken by her 
loss and the tragic way in which she lost her life in her effort to 
bring democracy to her country. So I associate myself with the remarks 
of Senator Specter who was there, I know. In fact, I listened with 
great interest to his comments and thoughts at the time when he and 
Congressman Patrick Kennedy were there on a mission together. So I once 
again thank him.

I know he talked about our arrival some 27 years ago, when the two of 
us arrived here, and it is true there were 16 Republicans and two 
Democrats. I always like to point out that there are two fine 
Republicans still here, Senator Grassley and Senator Specter, and 50 
percent of the Democrats who were elected that year are still in this 
Chamber. So I remain of the two of us, Alan Dixon being the other 
Member.

I look up and I see the Presiding Officer. Any time I get up to 
address this issue, the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island is the 
Presiding Officer. He has heard my thoughts on this issue now since 
December. I think it has been almost 20 hours I have spoken on the 
subject matter of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and the 
issue of retroactive immunity. I will be trying to convince my 
colleagues to vote against cloture tomorrow so we can force the 
committees to go back and adopt the Judiciary Committee approach rather 
than the one adopted by the Intelligence Committee which gives 
retroactive immunity to the telecom industry.

I note as well that the House, the other body, in its consideration 
of this matter, agreed with the Judiciary Committee and did not include 
retroactive immunity in their Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 
amendments. The House reached the conclusion that the retroactive 
immunity was not warranted, that the courts should be given the 
opportunity to decide the legality or illegality of the telecom 
industry's decision to agree to the administration's request to allow 
the unfettered surveillance of millions of telephone calls, faxes, and 
e-mails.

Senator Feingold of Wisconsin and I have offered an amendment to 
strike section 2 of the bill, which would then put the legislation 
roughly on parity with the House-passed legislation and deliver that to 
the President. The President has said: If you do that, I will veto the 
bill, which I regret deeply. The idea that you veto all of the other 
amendments dealing with foreign intelligence because you didn't provide 
retroactive immunity to a handful of telephone companies is rather 
breathtaking when you consider the vulnerability that can pose and the 
inability of us to collect the important surveillance, the intelligence 
we need to keep our country secure and safe.

Mr. President, I am not normally accustomed to engaging in lengthy 
conversations about any subject. Certainly it is the privilege and 
right of every Senator to engage in extended debate on a subject about 
which they care passionately. I cannot think of another occasion in the 
last 20 years, 25 years, when I have engaged in extended debate on any 
subject matter. It doesn't suggest there haven't been moments


when I thought it was warranted, and others certainly provided that 
opportunity or we resolved the matters prior to using that tool that 
has been available to every Member of this Chamber since the founding 
of our Republic. But I care deeply about this issue. It is not just a 
passing issue; it is not just one section of a bill.

It goes far beyond the words or language of even the companies 
involved here. It goes to the very heart of who we are as a nation, as 
a people. Our willingness or ability to understand the value and 
importance of the rule of law is an issue that transcends any other 
issue we grapple with, the understanding of how important it is to 
protect and defend the rule of law, our Constitution, to guarantee the 
rights and liberties of every citizen of our country.

Tonight, I will engage in a rather lengthy conversation about this 
issue, with my apologies to the staff and others who have to spend time 
listening to this conversation. But I want people to know how important 
this issue is. This is very important. It doesn't get any more 
important than this one as to whether millions of Americans' telephone 
conversations, e-mails, and faxes over the past 5 years were listened 
to, eavesdropping that would still be ongoing were it not for disclosed 
reports by journalists and a whistleblower that revealed this program. 
It would still be ongoing, without a court order and without a warrant. 
That is dangerous.

The very rationale which gave birth to the FISA some three decades 
ago was specifically designed to deal with the very fact situation that 
causes me to rise and talk about this subject matter this evening. FISA 
intended to balance two legitimate issues--gathering information to 
keep us secure, while protecting the rights and liberties of every 
single American citizen against an unwarranted invasion of their 
privacy. It has never been easy to maintain that balance. It is never 
perfect, as I said earlier this afternoon, but it ought to be our 
common goal, regardless of party and ideology, to do our very best to 
strike that balance. That is what this issue is, and that is why it is 
so important.

If we set the precedent by a vote tomorrow that keeps this provision 
in the bill, and it remains so in the conference with the House of 
Representatives, we will be setting a precedent which, I suspect, 
future administrations may point to under a different fact situation, 
at a different hour, at a different time, when they may decide it is 
not in their interest to go to a FISA Court. The next request by an 
administration to provide information may be medical or financial or 
highly personal information, and they will point to a time when the 
Senate was given the opportunity to insist that a series of telephone 
companies go to the courts of this country to determine whether they 
did the legal thing by turning over information, and the Senate said: 
No, we are going to grant retroactive immunity.

We will never determine whether you had the right to do so, and 
implicitly it would sanction the activity by our refusal to strike the 
language granting the immunity. That is what is at stake in the vote 
tomorrow, if we are unable to defeat cloture.

That is why I am determined to do everything I can to convince my 
colleagues of an alternative course. So I urge my colleagues, in the 
strongest terms that I can, to vote to strip the retroactive immunity 
from this bill and, if it is not stripped, to vote against cloture.

Not only would this bill ratify a domestic spying regime that has 
already concentrated far too much unaccountable power in the 
President's hands, in its current form it places above the law the 
telecommunications companies that may have violated the privacy and 
trust of millions of American citizens.

In December, I opposed retroactive immunity on the Senate floor for 
some 10 hours in this Chamber. In the weeks since then, I have 
continued to speak out against it.

Unwarranted domestic spying didn't happen in a panic or short-term 
emergency--not for a week or a month or even a year. If it had, I might 
not be here this evening. But the spying went on, relentlessly, for 
more than five years. And if the press didn't expose it, I imagine it 
would still be happening today.

I might not be here either if it had been the first offense of a new 
administration. Maybe not if it even had been the second or third, I 
might add. I am here this evening because after offense after offense 
after offense, my frustration has found its breaking point. I am here 
this evening because of a pattern of continual abuses against civil 
liberties and the rule of law. When faced with that pattern, we should 
not act in the interest of the Democratic Party or the Republican 
Party. We should act in the interest of the Constitution of the United 
States because we are, above anything else, its temporary custodians. 
If these abuses had been committed by a President of my own party, I 
would have opposed them just as passionately as I do this evening.

I am here tonight because of the latest link in that long chain of 
abuse. It is alleged that giant telecom corporations worked with our 
Government to compile America's private domestic communications records 
into a database of enormous scale and scope. Secretly and without a 
warrant, these corporations are alleged to have spied on their own 
American customers.

Here is only one of the most egregious examples: According to the 
Electronic Frontier Foundation:




 Clear, firsthand whistleblower documentary evidence 


 [states] . . . that for year on end, every e-mail, every text 


 message, and every phone call carried over the massive fiber 


 optic links of sixteen separate companies routed through 


 AT&T's Internet hub in San Francisco--hundreds of millions of 


 private, domestic communications--have been . . . copied in 


 their entirety by AT&T and knowingly diverted wholesale by 


 means of multiple ''splitters'' into a secret room controlled 


 exclusively by the NSA.


The phone calls of millions of Americans diverted into a secret room 
controlled by the NSA. That allegation still needs to be proven in a 
court of law. But before that happens, there is an even simpler 
question: What do you see in it?

If you only see cables and computers there, the whole thing seems 
almost harmless. Certainly nothing to get worked up about--a routine 
security sweep and a routine piece of legislation authorizing it. If 
that is what you see in the NSA's secret room, I imagine you will vote 
to extend that immunity.

If you see a vast dragnet for millions of Americans' private 
conversations, conducted by a Government agency without a warrant, then 
I believe you will recognize what is at stake. You will see that what 
is at stake is the sanctity of the law and the sanctity of our privacy 
as American citizens. You will then oppose this retroactive immunity.

Maybe that sounds overdramatic to some of my colleagues. They will 
ask: What does it matter, at the end of the day, if a few corporations 
are sued? They will say: This is a small issue, an isolated case. The 
law is still safe and sound.

I find that view profoundly wrong. But I will give them this: As long 
as they keep this small, they win. As long as they keep this case 
isolated and technical, they win. As long as it is about a few 
lawsuits, and nothing more, they win. They are counting on the American 
people to see nothing bigger than that.

I am counting on them to see more and to fear less. So much more is 
at stake than a few phone calls, a few companies, and a few lawsuits. 
Mr. President, equal justice is at stake--justice that makes no 
exceptions. Openness is at stake--an open debate on security and 
liberty, and an end to warrantless, groundless spying. Retroactive 
immunity stands against those principles.

It doesn't say: I trust the American people; I trust the courts and 
judges and juries to come to just decisions. Retroactive immunity says: 
Trust me.

There are classified documents, we are told, that prove the case for 
retroactive immunity beyond a shadow of a doubt. But we are not allowed 
to see them. I have served in this body for more than a quarter 
century, and I am not allowed to see these documents at all. I am told 
to trust somebody, believe people when they stand up and tell you 
exactly what is here. Neither are the majority of my colleagues allowed 
to see them. We are left entirely in the dark to draw the conclusion 
that there is nothing to be concerned about. The courts don't need to 
look at this.

Obviously, I cannot speak for my colleagues, but I would never take 
''trust


me'' for an answer--not even in the best of times.

''Trust me.'' It is the offer to hide ourselves in the waiting arms 
of the rule of men. I cannot put it better than this:




 ''Trust me'' government is government that asks that we 


 concentrate our hopes and dreams on one man; that we trust 


 him to do what's best for us. My view of government places 


 trust not in one person or one party, but in those values 


 that transcend persons and parties.


Those words were spoken by Ronald Reagan in 1980, the former 
President of the United States. Those words are every bit as true 
today, even if some have chosen to forget them. But times of threat and 
fear blur our view of transcendent values; and those who would exploit 
those times urge us to save our skins at any cost.

The rule of law has rarely been so fragile. It has really seemed less 
compelling. What, after all, does the law give us? It has no parades, 
no slogans; it lives in books and precedents. It cannot entertain us or 
captivate us or soothe our deepest fears. When set against everything 
the rule of men has to offer, the rule of law is mute.

That is the precise advantage seized upon, in all times, by the law's 
enemies.




 It is a universal truth that the loss of liberty at home is 


 to be charged to the provisions against danger . . . from 


 abroad.


Those are the words of James Madison, and they are worthy of 
repetition.




 It is a universal truth that the loss of liberty at home is 


 to be charged to the provisions against danger . . . from 


 abroad.


James Madison, the father of the Constitution, made that prediction 
more than two centuries ago. With the passage of this bill, his words 
would be one step closer to coming true. So it has never been more 
essential that we lend our voices to the law and speak on its behalf.

This is our defining question, the question that confronts every 
generation of Americans since the founding of our Republic: the rule of 
law, or the rule of men?

How many times must we get the wrong answer?

To those who say this is just about a few telecoms, I answer that 
this is about contempt for the rule of law, large and small.

This is about the Justice Department turning our Nation's highest law 
enforcement officers into patronage plums, and turning the impartial 
work of indictments and trials into the machinations of politics.

This is about Alberto Gonzales coming before Congress to give us 
testimony that was, at best, wrong, and, at worst, perjury.

This is about Congress handing the President the power to designate 
any individual he wants an ''unlawful enemy combatant,'' hold that 
individual indefinitely, and take away his or her rights to habeas 
corpus--the 700-year-old right to challenge your detention. If you 
think the Military Commissions Act struck at the heart of the 
Constitution, well, it struck at the Magna Carta while it was at it.

If you think this only threatens a few of us, you should understand 
that the writ of habeas corpus belongs to all of us. It allows anyone 
to challenge their detention. Rolling back habeas corpus endangers us 
all. Without a day in court, how can you prove that you are entitled to 
a trial? How can you prove that you are innocent? In fact, without a 
day in court, how can you let anybody know what you have been detained 
for at all?

The Military Commission Act also gave President Bush the power some 
say he wanted most of all: the power to get information out of 
suspected terrorists--by almost any means. The power to use evidence 
potentially gained from torture.

This is about torture--officially sanctioned torture. As a result of 
decisions made at the highest levels of our Government, America is 
making itself known to the world with stories like this one: A prisoner 
at Guantanamo--to take one example out of hundreds--was deprived of 
sleep for over 55 days, a month and 3 weeks. Some nights he was doused 
with water or blasted with air conditioning. After week after week of 
this delirious, shivering wakefulness, on the verge of death from 
hypothermia, doctors strapped him to a chair--doctors, healers who took 
the Hippocratic oath to ''do no harm''--pumped him full of three bags 
of medical saline, brought him back from death, and sent him back to 
his interrogators.

To the generation coming of age around the world in this decade, that 
is America. Not Normandy, not the Marshall Plan, not Nuremberg. 
Guantanamo.

This is about the CIA destroying tapes containing the evidence of 
harsh interrogations--about the administration covering its tracks in a 
way more suited to a banana republic than to the home of freedom.

This is about waterboarding, a technique invented by the Spanish 
Inquisition, perfected by the Khmer Rouge, and in between, banned--
originally banned for excessive cruelty--by the Gestapo!

Waterboarding's not torture? Listen to the words of Malcolm Nance, a 
26-year expert in intelligence and counterterrorism, a combat veteran, 
and former Chief of Training at the U.S. Navy Survival, Evasion, 
Resistance and Escape School.

To those who say that this is just about a few telecoms, I answer: 
This is about contempt for the law, large and small.

This is about the Justice Department turning our Nation's highest law 
enforcement offices into patronage plums, and turning the impartial 
work of indictments and trials into the machinations of politics.

This is about Alberto Gonzales coming before Congress to give us 
testimony that was at best, wrong--and at worst, perjury.

This is about Congress handing the President the power to designate 
any individual he wants an ''unlawful enemy combatant,'' hold him 
indefinitely, and take away his right to habeas corpus--the 700-year-
old right to challenge your detention. If you think that the Military 
Commissions Act struck at the heart of the Constitution, you would be 
understating things--it struck at the Magna Carta while it was at it.

And if you think that this only threatens a few of us, you should 
understand that the writ of habeas corpus belongs to all of us--it 
allows anyone to challenge their detention. Rolling back habeas rights 
endangers us all: Without a day in court, how can you prove that you 
are entitled to a trial? How can you prove that you are innocent? In 
fact, without a day in court, how can you let anyone know that you have 
been detained at all?

While training American soldiers to resist interrogation, he writes:




 I have personally led, witnessed and supervised 


 waterboarding of hundreds of people. . . . Unless you have 


 been strapped down to the board, have endured the agonizing 


 feeling of the water overpowering your gag reflex, and then 


 feel your throat open and allow pint after pint of water to 


 involuntarily fill your lungs, you will not know the meaning 


 of the word. . . .



 It does not simulate drowning, as the lungs are actually 


 filling with water. The victim is drowning. How much the 


 victim is to drown depends on the desired result . . . and 


 the obstinacy of the subject.



 Waterboarding is slow motion suffocation . . . usually the 


 person goes into hysterics on the board. . . . When done 


 right it is controlled death.


In spite of all that, last week the White House declared that 
waterboarding is not torture, that waterboarding is legal, and that, if 
it chooses, America will waterboard again.

This is about Michael Mukasey coming before the Senate and defending 
the President's power to openly break the law. When he came to the 
Senate before his confirmation, Mr. Mukasey was asked bluntly and 
plainly: Is waterboarding constitutional? Mr. Mukasey replied with a 
head-scratching tautology:




 If waterboarding is torture, torture is not constitutional.


Surely we can expect a little more insight from someone so famously 
well versed in national security law. But Mr. Mukasey pressed on with 
the obstinacy of a witness pleading the Fifth:




 If it's torture. . . . If it amounts to torture, it is not 


 constitutional.


And that is the best this noted jurist, this legal scholar, this 
longtime judge had to offer on the defining moral issue of this 
Presidency: claims of ignorance. Word games.

And again last month, he refused categorically to denounce 
waterboarding. In fact, Mr. Mukasey was asked the easiest question we 
have in a democracy: Can the President openly break


the law? Can he--as we know he has done already--order warrantless 
wiretapping, ignore the will of Congress, and then hide behind nebulous 
powers he claims to find in the Constitution?

Mr. Mukasey's response: The President has ''the authority to defend 
the country.''

And in one swoop, the Attorney General conceded to the President 
nearly unlimited power, as long as he finds a lawyer willing to stuff 
his actions into the boundless rubric of ''defending the country.'' 
Unlimited power to defend the country, to protect us as one man sees 
fit, even if that means listening to our phone calls, even if that 
means holding some of us indefinitely.

This is about extraordinary rendition--outsourced torture. It is 
about men this administration prefer we did not know exist. But we do 
know.

One was a Syrian immigrant raising his family in Canada as a citizen. 
He wrote computer code for a company called Math Works. He was planning 
to start his own tech business. On a trip through New York's JFK 
Airport, he was arrested by U.S. Federal agents. They shackled him and 
bundled him into a private CIA plane which flew him across the Atlantic 
Ocean to Syria.

This man spent the next 10 months and 10 days in a Syrian prison. His 
cell was 3 feet wide, the size of a grave. Some 300 days passed alone 
in that cell, with a bowl for his toilet and another bowl for his 
water, and the door only opened so he could go wash himself once a 
week, though it may have been more or less because the cell was dark 
and he lost track of time.

The door only opened for one reason: for interrogators who asked him, 
again and again, about al-Qaida. Here is how it was described:




 The interrogator said, ''Do you know what this is?'' I 


 said, ''Yes, it's a cable,'' and he told me, ''Open your 


 right hand.'' I opened my right hand, and he hit me like 


 crazy. It was so painful, and of course I started crying, and 


 then he told me to open my left hand, and I opened it, and he 


 missed, then hit my wrist. And then he asked me questions. If 


 he does not think you are telling the truth, then he hits 


 again.


The jail and the torturers were Syrian, but America sent this man 
there with full knowledge of what would happen to him because it was 
part of a longstanding secret program of ''extraordinary rendition.'' 
America was convinced that he was a terrorist and wanted the truth 
beaten out of him.

No charges were ever filed against him. His adopted nation's 
government--Canada, one of our strongest NATO allies--cleared him of 
all wrongdoing after a yearlong investigation and awarded him more than 
$10 million in government compensation for his immense pain and 
suffering--but not before he was tortured for 10 months in a cell the 
size of a grave. Our own Government, I note, has refused to even 
acknowledge that his case exists.

It is about a German citizen living in the city of Ulm with his wife 
and four children. On a bus trip through Eastern Europe, he was pulled 
off at a border crossing by armed guards and held for 3 weeks in a 
hotel room where he was beaten regularly. At the end of 3 weeks, he was 
drugged and shipped on a cargo plane to Kabul, Afghanistan.

For 5 months he was held in the Salt Pit, a secret American prison 
staffed by Afghan guards. All he had to drink was stagnant water from a 
filthy bottle. Again and again, masked men interrogated him about al-
Qaida. And finally, he says, they raped him.

He was released in May of 2004. Scientific testing confirmed his 
story of malnourishment, and the Chancellor of Germany publicly 
acknowledged that he was wrongfully held. What was his crime? Having 
the same name as a suspected terrorist. Again, our own Government has 
refused to even acknowledge this case exists.


There are not enough words in the world to cover the facts. If you 
would like to define torture out of existence, be my guest. If you 
would rather use a Washington euphemism--''tough questioning,'' 
''enhanced interrogation''--feel free. Feel free to talk about 
''fraternity hazing'' such as Rush Limbaugh did, or to use a favorite 
term of Vice President Cheney, ''a dunk in the water,'' as he described 
waterboarding. Call it whatever you like. And when you are through with 
all of your evasions, the facts will still be waiting for you--the fact 
of waterboarding, ''controlled death,'' the fact of ''outsourced 
torture,'' the fact of secret prisons, the fact of month-long sleep 
deprivation, the fact of the President's personal power to hold 
whomever he likes for as long as he would like.

Have I gone wildly off the topic? Have I brought up a dozen unrelated 
issues? I don't think, Mr. President--I don't think I have at all.

We are deceiving our ourselves when we talk about the U.S. attorneys 
issue, the habeas issue, the torture issue, the rendition issue, the 
secrecy issue. As if each one were an isolated case! As if each one 
were an accident! When we speak of them as isolated, we are keeping our 
politics cripplingly small, and as long as we keep them small, the rule 
of men is winning. There is only one issue here--only one. It is the 
law issue, the rule of law. Does the President serve the law or does 
the law serve the President?

Each insult to our Constitution comes from the same source. Each 
springs from the same mindset. And if we attack this contempt for the 
law at any point, we will wound it at all points.

That is why I am here this evening. Retroactive immunity is on the 
table today, but also at issue is the entire ideology that justifies 
it, the same ideology behind torture and executive lawlessness. 
Immunity is a disgrace in itself, but it is far worse in what it 
represents. It tells us that some believe in the courts only so long as 
the verdict goes their way. It puts secrecy above sunshine and fiat 
above the law.

Did the telecoms break the law? That I don't know. Pass immunity and, 
of course, we will never know. A handful of favored corporations will 
remain unchallenged. Their arguments will never be heard in a court of 
law. The truth behind this unprecedented domestic spying will never see 
the light of day.

''Law'' is a word that we barely hear from the supporters of 
immunity. They offer neither a deliberation about America's difficult 
choices in an age of terrorism nor a shared attempt to set for our 
times the excruciating balance between security and liberty. They 
merely promise a false debate on a false choice: security or liberty, 
but never both.

I think differently, and I hope others do as well. I think that 
America's founding truth is unambiguous: security and liberty, one and 
inseparable, and never one without the other.

Secure in that truth, I offer a challenge to immunity supporters. You 
want to put a handful of corporations above the law. Could you please 
explain how your immunity makes any one of us any safer at all?

The truth is that a working balance between security and liberty has 
already been struck. In fact, it has been settled for decades. For 
three decades, in fact, FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act, has prevented executive lawbreaking and protected Americans, and 
that balance stands today.

In the wake of the Watergate scandal, the Senate convened the Church 
Committee, a panel of distinguished members determined to investigate 
executive abuses of power. Unsurprisingly, they found that when 
Congress and the courts substitute ''trust me'' for real oversight, 
massive lawbreaking can result.

They found evidence of U.S. Army spying on the civilian population, 
Federal dossiers on citizens' political activities, a CIA and FBI 
program that had opened hundreds of thousands of Americans' letters 
without warning or warrant. In sum, Americans had sustained a severe 
blow to their fourth amendment rights ''to be secure in their persons, 
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and 
seizures. . . .''

But at the same time, the Senators of the Church Committee understood 
that surveillance needed to go forward to protect the American people. 
Surveillance itself was not the problem. Unchecked, unregulated, 
unwarranted surveillance was. What surveillance needed, in a word, was 
legitimacy. And in America, as the Founders understood, power becomes 
legitimate when it is shared, when Congress and the courts check that 
attitude which so often crops up in the executive branch--''if the 
President does it, it's not illegal.''

The Church Committee's final report, ''Intelligence Activities and 
the Rights of Americans,'' put the case powerfully


indeed. Allow me to quote from that final report:




 The critical question before the Committee was to determine 


 how the fundamental liberties of the people can be maintained 


 in the course of the Government's effort to protect their 


 security.



 The delicate balance between these basic goals of our 


 system of government is often difficult to strike, but it 


 can, and must, be achieved.



 We reject the view that the traditional American principles 


 of justice and fair play have no place in our struggle 


 against the enemies of freedom. Moreover, our investigation 


 has established that the targets of intelligence activity 


 have ranged far beyond persons who could properly be 


 characterized as enemies of freedom. . . .



 We have seen segments of our Government, in their attitudes 


 and action, adopt tactics unworthy of a democracy, and 


 occasionally reminiscent of the tactics of totalitarian 


 regimes.



 We have seen a consistent pattern in which programs 


 initiated with limited goals, such as preventing criminal 


 violence or identifying foreign spies, were expanded to what 


 witnesses characterized as ''vacuum cleaners,'' sweeping in 


 information about lawful activities of American citizens.


The Senators concluded:




 Unless new and tighter controls are established by 


 legislation, domestic intelligence activities threaten to 


 undermine our democratic society and fundamentally alter its 


 nature.


What a strange echo, what an incredibly strange echo, we hear in 
those words. The words I just read could have been written yesterday. 
Three decades ago our predecessors in this Chamber understood that when 
domestic spying goes too far, it threatens to kill just what it 
promises to protect: an America secure in its liberty. That lesson was 
crystal clear more than 30 years ago. Why is it so cloudy tonight? Why 
is it so cloudy on the eve of an important vote?

And before we entertain the argument that ''everything has changed'' 
since those words were written, remember: The men who wrote them had 
witnessed World War and Cold War. They had seen the Nazi and Soviet 
threats and were living every day under the cloud of a nuclear 
holocaust.

Mr. President, I ask this: Who will chair the commission 
investigating the secrets of warrantless spying years from today? Will 
it be a young Senator sitting in this body today? Will it be someone 
not yet elected? What will that Senator say when he or she comes to our 
actions, reads in the records of 2008 how we let outrage after outrage 
after outrage slide with nothing more than a promise to stop the next 
one? I imagine that Senator will ask of us: Why didn't they do 
anything? Why didn't they fight back? Why didn't they stand up? Why 
didn't they vote down retroactive immunity? What were they thinking? 
What more do you need to know? How many instances of abuse do you have 
to learn about? When do you stop? When do you say enough is enough? In 
February of 2008, when no one could doubt any more what the 
administration was doing, why did they sit on their hands? Why did they 
sit on their hands? Why did they pass by as if nothing had ever 
happened and grant retroactive immunity?


Since the time of the Church Commission the threats facing our Nation 
have multiplied and grown in complexity, but the lesson has been 
immutable: Warrantless spying threatens to undermine our democratic 
society, unless legislation brings it under control. In other words, 
the power to invade privacy must be used sparingly, guarded jealously, 
and shared equally between the branches of Government.

Or the case can be made pragmatically, as my friend Harold Koh, dean 
of Yale Law School, recently argued:




 The engagement of the three branches tends to yield not 


 just more thoughtful law, but a more broadly supported public 


 policy.


Three decades ago, Congress embodied that solution in the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA. FISA confirmed the President's 
power to conduct surveillance of international conversations involving 
anyone in the United States, provided--provided--that the Federal FISA 
Court issued a warrant ensuring that wiretapping was aimed at 
safeguarding our security and nothing else.

The President's own Director of National Intelligence, Mike 
McConnell, explained the rationale in an interview this summer. The 
United States, he said:



 . . . did not want to allow the intelligence community to 


 conduct electronic surveillance of Americans for foreign 


 intelligence unless you had a warrant, so that was required.


As originally written in 1978, and as amended many times since, FISA 
has accomplished its mission. It has been a valuable tool for 
conducting surveillance of terrorists and those who would harm our 
beloved Nation. And every time Presidents have come to Congress openly 
to ask for more leeway under FISA, Congress has worked with them. 
Congress has negotiated it together. Congress and Presidents have 
struck a balance that safeguards America while doing its utmost to 
protect Americans' privacy.

This summer, Congress made a technical correction to FISA, enabling 
the President to wiretap without a warrant conversations between two 
foreign targets, even if those conversations are routed through 
American corporate computers. For other reasons, I felt this summer's 
legislation went too far, and I opposed it, but the point is Congress 
once again proved its willingness to work with the President on foreign 
intelligence surveillance.

Isn't that enough?

This past October and November, as we have seen, the Senate 
Intelligence and Judiciary Committees worked with the President to 
further refine FISA and ensure, in a true emergency, the FISA Court 
would do nothing to slow down intelligence gathering.

Isn't that enough?

As for the FISA court? Between 1978 and 2004, according to the 
Washington Post, the FISA Court approved 18,748 warrants and rejected 
5. Let me repeat that. The FISA Court, according to the Washington 
Post, approved 18,748 warrants and rejected 5. The FISA Court has sided 
with the executive branch 99.9 percent of the time.

Isn't that enough?

Is anything lacking? Have we forgotten something? Isn't all this 
enough to keep us safe?

We all know the answer we received. This complex, fine-tuned 
machinery, crafted over three decades by 3 branches of Government, 4 
Presidents, and 12 Congresses was ignored. It was a system primed to 
bless nearly any eavesdropping a President could conceive, and spying 
still happened illegally.

If the shock of that decision has yet to sink in, think of it this 
way: President Bush ignored not just a Federal court but a secret 
Federal court. Not just a secret Federal court but a secret Federal 
court prepared to sign off on his actions 99.9 percent of the time. A 
more compliant court has never been conceived. Still, that wasn't good 
enough.

So I will ask the Senate candidly, and candidly it already knows the 
answer: Is this about security or about power? Why are some fighting so 
hard for retroactive immunity? The answer, I believe, is immunity means 
secrecy, and secrecy means power.

It is no coincidence to me that the man who proclaimed ''If the 
President does it, it is not illegal''--Richard Nixon--was the same man 
who raised executive secrecy to an art form. The Senators of the Church 
Committee expressed succinctly the deep flaw in the Nixonian executive: 
''Abuse thrives on secrecy.'' And in the exhaustive catalogue of their 
report, they proved it.

In this push for immunity, secrecy is at its center. We find proof in 
immunity's original version: a proposal to protect not just telecoms 
but everyone involved in the wiretapping program. In their original 
proposal, that is what they wanted, to immunize themselves and 
absolutely everyone involved in this program. Not just the companies 
but everyone from the executive branch on down. They wanted to immunize 
every single human being.

Think about it. It speaks to their fear and perhaps their guilt--
their guilt that they had broken the law and their fear in the years to 
come they would be found liable or convicted. They knew better than 
anyone else what they had done, and they must have had good reason to 
be afraid. Thankfully, immunity for the President is not part of the 
bill before us, and on previous occasions I have commended Senator 
Rockefeller and Senator Bond and the committee members for not agreeing 
to the administration's request for granting immunity for every single 
person. But remember, they made the request. That is what they wanted. 
While it is not in the bill, it ought to be instructive. If anybody


wonders what this is all about, when you go back and remember that this 
administration requested of this committee that every single human 
being involved in the surveillance program be immunized and protected 
by the act of Congress, that is instructive. That is enlightening as to 
what the true intent of this administration has been when it comes to 
this program.


As I said: Thankfully, immunity for the executive branch is not part 
of the bill before us, but the original proposal tells us something 
very important. This is, and always has been, a self-preservation bill. 
Otherwise, why not have a trial and get it over with? If the proponents 
of retroactive immunity are right, the corporations would win in a 
walk. After all, in the official telling, the telecom industry was 
ordered to help the President spy without a warrant and they 
patriotically complied. We have even heard on this floor the comparison 
between the telecom corporations to the men and women laying their 
lives on the line in Iraq.

But ignore that. Ignore for a moment the fact that in America we obey 
the laws, not the President's orders. Ignore that not even the 
President has the right to secure a bully into breaking the law. Ignore 
that the telecoms were not unanimous; one, Qwest, wanted to see the 
legal basis for the order, never received it, and so refused to comply. 
Ignore that a judge presiding over the case ruled:




 AT&T cannot seriously contend that a reasonable entity in 


 its position could have believed that the alleged domestic 


 dragnet was legal.


Ignore all of that. If the order the telecoms received was legally 
binding, then they have an easy case to prove. The corporations only 
need to show a judge the authority and the assurances they were given 
and they will be in and out of court in less than 5 minutes.

If the telecoms are as defensible as the President says, why doesn't 
the President let them defend themselves? If the case is so easy to 
make, why doesn't he let them make it? It can't be that he is afraid of 
leaks. Our Federal court system has dealt for decades with the most 
delicate national security matters, building up expertise and 
protecting classified information behind closed doors--ex parte, in 
camera. We can expect no less in these cases. No intelligence sources 
need be compromised. No state secrets need to be exposed. After 
litigation, at both the district court and circuit court level, no 
state secrets have been exposed.

In fact, Federal District Court Judge Vaughn Walker, a Republican 
appointee, I might add, has already ruled the issue can go to trial 
without putting state secrets in jeopardy. He reasonably concluded that 
the existence of a terrorist surveillance program is hardly a secret at 
all, and I quote him.




 The government has already disclosed the general contours 


 of the ''terrorist surveillance program,'' which requires the 


 assistance of a telecommunications provider.


As the state secrets privilege is invoked to stall these high-profile 
cases, it is useful to consider that privilege's history. In fact, it 
was tainted at its birth by a President of my own party, Harry Truman. 
In 1952, President Truman successfully invoked the new privilege to 
prevent public exposure of a report on a plane crash that killed three 
Air Force contractors.

When the report was finally declassified some 50 years later, decades 
after anyone in the Truman administration was within its reach, it 
contained no secrets at all; only facts about repeated maintenance 
failures that would have seriously embarrassed some important people. 
And so the state secrets privilege began its career not to protect our 
Nation but to protect the powerful.

In his opinion, Judge Walker argued that, even when it is reasonably 
grounded:




 the state secrets privilege still has its limits. While the 


 court recognizes and respects the executive's constitutional 


 duty to protect the Nation from threats, the court also takes 


 seriously its constitutional duty to adjudicate the disputes 


 that come before it. To defer to a blanket assertion of 


 secrecy here would be to abdicate that duty, particularly 


 because the very subject matter of this litigation has been 


 so publicly aired. The compromise between liberty and 


 security remains a difficult one. But dismissing this case at 


 the outset would sacrifice liberty for no apparent 


 enhancement of security.


And that ought to be the epitaph for the last 6 years--sacrificing 
liberty for no apparent enhancement of security. Worse than selling our 
soul, we are giving it away for free.

It is equally wrong to claim that failing to grant this retroactive 
immunity will make the telecoms less likely to cooperate with 
surveillance in the future. The truth is, that since the 1970s, the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act has compelled telecommunications 
companies to cooperate with surveillance, when it is warranted. What is 
more, it immunizes them. It has done that for 25 years.

So cooperation in warranted wiretapping is not at stake today. 
Collusion in warrantless wiretapping is. The warrant makes all the 
difference in the world because it is precisely the court's blessing 
that brings Presidential power under the rule of law.

In sum, we know that giving the telecoms their day in court, giving 
the American people their day in court, would not jeopardize an ounce 
of our security. And it could only expose one secret: The extent to 
which the rule of law has been trampled upon. That is the choice at 
stake this evening and tomorrow when we vote on this matter: Will the 
secrets of the last years remain closed in the dark or will they be 
open to the generations to come, to our successors in this Chamber, so 
they can prepare themselves to defend against future outrages of power 
and usurpations of law from future Presidents, of either party, as 
certainly they will come? As certainly they will come.

Thirty years after the Church Committee, history repeated itself. 
Even though I probably thought in those days, this will never happen 
again. Well, here we are again. As certain as I am standing here this 
evening, at some future time, there will be an executive, a President, 
who will seek to compromise the very same principles. And just as we 
reached back 30 years ago during this debate to a hallowed time when 
another Senate, faced with similar challenges, reached entirely 
different conclusions than we are about to make, some future generation 
will reach back to ours and ask: What did they say? What did they do? 
How did they feel about this? What actions did they take?

The idea that this body would grant retroactive immunity in the face 
of these challenges and deny the courts an opportunity to determine 
whether, at the mere request of a President, major companies, for years 
on end, can sweep up, vacuum up--to use the Church Committee's 
language--every telephone conversation, every fax, every e-mail of 
millions and millions of Americans, is a precedent I don't think we 
want as part of our heritage for coming generations.

And believe me, they will look back to it. If those who come after us 
are to prevent it from occurring again, they need the full truth.

Constitutional lawyer and author Glenn Greenwald expressed the high 
stakes this way:




 The Bush administration will be gone in 11 months. But--in 


 the absence of some meaningful accountability--all of this 


 will remain . . . If . . . these theories remain undisturbed 


 and unchallenged, and . . . all of these crimes go 


 uninvestigated and unpunished, that will have a profound 


 impact on changing our national character, in further 


 transforming the type of country we are.


That is why we must not see these secrets go quietly into the good 
night. I am here this evening because the truth is no one's private 
property. It belongs to every one of us, and it demands to be heard.

''State secrets,'' ''patriotic duty'': Those, as weak as they are, 
are the arguments the telecoms' advocates use when they are feeling 
high-minded. When their thoughts turn baser, they make their arguments 
as amateur economists.

Here is how Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell put it.




 If you play out the suits at the value they're claimed, it 


 would bankrupt these companies. So . . . we have to provide 


 liability protection to these private sector entities.


That is an incredible statement. It is amazing that a person in high 
Government would suggest that no matter how warranted this 
investigation may be, there is a higher calling, that we should not put 
these companies in any kind of financial jeopardy, that we have to 
provide liability protection to these private sector entities because 
it might bankrupt them.

To begin with, it is a clear exaggeration. First and foremost, we are 
talking about some of the most successful


companies in the United States, not only today but ever. Some of these 
companies have continued to earn record profits and sign up record 
numbers of subscribers at the same time as this very public litigation, 
totally undermining the argument, I might add, these lawsuits are doing 
the telecoms severe reputational damage.

Remember, the discussion about these telecoms has now gone on for 
months. And yet in the public debate about whether the courts ought to 
be able to examine these issues, there are reports that these companies 
have been accumulating record profits. Companies that size could not be 
completely wiped out by anything but the most exorbitant and unlikely 
judgment. To assume that the telecoms would lose and that the judges 
would hand them down such back-breaking penalties is already to take 
several leaps.

The point, after all, has never been to finally cripple our 
telecommunications industry. That is not the point here at all. In 
fact, some have said: Look, I will support you striking this immunity, 
provided you put a cap on damages these companies would suffer if in 
fact the plaintiffs prove to be correct. And I am more than happy to 
entertain that. I do not believe it is necessary, but if that is the 
argument, a damages cap would answer all of Mike McConnell's concerns, 
without even having to bring up immunity. I am prepared to agree to any 
kind of a cap you want--because the point to me is not the damages they 
pay, but the damage they have done.

But to suggest somehow that there is a pricetag companies would have 
to pay which is more valuable than protecting people's privacy is a 
stunning, breathtaking comment from a high Government official, in my 
view. It is extremely troubling that our Director of National 
Intelligence even bothers to pronounce on ''liability protection for 
private sector entities.'' How did that even begin to be relevant to 
letting this case go forward? Since when do we throw entire lawsuits 
out because the defendant stood to lose too much? In plain English, 
here is what Admiral McConnell is arguing: Some corporations are too 
rich to be sued. Even bringing money into the equation puts wealth 
above justice, above due process. Rarely in public life in the years I 
have served here have I ever heard an argument as venal as that on a 
matter as serious as this one. It astounds me that some can speak in 
the same breath about national security and the bottom line. Approve 
immunity and Congress will state clearly: The richer you are, the more 
successful you are, the more lawless you are entitled to be. A suit 
against you is a danger to the Republic! And so, at the rock bottom of 
its justifications, the telecoms' advocates are essentially arguing 
that immunity can be bought.

The truth is exactly, of course, the opposite. The larger the 
corporation, frankly, the greater the potential for abuse. Not that 
success should make a company suspect at all; companies grow large, and 
essential to our economy because they are excellent at what they do. I 
simply mean that size and wealth open the realm of possibilities for 
abuse far beyond the scope of the individual.

After all, if everything alleged is true, we are talking about one of 
the most massive violations of privacy in American history. If 
reasonable search and seizure means opening a drug dealer's apartment, 
the telecoms' alleged actions would be the equivalent of strip-
searching everyone in the building, ransacking their bedrooms, prying 
up all the floorboards. The scale of these cooperations opens 
unprecedented possibilities for abuse, possibilities far beyond the 
power of any one individual.

If the allegation against the telecoms is true, it constitutes one of 
the most massive violations of privacy in American history. And it 
would be inconceivable without the size and resources of a corporate 
behemoth, the same size that makes Mike McConnell fear the 
corporations' day in court. That is the massive scale we are talking 
about, and that massive scale is precisely why no corporation must be 
above the law.

On that scale, it is impossible to plead ignorance. As Judge Walker 
ruled:




 AT&T cannot seriously contend that a reasonable entity in 


 its position could have believed that the alleged domestic 


 dragnet was legal.


Again, from a Republican appointee to the Federal bench. But the 
arguments of the President's allies sink even lower. Listen to the 
words of a House Republican leader spoken on Fox News. Candidly, they 
are shameful.




 I believe that [the telecoms] deserve immunity from 


 lawsuits out there from typical trial lawyers trying to find 


 a way to get into the pockets of American companies.


Of course, some of the ''typical greedy trial lawyers'' bringing 
these suits work for a nonprofit. And the telecoms that some want to 
portray as pitiful little Davids actually employ hundreds of attorneys, 
retain the best corporate law firms, and spend multimillion dollar 
legal budgets.

But if the facts actually matter to immunity supporters, we would not 
be here. For some, the prewritten narrative takes precedence far above 
the mere facts; and here, it is the perennial narrative of the greedy 
trial lawyers.

With that, some can rest content. They conclude that we were never 
serious about the law, or about privacy, or about checks and balances; 
it was about the money all along.

But we will not let them rest content. We are extremely serious. 
There can no longer be any doubt: One by one the arguments of the 
immunity supporters, of the telecoms' advocates, fail.

I wish to spend a few minutes and detail these claims and their 
failures, if I may. The first argument from immunity supporters says:




 The President has the authority to decide whether or not 


 telecoms should be granted immunity.


That is the first argument. The President has that implicit 
authority. But the facts in this case belong in the courts. The 
judiciary should be allowed to determine whether the President has 
exceeded his powers by obtaining from the telecoms wholesale access to 
the domestic communications of millions of ordinary Americans.

Whatever the arguments may be, let us assume for a second they are 
going to make this argument. Well, you can make an argument. Where is 
the place you make that argument? Here in the legislative body or in 
the courts? I think the simple answer is, if you have been to law 
school for a week, the courts.

We are a government of three parts, coequal: executive, legislative, 
and judicial. The executive branch says: I have the right to do this. 
The Congress can debate and certainly discuss it. But only in the 
courts can we determine the constitutionality of that action.

Neither this body nor the other that comprise the legislative branch 
are charged with the responsibility of determining constitutionality. 
When Congress passes a law, the courts decide whether it is 
constitutional. When the President acts, the courts decide whether it 
is constitutional. The executive branch does not decide whether we have 
acted constitutionally, and we do not decide whether the President has 
acted constitutionally. That is what the courts are for. This is basic 
101 stuff. This is basic stuff. You go to the courts to determine this 
question. And yet if we pass retroactive immunity--gone.

That is a great precedent. That is what future Congresses will look 
to, when deciding when some future President overreaches: What did the 
previous Congresses do? And you will hear the argument in this Chamber 
years hence: Well, back in 2008, when confronted with that question, 
the Senate said that, frankly, the courts had no business with that, in 
effect, sanctioning what had occurred.

How else can you read this but as a sanction? If a majority of 
Senators here decides that retroactive immunity is warranted, what 
other conclusion can history draw from that, except we agreed with the 
President that he had the right to do what he did, and we will never 
know the legal answer to the question. We will deprive the courts of 
the opportunity to decide it.

We are overstepping our bounds incredibly by doing this, and hence 
the reason for the first time in my more than a quarter century in this 
body I am engaging in extended debate, because this is that important.

To allow a President, any President of any party, to mandate or 
require a public or private entity to invade the privacy of Americans 
to the extent that has occurred here, one of the most massive alleged 
violations of privacy in


history, and not challenge it and have the courts determine the 
legality or illegality of it, is an incredible precedent of historic 
proportions. It is not a small vote tomorrow. It is not a minor issue. 
It is about as important and as basic and as fundamental as anything we 
can ever do.

Remember that the administration's original immunity proposal 
protected everyone. That is what they wanted. And executive immunity is 
not in this bill only because Jay Rockefeller and Kit Bond and the 
other members of the committee said No. But do not forget that is what 
they wanted. The administration came to the committee, and said: We 
want you to grant immunity to everyone--the executive branch, the 
telecoms, Justice Department, anyone else involved.

The committee turned them down. But they asked for it. They asked for 
it. And that has to be a part of this debate and discussion. It is not 
irrelevant. It is not insignificant that the President of the United 
States asked the Intelligence Committee of the Senate to grant them and 
everyone else involved in this issue total immunity. What more do you 
need to know about what the motives are? How much more do you need to 
find out? The origin of immunity tells us a great deal about what is at 
stake here. It is self-preservation.

I have my own opinions about warrantless surveillance, about what 
went on. But my opinions should not bear the weight of law. I think 
what these companies did was wrong. But I would be a fool to stand 
before you this evening and say I have the right to make that 
determination. But they should have not the right, either, to decide if 
it was legal. And that is what we are doing, in effect, by granting 
retroactive immunity.

The second argument is that only foreign communications are targeted.

Immunity supporters claim that only foreign communications were 
targeted, not Americans' domestic calls. But the fact is that clear 
firsthand evidence authenticated by these corporations in court 
contradicts that claim. ''Splitters'' at AT&T's Internet hub in San 
Francisco diverted into a secret room controlled by the NSA every e-
mail, every text message, every phone call, foreign or domestic, 
carried over the massive fiber optic lines of 16 separate companies for 
over 5 years.

Third, the Senate Intelligence Committee has preserved the role of 
the judiciary so there is ample oversight. But the fact is, the role 
would be empty. The Intelligence version of the bill before us would 
require the cases to be dismissed at a word from the Attorney General. 
The central legal questions raised by these cases would never be heard. 
The cases would never be fully closed. We would never really truly know 
what happened in these matters. So from a mere word of the Attorney 
General, that is the end of it.

The fourth argument we have been hearing over the last number of 
months: A lack of immunity would compromise future cooperation between 
the U.S. Government and the telecom industry. But remember: Since the 
1970s the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act has compelled telecoms 
to cooperate with warranted surveillance, and it has immunized them 
entirely. They don't have a choice, in effect. If you are compelled by 
a warrant to turn over the evidence, you don't have the choice of 
cooperating or not. The idea that the companies will say: We are just 
not going to share that information with you--you don't have that 
luxury. When a court order comes and says: Turn over the evidence, you 
have to turn it over. But, of course, the companies say: We don't want 
to because we will end up with a lot of lawsuits. To handle that very 
legitimate issue raised initially by AT&T, which was part of drafting 
FISA in 1978, we said: Don't worry about that. We will immunize you so 
there won't be any lawsuits that can be brought against you for doing 
what you are compelled to do by court order and a warrant.

So the argument that somehow we won't be cooperative with you is just 
on its face factually wrong. You don't have the choice not to 
cooperate. What we do grant to you with that warrant is the fact that 
you cannot be sued, which is a legitimate request to make.

That is not, of course, what happened here. The decision was made to 
turn over the evidence without a warrant, without a court order.

I pointed out before that according to the Washington Post, since 
1978 there have been over 18,700 court orders requested of the FISA 
Court, and only 5 have been rejected in 30 years; 18,700-plus cases 
before the court, that secret, private Federal court, and in 99.9 
percent of the cases, they have been approved. Only five have been 
rejected. But when you are receiving a court order, when the warrant 
arrives and you are complying with it, as you are required, you also 
receive immunity from legal prosecution or from lawsuits. So the 
argument somehow that these companies won't be as cooperative, if it 
weren't so sad, would almost be amusing.

This was a pay deal, by the way. It wasn't just patriotic duty. There 
was a cost involved. We were writing checks to the telecommunications 
industry. For whatever reason, when the Government stopped paying the 
checks to the telecom industry, these great patriotic institutions 
decided to stop the surveillance. Were they under a court order, had 
there been a warrant insisting upon their compliance, they wouldn't 
have the luxury of deciding not to comply. Only under this fact 
situation we are debating this evening would these corporations have 
any ability to all of a sudden stop complying with the law or complying 
with the request. So the irony of the argument is that the reverse is 
actually true. If you don't have a warrant and a court order, it is 
less likely you are apt to get that continual cooperation from these 
very companies that can provide the information we need to keep us more 
secure.

The fifth argument immunity supporters make is that telecoms can't 
defend themselves because of the state secrets provision. I made this 
case a while ago, but let me repeat it. The fact is that Federal 
district court Judge Vaughn Walker has already ruled that the issue can 
go to trial without putting state secrets in jeopardy. Judge Walker 
pointed out that the existence of the warrantless surveillance program 
is hardly a secret at all.

I will quote him again. He said:




 The Government has [already] disclosed the general contours 


 of the ''terrorist surveillance program,'' which requires the 


 assistance of a telecommunications provider.


So the argument that they can't defend themselves without exposing 
state secrets has already been debunked.

The sixth argument that is made by those who support immunity is that 
defendants are already shielded by common law principles. This is an 
interesting one. Immunity supporters claim that telecoms are protected 
by common law principles, but the fact is that common law immunities do 
not trump specific legal duties imposed by statute such as the specific 
duties Congress has long imposed on telecoms to protect customer 
privacy and records.

In the pending case against AT&T, the judge already has ruled 
unequivocally that ''AT&T cannot seriously contend that a reasonable 
entity in its position could have believed that the alleged domestic 
dragnet was legal.'' Even so, the communications company defendants can 
and should have the opportunity to present these defenses to the courts 
and the courts--not the Congress preemptively--should decide whether 
they are sufficient.

The seventh argument that is being made by the supporters of immunity 
is that information leaks may compromise state secrets and national 
security. I have heard this argument over and over and over again. The 
fact is, our Federal court system, in decade after decade of dealing 
with delicate national security matters, has built up the expertise it 
takes to secure that information behind closed doors. If we are still 
concerned about national security being threatened as a result of these 
cases, we can simply get the principals a security clearance.


We can be increasingly confident that these cases will not expose 
state secrets or intelligence sources, because after the extensive 
litigation that has already taken place at both the district court and 
circuit court level, no sensitive information has been leaked.

This is a red herring issue. It is one that they are going to fall 
back on over and over again. But it is no secret about what has been 
going on. It has been widely reported. The only thing we are talking 
about is methods and means. Yet, over the decades, our Federal courts, 
in very sensitive matters,


have protected that information. So this is a phony argument and ought 
not to carry the day.

The eighth argument from those who support immunity: A lack of 
immunity will harm the telecom companies. This is not unlike Admiral 
McConnell's argument about finances. There will be reputational damage 
to the telecom industry. The fact is, there is no evidence that this 
litigation has reduced or will reduce the defendant companies' bottom 
lines or customer base. These companies can only be harmed if they have 
done something wrong. If they have not, they have nothing to worry 
about. But the suggestion somehow that we should not go forward because 
your reputation may be damaged is an insulting argument. It is 
offensive to suggest that we should harm the people's right to privacy 
because to prevent some reputational damage--they should be embarrassed 
to make that argument. After all, there is nothing to be damaged if you 
have done nothing wrong. If you have done something wrong, then, of 
course, there will be some damage. And why shouldn't there be, if you 
have done wrong? The courts are the ones to properly determine that.

The ninth argument: The magnitude of liability will bankrupt the 
telecoms. I have addressed this already, but I will briefly respond to 
it as well.

As we have seen, huge corporations could only be wiped out by most 
enormous penalties and also the most unlikely penalties that could be 
imposed. It would take several leaps to assume that the telecoms would 
lose and that they will be slapped with huge judgments. But on another 
level, immunity supporters are staking their claim on a dangerous 
principle, that a suit can be stopped solely on the basis of how much 
the defendant stands to lose. If we accept that premise, we could 
conceive of a corporation so wealthy, so integral to our economy, that 
its riches place it outside of the law altogether. That is a deeply 
flawed argument.

We see that none of these arguments for immunity stand. There is 
absolutely no reason to halt the legal process and to bar the 
courthouse door.

I think it is important at this moment to share with those who may be 
following this discussion, how we got to this point. How did we find 
out about all of this? I said earlier that we would not be here 
debating this this evening had it not been for a whistleblower, had it 
not been for reports in the media about what was going on, that a 5-
year violation of privacy rights would have now turned into a 7- or 8-
year violation, unabated, unstopped--every phone conversation, fax, e-
mail being literally swept up, from millions and millions of people.

But we got knowledge of this because of a gentleman by the name of 
Mark Klein who was a former AT&T telecommunications technician who came 
forward to provide evidence of the company's collaboration with the 
NSA. Mark Klein is a remarkable individual, a person of knowledge and 
ability when it comes to these matters. Let me read from Mark Klein's 
testimony because I think it is important. This is all from him. These 
are not my words. These are words from Mark Klein, a person who worked 
at AT&T for more than 20 years as an employee and a technician who came 
forward to provide this information. Let me read his comments, if I 
may, and put them into this debate.




 For about 5 years, the Bush administration's National 


 Security Agency, with the help of the country's largest 


 telecommunications companies, has been collecting your e-


 mail, accumulating information on your Web browser, and 


 gathering details about your Internet activity, all without 


 warrants and in violation of the U.S. Constitution and 


 several Federal and State laws. Even after the program was 


 exposed by the New York Times in December of 2005, the 


 President and other government officials consistently 


 defended the NSA's activities, insisting that the NSA only 


 collects communications into or from the United States where 


 one party to the communication is someone they believe to be 


 a member of al Qaeda or an associated terrorist organization. 


 But these claims are not true. I know they are not true, 


 because I have firsthand knowledge of the clandestine 


 collaboration between one giant telecommunications company 


 and the NSA to facilitate the most comprehensive spying 


 program in history. I have seen the NSA's vacuum cleaner 


 surveillance infrastructure with my own eyes. It is a vast 


 government-sponsored, warrantless spying program.



 For over 22 years, I worked as a technician for AT&T. While 


 working in San Francisco in 2002, I learned that a management 


 level technician, with AT&T's knowledge, had been cleared by 


 the NSA to work on a special but secret project, the 


 installation and maintenance of Internet equipment in a newly 


 constructed secure room in AT&T's central office in San 


 Francisco. Other than the NSA-cleared technician, no 


 employees were allowed in that room.



 In October of 2003, I was transferred to that office and 


 was in particular assigned to oversee AT&T operations. As 


 part of my duties, I was required to connect circuits 


 carrying data to optical splitters which made a copy of the 


 light signal. But the splitters weakened the light signal 


 causing problems I had to troubleshoot. After examining 


 engineering documents given to the technicians which showed 


 the connections to the splitters, I discovered that there 


 they were hard wired to the secret room. In short, an exact 


 copy of all traffic that flowed through critical AT&T 


 cables--e-mails, documents, pictures, Web browsing, voiceover 


 Internet phone conversations--everything was being diverted 


 to equipment inside the secret room. In addition, the 


 documents revealed the technological gear used in their 


 secret project, including a highly sophisticated search 


 component capable of quickly sifting through huge amounts 


 of digital data, including text, voice, and images in 


 real-time, according to preprogrammed criteria. It is 


 important to understand that the Internet links which were 


 connected to the splitter contained not just foreign 


 communications, but vast amounts of domestic trafficking 


 all mixed together.



 Furthermore, the splitter has no selective abilities. It is 


 just a dumb device which copies everything to the secret 


 room. And the links going through the splitter are AT&T's 


 physical connections to many other Internet providers; e.g., 


 Sprint, Qwest, Global Crossing Cable and Wireless, and the 


 critical west coast exchange point known as Mae West. Since 


 these networks are interconnected, the government's 


 surveillance affects not only AT&T customers, but everyone 


 else--millions of Americans.


I repeat again, I am reading the testimony of Mark Klein who was the 
whistleblower who revealed this 5-year-long warrantless surveillance 
program. Mark Klein goes on:




 I also discovered in my conversations with other 


 technicians that other secret rooms were established in 


 Seattle, San Jose, Los Angeles and San Diego. One of the 


 documents I obtained also mentioned Atlanta, and the clear 


 inference and the logic of this setup and the language of the 


 documents is that there are other such rooms across the 


 country to complete the coverage--possibly 15 to 20 more. So 


 when reports of the government's extensive wiretapping 


 program surfaced in December of 2005, after I had left AT&T, 


 I realized two things. First, that I had been a witness to a 


 massive spying effort that violated the rights of millions of 


 Americans; and second, that the government was not telling 


 the public the truth about the extent of their 


 unconstitutional invasion of privacy.



 In the spring of 2006, I became a witness for the 


 Electronic Frontier Foundation's lawsuit against AT&T. The 


 New York Times on April 13 of 2006 reported that four 


 independent technical experts who examined the AT&T documents 


 all said that the documents showed that AT&T had an agreement 


 with the Federal Government to systematically gather 


 information flowing on the Internet.


That is the testimony of Mark Klein.

I think it is important as well to share with my colleagues the 
testimony of Brian Ried, currently the Director of Engineering and 
Technical Operations at Internet Systems Consortium, a nonprofit 
organization devoted to supporting a nonproprietary Internet. This is a 
person of extensive knowledge. I am going to read his testimony about 
the technical arrangements. This is clearly above my pay grade to 
understand all of this with this gray head of hair I have, but to those 
who are listening or watching any of this, this will explain how this 
actually worked. So I am going to read this as if I actually know what 
I am talking about. So let me read exactly the words of Brian Ried, the 
statement of telecommunications expert Brian Ried, an AT&T 
whistleblower, about Mark Klein's revelations.




 I am a telecommunications and data networking expert.


That is again Brian Ried speaking here who has been involved in the 
development of several critical Internet technologies.




 I was a professor of electrical engineering at Stanford 


 University and of computer sciences at Carnegie Melon 


 University West. I have carefully reviewed the AT&T 


 authenticated documents and declaration provided by Mark 


 Klein and the public redacted version of the expert 


 declaration of Jay Scott Marcus, both filed in the Hepting v. 


 AT&T litigation. Combining the information contained in those 


 declarations and documents with my extensive knowledge of the 


 international telecommunications infrastructure and the 


 technology regularly used for lawful surveillance pursuant to 


 warrants




 and court orders, I believe Mr. Klein's evidence is strongly 


 supportive of widespread, untargeted surveillance of ordinary 


 people, both AT&T customers and others.



 The AT&T documents describe a technological setup of the 


 AT&T facility in San Francisco. This setup is particularly 


 well suited to wholesale dragnet surveillance of all 


 communications passing through the facility, whether 


 international or domestic. These documents describe how the 


 fiberoptic cables were cut and splitters installed at the cut 


 point. Fiberoptic splitters work just like ordinary TV 


 splitters. One cable feeds in and two cables feed out. Both 


 cables carry a copy of absolutely everything that is sent, 


 and if the second cable is connected to a monitoring station, 


 that station sees all traffic going over the cable.



 Mr. Klein stated that the second cable was routed into a 


 room at the facility which access was restricted to AT&T 


 employees having clearances from the National Security 


 Agency. The documents indicate that similar facilities were 


 being installed in Seattle, San Jose, Los Angeles, and San 


 Diego. The documents also reference a somewhat similar 


 facility in Atlanta. This infrastructure is capable of 


 monitoring all traffic passing through the AT&T facility, 


 some of it not even from AT&T customers, whether voice or 


 data or fax, international, or domestic. The most likely use 


 of this infrastructure is wholesale, untargeted surveillance 


 of ordinary Americans at the behest of the NSA. NSA 


 involvement undermines arguments that the facility is 


 intended for use by AT&T in protecting its own network 


 operations.



 This infrastructure is not limited to, nor would it be 


 especially efficient for targeted surveillance or even an 


 untargeted surveillance aimed at communications where one of 


 the ends is located outside of the United States. It is also 


 not reasonably aimed at supporting AT&T operations and 


 security procedures. There are 3 main reasons. 


 The technological infrastructure is far more powerful and 


 expansive than that needed to do targeted surveillance or 


 surveillance aimed at only international or one end 


 foreign communications. For example, it includes a Narus 


 6400, a computer that can simultaneously analyze huge 


 amounts of information based on rules provided by the 


 machine operator, analyze the content of messages and 


 other information--not just headers or routing 


 information--conduct the analysis in real-time rather than 


 after a delay, correlate information from multiple 


 sources, multiple formats, over many protocols and through 


 different periods of time in that analysis.



 The documents describe a secret private backbone network 


 separate from the public network where normal AT&T customer 


 traffic is carried and transmitted. A separate backbone 


 network would not be required for transmission of the smaller 


 amounts of data captured by a targeted surveillance. You 


 don't need that magnitude of transport capacity if you are 


 doing targeted surveillance.



 The San Francisco facility is not located near an entry-


 exit point for international communications that happened to 


 be transmitted through the United States either through under 


 sea cable or via satellite. As a result, it would not be a 


 sensible place to locate aimed at simply monitoring traffic 


 to or from foreign countries.


I apologize for reading these technical documents, but I think they 
shed some light. We are talking about very knowledgeable, expert people 
describing technically what was done, the magnitude of it, the capacity 
of it, the effort that was made, obviously, to see to it, as Mr. Klein 
calls it, a dumb machine that would not discriminate between 
information that might only be used to protect us from al-Qaida, and 
wholesale invasion of privacy.

But putting aside all that--had they sought a warrant and a court 
order, as they should have done, then arguably AT&T and others involved 
would be protected today and be immunized against lawsuits, if it had 
been done under the FISA legislation. The fact that the administration 
decided to totally disregard 30 years of legislation, of working courts 
that have provided, in over 18,700 examples, approval of such requests, 
rejecting only 5, shows an arrogance that shouldn't be ignored.

So again, tomorrow when the votes occur on cloture and the votes 
occur on these amendments, we will may sanctioning this activity--
setting the unprecedented precedent of a Congress actually providing 
immunity from the courts even examining whether warrantless spying is 
legal and right. Hence, in future years, this will be cited, I am 
confident, by those who want to undermine the FISA Courts, deprive the 
courts the opportunity to make sure there is a justification, an 
argument, a legal basis for granting these warrants. The argument will 
be made: You don't need the courts, because back in 2008, 
telecommunications companies, at the mere request of a President, were 
able to go forward and spend more than 5 years invading the privacy of 
millions of Americans, and when the Senate had an opportunity to 
sanction that activity, it decided to do so, rather than allow the 
court to determine whether that action was legal.

The word of the Senate should be a valued--I can hear the argument 
years hence. They listened to the debates, they listened to that fellow 
Dodd get up and talk for hours about the issue of immunity and why it 
shouldn't be granted retroactively and they turned him down. That will 
be the precedent cited when faced with similar allegations involving 
future administrations that may decide that financial information, 
medical information, highly private, personal, family information may 
be the subject of unwarranted surveillance to allegedly protect our 
country and keeping us safe. If that is the case, I am confident this 
debate and these votes will be cited as a justification for allowing 
that kind of activity to go forward without receiving the legal 
authority to do so. We will have denied the courts the opportunity to 
decide whether this activity that was the most serious invasion of 
privacy ever maybe in our country was legal or illegal. By granting 
retroactive immunity, we will have made a decision to deprive the 
courts of that responsibility.

Ultimately, all I am asking for is a fair fight. To reject immunity 
would mean to grab hold of the closest thread of lawlessness we have at 
hand and to pull until the whole garment unravels. But ensuring a day 
in court is not the same as ensuring a verdict. When that day comes, I 
have absolutely no investment in the verdict, either way. It may be the 
Federal Government broke the law when they asked the telecoms to spy 
but that the telecoms' response was an innocent one. It may be the 
Government was within the law and that the telecoms broke it. Maybe 
they both broke the law. Maybe neither did.

But just as it would be absurd to declare the telecoms clearly 
guilty, it is equally absurd, I would argue, to close the case in 
Congress without a decision. That is what immunity does: It closes the 
case without a decision. Throughout this debate, the telecoms' 
advocates have needed to show not just that they are right but that 
they are so right and that we are so far beyond the pale that we can 
shut down the argument right here, today. That is a burden they have 
clearly not met, and they cannot expect to meet it when a huge majority 
of Senators who will make the decision have not even seen the secret 
documents that are supposed to prove the case for retroactive immunity.

My trust is in the courts, in the cases argued openly, in the judges 
who preside over them, and in the juries of American citizens who 
decide them. They should be our pride, not our embarrassment, and they 
deserve to do their jobs.

As complex, as diverse, as relentless as the assault on the rule of 
law has been, our answer to it is a simple one. Far more than any 
President's lawlessness, the American way of justice remains deeply 
rooted in our character; that no President can disturb or should be 
allowed to do so.

So I am full of hope. Even on this dark evening, I have faith that we 
can unite security and justice because we have already done it for 30 
years. My father, Senator Tom Dodd, was the number two American 
prosecutor at the famous Nuremburg trials, which may have something to 
do with the passion I feel about this issue--the rule of law.

I have never forgotten the example he and Justice Robert Jackson and 
others set at Nuremberg more than 60 years ago.

As Justice Robert Jackson said in the opening statement at 
Nuremberg--in fact, I have written it down, but I memorized this years 
and years ago. Robert Jackson's opening statement, speaking to the 
court, talking about the Soviet Union, the British, the French, and 
America, he made the following argument:




 That four great nations, flushed with victory and stung 


 with injury, stay the hand of vengeance and voluntarily 


 submitting their captive enemies to the judgment of the law 


 is one of the most significant tributes that power ever paid 


 to reason.


That is a great sentence when you think of it. Here we are staying 
the hands of vengeance and power, paying tribute to reason. At 
Nuremberg, there were 21 initial defendants. Madam President, 55 
million people had died, 6


million Jews were incinerated, and 5 million others had the same fate 
befall them because of their politics, religion, or sexual orientation. 
These were some of the greatest crimes in recorded history. Winston 
Churchill wanted to summarily execute every one of them. The Soviets 
wanted a show trial for a week and then to kill them all. Robert 
Jackson, Harry Truman, Henry Stinton, the Secretary of War in 
Roosevelt's Cabinet--this handful of people said: The United States is 
different. We are going to do something no one else has ever done 
before. We are going to give these defendants, as great violators of 
human rights as they are, a day in court. It was unprecedented.

Here they are, the war still raging in the Pacific, gathering in 
Nuremberg, Germany, which had 30,000 people buried in the rubble of the 
city. Prosecutors, judges, and lawyers for these individuals gathered 
together and gave them a day in court that went on for a year.

And the United States gained the moral high ground. Never before in 
history had the victors given those guilty of the worse atrocities 
imaginable a day in court.

I cannot believe this country, at this hour, would walk away from the 
rule of law when we stood for it so proudly in the 20th century. In 
fact, that experience at Nuremberg gave birth to a half-century of 
moral authority. It paved the way for the Marshall Plan and for the 
international structures that gave the world relative peace for more 
than a half century. For so many years, both Republican and Democratic 
administrations stood up for them and defended them. The international 
criminal courts and others--none of these institutions would have 
existed were it not for the United States leading.

Today, when we find ourselves at this moment in this body--of all 
places--walking away from the rule of law, I think it is a dark hour. 
Again, my hope is that by tomorrow reason will prevail here, and we 
will arrive at a different decision and reject this idea that 
retroactive immunity is warranted.

What is the tribute that power owes to reason? That when America goes 
to war, it doesn't fight for land or for treasure or for dominance but 
for a transcendent idea--the idea that laws should rule and not men; 
the idea that the Constitution does not get suspended for vengeance; 
the idea that this great Nation should never tailor its eternal 
principles to the conflict of the moment because, if we did, we would 
be walking in the footsteps of the enemies we despised.

The tribute that power owes to reason: More than ever before, that 
tribute is due today. If we cannot find the strength to pay it, we will 
have to answer for it.

There is a famous military recruiting poster that comes to mind. A 
man is sitting in an easy chair with his son and daughter on his lap, 
in some future after the war has ended. His daughter asks him: Daddy, 
what did you do in the war?

His face is shocked and shamed, because he knows he did nothing.

My daughters, Grace and Christina, are 3 and 6 years old. They are 
growing up in a time of two great conflicts: one between our Nation and 
enemies, and another between what is best and worst in our American 
soul. Someday soon I know I am going to hear the question: What did you 
do?

I want more than anything else to give the right answer to that 
question. That question is coming from every single one of us in this 
body. Every single one of us will be judged by a jury from whom there 
is no hiding: our sons and daughters and grandchildren. Someday soon 
they will read in their textbooks the story of a great nation, one that 
threw down tyrants and oppressors for two centuries; one that rid the 
world of Naziism and Soviet communism; one that proved that great 
strength can serve great virtue, that right can truly make might. Then 
they will read how, in the early years of the 21st century, that Nation 
lost its way.

We don't have the power to strike that chapter. We cannot go back. We 
cannot undestroy the CIA's interrogation tapes. We cannot unpass the 
Military Commissions Act. We cannot unspeak Alberto Gonzales' 
disgraceful testimony. We cannot untorture innocent people. And, 
perhaps, sadly, shamefully, we cannot stop retroactive immunity. We 
cannot undo all that has been done for the last 6 years for the cause 
of lawlessness and fear. We cannot blot out that chapter. But we can 
begin the next one, even today.

Let the first words read: Finally, in February 2008, the Senate said: 
Enough is enough.

I implore my colleagues to write it with me. I implore my colleagues 
to vote against retroactive immunity. I implore them to reject it, and 
if we fail to do that, to vote against cloture.

I have shared my thoughts and views at some length now. But there are 
others who have spoken eloquently on this subject. I think their words 
deserve to be heard because they state far more eloquently than I could 
the importance of all of this and why this is such a compelling case 
and deserving of our attention. Let me share a few of these words from 
the New York Times:




 Even by the dismal standards of what passes for a national 


 debate on intelligence and civil liberties, last week was a 


 really bad week.



 The Senate debated a bill that would make needed updates to 


 the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act--while needlessly 


 expanding the president's ability to spy on Americans without 


 a warrant and covering up the unlawful spying that President 


 Bush ordered after 9/11.



 The Democrat who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, 


 John Rockefeller of West Virginia, led the way in killing 


 amendments that would have strengthened requirements for 


 warrants and raised the possibility of at least some 


 accountability for past wrongdoing. Republicans declaimed 


 about protecting America from terrorists--as if anyone was 


 arguing the opposite--and had little to say about protecting 


 Americans' rights.



 We saw a ray of hope when the head of the Central 


 Intelligence Agency conceded--finally--that waterboarding was 


 probably illegal. But his boss, the 'director of national 


 intelligence, insisted it was legal when done to real bad 


 guys. And Vice President Dick Cheney--surprise!--made it 


 clear that President Bush would authorize waterboarding 


 whenever he wanted.



 The Catch-22 metaphor is seriously overused, but consider 


 this: Attorney General Michael Mukasey told Congress there 


 would be no criminal investigation into waterboarding. He 


 said the Justice Department decided waterboarding was legal 


 (remember the torture memo?) and told the C.I.A. that.



 So, according to Mukaseyan logic, the Justice Department 


 cannot investigate those who may have committed torture, 


 because the Justice Department said it was O.K. and Justice 


 cannot be expected to investigate itself.



 As it was with torture, so it was with wiretaps.



 After the 2001 terrorist attacks, the President decided to 


 ignore the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, 


 and authorized wiretaps without a warrant on electronic 


 communications between people in the United States and people 


 abroad. Administration lawyers ginned up a legal 


 justification and then asked communications companies for 


 vast amounts of data.



 According to Mr. Rockefeller, the companies were ''sent 


 letters, all of which stated that the relevant activities had 


 been authorized by the President'' and that the Attorney 


 General--then John Ashcroft--decided the activity was lawful. 


 The legal justification remains secret, but we suspect it was 


 based on the finely developed theory that the government 


 cannot be sued for doing so if they were obeying a warrant--


 or a certification from the Attorney General that a warrant 


 was not needed--and all federal statutes were being obeyed.



 When Mr. Bush started his spying program, FISA allowed 


 warrantless eavesdropping for up to a year if the president 


 certified that it was directed at a foreign power, or the 


 agent of a foreign power, and there was no real chance that 


 communications involving United States citizens or residents 


 would be caught up. As we now know, the surveillance included 


 Americans and there was no ''foreign power'' involved.



 The law then, and now, also requires the attorney general 


 to certify ''in writing under oath'' that the surveillance is 


 legal under FISA, not some fanciful theory of executive 


 power. He is required to inform Congress 30 days in advance, 


 and then periodically report to the House and Senate 


 intelligence panels.



 Congress was certainly not informed, and if Mr. Ashcroft or 


 later Alberto Gonzales certified anything under oath, it's a 


 mystery to whom and when. The eavesdropping went on for four 


 years and would probably still be going on if The Times had 


 not revealed it.



 So what were the telecommunications companies told? Since 


 the administration is not going to investigate this either, 


 civil actions are the only alternative.



 The telecoms, which are facing about 40 pending lawsuits, 


 believe they are protected by a separate law that says 


 companies that give communications data to the government 


 cannot be sued for doing so if they were obeying a 


 warrant--or a certification from the attorney general that 


 a warrant was not needed--and all federal statutes were 


 being obeyed.



 To defend themselves, the companies must be able to show 


 they cooperated and produce that certification. But the White 


 House does




 not want the public to see the documents, since it seems 


 clear that the legal requirements were not met. It is 


 invoking the state secrets privilege--saying that as a matter 


 of national security, it will not confirm that any company 


 cooperated with the wiretapping or permit the documents to be 


 disclosed in court.



 So Mr. Rockefeller and other senators want to give the 


 companies immunity even if the administration never admits 


 they were involved. This is short-circuiting the legal 


 system. If it is approved, we will then have to hope that the 


 next president will be willing to reveal the truth.



 Mr. Rockefeller argues that companies might balk at future 


 warrantless spying programs. Imagine that!



 This whole nightmare was started by Mr. Bush's decision to 


 spy without warrants--not because they are hard to get, but 


 because he decided he was above the law. Discouraging that 


 would be a service to the nation.



 This debate is not about whether the United States is going 


 to spy on Al Qaeda, it is about whether it is going to 


 destroy its democratic principles in doing so. Senators who 


 care about that should vote against immunity.


Madam President, if I can, I will read from the USA Today, which also 
had a good editorial on this subject matter, dated October 22, 2007. It 
is entitled, ''Our View On Your Phone Records: Immunity Demand For 
Telecoms Raises Questions.''




 As history shows, mass snooping can sweep up innocent 


 citizens.



 Anyone who has ever watched TV's Law & Order: SVU knows how 


 easy it is for police to get the bad guys' LUDs--''local 


 usage details,'' better known as telephone calling records. 


 They only need to get a prosecutor to sign a subpoena.



 Eavesdropping on calls or reading e-mails is a bit tougher. 


 A warrant must come from a judge, and stronger evidence is 


 needed. Even so, it is an efficient process that serves law 


 enforcement's needs while guarding against arbitrary 


 intrusions into the privacy of innocent people.



 But whether those protections still exist in national 


 security cases is very much in doubt.



 Since Sept. 11, 2001, the Bush administration has 


 repeatedly bypassed the special court set up to preserve 


 balance. Now, with Congress threatening to restore some level 


 of protection, the administration is insisting on legal 


 immunity for telecommunications companies that might have 


 turned over records improperly. Last week, a key Senate 


 committee agreed.



 The request alone is enough to raise suspicion, 


 particularly given the nation's history.



 In the 1960s and '70s when law enforcement and spy agencies 


 launched mass snooping against U.S. citizens, some of the 


 data ended up being used for nefarious purposes, such as IRS 


 tax probes, that had nothing to do with protecting the 


 nation.



 That is the danger when an administration can tap into 


 phone records without court oversight, and it is what's at 


 issue now.



 The administration has repeatedly bypassed the special 


 national security court, arguing that the urgency of the war 


 on terrorism justified its actions.



 In one particularly troubling intrusion, the National 


 Security Agency (NSA), a Pentagon-run spy agency, built a 


 database--with cooperation from some telecom companies--that 


 includes America's domestic calls. The extent of the program 


 remains hidden, one reason many in Congress are reluctant to 


 grab the company's immunity.



 According to the account of one former CEO, the NSA foray 


 has already led to abuse. When Qwest, one of the nation's 


 largest telecom companies, refused to go along with the NSA 


 program--because Qwest lawyers considered it illegal--the NSA 


 allegedly retaliated by denying Qwest other lucrative 


 government contracts. Further, the requests to participate, 


 according to former Qwest chief executive Joseph Nacchio, 


 came six months before the 9/11 attacks. Nacchio's 


 allegations are in court findings unsealed this month that 


 are part of his battle over a conviction of insider trading.



 If the Senate measure becomes law, telecom companies will 


 get immunity from nearly 40 lawsuits without the public 


 knowing what the companies or the government did. Never mind 


 that six of the lawsuits were brought by state officials--


 from New Jersey to Missouri--concerned about possible 


 violation of citizens' privacy.



 There might be some valid reason to grant immunity. The 


 Senate committee agreed after seeing details. But even if 


 there is, the companies should be compelled to tell the 


 public the precise nature and reach of the program, and the 


 program should be put firmly under court review.



 The Senate measure also would place minimal court 


 supervision over future surveillance ventures. A far more 


 sensible House Democratic measure would give the Foreign 


 Intelligence Surveillance Court a greater role.



 That system works well, even in emergencies. In the 


 harrowing minutes after the Pentagon was attacked on 9/11, 


 the court's chief judge, stuck in his car, granted five 


 surveillance warrants from his cell phone.



 Speed, obviously, is important. Nevertheless, it can be 


 achieved without discarding protections that long ago proved 


 their worth.


The Dallas Morning News had a good article as well on Friday, October 
19, of last year, entitled ''Beck and Call: Verizon too eager to 
surrender phone records'':




 Verizon's willingness to turn over customer telephone 


 records when the government asks--even though investigators 


 often make such requests without a court order--is a 


 troubling practice.



 The company may be motivated by a desire to help--or to 


 avoid government confrontation. But Verizon's approach, 


 disclosed in a letter to Congress this week, is the wrong way 


 to go about this.



 The burden of proof rests with the federal government to 


 prove its need for the records. Except in rare instances, 


 investigators must take their records requests to a judge who 


 then can determine whether to issue a warrant. The 


 Constitution intends just that, in language that fairly 


 balances privacy fears and law enforcement.



 Yet the Bush administration insists on continuing to push 


 the post-9/11 civil liberties vs. security debate in the 


 wrong direction. Because telecom companies that have complied 


 with its requests now face huge lawsuits from citizens-rights 


 groups, the administration wants a law to grant immune 


 businesses sued for disclosing information without court 


 authorization.



 Congress is right to look at the immunity proposal with a 


 skeptical eye, especially since the administration has been 


 reluctant to explain details of its controversial 


 surveillance program to lawmakers. The law would further 


 erode the privacy firewall and remove another layer of checks 


 and balances.



 The phone companies, meanwhile, have refused to tell 


 relevant congressional committees whether they participated 


 in the National Security Agency's domestic eavesdropping 


 program. Their silence is based on concerns that they might 


 illegally divulge classified information if they talk to 


 Congress in too much detail.



 Yet Congress and the courts have legitimate oversight roles 


 in issues of privacy and national security. Due process is 


 necessary to promote transparency and accountability in a 


 democracy. These are foundational principles, even in the 


 more dangerous post-9/11 world.


There is a further piece I think is worthy of reading, written in 
December of 2005 by a former majority leader of this great body, Tom 
Daschle. It's called ''Power We Didn't Grab.'' Tom Daschle was deeply 
involved, I should point out, in the negotiations dealing with many of 
these matters, particularly in the wake of the resolution that was 
drafted granting the President the authority to go after al-Qaida in 
Afghanistan. Alberto Gonzales later argued that with the adoption of 
that resolution, Congress was granting the President authority to 
conduct the warrantless surveillance that is the subject of our 
discussion this evening.

That resolution was the subject of some negotiation over several days 
before it was presented for a final vote in this body. So it is worthy 
of consideration that Tom Daschle would write a piece in the Washington 
Post when Alberto Gonzales made the argument that the President's 
authority to require the phone companies to comply with his request 
without a court order was, in fact, never the subject of those 
negotiations.

I will read Tom Daschle's words on December 23, 2005:




 In the face of mounting questions about news stories saying 


 that President Bush approved a program to wiretap American 


 citizens without getting warrants, the White House argues 


 that Congress granted it authority for such surveillance in 


 the 2001 legislation authorizing the use of force against al 


 Qaeda. On Tuesday, Vice President Cheney said the president 


 ''was granted authority by the Congress to use all means 


 necessary to take on the terrorists, and that's what we've 


 done.''



 As Senate majority leader at the time, I helped negotiate 


 that law with the White House counsel's office over two 


 harried days. I can state categorically that the subject of 


 warrantless wiretaps of American citizens never came up. I 


 did not and never would have supported giving authority to 


 the president for such wiretaps. I am also confident that the 


 98 senators who voted in favor of authorization of force 


 against al Qaeda did not believe that they were also voting 


 for warrantless domestic surveillance.



 On the evening of Sept. 12, 2001, the White House proposed 


 that Congress authorize the use of military force to ''deter 


 and pre-empt any future acts of terrorism or aggression 


 against the United States.'' Believing the scope of this 


 language was too broad and ill defined, Congress chose 


 instead, on Sept. 14, to authorize ''all necessary and 


 appropriate force against those nations, organizations or 


 persons [the president] determines planned, authorized, 


 committed, or aided'' the attacks of Sept. 11. With this 


 language, Congress denied the president the more expansive 


 authority he sought and insisted that his authority be used 


 specifically against Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda.





 Just before the Senate acted on this compromise resolution, 


 the White House sought one last change. Literally minutes 


 before the Senate cast its vote, the administration sought to 


 add the words ''in the United States and'' after 


 ''appropriate force'' in the agreed-upon text. This last-


 minute change would have given the president broad authority 


 to exercise expansive powers not just overseas--where we all 


 understand he wanted authority to act--but right here in the 


 United States, potentially against American citizens. I could 


 see no justification for Congress to accede to this 


 extraordinary request for additional authority. I refused.



 The shock and rage we all felt in the hours after the 


 attack was still fresh. America was reeling for the first 


 attack on our soil since Pearl Harbor. We suspected thousands 


 had been killed, and many who worked in the World Trade 


 Center and the Pentagon were not yet accounted for. Even so, 


 a strong bipartisan majority could not agree to the 


 administration's request for an unprecedented grant of 


 authority.



 The Bush administration now argues those powers were 


 inherently contained in the resolution adopted by Congress--


 but at the time, the administration clearly felt they weren't 


 or it wouldn't have tried to insert the additional language.



 All Americans agreed that keeping our nation safe from 


 terrorists demands aggressive and innovative tactics. This 


 unity was reflected in the near-unanimous support for the 


 original resolution and the Patriot Act in those harrowing 


 days after Sept. 11. But there are right and wrong ways to 


 defeat terrorists, and that is a distinction this 


 administration has never seemed to accept. Instead of 


 employing tactics that preserve Americans' freedoms and 


 inspire the faith and confidence of the American people, the 


 White House seems to have chosen methods that can only breed 


 fear and suspicion.



 If the stories in the media over the past week are 


 accurate, the president has exercised authority that I do not 


 believe is granted to him in the Constitution, and that I 


 know is not granted to him in the law I helped negotiate with 


 his counsel and that Congress approved in the days after 


 Sept. 11. For that reason, the president should explain the 


 specific legal justification for his authorization of these 


 actions, Congress should fully investigate these actions and 


 the president's justification for them, and the 


 administration should cooperate fully with that 


 investigation.



 In the meantime, if the president believes the current 


 legal architecture of our country is sufficient for the fight 


 against terrorism, he should propose changes to our laws in 


 the light of day.



 That is how a great democracy operates. And that is how 


 this great democracy will defeat terrorism.


Those were eloquent words from our former majority leader who was, as 
I said, deeply involved in the negotiations crafting the resolution 
that was adopted almost unanimously, allowing us to attack al-Qaida, to 
defeat them in Afghanistan. Regrettably, Osama bin Laden and too many 
of his operatives are still on the loose. But that language gave the 
President the authority to act against them. He specifically wanted 
more authority at home. The majority leader and those who worked with 
him rejected that argument and that resolution adopted in 2001, 48 
hours after the attack, specifically excluded the kind of activity that 
Alberto Gonzales and Vice President Cheney claimed was granted in that 
resolution.

It was worthy to note the language of Senator Daschle during that 
debate.

I am going to read one more piece, if I may, again going back to 
October. It is ''Immunity for Telecoms May Set Bad Precedent, Legal 
Scholars Say. Retroactive problems could create problems in the 
future.'' This is by Dan Eggen. This was written in October of 2007.

I made the argument earlier that I was concerned about the precedent-
setting nature of what we are doing. This evening I have been reaching 
back 30 years to language used by our predecessors in this Chamber, 
Republicans and Democrats, who were part of the Church Commission that 
crafted the FISA legislation and the language they used, which easily 
could have been written yesterday and describing the debate we are 
having these days. We are calling upon them to guide us as we make our 
decisions about how to proceed in this day's work with the different 
threats we face, but the threats our predecessors faced were not small 
threats--the Soviet Union, a nuclear holocaust, significant problems of 
surveillance. They had the courage and the wisdom to step back and to 
create a structure that allowed us to maintain that balance between 
security and liberty.

So it is important because I am concerned that at some future date 
that the votes tomorrow may give a strong precedent to those who have 
never liked the idea of Federal courts granting warrants to conduct 
surveillance but prefer this be done at the mere request of an American 
President.

I made the case that when the Framers fashioned this Republic of 
ours, had efficiency been their goal, they never would have established 
a written system that had so many inefficiencies in it. In fact, 
requiring the checks and balances of an executive, judicial, and 
legislative branch with all of the requirements that we insist upon 
make this system terribly inefficient in many ways. But the Founders of 
this Republic were not only concerned about what we did but how we did 
things. It is terribly important to be mindful of that in these 
debates. Clearly, we need to gather information, and we need to be able 
to do it in an expeditious fashion. But we also need to make sure that 
how we do that is not going to violate more than 220 years of history, 
of guaranteeing the rights and liberties of individual citizens.


Thirty years ago, a previous Senate found a way to do that with the 
establishment of the secret Federal courts. These courts are 
established by the Chief Justice of the United States, who appoints 
sitting Federal judges anonymously to serve on these courts. None of us 
ever get to know who they are. But as I pointed out earlier, even on 9/
11, a cell phone one of these secret FISA judges was able to respond 
instantaneously to the request being made to conduct surveillance 
necessary in the minutes after 9/11.

So it is important not only what we do about today's problem but the 
message we send, the precedent we set for future Congresses when 
confronted in their day, as they will be, with challenges regarding the 
balance between security and liberty.

So this article, written by Dan Eggen, I think has value, talking 
about how retroactive protection could create problems in the future.




 When previous Republican administrations were accused of 


 illegality in the FBI and CIA spying abuses of the 1970s or 


 the Iran Contra affair of the 1980s, Democrats in Congress 


 launched investigations or pushed for legislative reforms.



 But last week, faced with admissions by several 


 telecommunication companies that they assisted the Bush 


 administration in warrantless spying on Americans, leaders of 


 the Senate Intelligence Committee took a much different tack, 


 opposing legislation that would grant those companies 


 retroactive immunity from prosecution or lawsuits.



 The proposal marks the second time in recent years that 


 Congress has moved toward providing legal immunity for past 


 actions that may have been illegal. The Military Commissions 


 Act, passed by the GOP-led Congress in September of 2006, 


 provided retroactive immunity for CIA interrogators who could 


 have been accused of war crimes for mistreating detainees.



 Legal experts say the granting of such retroactive immunity 


 by Congress is unusual, particularly in a case involving 


 private companies. Congress, on only a few occasions, has 


 given some form of immunity to law enforcement officers, 


 intelligence officials, or others within the government, or 


 to some of its contractors, experts said. In 2005, Congress 


 also approved a law granting firearms manufacturers immunity 


 from lawsuits by victims of gun violence.



 ''It's particularly unusual in the case of the telecoms, 


 because you don't really know what you are immunizing,'' said 


 Louis Fisher, a specialist in constitutional law with the Law 


 Library of the Library of Congress. ''You don't know what you 


 are cleaning up.''



 As part of a surveillance package approved Thursday by the 


 Senate Intelligence Committee, some telecommunications 


 companies would be granted immunity from about 40 pending 


 lawsuits that allege they violated Americans' privacy and 


 constitutional rights by aiding a warrantless wireless 


 surveillance program instituted after the September 11, 2001, 


 attacks.


I might point out here--and I will digress for a second--that we 
heard earlier testimony that this program may have actually started 
prior to the attacks of 9/11. There has been testimony submitted in 
courts by one of the telecoms, Qwest's CEO, that in fact a request was 
made of them to actually provide warrantless surveillance in January of 
2001, when the administration took office, long before the attacks of 
9/11. So it seems to me that alone ought to be the subject of some 
inquiry.

We have all accepted the notion that immediately after 9/11, whether 
we liked it or not, it was understandable how in the emotions of the 
moment, that companies, at the request of an administration, even here 
an administration requesting warrantless surveillance, might have 
acted. Not that we


would agree or like it but most would understand it.

My objection, as I said earlier, is not that it went on but that it 
went on for the next 5 years and would still be ongoing were it not for 
the whistleblower and the reports in the media. But what is troubling 
to me is we are assuming this all began after 9/11. There may now be 
some evidence it began before 9/11, which would debunk a lot of 
arguments given on why we should grant retroactive immunity. I merely 
point this out because we read earlier in testimony here that suggested 
this might have been done earlier.

At any rate, I will continue from Mr. Eggen's article talking about 
the provision we are talking about here.




 The provision is a key concession to the administration and 


 the companies, which lobbied heavily for it.


Referring to the retroactive immunity.




 Supporters argue the legislation is needed to avoid unfair 


 punishment of private firms that took part in good-faith 


 efforts to assist the government.



 In arguing in favor of such protections earlier this month, 


 President Bush said any legislation ''must grant liability 


 protection to companies who are facing multibillion dollar 


 lawsuits only because they are believed to have assisted in 


 the efforts to defend our Nation following the 9/11 


 attacks.''



 The head of the intelligence panel, Sen. John D. 


 Rockefeller, made a similar argument after the bill was 


 approved last week. ''The onus is on the administration, not 


 the companies, to ensure that the request is on strong legal 


 footing,'' he said.



 Jeffrey H. Smith, a CIA general counsel during the Clinton 


 administration who now represents private companies in the 


 national security area, said the risk of litigation poses 


 an unfair threat to government officials or others who 


 have good reason to believe they are acting legally. He 


 noted that many intelligence officers now feel obliged to 


 carry liability insurance.



 ''It seems to me that it's manifestly unfair for the 


 officers that conducted that program and the telecoms to now 


 face prosecution or civil liability for carrying out what was 


 on its face a totally lawful request on the part of the 


 government,'' Smith said. ''It's not the same as Abu Ghraib 


 or a CIA officer who beats someone during an interrogation.''



 But civil liberties groups and many academics argue that 


 Congress is allowing the government to cover up possible 


 wrongdoing and is inappropriately interfering in disputes the 


 courts should decide. The American Civil Liberties Union last 


 campaigned against the proposed Senate legislation, saying in 


 a news release Friday that ''the administration is trying to 


 cover its tracks.''



 Sen. Russell Feingold said in a statement last week that 


 classified documents provided by the White House ''further 


 demonstrate that the program was illegal and that there is no 


 basis for granting retroactive immunity to those who 


 allegedly cooperated.'' His office declined to elaborate on 


 the records, which were reviewed by a Feingold staffer.



 Retired Rear Adm. John Hutson, dean and president of the 


 Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., said he is 


 concerned about the precedent a new immunity provision might 


 set.


The article quotes him.




 ''The unfortunate reality is that once you've done it, once 


 you immunize interrogators or phone companies, then it's easy 


 to do it again in another context. It seems to me that as a 


 general rule retroactive immunity is not a good thing . . . 


 It's essentially letting Congress handle something that 


 should be handled by the Judiciary.''


These are, I think, very good articles that shed light on some of the 
important issues we need to be looking at.

Let me, if I can, go back and talk about the Church Commission. I 
think it is important because we are relying so heavily on the work 
they have done and the establishment in the immediate aftermath of the 
Church Commission of the FISA Courts. I have quoted from some of them 
earlier this evening, but I think it is worthwhile to go back and 
listen to their words. Again, I want you to know these words were 
written 30 years ago, but I think people can appreciate how timely the 
language is when you consider the debate we are having. It is hard not 
to wonder how these words weren't prepared less than 24 hours ago, in 
preparation for this debate. I think their warnings and admonitions 
have a timeliness to them that are worthy of including in this 
discussion at this moment. So let me quote from the Church report:




 Americans have rightfully been concerned since before World 


 War II about the dangers of hostile foreign agents likely to 


 commit acts of espionage. Similarly, the violent acts of 


 political terrorists can seriously endanger the rights of 


 Americans. Carefully focused intelligence investigations can 


 help prevent such acts.



 But too often intelligence has lost its focus and domestic 


 intelligence activities have invaded individual privacy and 


 violated the rights of lawful assembly and political 


 expression. Unless new and tighter controls are established 


 by legislation, domestic intelligence activities threaten to 


 undermine our democratic society and fundamentally alter its 


 nature.



 A tension between order and liberty is inevitable in any 


 society. A government must protect its citizens from those 


 bent on engaging in violence and criminal behavior or in 


 espionage or other hostile foreign intelligence activity. 


 Intelligence work has, at times, successfully prevented 


 dangerous and abhorrent acts, such as bombings and foreign 


 spying, and aided in the prosecution of those responsible for 


 such acts.



 But intelligence activity in the past decades has, all too 


 often, exceeded the restraints on the exercise of 


 governmental power which are imposed by our country's 


 constitution, laws, and traditions.



 We have seen segments of our government, in their attitudes 


 and action, adopt tactics unworthy of a democracy, and 


 occasionally reminiscent of the tactics of totalitarian 


 regimes. We have seen a consistent pattern in which programs 


 initiated with limited goals, such as preventing criminal 


 violence or identifying foreign spies, were expanded to what 


 witnesses characterized as ''vacuum cleaners,'' sweeping in 


 information about lawful activities of American citizens.



 That these abuses have adversely affected the 


 constitutional rights of particular Americans is beyond 


 question. But we believe the harm extends far beyond the 


 citizens directly affected.



 Personal privacy is protected because it is essential to 


 liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Our constitution checks 


 the power of government for the purpose of protecting the 


 rights of individuals, in order that all our citizens my live 


 in a free and decent society. Unlike totalitarian states, we 


 do not believe that any government has a monopoly on truth.



 When government infringes on these rights instead of 


 nurturing and protecting them, the injury spreads far beyond 


 the particular citizens targeted to untold number of other 


 American citizens who may be intimidated.



 Abuse thrives on secrecy. Obviously, public disclosure over 


 matters such as the names of intelligence agents or the 


 technological details of collection methods is inappropriate. 


 But in the field of intelligence, secrecy has been 


 extended to inhibit review of the basic programs and 


 practices themselves.



 Those within the executive branch and the Congress who 


 would exercise their responsibilities wisely must be fully 


 informed. The American people as well should know enough 


 about intelligence activities to be able to apply its good 


 sense to the underlying issues of policy and morality.



 Knowledge is the key to control. Secrecy should no longer 


 be allowed to shield the existence of constitutional, legal 


 and moral problems from the security of all three branches of 


 government or from the American people themselves.


Those are incredible words that could. None of us could say it more 
eloquently than our colleagues did 30 years ago.

I can't tell you all the names of the Republicans and Democratic 
Senators who wrote this language, but they came from all parts of the 
country. They were, many of them, veterans of World War II, had served 
in Korea. Dan Inouye was here. I know that. Senator Byrd, whom I sit 
next to, was here. Senator Ted Kennedy was here. Senator Ted Stevens 
was here for those debates. Those are the Members I can think of off 
the top of my head who were probably Members back in 1978 when this was 
written. Joe Biden was here as part of that debate. Patrick Leahy was 
here in 1978. I think Carl Levin and John Warner had just arrived. I 
think they had been elected that year. I am not sure.

But these are wonderful Members who sat and realized we needed to set 
up that balance between security and liberty and gave us the FISA 
Courts, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Tonight, as we 
consider whether to grant immunity to the telecom companies and close 
the door on determining the legality or illegality of their actions, I 
think these words have tremendous relevance. Every Member ought to take 
them and read them and think about them.

I hear the words of the President, and I am disappointed he said he 
would veto the bill if we strip immunity. I have listened to Senator 
McConnell, my good friend from Kentucky, saying we have to adopt this 
because the President will veto the bill otherwise. That is not the 
basis upon which the Congress ought to act. I have rarely heard that 
argument made here. You can raise it, certainly, as a point, but the 
suggestion that Congress or this body ought to act differently because 
the President is going to veto something or threatens a veto is not the 
basis upon which we ought to make decisions, particularly when it comes 
to


matters involving the rule of law and the Constitution of the United 
States.

Those issues of the Constitution and the rule of law ought to trump 
the reputational damage. The issues of the Constitution and the rule of 
law ought to trump the arguments somehow that the telecom companies 
will be less willing to step forward and help conduct the surveillance 
of our country when we are threatened by outsiders.

I cannot undo some of the things that have been done already. I wish 
I could undo the Military Commissions Act. I wish I could the outrages 
that occurred at Abu Ghraib. I wish I could undo what has happened at 
Guantanamo Bay. I wish I could undo secret prisons and extraordinary 
renditions. But there is a pattern here. It is not just the one event 
or two, it has been a pattern of behavior almost from the very 
beginning that ought to be deeply troubling to every single one of us.

So while I cannot undo those actions, why would I then add to that 
list by granting this retroactive immunity? What more do we need to 
know? Why are we being asked to do this? Why did this administration 
ask this committee to grant broad-based immunity to every single 
individual in our Government and our agencies, as well as to the 
telecom companies? What was behind that request? What did they fear 
when they sought that kind of unprecedented immunity, for both the 
private companies and every official involved in the decision to grant 
or insist upon this compliance? Why were they asking us to do that?

So I know, while others have written about this here, I find it 
deeply troubling that we can once more add this to the destruction of 
tapes and the CIA, the U.S. attorneys scandal involving the Department 
of Justice and U.S. attorney's offices. All of these matters, again, 
are in and of themselves individual cases, and yet, when you step back 
and think about the totality of them, why would this Congress, at this 
hour, decide we are going to yet once again say: OK, we'll let you get 
away with it one more time.

I wish I could go back and undo all of those abuses. I cannot. But we 
have the opportunity not to do this. All it will take is 39 other 
Senators.

All it will take is 40 of us here decide that at this moment in our 
history that we are going to stand up for the rule of law, we are going 
to stand up for the Constitution. No other issue we can get to is as 
important as the Constitution of the United States, no other issue is 
as important to me, ought to be to all Members, as the rule of law. And 
as I have done on five separate occasions since January 3, 1981, when 
as a 36-year-old I stood over here on the floor of the Senate, with 
Lowell Weicker standing beside me--I raised my right hand and took an 
oath to defend and uphold the Constitution of the United States. I am 
proud to have done it five different times, as every Member here has 
done at least once. What matter, what issue, would be more important 
than defending the Constitution of the United States?

So tomorrow we may have the chance--40 of us--to not invoke cloture 
and to insist that we are going to fight for this principle of the rule 
of law and not add to this litany that is going to be revisited over 
and over again: the Military Commissions Act, waterboarding, Abu 
Ghraib, Guantanamo Bay, secret prisons, extraordinary renditions, U.S. 
attorneys scandal, Scooter Libby, destruction of CIA tapes. How many 
more do you need? Why not add this: retroactive immunity to the telecom 
industry, at the request of a President who did not want the courts to 
determine the legality or illegality of the actions?

During a critical moment in American history, I for one am not going 
to allow that to happen.

I realize I have been talking a long time here. May I inquire how 
long I have been speaking?

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Klobuchar.) Two hours 25 minutes.