# None
## `4e5fb95f7ac1704773779ff4df7ab490`
`Mr. REID — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I had the opportunity in August to travel to 
Afghanistan. I always try to find the Nevada troops and I was able to 
do that because there are a lot of them over there. But I talked to 
troops--not Nevada troops but American service men and women. I have 
had the good fortune of being able to go to Iraq and talk to our 
military in Iraq. To try to explain to them that we are not doing a 
Defense authorization bill because minority rights aren't protected, I 
mean what is--what are we doing? This will be the 94th time we voted on 
cloture this Congress--the 94th time--far breaking any records ever in 
the history of our great country; more than double.

My friend, the distinguished Senator from Arizona, says they are not 
ready to end this debate. We have a professional staff. The Republican 
staff of the Armed Services Committee is as professional as you can 
get, and that on the Democratic side is as professional as you can get, 
led by two of America's all-time great Senators: Levin and Warner. I 
say that without any degree of trying to make them feel good. It is the 
truth. They are two of the great Senators in the history of our 
country. They have worked as hard as they could to put together a 
Defense authorization bill. Now, let's assume we don't do anything to 
that bill and cloture is invoked and we pass that bill. Wouldn't that 
be a great time to celebrate here? Because you know what would happen? 
We would have a conference with the House and work out whatever 
differences in their bill and our bill.



This is about earmarks? Oh, come on. We have had congressionally 
mandated spending since we have been a country. Why? Because our 
Founding Fathers set the country up that way. We have three separate 
branches of government. We don't have a king. We have a President. He 
doesn't make all the decisions. Benjamin Franklin and all of those men 
who met in Philadelphia wanted us to have three separate branches of 
government and they determined what our duties would be in the 
Constitution. One of them is to determine the spending. That is our 
role. That is our obligation. Now, are these two men trying to hide 
something from the American people, trying to sneak something in to 
help a military base someplace in America? No. Everything is 
transparent. This earmark is only one of the issues of the day to give 
somebody something to talk about, to talk about how bad government is.

During the past 8 years, our Armed Forces--the best trained, the most 
courageous armed forces the world has ever known--have been stretched 
to the limit. I don't say this; our military commanders say it. Both 
civilian and military leaders of our country say we have to help our 
military. History will remember that during these years, despite 
tremendous strain, our military accomplished everything asked of them 
with heroism and success. We have all been to the funerals. I never 
understood until I went to Afghanistan what Shane Patton went through 
as a SEAL in Afghanistan. I went to that funeral and I thought why is a 
SEAL in Afghanistan. There is no water there. He is there doing the 
things they are trained to do--going after terrorists--and he was 
killed in the process. It won't be easy to rebuild our Armed Forces. It 
must be a priority of our next President to give them proper rest, 
proper training and equipment when they are deployed, and proper 
physical and mental health care when they return from combat.


Part of my security detail as the majority leader--because people 
don't like what I do and say, I have had people threaten me. I have had 
as a part of my security detail a guy by the name of James Proctor. 
Since I was assistant leader and leader, he has been with me all that 
time, but it has been interrupted by three tours of duty to Iraq. He is 
an Army officer. Three tours of duty. He leaves his little family and 
heads off to Iraq. For James Proctor--to tell him we are not doing a 
Defense authorization bill because of earmarks or because we didn't 
have enough time to debate it, it is laughable, and he would laugh. 
They would all laugh. It is unfair.

So next January 20, I guess, we will see what we can do to move 
forward, because we have to rebuild our Armed Forces. In the meantime, 
Congress can begin, I hope, to do something in the interim. We can 
begin now by passing the Defense authorization bill, a sensible, 
bipartisan bill that will honor our troops and enhance our national 
security.

Just a few things: For men and women in uniform, this bill will give 
almost a 4-percent increase--exactly 3.9 percent increase--a pay 
raise--to our troops and other military personnel. Do they deserve it? 
Of course they do. If this bill doesn't pass, do they get it? Of course 
they don't. This will mean more money in the pockets of military 
families struggling to make it from one paycheck to the next. It will 
help returning heroes afford a place to live or go back to school. We 
invest in Defense health programs for men and women which, among other 
things, prevent the need to raise TRICARE fees. This bill will fight 
terrorism and protect our national security, and to tell James Proctor 
and people who have served gallantly in this military that we are not 
moving forward on this because minority rights aren't protected?

This bill funds international nonproliferation efforts to combat 
weapons of mass destruction as well as programs that will help us 
prepare the homeland for chemical or biological attacks. This bill will 
increase funding for special operations command to train and equip 
forces and support ongoing military operations. If we hear one thing 
when we go to Afghanistan, they will tell you how important special 
operations officers and troops are. This bill provides funds supporting 
the development and use of unmanned aerial vehicles.

Creech Air Force Base--named after General Creech who ended his 
career and his life in Nevada--was named after him, a great military 
officer. Indian Springs Air Base, it used to be called. It is midway 
between Las Vegas and the Nevada test site. This facility was going to 
be closed, until they determined these drones were some of the most 
important things in the military, and this legislation takes into 
consideration how important unmanned aerial vehicles are. This 
legislation helps reinforce special intelligence capabilities within 
the Army and the Marine Corps. This is a very good piece of 
legislation, an important step toward rebuilding our Armed Forces and 
protecting the American people.

I wish I had words adequate to express my personal appreciation--and 
I can speak for everyone on this side of the aisle--for the work done 
by Chairman Levin and John Warner. There are no two more honorable 
people in the world; whether they are rabbis, priests, ministers, there 
is no one who has more credibility and honesty than these two men. I 
have had conversations with these two fine Senators, where they said: 
This is what I am going to do. Do I need to check back with them and 
ask: Do you really mean what you said? No. Their word is their bond. 
Once they have said it, that is it.

I feel very bad. Senator Levin is going to have another opportunity 
to do one of these bills, but this man, Senator Warner, won't unless we 
invoke cloture. We need to do that so that he can participate in coming 
up with the final bill that will lead to a conference with the House of 
Representatives. For 30 years--as I have said on the floor before, I 
don't know his predecessors--I served with a number of them--but the 
State of Virginia could not have had a better Senator than John Warner. 
They could have had one as good but nobody better. These two men have 
done their very best. I accept the product they have given us, the 
product we have right here, now, today. I accept it. Let's pass it. 
Let's invoke cloture on it, and if there are germane postcloture 
amendments, we will take care of those. That is what these men do.

Now, I want to say one other thing. Let's not forget that the ranking 
Republican on the Armed Services Committee is Senator John McCain. I 
understand the Presidential campaign takes candidates away from what 
goes on here. Both parties realize that. But it certainly would have 
helped move this legislation forward if the ranking member of this 
committee, the Republican nominee for President, had shown leadership 
and a commitment to this cause by talking to his fellow Republicans and 
saying: Come on, we need to get this passed. Not a word publicly or 
privately, that I know of.

We have a chance to do the right thing by coming together to invoke 
cloture and move toward passing this legislation. I hope all Senators, 
Democrats and Republicans, will join to move forward so we can honor 
and promptly care for our military families, while enhancing our 
country's ability to meet the security challenges we face.

Let me say that, while I talked about John Warner, I want to close by 
talking about Carl Levin. I, too, don't know all of his predecessors. I 
do know a little history. There could have been a Senator as good as 
Carl Levin from Michigan but no one any better.

We deserve this legislation. The country deserves this legislation. 
These two managers deserve this legislation. Let's invoke cloture. It 
will give us an opportunity to complete this legislation. I hope we can 
do that.

I ask unanimous consent that Senator Levin be given 2 minutes to 
close the debate.