---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `4e6a3abc7802e75d5ac26bc96a5fa50a`
`Mr. SKELTON — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. I thank the chairman of the Rules Committee. Mr. 
Speaker, I am blessed to be a Member of the House of Representatives.

Under the Constitution of our country, this is a co-equal branch of 
government. We are charged here in Congress to raise and maintain the 
military of the United States. The President is charged with being the 
Commander in Chief. Our job is clear. We must prepare and maintain our 
military to the highest standard possible.

1950, the North Koreans invaded South Korea. We had a small force 
there. General MacArthur, supreme commander in that part of the world, 
sent a unit that was untrained, underequipped and undersized, called 
Task Force Smith to stem the tide of the North Korean armies. They 
fought valiantly and found themselves in the southeast corner of South 
Korea in what is now known as the Pusan perimeter, and they were in 
serious trouble. General MacArthur's brilliant Inchon landing on the 
western coast of Korea changed the nature of the Korean War at that 
moment.

But the lesson of all of this is the lack of readiness of the United 
States


Army as it was in 1950. Our job is to see that that does not ever 
happen again.

This rule, this bill, this resolution is the right one for our time. 
It will help the readiness of the United States military, in particular 
our Army. I am very concerned about the stretching and the straining of 
the Army in Iraq, so much so we just have to fund them, and this is a 
major step in that direction.

Now, some object for some Iraqi language, which frankly leaves a lot 
to the discretion of the White House. But what we are overlooking is 
the fact that this bill, this resolution does lead to supporting the 
troops and keeping the readiness at a higher level. A large percentage 
of the equipment of the active duty of the National Guard and of the 
Reserve is not here in America, is overseas in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
Readiness capability of the future is what this is all about.