---
---

# None
## `4e73e1c3cbdd4bd0f5adcce47738b4eb`
`Mrs. MALONEY â€” 15 December 2010`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Mr. Speaker, it is time to repeal the ''Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell, Don't Pursue'' policy in the U.S. military once and for


all. The study recently released by the Pentagon confirms what so many 
of us have known all along: there is no compelling state interest in 
barring lesbian, gay and bisexual persons from serving openly in our 
armed forces.

From the initial introduction of this profoundly misguided policy in 
1993, I have never wavered in my belief that our nation's armed forces 
should not discriminate against otherwise qualified citizens on the 
basis of their sexual orientation--or their desire not to maintain such 
orientation under a stifling cloak of secrecy that encourages and even 
forces them to hide, or even worse, to lie about who they are. Today, 
at a time when our nation is engaged in a difficult military conflict 
in Afghanistan, the extent to which the so-called compromise ''Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell'' policy has damaged America's military readiness has 
become even more apparent than it was seventeen years ago.

The policy against allowing lesbian, gay, and bisexual servicemembers 
to serve openly has resulted in depriving our armed forces of the 
abilities, experience and dedication of thousands of qualified active 
duty personnel. This institutionalized discrimination is completely 
illogical and counter-productive as we grapple with an increasingly 
dangerous world wracked by the threat of international terrorism, with 
our servicemembers in harm's way all over the world.

The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) has documented the 
cost to our nation. In 2005, the GAO estimated the cost of 
discriminating against servicemembers on the basis of their sexual 
orientation at nearly $200 million over the course of just the last 
decade. This estimate may, in fact, be too low, as the GAO itself 
acknowledged and as other studies conducted by reputable academic 
institutions like the Michael Palm Center at the University of 
California have documented.

Advocates for maintaining ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' continue 
stubbornly to cite elusive, unquantifiable factors to justify the 
policy's inherent institutionalized discrimination. The most common 
argument is the specious insistence that ''unit cohesion'' among the 
armed forces will suffer if lesbians, gay men, and bisexual persons are 
allowed to serve openly--an argument that even Richard Cheney, while 
serving as the Secretary of Defense during the presidency of George H. 
W. Bush, acknowledged in congressional testimony was ''a bit of an old 
chestnut.'' Then-Secretary Cheney was right--and it's high time we 
roasted that old chestnut on an open fire, and consigned it forever to 
the ashbin of history.

The fact is that many other nations--including trusted allies whose 
armed forces are respected around the world such as Great Britain, 
Israel, Australia, and Canada--have allowed their citizens to serve in 
their armed forces regardless of their disclosure of their sexual 
orientation. It is high time that the United States of America, which 
prides itself as a beacon of liberty and equality, joins their ranks.

I urge the members of this House to vote to repeal this misguided and 
counter-productive and un-American policy.