---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `4e77863ab8a6902c902d6ade920ce0fd`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 4 August 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, as a proud member of the 
Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise in support of H.R. 
3222, the ''Defense Appropriations Act of 2008.'' I commend the 
leadership of Chairman Obey and Defense Appropriations Subcommittee 
Chairman Murtha for his patient and careful crafting of this bill, 
which relieves our troops and helps our military families. The 
committee carefully separated the funding from the Iraq War funding.

Speaking of Chairman Murtha, let me say also that historians will 
record that it was he who awakened and educated the Nation regarding 
the failure and folly of the Bush Administration's policy in Iraq when 
he courageously spoke this truth to power: The war in Iraq is not going 
as advertised. It is a flawed policy wrapped in illusion. The American 
public is way ahead of us. The United States and coalition troops have 
done all they can in Iraq, but it is time for a change in direction. 
Our military is suffering. The future of our country is at risk. We can 
not continue on the present course. It is evident that continued 
military action in Iraq is not in the best interest of the United 
States of America, the Iraqi people or the Persian Gulf Region.

The principled stand of the gentleman from Pennsylvania changed the 
course of America history by signaling the beginning of the end of the 
Iraq War. More importantly, Chairman Murtha's actions have and will 
result in the saving of countless thousands of lives of brave young 
servicemen and women that would otherwise be lost trying to salvage the 
Administration's ill-conceived and terribly mismanaged war in Iraq. I 
cannot thank you enough for all you have done for our county.

In supporting this legislation, I stand in strong support of our 
troops who have performed magnificently in battle with a grace under 
pressure that is distinctively American. I stand with the American 
people, who have placed their trust in the President, the Vice-
President, and the former Secretary of Defense, each of whom abused the 
public trust and patience.

I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid more than $400 
billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,664 
fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last 
full measure of devotion to their country. For these reasons, Madam 
Speaker, I stand fully, strongly, and unabashedly in support of H.R. 
3222.

Mr. Chairman, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am 
proud of that vote. And I have consistently voted against the 
Administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding 
through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular 
appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more 
rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing 
national priorities.

But I strongly believe that when a nation sends its sons and 
daughters into harms way, it has an obligation to ensure that they have 
everything they need to wage the battle, emerge victorious, and return 
home safely to their loved ones and to a grateful nation. That is why I 
proudly support this legislation. H.R. 3222 provides for the security 
of our nation and addresses that responsibility squarely, fully funding 
our troops so that they are prepared for whatever emergencies may 
arise, providing them with first class weapons and equipment, and 
ensuring that they and their families are cared for properly.

At the same time, H.R. 3222 recognizes our obligation to meet the 
recent dependence on the use of contractors with increased support for 
their management and oversight. It likewise makes a commitment to 
fiscal responsibility. In this regard, I note that the amount 
appropriated in this bill, $459.6 billion, represents an increase of 
nearly $40 billion over the previous year but is $4 billion less than 
the amount requested by the Administration.

Mr. Chairman let me briefly address some of the important components 
of this legislation. I think it important that all Americans know that 
H.R. 3222 achieves the following .critical objectives: (1) keeps our 
commitments to our troops and their families; (2) prepares our forces 
to meet future needs; (3) imposes fiscal discipline on the Pentagon; 
and (4) prohibits permanent military bases in Iraq and the use of 
torture by American forces everywhere.

Specifically, Mr. Chairman, H.R. 3222 addresses equipment shortfalls 
in the Guard and Reserve by providing $925 million, $635 million above 
2007, specifically to address equipment shortfalls in order to help 
forces meet the demands of overseas deployments and respond to natural 
disasters here at home. This amount meets the requirements identified 
by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau in the ''Essential 10 
Equipment Requirements for the Global War on Terror.''

The legislation supports military families by providing $2.9 billion, 
$558.4 million above the President's request, for programs including 
childcare centers, education programs and the family advocacy program 
which provides support to military families affected by the demands of 
war and episodes of child or spouse abuse.

In the important area of medical treatment and healthcare, the bill 
provides $22.957 billion, $1.7 billion above 2007 and $416 million 
above the President's request. The bill rightly rejects the President's 
proposal to inflict $1.9 billion in TRICARE fee and premium increases 
on our troops and makes much needed investments in improving the 
Defense Department's electronic medical records systems and fostering 
better coordination between the Defense Department and the Department 
of Veterans Affairs.

I particularly commend Chairman Murtha for his successful efforts to 
secure more than $400 million in funding to conduct research and treat 
the increasing incidence of post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, among 
American servicemen and women. And I especially appreciate his 
commitment to work with me to establish a PTSD facility at Riverside 
General Hospital, located in the 18th Congressional District of Texas, 
to treat PTSD in veterans, whether on active duty, discharged, or on 
leave in the metropolitan Houston area, including Harris and 
surrounding counties. There are nearly 200,000 military veterans in 
Harris County alone and Riverside General Hospital has proven itself 
capable of providing psychiatric, medical, emergency medical, 
inpatient, and outpatient services to crisis populations.

Riverside General Hospital, by the way, was formerly known as the 
Houston Negro Hospital and was founded in 1926 in memory of Lt. John 
Halm Cullinan, 344th FA, 90th Division of the American Expeditionary 
Forces. Lt. Cullinan was one of the thousands of African Americans who 
risked life and limb to defend America and its allies at a time when 
those of his race did not enjoy the legal rights they fought so hard to 
secure for others.

Mr. Chairman, there is an unmet need for more medical facilities 
specializing in post-traumatic stress disorder located in underserved 
urban areas. Access to post-traumatic stress disorder treatment is 
especially important since veterans living in such areas are less 
likely to be diagnosed and treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. 
Riverside General Hospital is uniquely positioned to this need and I 
look forward to working with this Defense Appropriation Sub-Committee 
to bring this historic project to fruition.

I also strongly approve of the allocation of $1.252 billion above the 
President's request to


repair barracks, improve child care facilities, and improve community 
services, to address the strain put on facilities by changes in force 
structure, base closures, and a global repositioning of forces all 
while meeting the demands of war. Similarly, the appropriation of 
$268.1 million, $141.9 million above the President's request, for 
perimeter security force protection and related security improvements, 
to protect bases, schools, hospitals, base housing, churches and 
childcare centers from terrorist attacks makes sense in light of the 
recent failed terrorist plot at Fort Dix in New Jersey. As does the $15 
billion, $1.6 billion above 2007, set aside to ensure there are no out-
of-pocket expenses for service personnel and support the privatization 
of housing for military families.

Mr. Chairman, American troops are the best in the world because they 
are the best equipped and the best trained. H.R. 3222 ensures that will 
remain the case by providing $7.548 billion, a 13 percent increase for 
all home-stationing training, so that our troops are well prepared for 
any eventual deployment.

The legislation also takes into account the fact that the size of our 
Army and Marine Corps must be increased if we are to reduce the 
pressure to extend troop deployments. The bill provides funds to covers 
the costs of adding 7,000 new soldiers and 5,000 new marines.

Finally, H.R. 3222 provides $76.229 billion, $1.112 billion above the 
President's request and $508 million above 2007, for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation of weapons systems, and military 
medical research.

Mr. Chairman, the bill before represents responsible, visionary, and 
competent policy making. Our vote today will put the House on record 
squarely against the Bush Administration's policy of looking the other 
way while the Iraqi government fails to govern a country worthy of a 
free people with as much commitment and dedication to the security and 
happiness of its citizens as has been shown by the heroic American 
servicemen and women who risked their lives and, in the case of over 
3,600 fallen heroes, lost their lives to win for the Iraqi people the 
chance to draft their own constitution, hold their own free elections, 
establish their own government, and build a future of peace and 
prosperity for themselves and their posterity.


Mr. Chairman, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is 
a product of compromise. The bill before us is no different. If it was 
left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract provisions 
which we think would improve the quality of life for our brave men and 
women in uniform. Indeed, during this first session of the 110th 
Congress, I have offered several amendments to do just that.

For example, I offered an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, H.R. 1591, that would have led to the redeployment 
and return of American troops. It would achieve this objective by 
terminating the authority granted by Congress to the President in the 
2002 Authorization for the Use of Military Force in Iraq because the 
objectives for which the authorization was granted have all been 
achieved. Specifically, Congress authorized the President to use 
military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives: to 
disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could threaten the 
security of the United States and international peace in the Persian 
Gulf region; to change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his 
Baathist party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its 
neighbors; to bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found 
to be in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United 
States, its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that 
occurred on September 11, 2001; to ensure that the regime of Saddam 
Hussein would not provide weapons of mass destruction to international 
terrorists, including al Qaeda; and to enforce all relevant United 
Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq.

Thanks to the skill and valor of the Armed Forces of the United 
States we now know for certain that Iraq does not possess weapons of 
mass destruction. Thanks to the tenacity and heroism of American 
troops, Saddam Hussein was deposed, captured, and dealt with by the 
Iraqi people in such a way that neither he nor his Baathist Party will 
ever again pose a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors in the 
region. Nor will the regime ever acquire and provide weapons of mass 
destruction to international terrorists. Also, the American military 
has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in Iraq 
remotely responsible for the 911 attack on our country. Last, all 
relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been enforced.

In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq 
was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved, most with 
spectacular success thanks to the professionalism and superior skill of 
our service men and women. The point of my amendment was to recognize, 
acknowledge, and honor this fact.

Another amendment, this one to the Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 
1585, required the Secretary of Defense to study and report back to 
Congress the financial and emotional impact of multiple deployments on 
the families of those soldiers who serve multiple tours overseas.

Words cannot explain the pain and the sense of pride that some 
families feel when they say good-bye to a loved one. Behind those brave 
smiles, hugs, and kisses is an undying and unnerving uncertainty about 
what can happen to a spouse, child, father, or mother. Depending on the 
extent of that soldier's injury a family can suffer serious economic 
consequences as a result, not to mention the emotional impact of seeing 
a loved one in that state. Even under the best of circumstances, where 
a soldier serves multiple terms and returns with no major injuries, 
valuable time is lost between a parent and child and between spouses 
that can never be returned.

One in five soldiers suffers from depression, anxiety or stress. 
Likewise 20 percent face marital problems including divorce or legal 
separation from their spouse. Military families need greater 
psychological, emotional, and organizational assistance according to 
the results of a new survey released March 28 of this year by the 
National Military Family Association, NMFA. The study, ''Cycles of 
Deployment Report,'' which focused on the needs of military families, 
shows service members and military families are experiencing increased 
levels of anxiety, fatigue, and stress. In response, NMFA outlined 
recommendations for meeting these challenges amid multiple and extended 
deployments, increased rates at which service members are called upon 
for service, and the heavy reliance on National Guard and Reserve 
forces.

Military families have also expressed concern that when entering a 
second or third deployment, their loved ones carry unresolved anxieties 
and expectations from the last deployment(s). While they may have 
gained knowledge of resources available to them, service members who 
have been deployed multiple times report being more fatigued and 
increasingly concerned about their family relationships.


Mr. Chairman, at bottom, H.R. 3222 ensures that U.S. forces in the 
field have all of the resources they require. Second, it improves 
healthcare for returning service members and veterans. Third, it 
imposes fiscal restraint upon the Administration and Pentagon.

Mr. Chairman, before I conclude, I want to take a few minutes to 
discuss why the American people believe so strongly that the time has 
come to an end the policy of not placing any demands or conditions on 
American military assistance to the Government of Iraq.

As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, and a former 
senior member of the NSC, brilliantly describes in his essay, ''The 
Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A Retrospective Analysis Of The 
Reconstruction,'' in ''Middle East Review of International Affairs'' 
(December 2006), our trust and patience has been repaid by a record of 
incompetence unmatched in the annals of American foreign policy.

The Bush Administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on 
nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the 
invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its 
mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its 
original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored 
intelligence that contradicted its own views.

It is clear now that the Administration simply never believed in the 
necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense, OSD, and the White House Office of 
the Vice President, OVP, worked together to ensure that the State 
Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the 
reconstruction of Iraq.

The Administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that 
the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little 
impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that 
Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would therefore be capable 
of running the country and providing Iraqis with basic services. They 
likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would largely remain 
cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The result of all 
this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic planning for the 
postwar environment.

As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated 
little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. 
The dearth of planning for the provision of security and basic services 
stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions 
would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those 
responsibilities.

But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply 
lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the


need to mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it 
brought the entire offensive to a halt.

It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate 
planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in 
Iraq.

The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the 
immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and 
destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in 
the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We 
removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the 
military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence 
was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for 
the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of 
governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most 
basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a 
minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment.

Making matters worse, the Administration arrogantly denied the United 
Nations overall authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. 
had far more expertise and experience in nation building.

The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack 
of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find 
the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the Administration's 
claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next 
set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military 
and security services.

Mr. Chairman, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify 
an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain, 
DDR, the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to entice, 
cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other 
facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and 
prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an 
outlaw militia.


By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR 
program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no 
money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how 
to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers 
went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency.

The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to 
create an Iraqi Governing Council, IGC, which laid the foundation for 
many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were 
horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and 
encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for 
later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of 
Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed.

Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were 
caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the 
country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush administration 
set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the 
wrong problems.

This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were 
disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and 
kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by 
the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly 
advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term 
impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather 
than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were 
playing ''whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated 
areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to 
take over by militias.

Finally, Mr. Chairman, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi 
Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and 
gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get 
them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises 
because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government 
positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense 
both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central 
government itself.

All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight 
falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense.

Mr. Chairman, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last 
November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. 
They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They 
voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil 
war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we 
Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held 
more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, 
investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of 
Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group 
Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at 
Walter Reed Medical Center.

Mr. Chairman, the bill before us is not asking us to expand or extend 
the war in Iraq. I would not and will not do that. On the contrary, 
this bill puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come 
home where we can ''care for him who has borne the battle, and for his 
widow and orphan.'' This bill helps to repair the damage to America's 
international reputation and prestige. This bill brings long overdue 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3222, the ''Defense 
Appropriations Act of 2008.''