---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `4e79c8ba1003d67004b5d998ea879800`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, sic transit gloria Oxley. Mike Oxley, my Republican 
predecessor, is barely gone, when one of his great works is being 
trashed by his former colleagues.

Indeed, as I look at this assault, the gentleman from New Jersey 
started out talking about small business, but small business clearly 
appeared to be the stalking horse here. He talked about the New York 
Stock Exchange. They don't deal with small business. He talked about 
Sarbanes-Oxley in very negative terms broadly. His complaint is not 
about small business, but about Sarbanes-Oxley in general. If you 
analyze what the gentleman said, it was an assault on Sarbanes-Oxley.

Now, Sarbanes-Oxley was passed by a Republican House and a Democratic 
Senate. It was signed and claimed as a great triumph by our Republican 
President, George Bush.

I am sad for President Bush. No Child Left Behind, Sarbanes-Oxley, 
immigration, Medicare part D, even the war in Iraq. Mr. Chairman, are 
there no Bush policies left that can escape the assault of the 
Republican Party? I am inclined to think that there are only two Bush 
policies left that command strong support on the Republican side: 
illegal wiretapping and torture. Everything else they appear to have 
abandoned.

In fact, 10 days ago, the Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary 
Paulson, explicitly disagreed with the gentleman from New Jersey on the 
need for this amendment and said, no, we don't want to do this now. 
This is working.

What is working is a couple of days ago the Chairman of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, our former colleague Mr. Cox, said, 
we don't need legislation. We are in the process of changing this. All 
five of the Commissioners appeared, and none of them asked us for 
legislation. Mr. Cox specifically said it is not needed.

This is a vote of no confidence in Chris Cox and the SEC. They have 
said, yes, we should change this. We have more time. It is in a 
deferment period, and the SEC is in the process, along with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board, of winding this down, of making it 
easier.

Mr. Cox was asked just yesterday, well, what is this going to cost 
small business? He said, we don't know yet, because we are changing it 
already for the big businesses that have to pay. But we are going to 
look at that, and we will make adjustments.

So Chris Cox, on behalf of a unanimous SEC, three Republicans, two 
Democrats, along with the Republican Secretary of the Treasury Mr. 
Paulson, says we are fixing this. Please do not at this point 
legislate.



Of course, what we see is, if you listen to the gentleman from New 
Jersey, this is the beginning of an assault on Sarbanes-Oxley in 
general, because much of his speech was not about small business, it 
was about Sarbanes-Oxley in general, which he does not like and thinks 
is a terrible burden and is driving people overseas.



It is not driving small business overseas. Nobody argues that. It is 
not driving small businesses off the New York Stock Exchange; they were 
never on it. So this is step one in the assault on Sarbanes-Oxley. It 
is an unnecessary assault because the SEC, under Chairman Cox, with a 
Republican majority and Secretary Paulson are already trying to fix 
this problem.