# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `4e7b9226a8e7ee8186dfa562083914e1`
`Ms. COLLINS — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I shall be very brief, not only because 
the distinguished senior Senator from Virginia has done a superb job of 
describing the initiative we have brought before the Senate but also 
because I have a commitment to testify very shortly before another 
committee on yet another important issue. But I do wish to comment 
briefly on one of the provisions that is included in Senator Warner's 
proposal, a provision I consulted with many of our colleagues on and 
brought forth to the senior Senator from Virginia and suggested be 
included. He agreed and has placed it within his amendment.

This provision conditions the release of reconstruction funds to 
progress on the benchmarks that are included in the Warner-Collins 
amendment. These benchmarks include making progress on 
debaathification, making progress in passing and implementing an oil 
revenues distribution bill, making


progress and producing trained and equipped Iraqi security forces, and 
overall for the Iraqi Government to make more progress toward the 
political reconciliation that is absolutely essential to quelling the 
sectarian violence that now engulfs Baghdad. It includes, therefore, 
provisions and benchmarks not only on debaathification but also on 
holding provincial elections, something that would help lead to the 
integration of more Sunnis into the Government power structures.

It is important that there be consequences for the Iraqi Government 
if those benchmarks are not met, and the best way is to condition the 
release of billions of dollars of reconstruction assistance--assistance 
for which the American taxpayers are footing the bill--on whether the 
Iraqi leaders are making progress in meeting the benchmarks. If they 
are not making progress in meeting the benchmarks, then I think we 
should not release the reconstruction funds. This would have definite 
consequences, and I believe it is appropriate that we link it to 
reconstruction funds.

None of us wants to--or very few of us want to cut off the essential 
training and equipping funds for Iraqi troops, much less American 
troops. So I do not support an alternative amendment which will be 
offered today which would simply cut off funds. I don't think that is 
responsible. That is a disservice to the brave men and women who are 
fighting so hard in Iraq. I want to make sure our troops have 
everything they need--the training, the equipment, and the support to 
carry out their dangerous mission.

I also want to make sure the Iraqi troops have the training and the 
equipment they need, but I share the frustration of the former chairman 
of the Senate Armed Services Committee that we have been training Iraqi 
troops and equipping them for years, some 300,000 troops, and yet we 
still find that the Iraqi security forces are not able to take the lead 
in very many operations, and that is very disturbing to me. It is one 
of the reasons I strongly support Senator Warner's proposal for an 
outside review by a distinguished nonpartisan group led by retired GEN 
Jim Jones to assess the capabilities and the readiness of the Iraqi 
forces. That is a very important provision as well.