# None
## `4e835aac8ebe5ec58d63f6b34e6b5d2c`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Today is day 11, day 11 since the Protect America Act 
expired.

The Director of National Intelligence has clearly stated that each 
and every day that we move past the expiration of the Protect America 
Act our ability to monitor, to track radical jihadist groups and 
others, people who want to attack America, would erode. Those comments 
were reinforced by the chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the 
other body.

The other body did the appropriate thing and passed a long-term FISA, 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, bill, enabling our intelligence 
community to have the tools that they need to keep America safe. It has 
been 2 weeks since the other body passed their bill. It has been more 
than 2 weeks of inaction by this House.

I guess this House did have action. We went home for 12 days on an 
extended vacation. I guess this House did have action, we left late in 
the afternoon yesterday. We worked until almost 6:00 making sure we did 
not address this FISA issue, this key component of national security.

Each and every day we become more vulnerable. How vulnerable does the 
other side want us to become? Each and every day the other side fights 
to give more rights to people who might do America harm. Each and every 
day we undercut the activities of the men and women in the intelligence 
community who are doing everything that they can to keep America safe, 
but who find each and every day the other side tying their hands behind 
their backs and limiting their capabilities to keep America safe.

At a time when we are in a very dangerous world, the efforts by 
radical jihadists to attack us and our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
they do continue. There is an urgency, as far as our troops are 
concerned, that this issue needs to be dealt with, even though 
individuals on the other side repeatedly say there is no urgency to 
deal with this issue. The other side says there is no urgency. Tell 
that to our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan. Tell that to our 
allies in the Middle East, our allies in Israel who the leader of al 
Qaeda in Iraq has recently said, Let's use Iraq to be a launching pad 
to attack Jerusalem. Tell that to our allies, the Israelis, who are 
under threat from Hezbollah. Tell that to our allies throughout the 
Middle East where the second goal and objective of radical jihadists is 
to undermine their regimes and overthrow them and establish the 
caliphate and impose shariah law.

It seems that much of the world believes that there is an urgency, as 
do the President and the other body. The President and the other body 
negotiated and reached an agreement. We agree with that direction. 
House Republicans and many Democrats would vote for it, but Democratic 
leadership continues to stand in the way and prevent this bill from 
coming up and being considered by this House. There is an urgency, as 
much as the other side would like to believe there is not. Vote against 
the previous question and allow the Senate bill to come up for a vote 
today.