# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS MOTION TO PROCEED
## `4e8b342fc9cdbcec6c7c6590ba22cdb5`
`Mr. REID â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I was talking about how unusual this war is. 
Twelve and a half percent of the wounded have eye injuries. I don't 
know how many we have lost track of because we don't have recent 
reports, but more than 35,000 have been injured, and 12/1/2/ percent of 
them have eye injuries. That is how this war is different than other 
wars in one way.

Last week, a young marine came to my office, 21 years old. He entered 
the Marines when he was 17. He came to my office with his wife and baby 
daughter. He had been on his second tour in Iraq. His legs were blown 
off. I said, ''What happened?'' He said, ''We went to a house where we 
thought there were some people doing some things that we needed to take 
a look at. We walked out and somebody detonated a bomb and blew me 
up.'' He said it had been difficult to adjust. He was holding his baby 
in the wheelchair. His wife was over his shoulder. Senator Durbin was 
with me when we visited this young man. Senator Durbin told me today in 
the cloakroom that he has trouble getting this image out of his mind. 
We all do. A 21-year-old hero, who will live the rest of his life with 
these debilitating wounds of war.

He is not the only one, as we know. As if the toll of lives and limbs 
were not enough, this war also costs billions from our Treasury. We 
were told by the Joint Economic Committee earlier this week that the 
war--with the $200 billion he requested--all borrowed money, with a 
credit card that has no expiration date and certainly no limit. And


that is only the direct costs. We were told by the Joint Economic 
Committee what the cost of extra borrowed money is doing to our energy 
policy in this country, and the other things they list is double that.

To this point the war has cost America $1.6 trillion. That is a lot 
of money. We are not just spending our money; we are maxing out on our 
children and grandchildren's credit cards. But perhaps the most 
dangerous cost of this war will be measured in the damages done to our 
Armed Forces' ability to protect and defend our country. Military 
readiness is at a 30-year low. Our flexibility to respond to emerging 
threats beyond the borders of Iraq is greatly hampered. I am not saying 
this, and the Presiding Officer, the Senator from Vermont, is not 
saying this; this comes from General Casey, the head general of the 
Army. He said:




 The current demand for our forces exceeds the sustainable 


 supply. We are consumed with meeting the demands of the 


 current fight, and are unable to provide ready forces as 


 rapidly as necessary for other potential contingencies.


That is the lead general of the Army saying that. What is more, we 
have heard time and time again during the last few months what is 
happening with recruitment. I have to tell you, I am offended when I 
hear people from the Pentagon tell us ''we are meeting our recruiting 
goals.'' You can meet any goal if you keep lowering the standards. You 
don't need to be a high school graduate anymore. You can have a 
criminal record. Our military has been hit hard. Not only is 
recruitment not heading in the direction that I think is appropriate, 
but what is happening to our officers? These people who go to our 
military academies are the best and the brightest. I have the 
opportunity to select people--and I have for a long time--to go to 
these academies. The best and the brightest of Nevada go to these 
academies. They finish their mandatory term, and then they are 
quitting. We are 3,000 captains short right now, and it is going to get 
worse.

Mid-level officers are so hard to come by. We are doing everything we 
can to keep them. Huge amounts of money are being given to these people 
to have them stay in the military.

Let's not forget the cost of the war on the men and women in our 
National Guard and Reserve. These are men and women we need protecting 
us and responding to emergencies here at home. But we know, as was 
exemplified in the storm that hit Kansas, when the Governor said most 
of his National Guard is in Iraq and the equipment they have is 
ruined--that is the way it is all over the country. These citizen 
soldiers have already had 2 to 3 tours of duty of 12 to 18 months each.

Our men and women in uniform have performed more than admirably; they 
have performed heroically. But these troops--now more than 180,000--
awake each morning on that foreign sand to face another day of risk 
they cannot predict, and the appreciation they get from the Iraqis is 
that we do everything we can to protect the Shia, the Sunni, and the 
Kurds, and they all try to kill us.

It is no wonder GEN Colin Powell said that ''the Army is about 
broken.'' He was being generous.

If Senators cannot find the courage to stand against the President's 
failed war policy, I fear GEN Colin Powell might be right. The cost of 
the war extends beyond Iraq. The whole Middle East has been 
destabilized. There is a civil war going on in Israel with the 
Palestinians. Lebanon--could we call that a civil war? It is not much 
of a stretch. They cannot even hold a Presidential election. Iran is 
basically thumbing their nose at the world, and we are standing by 
saber rattling with almost no diplomacy for Iran.

What is going on in Iraq? An intractable civil war that has become 
even more pronounced in recent weeks, when the Turks gathered 100,000 
troops on the northern border of Iraq. The crisis in Pakistan 
exemplifies what is going on. We not only have trouble in the Middle 
East, but we have lost our moral standing throughout the world as a 
result of this. The Bush administration focused on a person and a 
country, and now we have the situation we have in Pakistan.

The border between Pakistan and Afghanistan has become less stable. 
Musharraf now seems intent on derailing the path toward democracy. 
Billions of dollars of American taxpayer money is not fully audited or 
accounted for. And perhaps as bad as any of this, bin Laden is still 
wandering around and sending, when he feels like it, a tape to us so we 
can look at that. He continues to make these tapes taunting us, and his 
al-Qaida network, according to the President's own intelligence, is 
regrouping and is stronger than ever.


Meanwhile, on the other side of the border, conditions in 
Afghanistan--once hailed as a victory--continue to unravel. Ten 
American soldiers were killed this week.

Now Afghanistan supplies 93 percent of the world's opium. This year 
is going to be another all-time high production year. The people of 
Afghanistan suffered through the most violent year since the U.S. 
intervention. This year, 2007, is the bloodiest year in the history of 
the war for American troops in Iraq. In Afghanistan, violent incidents 
are up 30 percent. There is a rapidly rising influx of foreign 
fighters, and there was a report this morning that the Taliban has 
vastly stepped up the number of improvised and suicide attacks.

We cannot send more troops there. Listen to what General Casey and 
General Powell said:




 Many costs of the war in Iraq have been quantified: 


 American deaths, Americans wounded, trillions of dollars in 


 taxpayers dollars.


The other costs are not easy to calculate. How long is it going to 
take to repair our military? The estimated dollar value is hundreds of 
billions of dollars. How many additional troops and dollars will it 
take to win in Afghanistan? How do you calculate that?

The risk is that the next national security threat becomes a national 
security disaster because we don't have the troops to take care of it. 
And all for a war that our troops are fighting harder to win than the 
Iraqi politicians, who, after months and months of our troop 
escalation, have failed to achieve any meaningful political benchmarks.

Now the Secretary of State is saying those benchmarks don't mean 
anything anymore. But they did at one time, and they do to the American 
people--$12 billion a month, and they have a balanced budget? Ours 
isn't balanced. They are doing infrastructure development there. We are 
not. They are building hospitals over there. We are not. So now in this 
war--soon to be in the sixth year--our troops are no safer, national 
security is no better protected, Iraq is no closer to reconciliation 
than in the fifth or the fourth or third years.

We must not forget that we sent our troops to Afghanistan following 
9/11 to go after those who attacked us, break up terrorist cells, and 
stop future terror plans from becoming reality. Now, 6 years later, we 
have moved far away from that critical fight.

It is long past time to get our national security strategy back on 
track, and the only way to do that is to stand up to our President. It 
is our constitutional duty, and our moral responsibility, to do so.

I compliment my friend from Wisconsin for offering his effort today 
to move forward on the Feingold-Reid legislation. That is what we need 
to do--bring our troops home.

Mr. President, I am going to be here in the morning and I will talk 
about the bill we got from the House. I appreciate the work they did. 
It wasn't easy to get it over here. It is not nearly strong enough for 
me. I am going to support it. Earlier this week, we gave the President 
of the United States $470 billion for the troops. We were all happy to 
do that. He signed that bill and, on the same day, within minutes, he 
vetoed a bill for the American people--the Labor-HHS, a bill that takes 
care of some of the education needs of this country, a bill that allows 
medical research to go forward for dreaded diseases in this country. He 
said no. So many things for our communities were in that bill. He said 
no. But to Iraq, he says yes. Don't you think it is appropriate, I say 
to the American people and the Presiding Officer, that to this man, who 
wants an additional $470 billion, we say, OK, but we want some 
accountability? Don't the American people deserve accountability for a 
war that has already cost the taxpayers $800 billion directly, and 
twice that in indirect costs? I think so.



Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending motion to 
proceed be withdrawn.