# None
## `4e8f828fd1f38f33a34951973246f4e4`
`Ms. PELOSI — 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I want to thank the gentleman for yielding and to 
acknowledge the exceptional leadership of my colleagues from 
California, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey, 
for their leadership on this issue, and Congresswoman Barbara Lee's 
authorship of this legislation. Congresswoman Barbara Lee, 
Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey, Congressman Tom Allen, Congressman David 
Price, Congresswoman Maxine Waters have all been important in the 
leadership of bringing this legislation to the floor and continuing our 
debate on the involvement in Iraq.

The legislation is timely and a key part of our strategy for a new 
direction in Iraq. Thank you all.

I am very pleased to join our distinguished colleagues on the 
minority in support of this legislation. Yes, I have had the privilege 
of working with Mr. Rohrabacher, with Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen and 
others, Mr. Wolf and Mr. Smith, over the years on issues that relate to 
human rights throughout the world. I respect them for their leadership 
in so many arenas. It has been a privilege to work with them. I am so 
glad they are supporting this legislation today.

Mr. Speaker, I think it's very important for us to measure any 
initiative in relationship to the war in Iraq against the backdrop of 
what does this do to contribute to a vision for stability in the Middle 
East, whether we are talking about no permanent bases, whether we are 
talking about redeploying our troops out of Iraq, a change of mission 
there, to leave troops only for specific limited purposes. This is what 
the generals have told us. General Odom, for one, has said any vision 
for stability in the Middle East must begin with the redeployment of 
troops out of Iraq. So, too, this issue today, no permanent bases.

Yes, our colleagues are correct that this has been brought before the 
Congress before and has been passed into law, but the fact is that it 
may not have been heard adequately by the administration and certainly 
not by the people in the region.

This legislation clearly signals that the United States does not seek 
a permanent military presence in Iraq. This action is necessary to 
clarify confusing and contradictory statements from the administration 
regarding our Nation's long-term strategic relationship with Iraq.

In its final report, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group recommended that 
the United States clearly state that our Nation does not seek permanent 
military bases in Iraq or to control Iraq's oil. It did so to help 
shape ''a positive climate for . . . diplomatic efforts,'' which are 
essential to ending the U.S. presence in Iraq and bringing greater 
stability to the Middle East.

While the administration has previously indicated it would not seek 
permanent bases in Iraq, recent statements raise contrary questions. 
Administration officials have remarked that the President envisioned a 
continued military presence in Iraq similar to our presence in Korea, 
where U.S. forces have been stationed for more than 50 years.

The American people have made it clear in the election that they want 
a new direction in Iraq that brings the troops home. The Iraqi people 
and regional powers must also be reassured that the United States does 
not seek to exploit Iraq either by building permanent military 
facilities there or by exercising control over its oil. We can make 
that statement by passing this legislation overwhelmingly today as part 
of our strategy for a new direction in Iraq and for stability in the 
Middle East.

The President's remarks in South Carolina yesterday were really 
saddening. Just when you think you have seen it all, just when you 
think you have heard it all, the President mentioned al Qaeda nearly 
100 times to justify his course of action in Iraq. Let us remove all 
doubt. This Congress, every single person here, is committed to fight 
the war on terror, but let us not misrepresent what the troops in Iraq 
are doing.

Everyone who examines the situation with the knowledge says we do not 
belong in a civil war in Iraq. So, again, the President's statements 
give great cause for grave concern. They crystallized why the Congress 
must continue to pressure the administration to change course in Iraq. 
Yet again, President Bush mischaracterized the facts on the ground in 
Iraq and the latest intelligence on the real threat of international 
terrorism.

Just yesterday news reports were that the administration plans a 
continued substantial troop presence in Iraq through the summer of 
2009; heaven knows, beyond then.

As the latest National Intelligence Estimate reveals, the war in Iraq 
has not made America safer or turned the tide against terrorism. In 
fact, while we have been tied down in Iraq, al Qaeda has been 
regenerated, has regenerated its ability to attack the United States 
while enjoying safe haven in vital areas of our ally in the war on 
terrorism, Pakistan.

The President's Iraq policy is unacceptable to the American people, 
and to Democrats in Congress, because it has allowed al Qaeda to regain 
its footing, reinforce its numbers, and refocus on another spectacular 
and deadly attack on the United States. That is why we must change 
direction in Iraq and do it now before it is too late.

America cannot afford another 2 years of war in Iraq. We have already 
lost more than 3,600 brave Americans to this bloody conflict. There can 
be no discussion of the situation in Iraq without pausing to remember 
and acknowledge the sacrifice, the courage and the patriotism of our 
men and


women in uniform and their families who have sacrificed so much for our 
country. We thank them, we honor them, and we think they deserve better 
than no plan for a redeployment of troops out of Iraq.

We have lost 4 years that could have been spent bolstering Homeland 
Security, strengthening counterterrorism efforts, and focusing all of 
the resources at our disposal on combating the terrorist threat. 
Today's vote can again make clear to the President, and to the 
administration, to the American people, to the people in the Middle 
East, to the people in Iraq that the American people are opposed to a 
permanent military presence in Iraq.

The American people are demanding a new direction. The Democratic 
Congress will go on record every day, if necessary, to register a 
judgment in opposition to the course of action that the President is 
taking in Iraq. The Democratic Congress will go on record every day, if 
necessary, to fight for a redeployment of our forces as a central 
element of a new direction strategy for Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to vote in overwhelming numbers for this 
important legislation.

Again, I thank our colleagues, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, 
Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey, Congressman Tom Allen, Congresswoman Maxine 
Waters, and Congressman David Price and all the others who played such 
an important role in bringing this legislation to the floor.