# COMMENDING PRIME MINISTER KOSOR OF CROATIA
## `4ea45e78be3287c94a5b4565327eba1d`
`Mr. BEGICH — 19 May 2010`

---


Mr. BEGICH. Mr. President, today I honor Madame Jadranka Kosor, the 
Prime Minister of Croatia, on the occasion of her visit to Washington, 
DC. I congratulate her on becoming the first female Prime Minister of 
Croatia. Additionally, I commend Croatia for its promotion of genuine 
cooperation in southeast Europe fostering strong relations, stability 
and prosperity with her


neighbors. As a graduate of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Vice Prime 
Minister, Minister of the Family, Veterans' Affairs and 
Intergenerational Solidarity, she is a woman of much accomplishment.

Prime Minister Kosor is dedicated to leading Croatia on its final 
stages of accession toward membership in the European Union. This is an 
action strongly supported by the United States. I recognize Prime 
Minister Kosor's efforts and determination in carrying out all the 
necessary reforms in this process. She has helped to strengthen the 
rule of law and the economy of her country in order for it to flourish 
and enter into the European Union.

Croatia is a strong supporter of the United States and its efforts to 
restore stability and peace to many parts of the world. Croatia is one 
of the two newest NATO members and a staunch ally of the United States. 
In Afghanistan Croatia has assisted the United States for years with 
troops and other ground personnel.

Many years ago my paternal grandfather left Croatia for a new life in 
America. His son, my father, was the first Croatian American elected to 
the House of Representatives. I am proud to be the first Croatian 
American elected to the U.S. Senate. I am honored to meet with Prime 
Minister Kosor to discuss our nations' mutual support for democracy 
around the world.

Mr. President and colleagues, please join me in welcoming Prime 
Minister Kosor to the United States and honoring the friendship our two 
countries have.
