# None
## `4eaed0fd2aea9c924a50994d9094499f`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Thank you, Mr. President.

Mr. President, as I had listened to some of the debate, I wondered: 
Do we not have the ability with a significant majority in the Senate to 
come together on the differences that have divided us over the course 
of this debate throughout the evening? I think we do, if we would take 
off our partisan hats, if we would take off our ideological hats.

It is clear where the American people are. It is a truth you cannot 
sustain a war unless you have the support of the American people.

This impression is not only seared into me as a result of the reading 
of history, but it was clearly the case when I had the privilege of 
wearing the uniform of the country as a lieutenant and as a captain. It 
was during the Vietnam era. That was clearly a time in which the people 
of the country were split. The big difference then and now, in the 
treatment of the troops, is that everybody in the country supports our 
troops, and every Senator does, and we are amazed at their bravery, and 
we stand up and repeat that over and over. That was not the case back 
in Vietnam. That was not the case, where returning troops, 
unbelievably, sometimes, were spit upon. But that is not the case now.

The question is, how do you keep a bad situation from getting worse? 
And the question is not whether we support the troops; we do. It is the 
question: What is the policy set by the Government of the United States 
that those troops ought to be carrying out? How do we bring some kind 
of success out of a very bad situation?

Now, the rhetoric has been hot, and it has been intense, and it has 
been polarizing. The Levin-Reed amendment has been characterized as 
though we are going to pick up and walk out of Iraq. That is not what 
the Levin-Reed amendment says. It says we are going to start a process 
of withdrawal, but troops are going to stay in Iraq to go after al-
Qaida--which is clearly there now as a result of us having been there 
for the last 4 years--to go after al-Qaida, to provide force protection 
for the Americans who are there--which would also mean providing border 
protection--and to train the Iraqi Army. That is not a pack up and 
withdraw. The philosophy of the Levin-Reed amendment, which this 
Senator supports--and last Friday I gave the history of how I have come 
through all of these votes since that vote in the fall of 2002 to 
authorize the President to expend moneys for prosecuting a war--the 
question for us has been, how do we bring some success?

Now, in fact, we look at this as if Iraq is monolithic. It is not. It 
is many different things. It is a concentration of Kurds in the north, 
a concentration of Sunnis, and some mixture with Shiites, in the 
middle, and a concentration of Shiites in the south. We are having 
success with the surge in the western province of al-Anbar, but that is 
because it is primarily Sunni, and that is because the real enemy there 
is al-Qaida. Indeed, the surge of the Marines is having success, slowly 
but having success.

But remember, Iraq is many things and many faces. That is not the 
case in Baghdad because in Baghdad what you have is a sectarian warfare 
that has been going on for 1,327 years between Sunnis and Shiites that 
has, in effect, become a civil war.

When Senator Coleman and I were in Baghdad meeting with the foreign 
national security adviser, Dr. al-Rubaie, before Christmas, he said: 
This not a sectarian war. This is Baathists trying to take back over 
their control.

We could not believe he would make that statement when it was so 
obvious, and it has been so obvious, that it is Sunnis on Shiites and 
Shiites on Sunnis, and some Shiites on Shiites, and some Sunnis on 
Sunnis.

In the middle of that chaos of a civil war, a surge may have a 
temporary appearance, but at the end of the day, it is not going to 
work. A surge will work in Anbar.


So let's be clear that when people make extreme statements, what we 
are talking about is a very complicated situation.

Now, do we think we are going to continue to be full bore in Iraq in 
another 2 years, another 3 years? Do we really think the American 
people are going to put up with that? No. The Levin-Reed amendment, 
which this Senator supports--and it took me a long time to get here, 
Mr. President--is a recognition of the practicality on the ground: 
withdrawing ourselves from the middle of a crossfire of a civil war 
and, instead, consolidating our positions to train the Iraqi Army, to 
continue to go after al-Qaida, and to provide force protection.

So at the end of the day, we can all get together. You can probably 
have two-thirds of the Senate all coming together. One particular 
approach is we ought to be doing it around the Levin-Reed amendment, 
but it doesn't look as if we are going to. Later on down the road, the 
Presiding Officer, the Senator from Colorado, and I are cosponsors of 
another kind of amendment around which people could consolidate and 
unite. Sooner or later, we all are going to have to come together.

Thank you.