# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `4ed0a0d00309aa8b7306a2a4d57ba590`
`Mr. BROWN — 4 February 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, yesterday I met American heroes--dozens and 
dozens of American heroes--citizen soldiers who had returned from 
service in Iraq. Out of Brooklyn, OH, High School near Cleveland, 81 
soldiers in the 256th Combat Support Hospital were honored at the 
Warriors Citizen ceremony.

Many years ago--200 years or so ago--George Washington talked about 
farmers putting down their plows and serving their country. Yesterday I 
met nurses, teachers, doctors, farmers, and small business owners, all 
of whom had returned from Iraq last October, and all of whom we were 
honoring yesterday in Brooklyn, OH. MAJ Michael Evarts trained Iraqi 
soldiers. MAJ Michael Evarts, a citizen soldier, returned to Ohio; he 
works every day supporting his family as a pharmaceutical 
representative.


Bryan Block from Zanesville left his restaurant for a year to serve 
his country. He left Charlie's Subs to his son-in-law in Zanesville and 
last October returned to a growing, prosperous restaurant. Bryan Block 
is a citizen soldier.

LTC Shirley Koachway spoke with an infectious enthusiasm and with an 
obvious dedication to the veterans she serves. Not only is she in the 
Army Reserve, but she told me about her work in Sandusky--a city just 
west of Lorraine where I live--in a community-based outreach clinic 
serving veterans--a citizen soldier.

CPT Dionne Moore is an optometrist who works for the Department of 
Veterans' Affairs in a community-based outreach clinic in Lorraine, OH. 
Captain Moore told me with some pain in her eyes how she is seeing more 
and more diabetic veterans who have not gotten their medicine or not 
often enough kept up with taking their medicine, which is causing a 
decreased use of their vision and an increase in blindness in all too 
many veterans.

CWO Ron Kuntz, who directed the choir for the ceremony, spoke 
passionately not just about his service for our country but spoke 
passionately about his students whom he has as a music teacher in the 
Cleveland city schools--another citizen soldier.

I also spoke with COL Ron Dziedzicki, who was a nurse and is now a 
hospital administrator who has been working with these men and women, 
with these soldiers in Europe and in Asia and all over the world in his 
many years--more than two decades--of service to our Nation--all 
citizen soldiers.

Now, when I think of whom I met yesterday, when I think of these 
soldiers--men and women of all races, of all ages--when I think of 
these soldiers who give up their lives or time away--more than a year 
away from their families--one of these soldiers told me his child was 
born when he was overseas--when I think about them, I think about the 
duty we have to them.

I know the Presiding Officer has spoken about this many times. The 
President and this Congress, for too many years in the past, have 
simply not taken care of veterans the way we should take care of them. 
For the kind of service we have asked of them and sacrifice we have 
asked them to make for our country, we haven't--even in a small way in 
too many cases--paid them back.

That is why I come to the floor today just for a few more minutes to 
talk about the GI bill: the post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance 
Act of 2007. A whole generation of Americans in the 1940s and 1950s, a 
whole generation of soldiers and sailors and marines were educated 
because of the GI bill. They were people who came back without much 
money, enrolled in school, and the Government--paying them back for 
their service for winning World War II, for Korea, for all of their 
service to our country--the Government decided the most important thing 
to do was to give them the kind of educational opportunity that they 
earned and that they deserved.

Do we know what happened? It wasn't just that the GI bill helped 
thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, a few million 
returning veterans, it is also what it did for the prosperity of our 
Nation because without the GI bill in the 1940s and 1950s and 1960s, we 
would not have had the educated workforce, we wouldn't have the kind of 
educated citizens this country, the ''greatest generation,'' gave to 
us.

That is why a government program such as this, a program that is all 
about opportunity to give these veterans the GI bill, give these 
veterans an opportunity, an education, will not only help them 
personally and help their families, it will help their neighborhoods, 
it will help their communities, and it will help us to make our country 
even more prosperous. That is the whole point of programs such as the 
GI bill. It should help those veterans whom I met yesterday, those 
returning soldiers, some of them still in the Reserve, some of them 
having served their time and left. But that GI bill will spark the kind 
of economic growth and expansion for a whole generation of Americans.

With programs such as this one, when we provide opportunities to 
college students, when we provide opportunities through Head Start, 
when we provide opportunities with helping families through the earned-
income tax credit, not only does it help those individuals and help 
those families, it helps our communities, it helps our States, it helps 
our country.

That is the story of the GI bill. That is why we need a new GI bill 
that really does pay those veterans back, pay those soldiers, sailors, 
and marines back for the service they gave our country. It is the smart 
thing to do. It is the morally right thing to do. It is the best thing 
to do for our country.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.