---
---

# None
## `4edb96f874a2c1d61955d059fe70c9ad`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. The provincial election law was vetoed by Abdul Mahdi, a 
Shia Vice President, over the issue of whether governors elected to the 
province can be replaced by a majority vote in the Parliament. That is 
going to their Supreme Court. It is a unique and novel issue, and, to 
me, it gives great hope because they are resorting to the law rather 
than the gun. It is constitutional democracy playing out in front of 
us. It is something we should celebrate.

Amnesty: There are thousands of people in the jails of Iraq now, 
mostly Sunnis, who have been tied to the insurgency. The Parliament 
passed a law that will allow a community of Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds to 
go through the files of the people in jail and say to some of those who 
have taken up arms against the Government: Go home, my brother, and let 
us build a new Iraq. That is a stunning development.

Now, how did all this happen? Iraq is war weary. People are tired of 
living in fear. We have given them better security; we put al-Qaida on 
the run, which has been trying to stir up trouble ever since Baghdad 
failed; and people have a sense of economic and political hope they 
have never had before. Oil revenues are up, have doubled. Oil 
production is up 50 percent. The economy is moving forward at a very 
fast pace. All of this is due, in my opinion, to resolve, to the surge, 
to the bravery of the Iraqi people and the American military and 
coalition forces who brought it about.

To my friends and colleagues in Congress: We are going to win in 
Iraq. Finally, we have a model that will lead us to a stable and 
functioning government rejecting terrorism and aligning with us in the 
war on terror. And the only way we will lose now is for Washington to 
lose its will and undercut this model. I hope we understand what this 
debate is about. It is about winning and losing a battle that we can't 
afford to lose.

I yield the floor.