# RECOGNIZING AND REMEMBERING PETER J. COURCY, AND HIS SERVICE TO THE  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
## `4edf7bae9ff88a3ea24330cbaf7f4c70`
`Mr. BURGESS â€” 24 March 2009`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise today in memory of one of 
our nation's bravest and finest men who gave his life protecting our 
nation and its citizens. Corporal Peter J. Courcy, who served in 
Afghanistan as a part of the 4th Platoon, Company D, 2nd Battalion, 
506th Infantry Regiment of the 101st Airborne Division, who made the 
ultimate sacrifice for his country on February 10th of 2009.

Courcy, a graduate of Frisco High School, was known by others for his 
positive outlook on life. Serving his country in the military was a 
lifelong dream of his, which he fulfilled when he joined the Army in 
2006. He had ambitions to become part of Army Special Forces. His 
commitment to his country was so strong that he was willing to endure 
the pain of being away from his family--including his wife and newborn 
son, who live in The Colony, Texas. Corporal Courcy was preparing to 
end his tour in Afghanistan and return home to see his family when he 
was killed.

Corporal Courcy will forever remain in the hearts of his family, 
friends, and fellow soldiers. It is my honor to have represented 
Corporal Peter J. Courcy in the 26th District of Texas, and I extend my 
sincerest condolences to his family and friends. He will be deeply 
missed and the nation will be forever grateful for his honorable 
service.
