---
---

# GEORGIA AND UKRAINE NATO MEMBERSHIP
## `4ee4cc103ffc6f9206c458e43c583d86`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 1 April 2008`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Madam Speaker, I rise as co-chair of the Congressional 
Georgia Caucus, and I rise in favor of House Resolution 997 which 
expresses support for extending NATO membership action plan status to 
Georgia and Ukraine.

I do thank Chairman Berman and Congressman Wexler for their 
leadership in this bipartisan effort to support Georgia and Ukraine in 
their entrance into NATO.

As leading democratic reformers in Eastern Europe, Ukraine and 
Georgia are both worthy of advancing their participation in NATO from 
''intensified dialogue'' to membership action plan, MAP, status during 
the Bucharest Summit. This is an important and timely next step toward 
the goal of becoming full members of NATO.

Both of these nations are keenly interested in joining NATO and 
working closely with Western allies. They have already demonstrated 
this by actively participating in both U.S. and NATO forces. More than 
2,000 Georgian soldiers currently serve alongside U.S. military 
personnel in Iraq, making it the third largest coalition partner. And 
Ukraine is the only nonmember state taking an active role in all of 
NATO's peacekeeping and anti-terrorist operations.

As a member of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, I had the 
great pleasure and opportunity to meet both Georgian President Mikheil 
Saakashvili and Ukrainian President Yushchenko in their home capitals. 
Their commitment to democratization in their respective nations is 
impressive, and is an important example for other emerging democracies 
around the world.

Certainly both nations have work to do to stabilize and ensure 
development of permanent democratic institutions. Yet, as recently 
established democracies changing a history of totalitarian rule, they 
are making enormous strides. They are ready to be granted MAP and be 
given the opportunity to work toward full NATO membership.

In a world with real threats against us, it is critically important 
that we strengthen relationships with those nations that choose to be 
our allies. Georgia and Ukraine are key allies in an important region 
of the world. We should stand with our friends. We should stand with 
Georgia and Ukraine, and we should pass this resolution today.