# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT 2008--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `4f07b20b25b1af6d959dde80bfbdb189`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, let me just say a few more words. We have 
been prevented from acting on the 9/11 recommendations. I should say 
that now we are in conference, and I am so appreciative of that. I 
understand Chairman Lieberman is going to hold his first meeting 
tomorrow. It took a while


to get there, but that is important. But we also need to change the 
course in Iraq, and that didn't happen, and so now we have this.

We have all seen and heard reports that our intelligence community 
has concluded that al-Qaida's strength has grown to its 9/11 levels, 
and the statement of the Secretary of Homeland Security that he has a 
gut feeling we are at greater risk of being attacked this summer by 
terrorists. In spite of all this, we have just seen an example of 
obstructionism that has slowed down and prevented the Senate from 
consideration of this bill today.

The latest obstruction would delay important investments. This 
Homeland Security bill does lots of things. We just finished the 
immigration debate. This is not as good for border security as the 
immigration bill would have been--I don't expect we will do that debate 
today--but it does do some good things. This bill hires 3,000 more 
Border Patrol agents and provides 4,000 more detention beds. When 
someone is picked up, they will have a place to put them. This provides 
$400 million for port security grants. This bill provides $1.83 billion 
for State and local first responders. And one other example is that 
this bill provides monies for the purchase and installation of 
explosive detection equipment at airports.
