---
---

# NATIONAL CAPITAL SECURITY AND SAFETY ACT
## `4f099b225119e28919c6b2bce6c51c23`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 16 September 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 6842, the National Capital Security and Safety Act. It is a 
commonsense bill. This bill puts the District of Columbia on notice 
that it must comply with the Supreme Court's decision and directs the 
men and women elected by the citizens of our Nation's capital, along 
with the District's law enforcement officers, who put their lives on 
the line every day to do their jobs and to determine how best to comply 
with the Court.

Capital Police Chief Morse and D.C. Metropolitan Police Chief Cathy 
Lanier testified before our committee, and I trust them when they 
express their grave concerns about more guns, more powerful guns on 
D.C. streets. But rather than listen to Chief Lanier and Chief Morse, 
there will be a substitute amendment offered on behalf of the National 
Rifle Association with complete disregard for the American families 
that live in Washington, D.C.

The substitute amendment would allow for more guns designated solely 
to kill people on D.C. streets and surely result in more money in the 
pockets of gun profiteers and the possibility of more fund-raising 
dollars for pro-gun candidates.

To all the brave hunters on the floor tonight fighting to protect the 
rights of hunters, there are no bucks, bears or boars to shoot on the 
streets of D.C., but there are innocent children, women and men who 
will be shot as they are caught in the crossfire in a city loaded with 
guns designed to kill.

In our Nation's capital with all of the homeland security 
considerations, I simply cannot understand why we deny elected local 
officials from taking commonsense measures to comply with the court and 
at the same time ensure the safety of our residents, our dignitaries, 
and our guests.

Mr. Chairman, we talk a great deal about listening to military 
leaders on the ground in Iraq. Why aren't we taking our own advice and 
listening to our law enforcement leaders on the streets of D.C.?

As a supporter of the second amendment to the Constitution, I stand 
with law enforcement for safety, security and sensible gun laws. I urge 
my colleagues to support H.R. 6842 and reject the NRA's amendment that 
would facilitate the senseless proliferation of weapons of human 
destruction in our Nation's capital.