---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `4f0da242e8fa11b3b644f24cab7b320a`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 15 March 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, America's troops deserve our Nation's 
full support every step of the way--from when they enlist, to when they 
train, to when they deploy, to when they return home.

Tragically, this administration has failed our troops every step of 
the way. Today, Democrats are saying enough is enough. We are going to 
give our troops everything they need, and we are not going to be a 
rubberstamp for the President's war without end.

I am very proud today to offer the Murray resolution in support of 
our troops, and I am pleased our majority leader, Senator Reid, 
strongly supports this resolution.

We have been fighting to finally have a debate in the Senate for 
months. Now we are having that debate, and today we have to do three 
things: We need to adopt the Murray resolution that says we support our 
troops every step of the way. We need to reject the Gregg resolution 
that blindly follows the President. And I hope we pass the Reid 
resolution that sets a new direction in Iraq.

The Murray resolution I have offered affirms we will provide our 
troops with everything they need to be safe and to complete their 
missions. We will provide everything they need in terms of training, 
equipment, logistics, and funding, and we will provide everything they 
need when they return home.

Now, some here have a different idea. The Gregg resolution will tie 
the hands of Congress and would, importantly, leave all decisions to 
President Bush.

Well, we know how that has turned out. If Congress--we who are 
elected by our constituents at home--surrenders its voice, we could see 
our troops being stuck with more of the same--more Americans being 
stuck in the middle of a civil war and more veterans coming home 
without the care they need.

We do not need more of the same, in my opinion. We need a new 
direction. The Murray resolution shows we can have a new direction in 
Iraq, and we can give our troops all the support they need.

So shortly we will all have a choice: Either you can blindly follow 
the President or you can say: We--here--are going to stand up to our 
own responsibility to support our troops, and we can also push for a 
new direction in Iraq.

Now, the Gregg resolution says we have to support the President. The 
resolution I have offered says: We--here--have to support our troops.

The Gregg resolution would simply make Congress a rubberstamp for a 
failed policy. The resolution I have offered says that Congress--us, 
those of us elected here in the Senate--have a voice, and we have to 
use that voice to help our troops.

I suggest to my colleagues if you are happy with the war in Iraq, go 
ahead and vote for the Gregg resolution. It will keep us locked on the 
same path.

If you are OK with returning troops waiting months in a crumbling 
military hold unit--or waiting years for their benefits--then vote for 
the Gregg resolution and keep us locked on the same path. But if you 
think our troops do deserve our support and do deserve better, vote for 
the Murray resolution. If you agree our troops deserve equipment to 
keep them safe, vote for the Murray resolution. If you agree our troops 
deserve the training that will help them succeed in their missions, 
vote for the Murray resolution. If you believe our troops deserve 
better when they come home, importantly, vote for the Murray 
resolution. If you believe Congress needs to use its voice and its 
power to give our country a direction in Iraq, vote for the Murray 
resolution.


Our troops deserve better than what they have been provided so far. 
This President sent our troops into battle without the lifesaving armor 
and equipment they need. This President left our troops on the 
battlefield without a plan, without a clear mission, and without being 
honest about the costs--all costs--of the war. This President 
shortchanged health care and benefits for our returning servicemembers, 
leaving brave Americans, as we now know, to languish in squalor at 
Walter Reed and facilities across our country.

Haven't we had enough of that? Didn't Americans send us a clear 
message last fall that enough is enough? It is time, I believe, for a 
new direction.

The resolution I have offered recognizes that Congress has a role to 
play in supporting our troops. We have a voice also to push for a new 
direction, and we are going to use our power we were elected to use to 
help the brave men and women who proudly wear the uniform of the U.S. 
military.

I would say to all of my colleagues today, if you vote against the 
Murray resolution, you don't really support our troops. Don't vote 
against our military and don't vote to tie our own hands. Use this 
opportunity today to tell our troops: We are all here for them and 
their families; from the time they head off to battle through the rest 
of their lives, we are there for them. Most of all, I hope the Senate 
votes to support the Reid resolution so we can change the direction in 
Iraq.

I yield the floor.