# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4f19ba9365d34755342f44d913499797`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleagues for 
supporting the amendment Senator Snowe and I offered to provide an 
additional $97 million to the Small Business Administration. This 
amendment was necessary because the President's budget request of $464 
million was inadequate to fund the agency's core programs.

This, unfortunately, is nothing new. Since the President took office 
in 2001, he has cut the SBA, the only Federal agency dedicated to the 
startup and growth of small businesses, more than any other agency. If 
we exclude disaster loan funding, the President has cut the SBA by more 
than 30 percent.

As a result of the President's cuts, SBA's loans and venture capital 
are more expensive, shifting more than $100 million in fees to the 
small business community, businesses are getting less counseling, and 
they are losing out on opportunities to do business with the Federal 
Government, a very serious problem since the Federal Government spends 
about $370 billion on contracting for services and goods each year.

Consequently, the baseline funding for the SBA is so low that it has 
made it very hard for Congress to reverse the President's cuts. 
Nevertheless, Senator Conrad and his Committee were able to increase by 
$635 million the account--referred to as function 370--that provides 
funding for the SBA and other agencies. I congratulate them, and thank 
them. They have demonstrated that it is possible to provide reasonable 
funding for effective initiatives and still put the country back on 
track to a balanced budget.

Among the most disturbing proposed cuts to the SBA in fiscal year 
2008, the President has for the fourth year in a row eliminated all 
funding for the Microloan program and for Microloan Technical 
Assistance. This is very hard to justify given that the administration 
is willing to spend so much on micro-credit in other countries. In 
2005, the administration provided approximately $211 million for the 
development of foreign microenterprise programs through the Agency for 
International Development. In fiscal year 2006, we are told by 
Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, that the 
administration provided more than $54 million for microloans in Iraq. 
And for fiscal year 2007, the administration has requested supplemental 
funding for Iraq that includes at least $160 million for micro-credit 
programs.

Our amendment restores the Microloan and Microloan technical 
assistance programs to the levels they were at in 2001--$3.2 million to 
leverage $30 million in loans and $20 million in technical assistance. 
Our amendment also restores the proposed cuts to the Women's Business 
Centers, the Small Business Development Centers, the Office of Veterans 
Business Development, and programs for the development of minority 
businesses and Native Americans. It restores $10 million in funding for 
the New Markets programs, which have never received support from this 
administration, in spite of claims about targeting areas of high 
unemployment.

My one big regret is that this amendment does not provide funding for 
the 7(a) Loan Guaranty Program. My original budget amendment, No. 515, 
did include $79 million in order to reduce fees on borrowers and 
lenders, which could have gone a long way to making these loans more 
affordable. Right now, on the largest loans, borrowers are paying 
around $50,000 in fees when a conventional loan would only cost around 
$20,000 in fees. We need to get that cost down. I am very disappointed 
that the Republican leadership would not allow any funding for the 7(a) 
loans to be included in our amendment. I am hopeful that Senator Snowe 
and I, with our colleagues in the House, can continue to work on this 
and get funding for fee relief during the appropriations process.

Aside from that one disappointment, I am very pleased with our 
amendment. It is reasonable and realistic. By restoring $97 million to 
the SBA, we bring its funding for fiscal year 2008 to $561 million. 
This is still $125 million--or 18 percent--less than SBA's funding in 
fiscal year 2001, and it is a fraction of the $2.9 trillion budget 
President Bush proposed for fiscal year 2008, but it will go a long way 
to fostering small business growth and sparking innovation.

I thank Senator Snowe and our colleagues Senators Lieberman, Enzi, 
Cantwell, and Pryor for joining in this bipartisan effort.