# U.S. DEFICIT BIGGEST SINCE 1945
## `4f21725ca498026981ed2b226d821b7e`
`Mr. JONES — 20 October 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, I thank you very much. And I hope that we 
in Congress, as we debate not only the health bill, but other bills, 
determine how we're going to pay for it. Is it fair for our 
grandchildren to pick up the debt of those of us today who are 
irresponsible to our responsibility of maintaining a frugal government?

And with that, Madam Speaker, as I always do, I want to ask God to 
please bless our men and women in uniform. I want to ask God in His 
loving arms to hold the families who have given a child dying for 
freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq. And Madam Speaker, I want to ask God 
to please give wisdom, strength and courage to the President of the 
United States. And I ask three times, God please, God please, God 
please continue to bless America.










 [From CNNMoney.com, Oct. 16, 2009]











U.S. Deficit Biggest Since 1945


 Obama administration closes the books on fiscal 2009: Falling revenue 




plus soaring spending leads to a $1.42 trillion deficit



 (By Jeanne Sahadi)



 The Obama administration on Friday said the government ran 


 a $1.42 trillion deficit in fiscal year 2009.



 That made it the worst year on record since World War II, 


 according to data from the Treasury and the White House 


 Office of Management and Budget.



 Tax receipts for the year fell 16.6% overall, while 


 spending soared 18.2%. The rising unemployment, the economic 


 slowdown and the extraordinary measures taken by lawmakers to 


 stem the economic meltdown that hit in fall 2008.



 Consequently, the annual deficit rose 212% to the record 


 dollar amount of $1.42 trillion, from $455 billion a year 


 earlier.



 As a share of the economy, the deficit accounted for 10% of 


 gross domestic product, up from 3.2% in 2008. As breathtaking 


 as that may be, it's still not in the same stratosphere as 


 the 1945 deficit, which hit 21% of GDP.













Perfect deficit cocktail mix




 Fiscal year 2009, which ended Sept. 30, had all the right 


 ingredients for a recordbreaking deficit.



 While tax revenue overall took a big hit, corporate 


 receipts led the way, falling 55%. Individual income tax 


 revenue fell 20%.



 At the same time spending jumped in large part because of 


 the various economic and financial rescue measures 


 undertaken. The Treasury and the OMB noted that the $700 


 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and the $787 billion 


 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, not all of which has 


 been used, accounted for 24% of the deficit total.



 As a result, the country is very near to breaching its so-


 called debt ceiling, currently set at $12.1 trillion. 


 Lawmakers, however, are expected to vote to raise that 


 ceiling this fall.



 At the end of September, the country's total debt--which is 


 an accumulation of all annual deficits to date plus other 


 obligations--stood at $11.9 trillion.















 The long-term view




 In August, the OMB projected a 10-year deficit of $9 


 trillion, assuming President Obama's 2010 budget proposals 


 are put in place.



 A deficit of that magnitude means the debt held by the 


 public would approach 82% of gross domestic product. That's 


 double the 41% recorded in 2008.



 Most budget experts blanch at the thought, especially given 


 that the country's fiscal future was already a source of 


 concern before the economic crisis because of expected 


 shortfalls over time in funding for Medicare and Social 


 Security.



 The financial and economic meltdowns of the past year have 


 accelerated the strain on federal coffers. So much so that 


 now the 10- year forecast as well as the longer-term outlook 


 are considered unsustainable, according to deficit experts 


 William Gale and Alan Auerbach.



 In a report this week, the Government Accountability Office 


 noted that the deficits born from the financial crisis are 


 not the biggest crux of the problem.



 ''While a lot of attention has been given to the recent 


 fiscal deterioration, the federal government faces even 


 larger fiscal challenges that will persist long after the 


 return of financial stability and economic growth,'' the GAO 


 said.



 The GAO further cautioned that the yawning deficit problems 


 should be addressed sooner rather than later.



 ''The longer action to deal with the nation's long-term 


 fiscal outlook is delayed, the larger the changes will need 


 to be, increasing the likelihood that they will be disruptive 


 and destabilizing.''



 The Obama administration is promising to put a plan in 


 place to lessen the deficit when the economy recovers.



 ''It was critical that we acted to bring the economy back 


 from the brink earlier this year. As we move from rescue to 


 recovery, the president recognizes that we need to put the 


 nation back on a fiscally sustainable path,'' said OMB 


 director Peter Orszag in a statement. ''As part of the FY2011 


 budget policy process, we are considering proposals to put 


 our country back on firm fiscal footing.''
