---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `4f2567b75690c0861fe86f9bf27181ac`
`Mr. CASTLE — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. In closing, I think both of these amendments are 
extremely important. I sometimes understand the writing on the wall 
when it comes to votes on rules, but I would hope that we in this House 
would consider the amendment that I put forward on the extra day leave 
in the Iraq Study Group recommendations sooner rather than later. I 
think it is an important way to move towards actually ending the war.

So I oppose the rule and urge Members to vote against the rule.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this closed rule.

While Members of this body will have differing views regarding the 
U.S. policy in Iraq and Afghanistan, we can all agree that the American 
soldiers who have been deployed into these combat zones have bravely 
risked their lives in the service of their Nation. These men and women 
have done everything we have asked of them, and as we all know, many 
returning soldiers experience some form of post-traumatic stress.

Under the current Pentagon policies, all members of the Armed Forces, 
including those serving in the Guard and Reserve, receive 2.5 days of 
leave time per month--regardless of whether they are deployed in Iraq 
or back in the U.S. at their home base. My amendment would have simply 
credited soldiers 1 additional day of leave time for every month that 
they are deployed in a combat zone. For example, if a soldier serves 12 
months in Baghdad, that soldier would be credited 12 additional days of 
leave to be used when he or she returns stateside.

Although I am obviously the sponsor of this amendment, I cannot take 
credit for the idea. My staff developed this legislation after talking 
with a soldier who as we speak is deployed in a combat zone. 
Corresponding via e-mail, this soldier shared his experiences in combat 
and offered his opinion that many of the troops returning home after a 
deployment would benefit from being credited with additional leave time 
based on the number of months they served in a combat zone. This 
soldier noted that the opportunity to spend some time away from 
military life once returning stateside would be important in terms of 
both mental and physical recovery.

In fact, the Director of the U.S. Army Medical Command's Office for 
Behavioral Health has stated that 15 to 30 percent of troops returning 
home from combat experience post-traumatic stress or other mental 
health symptoms. While the Army Medical Command notes that this is not 
unusual after combat, it underscores that in addition to receiving 
treatment, it is critical for soldiers returning home from a combat 
zone to ''spend time with family,'' ''avoid a busy schedule,'' and 
''resume family routines'' as soon as possible.

It is clear that my amendment would not solve every problem that 
troops face when they return stateside. Receiving appropriate diagnosis 
and treatment is also vital in dealing with post-traumatic stress. And 
this amendment is not meant to diminish the efforts of our military 
leaders to provide care for soldiers once they return to the U.S. The 
Army's Medical Command and its corresponding services have in many 
cases gone above and beyond the call of duty to diagnose, treat, and 
prevent post-traumatic stress disorder. Still, in many cases spending 
time away from military life and reconnecting with friends and family 
is the best way for individuals to prepare to resume their service in 
the military.

Mr. Chairman, my amendment recognizes the difficulties faced by 
soldiers who serve time in a combat zone and would assist them in their 
homecoming by providing additional leave time to help improve their 
transition. The men and women who have sacrificed so much to serve our 
Nation in combat have earned this additional time to spend with their 
loved ones. Unfortunately the rule before us prevented any substantive 
debate, including debate on my important amendment.