---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `4f4076adb4e13076e90b7e5f74a2351d`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 2 February 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I am pleased to support the nomination 
of Eric Holder as Attorney General. I am convinced that he understands 
the threat to our Nation posed by terrorism. In the Judiciary 
Committee's hearing on the nomination, Mr. Holder agreed with me that 
the United States is undoubtedly at war with a vicious and shadowy 
enemy, and that the war began before the attacks of September 11, 2001. 
Further, Mr. Holder and I agreed that the battlefield in the war on 
terror is the entire globe--not only the combat zones of Afghanistan 
and Iraq but also the financial system through which terrorist networks 
are funded and the Internet through which terrorists communicate and 
spread their message of violence and hatred. Indeed, the tragic events 
of 9/11 proved that the battlefield even extends within our Nation's 
own borders. The question of how best to win the war on terror is the 
most profound issue facing the next Attorney General. Mr. Holder 
understands the nature of this enemy and this conflict.

There are some in this body who will argue that Mr. Holder's previous 
mistakes should bar him from serving as Attorney General. In expressing 
my support for Mr. Holder, I do not mean to minimize those 
misjudgments. Indeed, Mr. Holder faces his past mistakes fully--
admitting them, learning from them, and promising to exercise better 
judgment in the future. While I understand concern with Mr. Holder's 
past errors, it would be a mistake in its own right to reject on that 
basis this qualified nominee who so comprehends the challenge our 
Nation faces in defeating terrorism.

I look forward to working with President Obama and Mr. Holder to 
fashion a system of detention for the war on terror involving all three 
branches of government and of which all Americans can be proud. Mr. 
Holder and I agree that in order to maintain the moral high ground in 
this war, which is critical, we must treat detainees fairly, with more 
process than they would necessarily provide us. We also agree that we 
must not release dangerous warriors back to the fight against our 
Nation. Criminalizing this war would be a terrible mistake, and Mr. 
Holder understands that.

Four years ago, President Obama, then Senator Obama, stated on the 
floor of this chamber that the test of a nominee for Attorney General 
is, ''whether that person is ready to put the Constitution of the 
people before the political agenda of the President.'' I am confident 
that Eric Holder meets that test, and I ask my colleagues to support 
his nomination.