---
---

# None
## `4f461b975ebb6cacb23bd1584012f0db`
`Mr. HUNTER — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I want to thank my friend, Mr. Lewis, for giving me a 
chance to talk about this supplemental bill, this very bad bill, once 
again.

Mr. Speaker, I have carefully reviewed the language on page 72 of 
this bill with our counsel as to the exact legal effect of this bill. 
This bill says that an American unit cannot be introduced into Iraq 
until a 15-day waiting period has expired. Now, what does that mean? 
That means if you have hostages being held in a place in Iraq and you 
want to move a Delta force team across the line, you can't do that for 
15 days under the law, should this become law. It says if you have a 
fleeting target, like the Zarqawi strike that we made a couple of 
months ago, and time is of the essence and you want to take an F-16 out 
of Incirlik, Turkey and make a strike, you can't do it without waiting 
for 15 days after notifying the House Armed Services Committee, the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, and presumably the Appropriations 
Committee.

Mr. Speaker, if we have an extreme situation in Iraq where Americans 
have to be rescued or reinforced, I don't want them to come back and 
notify me


or notify the committee. I want them to do what they have to do and 
carry out their mission.

This is a very defective bill, and this 15-day waiting requirement in 
this war against terror where time is of the essence, where American 
military teams move across country boundaries every day without 
certifying anything to anybody, this is a real disservice to the forces 
that work not only in Iraq, but should this be applied to other parts 
of the world in a future time would be a real disservice to everybody 
who fights in the war against terror.

I strongly support the motion of the gentleman from California.