# ENERGY
## `4f53e179c7802ccaa91e98778360ec40`
`Ms. LEE — 23 June 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Thank you very much, Mr. Towns.

First, let me thank you for yielding, but let me thank you also for 
your leadership on this issue and for so many other issues. Your voice 
is extremely important; your work has been important, and it continues 
to be quite amazing.

In your coming from New York and in my coming from California, we 
have very similar issues that we have to deal with in terms of this 
horrific energy crisis, and so thank you for giving us the opportunity 
to talk about it one more time.

Also, just as I was listening to my colleague Mr. Johnson from 
Georgia, thank you for that very brilliant presentation and for that 
historical context. You know, sometimes we forget the past. In the 
Ghanaian language, in the Akan language, there's a term called 
''sankofa.'' In order to move forward, we must look back at our 
mistakes, and I think what you talked about tonight really makes it 
very clear that we have to understand how we got to where we are so 
that we don't make those mistakes again, such as you talked about, 
which was the drilling in the pristine area in Alaska--in ANWR--and all 
of the proposals that this administration wants to embark upon.

So thank you very much for that.

To my colleague from Texas, Ms. Jackson-Lee, you have been on this 
for many, many years. You come from oil country, and you understand 
very clearly the oil industry and what we need to do to dig ourselves 
out of this hole, and so your voice continues to be important in coming 
from Texas, in understanding that the American people deserve not to 
have to pay $5 a gallon for gas. The courage that you've displayed has 
been amazing. Thank you for your voice and for your leadership.

As we work to reduce skyrocketing prices at the pump, we continue to 
face opposition from the Bush administration, and our colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle seem to be content to subsidize the big oil 
companies' record profits that Mr. Towns talked about and that you 
talked about, Mr. Johnson and Ms. Jackson-Lee. They reach record 
profits quarter after quarter rather than adopt a real solution to meet 
the energy needs across our Nation.

More specifically, we have proposed legislation that would invest in 
true, clean and renewable energy sources. Our proposals would also 
bring much needed accountability, which we need desperately, to the 
energy markets in order to eliminate the price gouging--do you hear 
me?--that's taking place and the market manipulation and the 
speculation that have inflated energy prices to record levels. This 
week, we will also take up legislation to expand the use of public 
transit systems to save energy and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

In light of this growing energy crisis, I cannot help but to reflect 
upon the Bush administration's determination to squander our resources 
on the immoral occupation of Iraq that has directly contributed to the 
current economic downturn of the high gas prices that the American 
people are seeing at the pump. Make no mistake. We are in the middle of 
the Bush-Iraq recession. The economic hardships that Americans face 
today are the direct result of this administration's failed and flawed 
policies at home and abroad.

When President Bush took office in January of 2001, the price of oil 
was $23 a barrel, and gasoline cost as little as, I think it was, $1.35 
per gallon. Now, after more than 5 years of bombing and bloodshed in 
Iraq, since the Iraq invasion, oil has topped $130 a barrel, and 
gasoline is averaging more than $4 a gallon. As Congressman Johnson 
said, it probably will hit the unfortunate cost of $5 per gallon. By 
some estimates, the war and continued occupation of Iraq could cost the 
United States more than $3 trillion. That's a $3 trillion bill for this 
administration's failed policies in Iraq that our children and 
grandchildren will be paying for years to come.

The American people recognize the toll this immoral occupation has 
taken on our economy. They're in dire need of assistance. Many face the 
impossible choice of buying food for their families or of purchasing 
the gasoline they need to go to work. If we want to see prices at the 
gas pump go down, one of the first and most essential steps we must 
take is to end the war and occupation in Iraq.

We must also focus on transitioning our economy away from fossil 
fuels to the greener alternative fuels of the future. This will be a 
long-term process that will affect communities throughout our nations 
in different ways. It's very important to note that, as we continue to 
forge these new frontiers to achieve energy independence and to 
safeguard the environment, communities will face many complex 
environmental and public health challenges. The drastic acceleration of 
greenhouse gas emissions has often been concentrated in low-income and 
minority


communities, putting these vulnerable populations on the front lines of 
the fight against environmental degradation and global climate change.

The communities in my district, like in Mr. Johnson's district and in 
Mr. Towns' district and in Ms. Jackson-Lee's district, all face the 
severe consequences of pollution, of urban sprawl and of environmental 
injustice, which harshly affect people of color and low-income 
communities. Sadly, this epidemic is hitting our children the hardest.

For example, back at home in my own district, when children grow up 
in the area of West Oakland, they're seven times more likely to be 
hospitalized for asthma than is the average child in California. None 
of us can afford to take this lightly. The health of our community and 
neighbors affects all of us.

I would also like to just take a moment and recognize the role that 
California's East Bay is playing at the forefront of the green jobs and 
green industry movement, which is really a critical part in terms of 
addressing the energy crisis. One of the most exciting and inclusive 
solutions to the many issues facing environmental health and our energy 
crisis is the possibility afforded to us by promoting green jobs' 
training and the growth of the green economy in America.

A true green economy, one that is sincere in its mission and that is 
deeply rooted in local communities and businesses, can provide 
innovative answers to many of the problems that our environment faces. 
Green jobs provide pathways out of poverty for those most affected by 
environmental injustice, namely, people of color and our urban youth.

We have been working closely in my district with the Ella Baker 
Center and with the Apollo Alliance. Mayor Ron Dellums--my predecessor 
here and our colleague--has been working very hard on a new initiative 
to support the development of green model cities and to focus on 
economic development through green job training academies and to create 
a national green institute to serve as a clearinghouse for the green 
movement. So there are many, many initiatives to which we need to look 
forward in terms of providing for an alternative to our dependence on 
foreign oil.

Let me just conclude by saying and by reminding the country that, 
most recently, the Bush administration has threatened to veto the 
House-passed H.R. 5351, which is the Renewable Energy and Energy 
Conservation Tax Act of 2008. This legislation makes critical 
investments in clean and renewable energy and energy efficiency that 
will create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and that will help to 
maintain the United States' position as a leader in innovation as we 
move toward true energy independence.

So I have to thank my colleagues again, especially the Congressional 
Black Caucus and Congressman Towns, for allowing us to come down for an 
hour to talk about the basic components and reasons for this energy 
crisis and also for allowing us to provide what we see as some real and 
practical solutions that we can embrace right now--not next year, but 
today--if, in fact, the Bush administration and his oil industry 
administration would accept the fact that they're responsible for this 
energy crisis. The American people deserve a way out.

Thank you.