# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `4f54f0f580daec52ce3ab1bf62cc8d03`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to make a few comments. I 
appreciate the Chair staying here and facilitating this and allowing us 
to speak about a very important issue--the key issue of our time--the 
war in Iraq and what is taking place there.

I want to focus my brief comments on what we need to do on a 
political solution. I think we are caught up with the idea that we need 
to be on a military solution. A military solution is not going to 
ultimately solve the situation in Iraq. You have to have a political, 
durable solution. Unless we are willing to sit there for an indefinite 
number of years with troops engaged in a very active military setting, 
we have to get a political, durable situation in Iraq and on the ground 
if we are going to be realistic about what we are going to do.

I have worked with Senator Biden on this proposal. I will talk about 
a resolution that we have worked together on for a political solution. 
He chairs the Foreign Relations Committee. I have been on that 
committee for a number of years. I think we have to realize the 
population we are dealing with. The situation is not dissimilar, in 
some respects, to when we saw what took place in the former Yugoslavia. 
We had a number of different populations where history had washed over 
that place with different waves of different individuals' thoughts and 
philosophies. After Tito leaves and you take off this big military 
apparatus and intelligence apparatus that was willing to kill people to 
enforce power, you are left with sectarian groups that don't get along. 
Now Yugoslav has six countries in two autonomous regions after hundreds 
of thousands of people were killed and multiple sets of civil wars that 
took place. I think that is instructive from the standpoint of that is 
what takes place when you take a big military apparatus off of areas 
where you have nonuniform or a homogenous region. We are seeing this in 
Sudan. You have in Sudan a north dominated by Arab and Muslim and a 
south that is Black and Christian, by and large. They don't get along. 
There were 2 million killed in the south. The south is going to secede. 
You have genocide in Darfur by this government--a militant Islamic 
regime in Khartoum. The world is growing in awareness of what is taking 
place in Darfur.

I think we have to recognize the situation in Iraq and that you have 
several different populations. The Kurdish population is separate and 
distinct and operating in its own area and doing a nice job. There is 
growth taking place there--not everyplace, but it is doing pretty well. 
You have a mixed Sunni and Shia population in the rest of the country--
dominant Sunni in some areas and dominant Shia in others, and Baghdad 
is a mixed federal city. I think we have to look at that situation and 
recognize the mixture and the combustibility of that mixture and get to 
a more durable political solution.

You are seeing now an ongoing migration of Iraqis inside their own 
country, which I think suggests Iraq will eventually do what would be 
called a soft partition. That is the logical thing that would take 
place, and it is taking place today. There is an outcome of many 
historical precedents--most notably in Bosnia in the 1990s. Senator 
Biden and I introduced a resolution calling on Iraqis to reach an 
agreement that would formalize a federal system in Iraq consistent with 
their Constitution that would allow for Kurds, Sunnis, and Shia to 
manage their own affairs, with Baghdad remaining a federal capital 
city.

It is increasingly clear to me that we should start taking interim 
steps now to facilitate a three-state, one-country solution in Iraq. We 
should begin by acknowledging that many Iraqis whose lives are 
threatened because of their sectarian affiliation are on the move. More 
Iraqis are facing sectarian violence and are considering moving. As 
tragic as these movements seem now, they are preferable to the mass 
migration that would occur if Iraq were to implode.

There are steps we can take now to ease the process of internal 
migration. We can start by authorizing our commanders on the ground to 
help families who express a desire to relocate to areas where they 
would join a sectarian majority. Relocating families will require 
secure passage to safer areas and reliance probably on economic 
assistance to reestablish them. Those who wish to relocate should be 
assisted in this fashion.

I don't expect that the Iraqi people will create three completely 
homogeneous regions. In fact, the level of Sunni and Shia marriage 
would preclude such an outcome. We should be attentive to those who 
believe security is enhanced by moving out of mixed neighborhoods, 
where they do not face the danger of sectarian violence.

Indeed, there was reporting of people swapping houses who were Sunni 
in a dominant Shia area, and Shia in a dominant Sunni area, so they 
would feel more secure after one of their families had been killed or 
kidnapped. I think that makes sense. As populations continue to move, 
we also need to take steps to avert other aspects of an implosion. We 
need to ensure that the Kurdish region, which has been a bedrock of 
stability to this point, remains a stable area. Turkey is rightly 
concerned about the threat of terrorism coming from across the Iraqi 
border. We need to reassure them, and we should bolster 
counterterrorism capabilities of Iraqi forces deployed in that region--
much as we have done in Georgia and in other nations where terrorists 
tried to establish a safe haven and destabilize their region. Our 
military strategy certainly depends on a stable Kurdish region. Our 
political vision of Iraq also requires the Kurdish area to remain 
strong, and I hope we can move quickly to address terrorism issues 
there.


There are other steps we should take to prepare Iraq for a federal 
political settlement. We must take additional steps to secure the Iraq-
Iranian border, which would be of great benefit to the troops executing 
the surge, as well as mitigate any attempt Iran might make or thinks 
that it has to exploit a future three-state, federal version of Iraq.



Last, we should place new emphasis on local and provincial elections 
in Iraq.

I raise these issues because I do not believe we can precipitously 
pull out of Iraq, nor should we. But I think we have to recognize the 
situation on the ground for what it is and facilitate it before we see 
more mass sectarian violence taking place. We can do this and, in a 
civil fashion, save lives. That is what this is about. It is about 
saving lives.

We have seen this play before. We have seen it recently in 
Yugoslavia. We are seeing it today in Sudan. Why can't we see this and 
say we are going to save lives by facilitating this rather than 
creating a combustible situation that blows up on us later. This is 
consistent with the Iraqi Constitution. It is a more robust political 
solution which matches our need militarily on the ground.

I finally, say, Mr. President, I have traveled the country a lot. I 
hear a number of people out there. They don't want to lose in Iraq, but 
they don't see us on a track to win. What they are after is us coming 
together here to provide that solution of how we can win. What I am 
talking about is a political solution that is as aggressive as our 
military solution. The military gives us space for the political side 
to act. But we have to get it moving, and that is a situation where we 
can win and we can go to the American people and say we are on track to 
win and be able to pull our forces from the frontlines and reduce the 
death loss we are experiencing as a country, that my State is 
experiencing, that the Big Red One stationed at Fort Riley, KS, is 
experiencing.

We can do this. We need to show some foresight and bipartisanship to 
get it done. That is why I call, along with my colleague, Senator 
Biden, for this proposal, and I urge other colleagues to join us as 
well.

I yield the floor.