---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `4f551763a1f4e15a4cf5da88165b0052`
`Mr. SCHIFF — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, when the President announced in January that he intended 
to escalate the number of American troops in Iraq, he sought to betray 
the increase in American combat forces as a necessary precondition for 
Iraq's government to make the political compromises necessary to 
prevent Iraq's civil war from spiraling completely out of control. In 
that speech, the President pledged to hold the Iraqi leadership 
accountable and to demand progress in two main areas: political 
reconciliation and security.

Now, more than 6 months later, it's unfortunate but also undeniable 
that little sustainable progress has been made on either front. Even as 
we speak, the administration is downplaying the significance of an 
interim report on the effect of the surge in Iraq.

On the security front, the heroism and sacrifices of American forces 
has caused a drop in sectarian killings, leading to an overall drop in 
the number of Iraqi deaths, but the reduction of Iraqi casualties has 
come with a horrific increase in the loss of our own troops. More than 
600 Americans have been killed since January.

Moreover, as American troops leave cities that are quieted with their 
own blood, there is every indication that Iraqi troops will not be able 
to sustain the calm. If the past is any indicator, insurgents and 
militias are merely waiting for us to exhaust ourselves and move on 
before returning, and Iraqi security forces will be powerless to stop 
them.

When President Bush announced in January that he intended to escalate 
the number of American troops in Iraq, he sought to portray the 
increase in American combat forces as a necessary precondition for 
Iraq's government to make the political compromises necessary to 
prevent Iraq's civil war from spiraling completely out of control.

In that speech, the President pledged to hold the Iraqi leadership 
accountable and to demand progress in two main areas: political 
reconciliation and security.

Now more than six months later it is unfortunate, but also undeniable 
that little sustainable progress has been made on either front. Even as 
we speak, the Administration is downplaying the significance of an 
interim report on the effect of the ''surge'' in Iraq.

On reconciliation, the Iraqi Government has failed to meet any of the 
political benchmarks endorsed by the President in January and which 
this Congress mandated earlier this spring. These political goals are 
the best indicator of the prospects for reconciliation in Iraq and, 
tragically, all signs indicate that political reconciliation has been 
non-existent.

The Iraqi Parliament has yet to begin consideration of the oil law or 
an associated revenue-sharing law. Given the disparate geographical 
distribution of Iraq's oil reserves, these laws are essential if Iraq 
is to have any hope of remaining a united country.

More alarming, is the lack of progress in healing the Sunni-Shiite 
rift. Of greatest importance, is the need to reverse some of the more 
draconian edicts of the postwar de-Baathification orders promulgated by 
former Coalition Provisional Authority chief Paul Bremer. These decrees 
removed any incentive for Sunnis to participate in creating a better 
future for Iraq. Other laws--to disarm militias and to grant amnesty--
are still being formulated, and most observers believe that the 
prospect of disarming militias is so remote that it will not be 
possible in the foreseeable future.


On the security front, the heroism and sacrifice of American force 
have caused a decline in sectarian killings and suicide bombings, 
leading to an overall drop in the number of Iraqi civilian deaths. But 
the reduction of Iraqi casualties has come with a horrific increase in 
the loss of our own troops--more than 600 Americans have been killed 
since January.

Moreover, as American troops leave cities they have quieted with 
their own blood, there is every indication that Iraqi troops will not 
be able to sustain the calm. If the past is any indicator, insurgents 
and militias are merely waiting for us to exhaust ourselves and move


on before returning--and Iraqi security forces will be powerless to 
stop them.

There has been one very positive development--in al Anbar province, 
Sunni tribal leaders have decided that al Qaeda's indiscriminate 
killing makes them a bigger problem than we are, and they have taken up 
arms against our common foe. This alliance of American forces and 
former insurgents is desirable and should be encouraged elsewhere. But, 
like most marriages of convenience, it is not sustainable and cannot 
form the bedrock of a secure Iraq or reconciliation among Iraqi sects.

For almost two years, I have been calling for a change in our mission 
in Iraq--from policing a civil war to training, containment and 
counter-terrorism. This necessitates a responsible redeployment of our 
combat forces from Iraq, and I believe that this bill does an excellent 
job of providing a framework for that redeployment, while still giving 
our armed forces the flexibility that they need to respond to 
contingencies.

Iraq's future must be decided by the Iraqi people and that solution 
must come from political reconciliation. Every day that we maintain our 
forces in the crossfire between warring sects is another opportunity 
for hatreds to harden and radicals to consolidate their grip on Iraq's 
ethnic and sectarian communities. We should change our mission now, and 
begin the withdrawal of our combat forces.

In planning for the inevitable withdrawal, we must recognize that a 
poorly executed departure could result in an escalation of civil war 
violence as Iraqi sects compete for power. As we draw down our forces, 
we must make every effort to prevent a magnification of this 
catastrophic violence. In particular, we must not compound the error of 
the lack of pre-invasion planning, with an equally tragic failure to 
adequately anticipate the post-occupation environment.

Mr. Speaker, it is long past time to begin to end the war in Iraq. I 
support this bill and urge its passage by the House today.