---
---

# None
## `4f6241ed6705af29aac0730a29c75624`
`Ms. LEE of California — 8 October 2009`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, for the first time in my tenure I 
rise today in support of the conference report on H.R. 2647, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2010.

I still believe that we must bring common sense to our runaway 
defense spending and end support for outdated cold war era weapons 
systems that are costing taxpayers over $60 billion a year without any 
appreciable benefit to our national security.

While I am pleased to see that H.R. 2647 includes language 
prohibiting the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, I continue to have serious concerns that the authorization 
for overseas operations included in this bill threatens to further 
entrench the United States in conflict and continue us down a path to 
war without end.

Mr. Speaker, I will continue to oppose a military-first foreign 
policy strategy which endangers our troops and our national security, 
and undermines our ability to meet the needs of the American people.

But today, I will be supporting this bill in the interest of all 
past, present, and potential victims of hate crimes and discrimination.

It is long past time that we protect Americans against hate violence 
by ensuring hate crimes are fully prosecuted under the law, as provided 
for in this bill.

No individual should face discrimination, fear, or violence on the 
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, or disability.