---
---

# None
## `4f665e31473ae0f3c171d3c15aaf1ad5`
`Mr. SAXTON — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to begin by very, very sincerely thanking my good 
friend from Missouri, Chairman Skelton, for the great leadership that 
he has provided in the months past in writing the original version and 
then shaping the bill and then using his steady hand to guide us 
through the conference, of course with the help of my good friend, 
Ranking Member Duncan Hunter. Both of these leaders provided great 
direction for us, and I might say that the product of their work is 
here today. I agree with the chairman, that this is a very, very good 
bill, and I am very fortunate to be able to stand here today to say how 
important I think it is that we all support it.



Unfortunately, Ranking Member Hunter could not be here today, but I 
know he is very proud of this conference report as well. I'd like to 
thank all of the subcommittee chairmen and their ranking members for 
their hard work and leadership. It is responsible for almost 1,500 
pages that this bill contains. And the staff that helped make this a 
reality, obviously Members would not have been able to be here today if 
it were not for them either.

This is a good, bipartisan bill. Last Thursday, the House Armed 
Services Committee filed this conference report after an overwhelming 
majority of conferees signed the report. Seldom in my career here have 
I seen this kind of agreement among Members on the bill. Our 
subcommittee chairmen and their ranking members will provide a detailed 
summary of the bill, so I will only highlight a few key areas.

Most importantly, this bipartisan bill takes care of the brave men 
and women serving our country at home and abroad. It authorizes $506.9 
billion in budgetary authority for the Department of Defense and the 
national security programs of the Department of Energy. Additionally, 
it supports current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in 
the global war on terrorism by authorizing $189.4 billion in 
supplemental funding for operational costs, personnel expenses and 
procurement of new equipment for fiscal year 2008.

This amount provides for end-strength growth in both the Army and the 
Marine Corps, continuing initiatives started several years ago by the 
Armed Services Committee, by authorizing increases of 13,000 Army and 
9,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required 
missions.

Additionally, this conference report authorizes a 3.5 percent pay 
increase, as the chairman remarked earlier. These pay raises for all 
members of the Armed Forces for 2008 are extremely important.

We talk a lot about quality of life and here we're doing something 
about it. Some of the initiatives in this legislation continue 
successful, practical programs such as the Commander's


Emergency Response Program, which is working well in battlefields in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Other initiatives reinforce good legislation that 
the House has already passed, such as the Wounded Warrior legislation 
to address the challenges that face our recovering servicemembers and 
their families. Still others modify existing authorities or establish 
promising new programs and new policies.

Some of the new programs and policies include these:

Providing $17.6 billion for the mine resistant ambush protected 
vehicle, an armored vehicle which will save lives going forward; 
setting guidelines for all private security contractors operating in 
Iraq and Afghanistan and other areas where we have combat operations. 
And we know from recent news reports how important this provision is.

We also authorize eight additional C-17s to support the intratheater 
lift requirements and meet the airlift needs for the increased end 
strength in the Army and Marine Corps.

We added major acquisition reform initiatives, such as establishing 
new responsibilities for the Joint Requirements Oversight Council and 
mandating that new acquisition programs be aligned with the missions of 
the Department and the competency and capability of the service 
proposing the program.

And finally, we acted to elevate the chief of the National Guard 
bureau to a four-star general and adopted many of the recommendations 
of the Commission on National Guard and Reserve Corps.

Just as importantly, this legislation avoids contentious language, 
such as the hate crimes provision, which would have put our bill at 
risk of a Presidential veto. I want to acknowledge the leadership of 
Chairman Ike Skelton, whose hard work in shepherding this vital 
legislation through the conference has guaranteed that our servicemen 
and women will get what they need, and they will get it when they need 
it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.