---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `4f6bdc4fd6ffa492154a998e3c8ab0c7`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Five minutes. OK, thank you, Madam President.

I stand today in support of an alternative budget that is being 
proposed by Senator McCain and others. This country is trying to write 
a budget for the American people. That should not be unknown to the 
American people. They are doing it every day. Every business is writing 
a budget. Every family is trying to plan a budget. The one thing 
families and businesses are doing is they are tightening their belts. 
Well, we are not. We are buying a bigger belt. We are buying a bigger 
suit.

We are trying to mask the fact that we are grossly overburdened. The 
budget before us is better than President Obama's budget. But Peter 
Orszag of OMB says it is 98 percent the same. So we are tying to find a 
different path. You can evaluate the people running your country as to 
how they want to spend your money and how much.

What we are proposing in this budget is to basically freeze domestic 
spending, except for defense and veterans--to


do what you are doing, basically; that is, control your spending, to 
get by on the same amount of money, with allowing some growth in some 
needed areas, but to rein in what will be a dramatic increase over time 
of domestic spending. I think we can do that.

We are spending trillions of dollars. We have trillions of dollars 
available to us. I know we could get by for another year or two on that 
same amount of money, allowing growth in certain key areas if we wanted 
to. But we don't have to. It is a choice we make. You don't have that 
choice. You can't go and print money. If you write a bad check, you go 
to jail; we call it good government. So you have choices. You have to 
make choices. We seem not to be bound by any choices.


If you are going to build a budget from a Federal level, what is the 
most important thing? At home and in your business, you build a budget 
around the essentials of what your family needs and what your business 
needs. I think we should be building a budget around securing the 
Nation. Under the budget of President Obama, defense spending goes from 
4.7 percent of GDP--we are in Iraq and Afghanistan; there are all kinds 
of threats from Iran, North Korea, you name it; the world is a very 
dangerous place--and over 10 years, his defense budget takes spending 
down to 3 percent of GDP. I don't know what he is listening to in terms 
of intelligence reports, but I don't think this world is safe right 
now, and now is not the time to cut defense. The budget I am 
supporting, Senator McCain's alternative, does away with tax increases 
on the job creators. If you make over $250,000 a year, your taxes are 
going to go up by about 25 percent. At a time when we are trying to get 
people to expand their business--and I can tell my colleagues one 
thing, and John Kennedy understood this--if you raise taxes, people do 
less business. If you raise the capital gains rates from 15 to 20, 
people do less capital gains transactions because there is a penalty to 
engage in business activity. So now is not the time to raise taxes on 
anyone.

We have to compete with China and India. When you pass on the cost of 
doing business--and that is what will happen--the American consumer 
suffers and the American business community is going to suffer because 
they are competing with people in a global economy who do not have all 
these tax burdens.

The biggest problem this country faces in terms of long-term debt is 
Social Security and Medicare. These are entitlement programs. When you 
get retirement eligible under Social Security, you get a check based on 
your contributions. Nobody wants to allow that system to go bankrupt, 
but it is headed toward bankruptcy. Why? Because the amount of money 
coming in and the amount of money obligated do not match.

When I was born in 1955, there were 15 workers for every retiree. 
Today there are three and in 20 years there will be two. People will 
not be able--two workers will not be able to meet the obligations that 
are owed through the Social Security system unless we act now. This 
budget puts aside a reserve program to deal with saving Social 
Security. Medicare and Social Security and Medicaid are a very large 
part of our budget, and they are on autopilot. I commend the President 
for wanting to do something in health care, but in his budget, he adds 
$1.6 trillion as a downpayment on health care reform.

We already spend more money than any country in the world on health 
care. Rather than adding another $1 trillion into the system, let's see 
if we can better manage the money we have today. This budget puts a new 
earmark system in place so Senators and Congressmen cannot, in the 
middle of the night----