---
---

# CHILDREN: UNCOUNTED IRAQ CASUALTIES
## `4f70874b803a75fb7b0b7d731ffa7c78`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, I had intended to rise this evening to 
focus my attention on the suicide bombing last week in Baghdad that 
killed and wounded several members of the Parliament, including Osama 
al-Nujafii. He was a member of the Iraq Parliament who participated in 
a historic live teleconference I hosted last month linking several of 
my House colleagues with several Iraq Parliamentarians. I wish him and 
the others wounded in the attack a speedy recovery.

That attack occurred inside the Green Zone, and it confirms that no 
one is safe in Iraq, no matter how many checkpoints or blast walls or 
press releases out of the White House. It confirms that the President's 
military escalation has only escalated the violence and the casualties. 
It confirms that the President has no control whatsoever on the events 
on the ground. And it confirms that the American people are right to 
demand that the President work with the Democratic Congress and 
establish a firm timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. troops.

For now, most Americans are grimly aware of the weekend of bombings 
and killings across Iraq. But the situation is even worse. The Iraq war 
will live long after the U.S. forces leave the country.

As a child psychiatrist, I was shocked to learn of a new study 
looking at the effects this war is having on Iraqi children. I submit 
the story from USA Today for the Record. It is the first comprehensive 
look at the impact the war is having on innocent Iraqi children. The 
Ministry of Health surveyed 2,500 primary school kids in Baghdad, and 
70 percent of those young kids displayed symptoms of trauma-related 
stress. As the USA Today reported, many Iraqi children have been 
physically wounded, and many are psychologically scarred. They are the 
uncounted casualties of the Iraq war. Thousands of innocent Iraqi 
children


are uncounted casualties. But for all these innocent Iraqi children, 
this war will rage on for them for years to come. They will face a life 
of anguish, and, in fact, will be the ones who, in the future, are the 
future violent ones we worry about.

For all these innocent Iraqi children, this war will rage on for 
years to come. In some cases, these children will face a lifetime of 
anguish and suffering, and not one of these children is being counted 
as a casualty.

These children routinely walk through carnage on their way to school, 
when they go at all.

These children are routinely exposed to random violence and killings 
that burn images in their minds that will scar them for life.

As a child psychiatrist, I can only echo the conclusions of one Iraqi 
doctor who was interviewed by USA Today.

''Some of these children are time bombs,'' said Said al-Hashimi, a 
psychiatrist who teaches at an Iraqi Medical School.

In this excerpt from USA Today, al-Hashimi said he is concerned Iraqi 
children could become the next generation of fighters and fuel violence 
for years to come.

Because of what they are living through as youngsters, ''they may 
think it's better to martyr themselves for religion or country,'' al-
Hashimi said.

The only hope for these uncounted casualties is treatment.

But, as the USA Today story points out, there is only one government 
run psychiatric hospital in Baghdad--a city of 6 million people, or put 
more accurately, a city of 6 million casualties.

And then there are the uncounted casualties of Iraqi children in 
Basra, Rumadi, Najaf, Karbala, Mosul, Kirkuk, Fallujah, Baqubah, and 
all the other places Iraqi children live.

Until the war ends, there is virtually no chance that thousands of 
innocent Iraqi children will be treated for their war wounds.

We can only estimate how many thousands of Iraqi children need urgent 
psychological attention. We know they are not going to get it until 
this war ends.

There is a timetable for doing just that, and the President should 
stop listening to his discredited Vice President and start listening to 
reason and reality.

Now, in the face of that, our Speaker has led this Congress to set a 
time line that the President says, I will ignore. The President said, I 
will ignore the people, I will ignore the vote of 2006. No matter what 
the Speaker does, I am going to attack her.

So the Speaker took the Iraq Study Group's book that said we ought to 
talk to the people in Syria. For those of you who don't know, Syria is 
right up next to Iraq. And it is on the border. And there are 
Presidential accusations that people are coming in from Syria into 
Iraq, creating trouble and killing our troops. This is on its way to 
being the most deadly month in 5 years.

Now, for the Speaker to take her time and carefully plan and go over 
and talk to the leadership of Syria about attacks being made on 
Americans is, in my view, it is part of her legislative responsibility 
to the people, not only of her district, but the entire country. And 
for someone to come out here and accuse her of a violation of the Logan 
Act. Now this is a 200-year-old act that no one has ever been 
prosecuted under because there are real questions as to whether it 
prevents Members of the Congress from using their first amendment 
rights to talk out on behalf of the people that they represent.

In 1980, the State Department maintained that a visit to Cuba by 
Senators John Sparkman and George McGovern was not inconsistent with 
the Logan Act. Nothing in the act, they said, ''would appear to 
restrict Members of Congress from engaging in discussions in pursuance 
of their legislative duties under the Constitution.''

In 1976 the State Department was asked to weigh in as to whether 
former President Nixon violated the Logan Act by visiting China. The 
Department stated that Mr. Nixon's trip was taken entirely in his 
capacity as a private citizen and that the Department ''was unaware of 
any basis for believing Mr. Nixon acted with intent prohibited'' by the 
act. The Department has noted that no one has ever been prosecuted 
under this act.

This kind of attack on the Speaker will be answered in full again and 
again. Make no mistake about that.

The article previously referred to follows:















[From USA TODAY]






70% of Iraqi Schoolchildren Show Symptoms of Trauma














 (By James Palmer)




 Baghdad--About 70% of primary school students in a Baghdad 


 neighborhood suffer symptoms of trauma-related stress such as 


 bed-wetting or stuttering, according to a survey by the Iraqi 


 Ministry of Health.



 The survey of about 2,500 youngsters is the most 


 comprehensive look at how the war is affecting Iraqi 


 children, said Iraq's national mental health adviser and 


 author of the study, Mohammed Al-Aboudi.



 ''The fighting is happening in the streets in front of our 


 houses and schools,'' al-Aboudi said. ''This is very 


 difficult for the children to adapt to.''



 The study is to be released next month. Al-Aboudi discussed 


 the findings with USA TODAY.



 Many Iraqi children have to pass dead bodies on the street 


 as they walk to school in the morning, according to a 


 separate report last week by the International Red Cross. 


 Others have seen relatives killed or have been injured in 


 mortar or bomb attacks.



 ''Some of these children are suffering one trauma after 


 another, and it's severely damaging their development,'' said 


 Said Al-Hashimi, a psychiatrist who teaches at Mustansiriya 


 Medical School and runs a private clinic in west Baghdad. 


 ''We're not certain what will become of the next generation, 


 even if there is peace one day,'' Al-Hashimi said.



 The study was conducted last October in the Sha'ab district 


 of northern Baghdad. The low- to middle-income neighborhood 


 is inhabited by a mix of Shiites and Sunni Arabs. Al-Aboudi 


 said he believes the sample was broadly representative of 


 conditions throughout the capital.



 In the study, schoolteachers were asked to determine 


 whether randomly selected students showed any of 10 symptoms 


 identified by the World Health Organization as signs of 


 trauma. Other symptoms included voluntary muteness, declining 


 performance in school or an increase in aggressive behavior.



 The teachers received training from Iraqi psychologists on 


 how to identify and help students cope with trauma-related 


 stress, al-Aboudi said.



 The study ''shows the impact of the violence and insecurity 


 on the children and on children's mental health,'' said 


 Naeema Al-Gasseer, the Iraqi representative of the WHO. 


 ''They have fear every day.''



 The Iraqi government is aware of the problem but largely 


 unequipped to address it, said Ali al-Dabbagh, a government 


 spokesman. ''Until we have proper security in Baghdad, 


 there's not much we can do to help these children,'' Al-


 Dabbagh said in Washington.