---
---

# IN HONOR OF HARRIET BEEKMAN
## `4f853271e975b24c8c88204ab670fa9c`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 20 April 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of Harriet 
Beekman, a dedicated advocate on behalf of veterans and the founder of 
We Do Care.

In 1968, Ms. Beekman received a letter from U.S. Marine Pfc. Steve 
Sarossy who had expressed his concern that ''no one seemed to care'' 
about service personnel overseas. Ms. Beekman was so disturbed by the 
sentiment that she wrote back in bold letters: STEVE, WE DO CARE. 
Tragically, Pfc. Sarossy was killed in the Quang Tri Republic of 
Vietnam later that year, but his words were not forgotten. Harriet 
Beekman took it upon herself to set up We Do Care, a support 
organization for our troops worldwide. Since the Vietnam conflict, We 
Do Care has sent more than 60,000 letters and 21,000 packages to 
service personnel. For more than four decades Ms. Beekman has led the 
charge in collecting, organizing and shipping several hundred tons of 
donated items to service personnel all over the world. We Do Care has 
sent goods to service members in places such as Vietnam, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Haiti, Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq.

We Do Care has brought communities together in support of the men and 
women who risk their lives everyday. People of all ages and backgrounds 
gather together at dances, talent shows, community collection drives, 
recycling projects, rummage sales and dinners in order to raise funds 
and collect item donations to send our troops. In response to her 
efforts, Ms. Beekman has received more than 5,000 letters of 
appreciation from service personnel around the world.

Madam Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honoring Harriet 
Beekman, often referred to as the ''Florence Nightingale of Fairview 
Park.'' She continues to show our troops that, indeed, we do care. Even 
as she approaches her ninetieth birthday this July, Ms. Beekman 
continues to show the indomitable spirit of youth in continuing her 
work. Her volunteer spirit and dedication to those who serve our 
country uplifts and inspires resolve to live a more peaceful life.
