# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `4f8b51aa78284eff1012534246df4899`
`Mr. McDERMOTT â€” 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, my good friend from Texas, I couldn't 
have asked for a better setup man for a straight man because, I dare 
say, there are many Members at one time or another who had something to 
say hypocritical either on the floor or on the campaign trail. But I 
don't ever recall the blatant hypocrisy behind the cornerstone of an 
argument to deny benefits to hundreds of thousands of people who have 
lost their jobs through no fault of their own, that is, until the 
recent debate about extending unemployment benefits.

The Senate Republicans, and now my House Republican colleagues, have 
cut off unemployment benefits for hundreds of thousands of jobless 
Americans for the last 2 weeks because they say they're upset about the 
budget deficit. Isn't that something. They claim we can't afford to 
help the unemployed unless the cost of these benefits is offset, even 
though Congress has routinely considered such benefits to be emergency 
spending which doesn't require offsets.

Maybe my mind is failing, I don't know, but I don't remember these 
concerns coming up from our Republican colleagues when there was 
discussion about the $1 trillion cost of the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, not a penny of which was offset. President Bush never asked for 
any sacrifice from the American people. He said, We can just go out and 
fight a war and it will be paid for sometime when I'm not here. I also 
don't recall any Republicans expressing concern about the nearly $2 
billion spent on two successive tax cuts that went mainly to the 
wealthy. That is why you will have to forgive me if I seem a little 
frustrated that Republicans have miraculously discovered fiscal 
responsibility. I don't know. They must have turned over a rock 
somewhere.

When they're talking about unemployment benefits, they suddenly worry 
about paying for it. A measly $18 billion. President Bush put us $3 
trillion in debt, and now they're worrying about $18 billion. They were 
happy to help their President turn the biggest surplus in our Nation's 
history into the biggest deficit in our Nation's history, but now when 
it comes to help the unemployed workers and their families, Senate 
Republicans say we just can't afford to do it. So they delayed and 
obstructed the bill for weeks until the Senate finally cleared the 
Republican filibuster earlier this evening.

We're here tonight to pass that bill to provide an extension through 
May for a number of programs that are expiring at the end of the month, 
including Federal unemployment insurance. We're going to take another 
one of these votes in June.