---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `4f944d79d751c58549d72cc708381ffa`
`Mr. BOND — 12 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, first, I rise today to pay tribute to a much 
loved sportsman, businessman, civic leader, and family man, Lamar Hunt, 
best known as founder and owner of the Kansas City Chiefs, who, 
regrettably, passed away on December 13 of complications related to 
prostate cancer. Some might be surprised to learn that Kansas City was 
Lamar Hunt's adopted town, not his hometown. Born in Arkansas and 
raised in Texas, Lamar began his journey to Kansas City in 1959, when 
the National Football League unwisely turned down his request for a new 
franchise in Dallas. If you can't join 'em, beat 'em, to turn a cliche 
on its head.

Shut out of the NFL, Lamar Hunt decided to create another football 
league. He found seven other men as passionate about football as he 
was, and together they created the American Football League, the AFL. 
At the time, theirs was considered a risky venture. They called 
themselves ''the foolish club'' and located their teams in Midwestern 
and Southern cities, places without a history of professional football.

It has been said that leaders are visionaries with a poorly developed 
sense of fear and no concept of the odds against them. Lamar was such a 
leader and he fit that description.

He was certainly visionary. His leadership in creating and expanding 
the American Football League helped professional football gain a 
nationwide following before merging to become today's NFL.

I think he did understand the odds against him. He did not let them 
get in the way. He stuck with his plan for a new football league and 
succeeded. He first located his franchise in Dallas. In 1963, he moved 
the Dallas Texans to Kansas City, where they became the Chiefs.

Lamar Hunt coined the term ''Super Bowl'' and was on hand to see the 
Chiefs win Super Bowl IV. Unfortunately, our Chiefs have not won a 
Super Bowl since, but Lamar never gave up on his team and neither will 
we, the fans.

Lamar Hunt was a true entrepreneur, willing to take calculated risk 
on investments that would benefit the larger community. Since the 
1960s, the Hunt family has been instrumental in the growth and 
development of Kansas City from a frontier town to a world-class city.

The Hunts have contributed to the Kansas City economy through Hunt 
Midwest Enterprises, which, among other ventures, developed Worlds of 
Fun and Oceans of Fun, two recreational theme parks that draw hundreds 
of thousands of visitors each year.

While he is best known for his love for professional football, Lamar 
Hunt was deeply involved in other sports. He was a part owner of the 
Chicago Bulls, he founded World Championship Tennis in 1969, and he 
spearheaded the development of soccer as a professional sport in the 
United States. He owned two Major League Soccer teams.

While successful, Hunt remained modest. He never thought of himself 
as a the Chief's owner. He preferred the term ''founder.''

As he told Joe Posnanski of the Kansas City Star:




 To me, every Chief's fan has ownership in the team. They 


 are just as invested emotionally as I am. I was able to bring 


 the team to Kansas City, but it is Kansas City's team.


In fact, since Mr. Hunt's death, the Star has run several stories, 
including examples of his love for players, coaches, and fans as 
individuals. Hall of Fame linebacker Bobby Bell remembered him, saying:




 He's a guy who never valet parked his car unless they 


 absolutely made him.


Chief's tight end Fred Arbanas recalled that Hunt, himself, served 
the team food and drinks and picked up trash on the plane to road 
games. He is said to have given the widow of an employee killed in a 
construction accident a book of blank checks bearing his signature.

Despite struggling with cancer for 8 years, Lamar kept a strenuous 
schedule right until the very end. The last time I saw him was in 
November, during the Governor's Cup game, where the Chiefs played 
against the St. Louis Rams in St. Louis. The Chief's pulled out a 31-
to-7 win. At that game, his illness had necessitated a car for 
transportation, but it had not affected his good nature, his 
friendliness or his optimism for his beloved Chiefs.

In an era of rapid change and turnover in the sports world, Lamar 
Hunt stood apart. He remained owner of the Chiefs, or founder of the 
Chiefs, for more than 40 years, from 1963 until his death. He invested 
in the lives of people in his adopted town, and the benefits of those 
investments will be felt for generations to come.

More than 1,000 fans have signed the Kansas City Star's online 
guestbook for Lamar Hunt, praising him for his honesty and sincerity, 
his class and his countless contributions to the Chiefs, to football, 
and to Kansas City.

While his family and friends will miss Lamar very much, they can take 
heart in the tremendous legacy he left. I know his son Clark will 
continue to lead the Chiefs with the same love for the game and 
business sense his father had. We will always remember fondly Lamar 
Hunt.



















Iraq


Mr. President, my colleagues and our staffs, people need to know 
about the worldwide threat hearing we had at an open session of the 
Intelligence Committee yesterday. In that hearing, we asked the 
Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the CIA, the general 
in charge of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Mr. Fort of the State 
Department's INR, and Director Bob Mueller of the FBI what their 
assessment was of the situation in Iraq.

Very simply, they said that, while it is not certain by any means, 
they believe the leadership of Iraq has bought into the concept 
announced by the President as a result of his telephone call from Prime 
Minister Malaki that Iraq is going to take over the responsibility for 
quelling the insurgency, the sectarian violence, and they will devote 
their own resources, heavily, into Baghdad, with district units headed 
by generals, brigades in each area supported by American troops on a 3-
to-1 ratio, Iraqi to American.

While this by no means is sure to work, and recent actions do not 
suggest it is a very strong bet, they believe it has apparently the 
best chance to succeed.

In addition, since there was another idea on the table, I asked what 
would happen if we withdrew immediately, or within a very short 
timetable of 2 to 3 months, and the Director of National Intelligence 
and the Director of the CIA, first, said a precipitous withdrawal would 
bring about a collapse of the Government; that al-Qaida would establish 
a beachhead and a sanctuary in Iraq for the purpose of promoting the 
worldwide caliphate that it supports. That was the Director of National 
Intelligence, who, also, was joined by the Director of the CIA, General 
Hayden, who said if we withdraw, it would empower the jihadists to gain 
a safe haven, which would have a tremendous impact on the region. There 
would be a tremendous impact because they could be in control of the 
oil-rich Iraqi resources, and it would further empower Iran.

In summary, he said three things very unfortunate would be likely to 
occur.

No. 1, more innocent Iraqi civilians would die in sectarian violence.

No. 2, there would be a safe haven for al-Qaida and its cooperating 
entities--a goal that has been stated by the leader of al-Qaida, Osama 
bin Laden, and his second in command, Ayman al-Zawahiri.

And third, this would very likely bring about regionwide conflicts 
because with the Shia in control in Iraq in the current Government, 
with the numbers they have, Iran has shown a very great interest and 
has been too actively involved in Iraqi matters already. Iran and its 
Shias, if they came in and heaped great losses on the Sunnis, could 
expect that Sunni neighbors in the region would respond to the threats 
of the Iraqi Shia, as the Iranians, and the danger of a tremendous 
conflict throughout that region would occur.

So I appreciate the opportunity to address the Senate on these 
matters. I think all Senators need to know the seriousness of this 
issue, the reasons why I believe the President's option that he


announced the night before last is the best option.




Amendments Nos. 48, 49, 50, and 51, En Bloc, to amendment No. 3


Now, Mr. President, on behalf of Senator Coburn, I ask unanimous 
consent that the pending amendment be temporarily set aside in order to 
call up amendments Nos. 48 through 51 en bloc.