# None
## `4f9c11c332f28192c3e3885a91eccc8f`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I paid attention to the statement of the Senator from 
Illinois, as well as that of the Senator from Nevada. We may be 
approaching--not a historic moment in the history of the Senate but 
certainly one worthy of note; that is, according to my staff, that is 
not always accurate but is well meaning, we are about, maybe, at least 
26 years since we have not had a Defense authorization bill passed by 
this body. Clearly from this beginning it appears, as on most other 
issues that have come before this body recently, we will be gridlocked.

Cloture motions will be filed. Votes will be taken. Time passes and, 
unfortunately, during that period of time, the men and women who are 
serving in our military will be without their pay increase. They will 
be without the increase in numbers that are called for in this bill, 
from 512,000 in the Army to 525,000; from 180,000 in the Marines to 
189,000.

The best way, probably, to relieve the stress on the men and women in 
the military and the overdeployment that, unfortunately, we all regret 
they have had to bear, their unfair share of sacrifice in defense of 
this Nation and its security, is to increase the size of the military. 
That is in this bill.

Frankly, the reason we arrived at these numbers is it is just about 
as many as can be recruited additionally; otherwise, I think you would 
see additional numbers.

Instead of the 3.5-percent pay increase, instead of increasing size 
in the Army and Marine Corps, which we all know is badly needed, some 
of us, including my friend from Michigan, have known for many years how 
badly it was needed. One of the many mistakes made by the previous 
Secretary of Defense was not to call for a dramatic increase in the 
size of our Marine Corps and Army, for which our military families have 
paid a very heavy price.

Here we are, gridlocked in a battle whether we are going to have 60 
votes and whether we are going to have to file a cloture motion which 
will ripen after a couple of days and all the arcane things that very 
few Americans understand. It took me a number of years to finally 
comprehend some of the procedures around here.

So we are, again, going to probably maintain that historic low in 
approval that was recently, in a recent Gallop Poll that has been taken 
for many years--I have forgotten the number now. I think it was in the 
teens as the approval rating of the Congress on the part of the 
American people.

Anybody who just watched the proceedings that went on and the 
exchanges between the two leaders make that disapproval rating far more 
understandable. The average citizen watching these debates really 
doesn't understand why we don't just go ahead and take care of the men 
and women in the military, to give them the arms and ammunition they 
need, to give them the much needed equipment we have talked about on 
this list--the $2.7 billion items on the Army Chief of Staff's unfunded 
requirements list, things like the $4.1 billion for the MRAP, the Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles. We all know how bad the situation 
is, as far as IEDs are concerned.

What are we going to do? Are we going to sit down and say: Hey, you 
know what. When the Democrats were in the minority around here they 
insisted on 60 votes on just about every issue, particularly important 
ones. We are now insisting on 60 votes, now that we are in the 
minority. Yet somewhere along the way the issue of c-o-m-i-t-y and the 
national interest suffers and is abandoned by the wayside of politics.

The Senator from Michigan and I will sit here this afternoon and we 
will have statements made by various Members as they come to the floor. 
There are, if my past experience with this bill is accurate, probably 
100, maybe more, amendments that will be pending because there are so 
many issues that are important to Members and important to the defense 
of this Nation. It is very likely, from this scenario I am seeing, that 
we will for the first time in at least 26 years not pass a Defense 
authorization bill--certainly not in a timely manner. We are already 
into the month of July, and, obviously, we will not spend all 4 weeks 
on this issue.

I think in days gone by--and we all have a tendency to remember the 
good parts and not the bad parts--there was a tendency for the managers 
of the bill and the majority and whatever party was in the minority 
leaders would sit down and say: OK, we are going to narrow down the 
amendments. We are going to have agreement for a certain number of 
amendments and votes, and it would take us a while. I can remember 
sometimes it taking 2 weeks. That is why we usually bump it up against 
a recess because one thing in the 20 years I have been here we have 
never missed is a recess. Now we are going to sit here for this 
afternoon. It is Tuesday afternoon, and we are going to have various 
statements. Members on both sides will display their dedication to the 
men and women in the military. I appreciate that. I appreciate the 
patriotism of every single Member of this body. But are we really going 
to do anything for them? Are we really going to try to help them? Or 
are we going to be locked in combat on an issue that should not be on 
this bill?

We probably have taken up the issue of the war in Iraq eight or nine 
times. I don't know exactly how many times. We have amendments, we have 
debates, we have 60 votes, and then we move on to something else. 
Meanwhile, we have not done a single appropriations bill, I might add, 
and we are in the month of July.

Everybody knows, even though I don't happen to agree with it, that 
September will be a seminal time on the Iraq issue.

General Petraeus will be coming back, and he will be issuing his 
report, which, by the way, I can predict what it is going to be right 
now; mixed, some success and some frustration. Then, guess what, in 
September, we are going to go through another debate. We are going to 
have amendments, and we are going to have 60 votes again.

Meanwhile, the American people are wondering what in the heck we are 
all about here, and why in the world, in all due respect to the deputy 
majority leader, do we have to keep taking up the Iraq issue when we 
know full well that in September there will be a major debate on this 
issue?

Meanwhile, the men and women in the military who are serving, to whom 
I see declaration after declaration of our dedication and devotion to 
their welfare and benefit, then what is going to equip them? What is 
going to train them? What is going to give them the pay raise? What is 
going to take care of them is somehow lost in the rhetoric of 60-vote 
requirements, which again, most Americans do not understand nor should 
they be required to, because they expect us to come here and act in 
their benefit. Certainly they should be asking us to act on an issue, 
on a piece of legislation such as the Defense authorization bill which 
has to do with the defense of this Nation.

Well, I could go on for a long time.

I do not want in any way my comments to be construed as a lack of 
respect and appreciation for the chairman of the committee, and the 
many years we have worked together, because I am convinced he and I 
could sit down in a very short period of time and work out the number 
of amendments and schedule votes and time agreements. But we are not 
going to do that. We are not going to do that. But please do not come 
to the floor, I ask my colleagues, and talk about your dedication to 
the men and women in the military and how difficult it is for them in 
these times, when we have before us a bill to increase the size of the 
military, we have before us a bill to give them a pay increase that 
they deserve, and it probably is not going to be passed by this body, 
at least before we go out for the August recess. Then we get into 
September. Then we will get into another fight on the issue of whether 
we should withdraw troops in Iraq.

I don't think we should be very proud of ourselves. I don't. When the 
men and women in the military whom we again, as I say, all profess our 
devotion and dedication to, do not get the equipment they need 
authorized, do not get the increases in pay, do not get the increases 
in numbers that we are trying to authorize, then do not be too 
surprised with the cynicism of the American people and voters and, 
indeed, the men and


women who are serving, about the way we do business.

I hope the majority leader and the Republican leader can sit down and 
work this thing out. Look, it is a fact the way the Senate works. It 
happened when the other side was in the minority, that they required 60 
votes on issues of importance. I am sorry they did. I am sorry we did. 
I wish we could have simple up-or-down votes on all of these 
amendments. But to claim that somehow we are filibustering, when that 
was the standard procedure on the other side, I don't think is, 
frankly, too forceful an argument.

As I say, my staff tells me it has been at least 26 years, probably 
more, since we have not passed a Defense authorization bill. I hope we 
will not break that record. I hope we can sit down together and work 
this out. Again, recognizing these votes on Iraq are votes that will be 
taken again in the month of September, they will be taken again in the 
month of September when the President comes, when General Petraeus 
comes with his report, I would hope we could set the whole issue of 
Iraq aside, go ahead with the authorization for equipping and training 
and protection and welfare and benefit of the men and women who are 
serving us in the military. Unfortunately, I think that is not going to 
happen.

I yield the floor.