---
---

# CONGRATULATING JEREMY R. STEVENS
## `4fac802651f15db713bb4eaa74fc6835`
`Mr. SMITH of Nebraska — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
Jeremy Stevens of Sidney, Nebraska on becoming a member of USA TODAY's 
All-USA Community College Academic Team.

The All-USA Academic Team honors a prestigious group of 20 community 
college students from across the nation for outstanding intellectual 
achievement and leadership.

Jeremy, an Army Veteran of the 82nd Airborne Division, attended 
Western Nebraska


Community College, WNCC, in Sydney prior to transferring to Creighton 
University. At WNCC, Jeremy earned a spot on the president's list, the 
Dean's List, and was an active member of the TRIO Upward Bound Program. 
His military honors include the Combat Infantryman's Award, the 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Army Commendation Medal, and the Army 
Achievement Award.

Jeremy was the President of his hometown's PTK Alpha Rho Omicron 
Chapter and served on the Sidney Endowment Association Board where he 
was an integral part of extending benefits to his fellow veterans. 
Jeremy also deserves recognition for the scholarship program he 
implemented for veterans who joined the military after the terrorist 
attacks on September 11, 2001.

Jeremy's dedication to public service is evident as he prepares for a 
career as a history teacher, where he hopes to translate his ability 
for helping others to a classroom setting.

Once again, I congratulate Jeremy on his tremendous achievement and I 
wish him luck in his future endeavors.
