# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4fb1cf48613642eb3c3ca4d38c1b54f3`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Madam Speaker, the morning of September 11, 2001, I 
was a Minnesota State senator meeting


with a group of local educators at a Perkins Restaurant in Woodbury, 
Minnesota. Because you can't find a babysitter at 7 o'clock in the 
morning, I had my three daughters with me at the restaurant when I 
learned of the attacks. After that meeting, I dropped our girls off at 
school and then, together with millions of Americans, in horror I 
watched my television as the terror unfolded. Thousands of innocent 
Americans were targeted for death that morning by an evil regime of 
radical jihadists. Then came the challenge of explaining to our 
children the magnitude of the tragedy that had just befallen our 
Nation. As a mother, I can tell you it was one the most difficult 
conversations that I have ever had.

September 11 galvanized Americans. We knew without a doubt that we 
had an enemy, but America fought back, united. We were attacked on 
September 11, but the radical Islamic jihadists declared war on 
innocent Americans long before that morning and, chillingly, that war 
continues even today. Their brand of evil chooses to kill the greatest 
number of innocent civilians. They are a cruel enemy. They are 
unwavering in their resolve to seek the total annihilation of the 
United States of America and of our freedoms, and of our Western allies 
especially. They seek to destroy our friend, the State of Israel.

Today, Iraq is the central front in this war, and that is according 
to the radical Islamists themselves. Some in this Chamber may want to 
deny that fact. However, it is the jihadists who chose Iraq as the 
central front in the war on terror. It wasn't the United States. And we 
fight them on their turf. Al-Zawahiri has said many times that Iraq is 
one of the crucial fields in the Islamist war. The radical Islamists 
know that they cannot beat us with guns and with bullets alone. They 
can only beat us in one way, and that is if they crumple the resolve of 
America to fight and to win this war.

To American soldiers, I want to say to you specifically tonight, know 
that many of us here in the United States Congress support you and your 
mission. We pray for you. We love you. We appreciate you and your 
sacrifices on behalf of our freedoms. It is because of your bravery 
that we will defeat the radical jihadists. Surrender is not an option, 
not if our goal is the maintenance of freedom.

It is very telling, I think, that the resolution that we are debating 
this evening only states what those on the other side of the aisle 
oppose. After all these hours of debate, the American people have yet 
to hear a plan from the Democrats for victory in this war against 
terror.

I believe, and you, our troops, know that victory against the evil 
people who want to kill Americans transcends politics. Victory in this 
war means that no mother will have to explain to their children the 
death of thousands of innocent Americans.

American soldiers, please know that many of us in this Congress stand 
strong in our resolve to support you and our fight to preserve 
America's freedoms. On my watch, I pledge to you during this, my term 
in Congress, that I will stand for you, and I will vote to preserve 
America's freedom.

And I want to say to you this evening that it is American soldiers, 
Minnesotans, who are in the National Guard. It is members of the 
Minnesota National Guard who make up over 10 percent of this increase 
in troops. Minnesota is supplying over 10 percent of those troops.

I had the brigadier general of the Minnesota Guard in my office 
yesterday, and I asked him, What is the morale? What is the message 
that these troops want me to know? And he said, They want you to know 
that they stand ready to fight, and their morale is high.

I say thank you to the Minnesota National Guard. Thank you for your 
sacrifice. Thank you for your bravery. I will stand with you. Just as 
the Minnesotans who stood first in line in the battle to fight for our 
Union, it is Minnesota who is standing strong in this battle to fight. 
It is the battle of our time, the balance of our generation, and I 
stand with you.