# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `4fd80ca6797049cfebb76552b7b14ab2`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my very good friend from Rochester, 
the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules, for yielding me the 
customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strongest opposition to both this rule and the 
underlying conference report.

Mr. Speaker, this conference report implements a policy of failure. 
It is nothing more than a cheap attempt to score political points at a 
time when the American people have understandably become very weary of 
war. Rather than offering the American people a


policy that allows us to complete our mission in Iraq and bring our 
troops home, which we all want to do, this bill simply offers them a 
charade.

The President, Mr. Speaker, has made it very clear that he will veto 
this policy of failure, which does not have enough support to override 
his veto. We will be right back here in a matter of days voting on 
another supplemental. And while this political charade plays out, Mr. 
Speaker, our troops will be left waiting for the funding that they need 
to do their jobs, and our country trapped in a political quagmire 
created by the Democratic leadership in this Congress.

Mr. Speaker, this very dangerous game of ''chicken'' could have been 
avoided entirely. The Democratic leadership may be bereft of ideas, but 
I know for a fact that this entire body is not. Had we considered the 
original bill under an open process, which, as we all know, is the 
tradition for wartime supplementals in this House, we could have had a 
real debate. We could have considered the worthy ideas of Members in 
this body.

Instead, Mr. Speaker, all but a very few were shut out of this 
process entirely. Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives 
alike, were denied the opportunity to participate in this process. We 
didn't get any of their ideas, their expertise, their suggestions in 
bringing this measure to the floor. And what did that very small group 
in the Democratic leadership come up with? A constitutionally dubious 
attempt at micromanaging the Iraq war into inevitable defeat; a cynical 
political ploy that will leave dire consequences for the region and our 
own security in its wake.

Mr. Speaker, the Constitution lays out a very clear system of checks 
and balances derived from the ideas of the very brilliant and inspired 
Framers of our Constitution. James Madison I am thinking of, as I look 
to my friend from Virginia, Mr. Moran, obviously a native of Virginia. 
And I will tell you that that Madisonian spirit of giving the three 
branches of government distinct roles, allows us to guard ourselves 
against tyranny from any one branch.

The President must seek the support of Congress in order to wage war; 
it is Congress that has the power to authorize; and, as we all know 
very well, it must be this institution that funds a war. But, Mr. 
Speaker, once funding and authorization are granted, the President of 
the United States serves as the Commander in Chief, with the authority 
to execute the war.

This conference report ignores the intentions of our Founding Fathers 
and attempts to turn the Constitution on its head.

I mentioned, looking to my friend Mr. Moran, the father, the author 
of the Constitution, James Madison. Well, Mr. Speaker, in Federalist 
No. 51, Madison wrote ''that in framing a government that is to be 
administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: You 
must first enable the government to control the governed, and in the 
next place oblige it to control itself.''

Mr. Speaker, Madison recognized the inherent challenges in designing 
a government that is both effective and limited. He knew that without 
checks and balances, tyranny would ensue.

Mr. Speaker, this conference report, like the bill before it, 
attempts to diminish these checks and balances. It tries to turn 
Congress into 535 Commanders in Chief.

This legislation of micromanagement is based, Mr. Speaker, on a 
disastrous strategy. Its authors fund the war, and then mandate its 
failure. They seek to tie the hands of our military commanders, and 
then force them to retreat when they are unable to meet impossible 
timetables. We heard in a briefing today from General Petraeus, from 
Secretary England, from Secretary Negroponte and others that the notion 
of timetables in fact clearly will undermine the potential for success.

Mr. Speaker, that leadership also knew it fell hopelessly short of 
the necessary support within their own party for passage. But rather 
than opening up the process so that real ideas and solutions could be 
considered, they just loaded it up with billions of dollars in 
unrelated spending. This conference report trades victory for potential 
electoral gains.

Mr. Speaker, what would the consequences of defeat be? The National 
Intelligence Estimate, the 9/11 Commission, our people on the ground 
and those who briefed us today, have all made it very clear that a 
precipitous withdrawal would have disastrous consequences. Violence 
will spill out across the country and spread to the entire region.

We heard about Iran and Syria today and the challenges that exist 
there. In our absence, Iran and Syria will be utterly unfettered in 
their ability to incite a regional war that threatens global security, 
with enormous casualties suffered by the people in the region.

Mr. Speaker, as I have said, and I know this very well, and I join 
Americans who have been very discouraged by this war; it has been ugly, 
it has been difficult, it has been very painful. We all, Mr. Speaker, 
feel the toll it has taken and are keenly aware of the price that we 
are paying, especially in a human sense.

I know as I look to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that 
every single one of us has had the challenge and the difficulty of 
looking into the eyes of constituents whose family and friends have 
made the ultimate sacrifice in this war. Their pain is very real, and 
we all know that their loss is profound.

But, Mr. Speaker, we do not honor those who have sacrificed by 
abandoning their mission. I have regularly quoted my very good friend, 
a man who has become a friend of mine, a former marine called Ed 
Blecksmith, whose son J.P. was killed in the battle of Fallujah 2 years 
ago this past November. He said that if we were to withdraw, his son 
will have died in vain.

Mr. Speaker, we do not honor those in the field who are fighting as 
we speak by tying their hands and depriving them of the means to 
succeed. We will honor them by winning the war in Iraq so that our men 
and women come home having completed their mission.

We know that their mission will not be complete in the immediate 
future. That was pointed out today by General Petraeus and others. As 
President Bush and General Petraeus have both acknowledged, success 
will take months, not days or weeks. But to abandon our mission would 
be disastrous.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject the policy of defeat and 
the potential return of terrorism to our homeland. I urge my colleagues 
to reject this political charade that leaves our troops in limbo, and 
let us instead have a real debate with real ideas for a real solution 
in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I include the following article from the Sunday Times 
for the Record.









[From the Sunday Times, April 22, 2007]









 Al-Qaeda 'Planning Big British Attack'














 (By Dipesh Gadher)




 Al-Qaeda leaders in Iraq are planning the first ''large-


 scale'' terrorist attacks on Britain and other western 


 targets with the help of supporters in Iran, according to a 


 leaked intelligence report.



 Spy chiefs warn that one operative had said he was planning 


 an attack on ''a par with Hiroshima and Nagasaki'' in an 


 attempt to ''shake the Roman throne'', a reference to the 


 West.



 Another plot could be timed to coincide with Tony Blair 


 stepping down as prime minister, an event described by Al-


 Qaeda planners as a ''change in the head of the company''.



 The report, produced earlier this month and seen by The 


 Sunday Times, appears to provide evidence that Al-Qaeda is 


 active in Iran and has ambitions far beyond the improvised 


 attacks it has been waging against British and American 


 soldiers in Iraq.



 There is no evidence of a formal relationship between Al-


 Qaeda, a Sunni group, and the Shi'ite regime of President 


 Mah-moud Ahmadinejad, but experts suggest that Iran's leaders 


 may be turning a blind eye to the terrorist organisation's 


 activities.



 The intelligence report also makes it clear that senior Al-


 Qaeda figures in the region have been in recent contact with 


 operatives in Britain.



 It follows revelations last year that up to 150 Britons had 


 travelled to Iraq to fight as part of Al-Qaeda's ''foreign 


 legion''. A number are thought to have returned to the UK, 


 after receiving terrorist training, to form sleeper cells.



 The report was compiled by the Joint Terrorism Analysis 


 Centre (JTAC)--based at MI5's London headquarters--and 


 provides a quarterly review of the international terror 


 threat to Britain. It draws a distinction between Osama Bin 


 Laden and Al-Qaeda's core leadership, who are thought to be 


 hiding on the Afghan-Pakistan border, and affiliated 


 organisations elsewhere.



 The document states: ''While networks linked to AQ [Al-


 Qaeda] Core pose the greatest threat to the UK, the 


 intelligence during




 this quarter has highlighted the potential threat from other 


 areas, particularly AQI [Al-Qaeda in Iraq].''



 The report continues: ''Recent reporting has described 


 AQI's Kurdish network in Iran planning what we believe may be 


 a large-scale attack against a western target.



 ''A member of this network is reportedly involved in an 


 operation which he believes requires AQ Core authorisation. 


 He claims the operation will be on 'a par with Hiroshima and 


 Naga-saki' and will 'shake the Roman throne'. We assess that 


 this operation is most likely to be a large-scale, mass 


 casualty attack against the West.''



 The report says there is ''no indication'' this attack 


 would specifically target Britain, ''although we are aware 


 that AQI . . . networks are active in the UK''.



 Analysts believe the reference to Hiroshima and Nagasaki, 


 where more than 200,000 people died in nuclear attacks on 


 Japan at the end of the second world war, is unlikely to be a 


 literal boast.



 ''It could be just a reference to a huge explosion,'' sald 


 a counter-terrorist source. ''They [Al-Qaeda] have got to do 


 something soon that is radical, otherwise they start losing 


 credibility.''



 Despite aspiring to a nuclear capability, Al-Qaeda is not 


 thought to have acquired weapons grade material. However, 


 several plots involving ''dirty bombs''--conventional 


 explosive devices surrounded by radioactive material--have 


 been foiled.



 Last year Al-Qaeda's leader in Iraq called on nuclear 


 scientists to apply their knowledge of biological and 


 radiological weapons to ''the field of jihad''.



 Details of a separate plot to attack Britain, ''ideally'' 


 before Blair steps down this summer, were contained in a 


 letter written by Abdul al-Hadi al-Iraqi, an Iraqi Kurd and 


 senior Al-Qaeda commander.



 According to the JTAC document, Hadi ''stressed the need to 


 take care to ensure that the attack was successful and on a 


 large scale''. The plan was to be relayed to an Iran-based 


 Al-Qaeda facilitator.



 The Home Office declined to comment.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.