---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4fe1a5fac7dcf07264172351a0697ba7`
`Mr. GINGREY — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I rise for the second time during this 36-hour marathon to strongly 
oppose this, I almost want to say, meaningless resolution, Mr. Speaker. 
But make no mistake about it, this is not a meaningless resolution. The 
consequences of failure in Iraq are drastic, and let me just read to 
you what some of those are.

Number one, collapse of a democratic Iraqi government, likely, very 
likely leading to mass killings and genocide in the nation.

Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups would use this defeat to boost 
recruitment. They would use Iraq as a staging ground for deadly attacks 
paid for with Iraqi oil revenue.

Iran and Syria would exert tremendous influence over the region. You 
think they are bad actors now, you just wait until this scenario plays 
out. And, indeed, and they have said that Israel would be pushed into 
the sea.

Mr. Speaker, the real Democratic plan is coming later. And if you 
don't believe me, I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle just 
read a recent article this week in Roll Call. I am not going to stand 
up here and read it to the Members. You can read it.

But the Progressive Caucus of the House Democratic Conference, the 
Out of Iraq Caucus of the House Democratic Conference, led by Ms. 
Woolsey and Ms. Waters, basically say that this is just the first step. 
They say that in this op ed article. This resolution is not 
meaningless. It is the first step, my colleagues, toward cutting off 
funding for the troops and pulling the rug out from under them.

What does this say then to our brave fighting men and women who are 
trying to defend this country? We have heard over and over again from 
the other side that, ''Look, we can't afford this war anymore. It is 
costing too much in lives and money. We are making too big a commitment 
there, and we need to bring our troops home because some other conflict 
may break out in this world.''

Well, I say, Mr. Speaker, to my colleagues. What is more important 
than the current war? What indeed are we going to save our troops for? 
Working the rope lines at 4th of July parades, helping senior citizens 
cross the street? We have got to stop this and stop it now.

And listen to what the terrorists themselves say about the message 
that that would send. And this is a quote, Mr. Speaker, from bin Laden 
himself: ''Hostility toward America is a religious duty, and I am 
confident that Muslims will be able to end the legend of the so-called 
superpower that is America.''

His top deputy, bin Laden's deputy Zawahiri, says, ''The Jihad in 
Iraq requires several incremental goals. The first stage: Expel the 
Americans from Iraq.''

Make no mistake about this. What we are doing with this resolution is 
not a salute to GI Joe, it is a capitulation to Jihadist Joe.

