---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `4fe2cc9716e5b5245c3cf34b9c969f52`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. I would like to thank my friend, 
the gentlewoman from Maine (Ms. Pingree) for the time, and I yield 
myself such time as I may consume.

While our men and women in uniform are risking their lives in war 
zones, we, in Congress, need to support them. I am proud to once again 
support the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act to honor and 
support the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces.

I also wish to commend and congratulate both the Armed Services 
Committee Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon for their 
commitment to put partisanship aside in order to get this important 
bill to the floor.

The National Defense Authorization Act, which passed unanimously out 
of the Armed Services Committee, authorizes $550.4 billion for the 
activities of the Department of Defense. It also provides $130 billion 
to support our combat operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and other fronts 
of the war on terror.

Our men and women in uniform and their families have sacrificed 
dearly to protect the United States, and that is why I am pleased that 
the bill will provide our troops with a 3.4 percent pay raise.

Furthering our commitment to our troops, the bill extends TRICARE 
eligibility to Reserve members so they can receive full TRICARE 
coverage 100 days before they go on active duty and provides almost $2 
billion for family housing programs to expand and improve the quality 
of military housing.

The bill authorizes the expansion of the size of the military by 
15,000 Army troops, 8,000 Marines, over 14,500 Air Force personnel, and 
approximately 2,500 sailors in the Navy.

I would like to thank the committee and the distinguished chairman 
for including my request for funding, authorization obviously of 
funding, for the construction of a new, permanent headquarters for the 
United States Southern Command that is located in the congressional 
district that I am honored to represent. Currently the Department of 
Defense is leasing the land for SOUTHCOM from a private individual. The 
funds authorized by this bill will be used to build a new headquarters 
on land adjacent to the current location and lease it from the State of 
Florida for the grand sum of $1 per year.

This provision is extremely important to my community because 
SOUTHCOM personnel and supporting services have contributed over $1.2 
billion and over 20,000 jobs to south Florida's economy.

Mr. Speaker, while I support the underlying legislation, I have deep 
reservations about the majority's decision to block full restoration of 
missile defense funding. This comes as North Korea's demented despot 
continues to mock global condemnation of his nuclear program and 
threatens the United States and our friends and our allies with mass 
destruction.

Just today an official from the North Korean Central News Agency, a 
mouthpiece for the dictatorship said, ''If the U.S. imperialists start 
another war, the army and the people of Korea will wipe out the 
aggressors on the globe once and for all.''

At the same time, the Iranian tyranny, while it massacres its own 
people in the streets, continues to threaten to wipe Israel off the 
face of the map. It is clear to me that the world faces a grave and, I 
believe, imminent threat from both of those dictatorships in North 
Korea and Iran. Now is not the time to cut missile defense.

Since the beginning of military aviation, the United States has 
wisely invested in our military air superiority, and in recent military 
operations we have clearly seen our investments pay off. Our military 
air superiority saves the lives of our men and women in uniform and 
also saves the lives of countless civilians. Unfortunately, the Obama 
administration feels that it is not necessary to continue our long 
history of investment in air superiority and is calling for the 
termination of the F-22 fighter aircraft production, even though the 
chief of staff of the Air Force publicly called for continued 
production of F-22s.

Now, thankfully, the Armed Services Committee successfully reinstated 
over $300 million to at least keep alive F-22 production. 
Unfortunately, I am shown at this time a statement of administration 
policy where it reads that if the final bill presented to the President 
contains this provision keeping alive the F-22 production line, that 
the President's senior advisers would recommend a veto. Mr. Speaker, I 
think that's most unfortunate.

I am also concerned that the majority failed to support a repeal of 
the so-called widow's tax. This provision penalizes surviving spouses 
of servicemembers who die on active duty or from service-related 
conditions by forcing them to accept a dollar-for-dollar reduction in 
their military survivor benefit plan payments in order to receive tax-
free dependency and indemnity compensation from the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.

I have cosponsored two-pieces of legislation introduced by Mr. Buyer 
and Mr. Ortiz to remedy this injustice, and I am hopeful that Congress 
will soon address it.

Now, as supportive as I am of the underlying legislation, I must 
oppose the rule brought forth by the majority.



Prior to the consideration of the rule, Members from both sides of 
the aisle submitted 129 amendments to the Rules Committee. The vast 
majority of amendments, 79, were introduced by members of the majority 
party. Last night, the majority on the Rules Committee decided to make 
in order for discussion on this floor two-thirds of the majority 
amendments and one-third of the minority amendments.

Last week, when members of the minority submitted a number of 
amendments to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, 
the majority claimed the minority were using dilatory tactics and shut 
down the ability of Members to offer amendments. This week, when the 
majority party offered a large number of amendments, the majority 
rewarded them for doing their jobs and representing their constituents 
by allowing 51 of their amendments for debate by the House.

At the same time, minority party members who were also representing 
the interests of their constituents were once again punished by the 
majority for doing their jobs and were only allowed 11 amendments.

In the end, the majority gets about five times the number of 
amendments made in order as the minority, and I think that's unfair. I 
think it's petty and unfair. What does the majority gain by using such 
an unfair process? In reality, nothing more than ending comity and 
diminishing the stature of this House and its Members.

I reserve the balance of my time.