---
---

# IRAQ
## `4fe3b8fca3ee61971b333219eaf7d537`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I must say I am disappointed the 
Democratic leadership continues to preclude the Senate from debating 
and amending the insufficient resolution sent over from the House of 
Representatives. This denies the Senate from robustly debating other 
alternatives, including the bipartisan Warner resolution.

The strategy is to avoid controversial procedures that split the 
Democratic caucus regarding cutting off funding for the troops and 
capping the deployment of troops in Iraq. We have the same kind of 
split to a degree in the Republican caucus. The Warner resolution 
represents a negotiated agreement that reflects a bipartisan approach 
to the war and deserves to be debated and voted upon.

This is the second piece of legislation this week that Democratic 
leaders have brought to the Senate floor straight from the House with 
no amendments for debate allowed, and I think this is setting a 
dangerous precedent and frustrates the role the Constitution envisions 
for the Senate.

I will continue to back the minority's right to bring up amendments 
and participate in real debate, even if I don't agree with those ideas. 
I tried to support that when we were in the majority. The American 
people want Congress to play a role in the way this war is being 
handled. The first step is to demand a better plan, and we owe the 
people more than 10 lines in the House Resolution. You can't even begin 
to address a real solution to a complex situation in 10 lines.

I wish to emphasize to my colleagues that there are 15 cosponsors of 
the Warner resolution, 6 of whom are Republicans and 9 are Democrats. 
The resolution has the support of the Democratic chairman of the 
Foreign Relations Committee, Joseph Biden, who has been here for many 
years--a very wise individual. It has the support of the Democratic 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Carl Levin. It also has the 
support of the No. 2 ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee, Senator Chuck Hagel. I mention this because I wish to stress 
that the Warner resolution is believed to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution that is broadly supported by both Republicans and Democrats. 
I believe, if given the opportunity, that resolution will attract over 
60 votes of the Senate.

That is why tonight I wish to share some of my thoughts about our 
current situation in Iraq. I wish to stress that had we received 
better, more comprehensive prewar intelligence and done our homework 
about what would be needed after the military offensive, we could have 
entered Iraq adequately prepared to win the war and secure the peace. 
We would have been more adequately prepared. Both the administration 
and Congress should have recognized that by removing Saddam Hussein 
from office, we would shift the balance of power within the country 
from Sunni to Shiite and change the contour of the region. Our 
intelligence errors, our lack of troop preparation, and the bungling of 
the initial efforts on the ground, specifically disbanding the Army and 
isolating former Baathists--in spite of advice from people such as GEN 
Jake Garner and others--is unacceptable. And today, we are paying the 
price for that, which means all of us have to pay a lot more attention 
to every decision and plan we endorse from here on out.

I cannot support the proposed troop surge. In spite of meetings at 
the White House, two with the President, private-session briefings as a 
member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and a meeting with General 
Petraeus for over 40 minutes, I am not convinced the additional troops 
who are proposed is the best means toward success in Baghdad. That is 
why I have decided to support the Warner resolution.


A military solution is not sufficient to win the peace in Iraq. As I 
will get into it, Iraq faces political problems, a power struggle, and 
primal hate between the fighting sects. More troops alone cannot solve 
these problems. That being said, I continue to have the highest praise 
for the generals and, more importantly, for their troops who have 
remained steadfast in their efforts to secure Iraq. I am grateful to 
those who have served and continue to serve our Nation in a time of 
need. I am especially indebted to those who made the ultimate sacrifice 
and whose families have suffered and who will grieve and those whose 
lives have been changed forever, as well as some 25,000 men and women 
who have been wounded over there, 13,000 of them not able to go back 
into the service.

Winning this war, securing peace in Iraq and stability in the region 
requires a comprehensive approach and the use of different tools, the 
most important of which is the will of the Iraqis. At this point, I am 
afraid we have focused disproportionately on the military component of 
this war, and we have not adequately stressed the nonmilitary arm of 
our strategy.

Moving forward in Iraq, we must focus on strengthening our 
nonmilitary or political tactics. That is why now, more than ever 
before, I am concerned about Iraq's willingness to bring an end to the 
violence. As the Warner resolution states:




 The responsibility for Iraq's internal security in halting 


 sectarian violence must rest primarily with the government of 


 Iraq and Iraq security forces.


I recently met with a young man from Ohio out of Bethesda who had 
completed three tours of duty in Iraq and who was wounded by an IED. I 
asked him what he did. He said: My main goal, Senator, every day was to 
keep my men alive and keep peace in the neighborhood.

We have to ask ourselves: How long can we continue to do this? Even 
if the surge is successful, how long will we have to stay before the 
Iraqis can handle the situation themselves? Even when I talked with 
General Petraeus, he did a good job in Mosul--they secured the 
neighborhoods--but when the Iraqis came in and they left, they lost it. 
How many American lives will be lost in what is best described as a 
civil war between Sunni and Shiite that has 1,400 years of Sunni 
domination over Shiite at its root? More of our Members of the Senate 
should read about the history of Iraq and the people who are there.

After many closed-session briefings with the National Security 
Council, four meetings at the White House, including two with the 
President, and as I mentioned, 40 minutes with General Petraeus, and 
after hearing hours of witnesses testifying before the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee, I can feel confident saying it is time for the 
Iraqi people and their leadership to stand up to the sectarian violence 
between Sunni and Shiite. They need to recognize that all Iraqis and 
the future of the Nation of Iraq is threatened by this constant 
bloodshed, and their future is in their hands, not our hands.

U.S. Central Commander GEN John Abizaid, who the President relied 
upon to lead the ground campaign in Iraq, testified to Congress on 
November 15:




 I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the 


 Corps commander and General Dempsey. We all talked together. 


 And I said, ''In your professional opinion, if we were to 


 bring in more American troops now, does it add considerably 


 to our ability to achieve success in Iraq?'' They all said 


 no. The reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It 


 is easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


That is General Abizaid. If we don't follow the advice of our 
generals and other military people I have talked to, we run the risk of 
helping one side at the expense of another, and the Sunnis could 
interpret our offensive as part of a larger effort to do the dirty work 
of the Shiite. And don't you think the Sunnis would not spin it that 
way.

The reality we face today is that an overwhelming majority of the 
Muslim population in Iraq, be they Shiite or Sunni, look upon us as 
infidels and occupiers. They do. And our presence there is exploited 
every day by our enemies. In fact, one poll claimed 60 percent of the 
people in Iraq said it is OK to kill Americans. While we cannot even 
begin to capture what is happening in the hearts and minds of the 
Iraqis with one poll, it sends a striking


message about what additional troops might face there.

We have to consider the reliable information we have that suggests 
the surge could ignite an even more aggressive countersurge, in which 
every martyr--every martyr--in the country is drawn to Baghdad to 
defeat the infidels, as the Sunnis were drawn to Mecca on Ramadan. We 
could see a terrible situation there, and I don't want--I wish to make 
clear I am not analogizing the Sunnis going to Mecca on Ramadan. I am 
saying it would bring lots of people into Baghdad.

The fact of the matter is we cannot stop the sectarian violence with 
combat brigades and more forces alone. Implementing martial law in Iraq 
would be impossible because of the sheer number of Iraqi citizens and 
our commitments elsewhere around the globe. At this point, we wouldn't 
begin to have enough forces.

Mr. President, the only way to bring stability to Iraq is by 
addressing a number of serious political problems that lie at the root 
of this violence. Before the war, Iraq was united by Saddam's reign of 
terror, as Slobadan Milosevic kept everybody under his control or, 
before him, Marshal Tito in Yugoslavia. When he was removed from 
office, the major power struggle ensued, and it is not surprising. In 
fact, it should have been expected. In fact, as we later found out, 
many academics and intelligence officers did predict this. In the 
aftermath of Saddam's regime, many different sects and local leaders 
realized a power shift was taking place, and they wanted to come out on 
top. They knew the greatest source of potential power is in oil. That 
is why the critical component of the political solution must be to 
reach a decision on how the oil can be distributed to all sects and 
communities in Iraq. It is absolutely critical that Prime Minister 
Maliki moves quickly--tomorrow--to pass the legislation that guarantees 
that all Iraqis will benefit from oil. If he can do this, it will show 
the sects how the power in Iraq will be dispersed in the future.


Recently, I met with the Foreign Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of 
Turkey. The Foreign Minister agreed that the oil situation is the most 
important issue today and the one that will have profound impact on the 
long-term stability of Iraq. This must be a component of the overall 
national reconciliation plan to unite Iraqis and give them confidence 
in their Government.

A second key political priority must be the reintegration of the 
Sunni Baathists into society. When we went into Iraq, we cut the 
Baathists out of the military and security forces. The result of the 
policy was they had nowhere to go. They were frightened about their 
futures. They could not feed their families. They were angry. They were 
resentful. So they went to the streets. Before long, they became part 
of the problem, joining with militias and other fighters to resist the 
Shia government. So a major political priority must be to develop a 
plan to reintegrate the former Baathists and it needs to happen now. It 
is essential that the Iraqi Government work toward provincial elections 
so there is more equal representation of the different sects.

The third vital component of our nonmilitary strategy must be greater 
regional diplomacy. We must work to encourage Iraq's neighbors to get 
involved in containing the violence. Specifically, these neighboring 
countries have the ability to put pressure on the different sects and 
local leaders to help unite the Iraqi Government. They have the ability 
to pass debt relief, participate in border control, and help avoid a 
potential refugee problem. I don't think people realize that there have 
been over 3.5 million refugees who have come out of Iraq.

In December 2006, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group issued their 
recommendations for a successful United States strategy in Iraq. A core 
component of their proposal was that the United States act immediately 
to undertake a ''diplomatic offensive'' consisting of ''new and 
enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and the region.'' The 
recommendation called on the administration to engage the international 
community, the Arab League, traditional United States allies in the 
Middle East, and all Iraq's bordering neighbors in order to address 
regional conflicts and jointly bring stability to Iraq. They advised 
the administration to work quickly to convene a regional conference--it 
has not happened--which would complement the Iraq Compact undertaken by 
the United Nations. We need to embrace the study group's 
recommendations on this issue and act now to increase diplomatic 
engagement with the international community.

Without a broad political strategy, our military objectives, no 
matter what the tactic, will be pursued in vain. These political 
elements must be the focus of our plan in Iraq. And that said, I agree 
there is a military component here, as well. I want to be very clear 
that I do not support a military withdrawal from Iraq nor do I support 
disengagement from the Middle East.

As we debate this issue, we must consider our broader national 
security interests in the Middle East. We are only focusing on Iraq. We 
have to start thinking about the whole greater Middle East area. 
Despite one's views about the current situation in Iraq, it is in our 
country's vital security interest to pursue a strategy of diplomacy and 
military action in the region. To put it simply, the stakes are too 
high for us to sit on the sidelines. We must remain active players in 
the Middle East to maintain regional stability, to protect vital energy 
supplies, and to guarantee peace and security at home.

We have had long-standing economic and military interests in the 
Middle East and we were involved in the region long before we decided 
to challenge Saddam Hussein for his defiance of the U.N. Security 
Council. But today, with conflicts brewing in Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, 
between Israel and the Palestinian territories, it is even more 
critical we remain steadfast in our commitment. Despite what one might 
believe about the President's strategy in Iraq, we cannot confuse 
debate over tactics with the nonnegotiable need to remain engaged in 
the Middle East.

Currently, the greatest threat to the stability in the Middle East is 
the possibility of failure in Iraq which threatens to destabilize the 
region and poses a critical national security risk to the United 
States. A premature withdrawal from Iraq will signify in essence that 
we are abandoning the region in its entirety. Our departure could 
greatly damage, if not sever, relationships with key allies, resulting 
in dire political and social consequences throughout the world.


The long-term security interests of the United States will be best 
served by a peaceful Iraq that can sustain, govern, and defend itself. 
That is why we must figure a way forward and why we cannot withdraw 
from Iraq.

The National Intelligence Estimate which was just released 
underscores the danger of withdrawal, stating succinctly:




 If coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the term 


 of this estimate, we judge that this almost certainly would 


 lead to significant increase in the scale and scope of 


 sectarian conflict in Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the 


 Iraq government, and have adverse consequences for national 


 reconciliation.


They conclude that the immediate withdrawal of United States troops 
likely would lead the Iraq security forces to unravel, encourage 
neighboring countries to engage openly in the conflict, and lead to 
massive civilian casualties and population displacement. It is also 
very likely, were the United States to pull out of Iraq prematurely, 
al-Qaida would use Iraq as a training ground to plan future attacks, 
and this escalation of violence could ultimately prompt Turkey to 
launch a military incursion of its own. These are outcomes we cannot 
afford to risk.

I will refer to a few of the experts whom I have met or who have 
testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in recent 
weeks.

Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger testified that ''withdrawal 
is not an option'' and continued that:




 An abrupt American departure would greatly complicate 


 efforts to stem the terrorist tide far beyond Iraq: Fragile 


 governments from Lebanon to the Persian Gulf would be tempted 


 into preemptive concessions. It might drive the sectarian 


 conflict in Iraq to genocidal dimensions, beyond levels that 


 impelled U.S. interventions in the Balkans.


Think of that. It might drive sectarian conflict in Iraq to genocidal 
dimensions beyond levels that impelled United States intervention in 
the Balkans.



The new Ambassador from Jordan sat next to me at the prayer 
breakfast, and we started talking about Iraq and the Middle East. He 
told me that if you do not handle this right, we could see a schism 
between the Sunni and Shiite that extends from Malaysia to Indonesia.

Another reason I back the Warner resolution is it does not in any way 
threaten to reduce or jeopardize critical funding for United States 
troops serving in Iraq. In fact, the resolution states explicitly:




 Congress should not take any action that will endanger the 


 United States military forces in the field, including the 


 elimination or reduction of funds for troops in the field, as 


 such an action with respect to funding will undermine their 


 safety or their effectiveness in pursuing their assigned 


 missions.


A decision to cut funding would be a serious, irreversible mistake.

Last month, this Senate confirmed General Petraeus as the commanding 
general of the multinational force in Iraq without a dissenting vote. 
He is carrying out the orders of the President. It is critical that 
General Petraeus get the resources and equipment he believes are 
necessary to complete the mission and keep his forces safe in the 
field. I spoke to General Petraeus and I told him to make sure to ask 
for what he needs to be successful. He is concerned about receiving the 
equipment and other nonmilitary resources he will need to be 
successful, such as contributions of the State Department and other 
agencies. We cannot send our forces into the field without the 
necessary equipment. We did this at the beginning of the war. Our 
soldiers were underequipped. It was despicable. It cannot happen again. 
We have the resources in this country to ensure that our men and women 
have everything they need in combat.

We also must provide the funding to reset the equipment when it comes 
home and to keep the Armed Forces from breaking under the strain of the 
war. We must ensure that soldiers have the proper training before they 
leave and we must fund the mobilization centers and other military 
facilities at home so we can undergo the necessary training.

In my State of Ohio, I met this week with the head of the Ohio 
National Guard who is now being told he is going to have to train the 
troops in Ohio because they do not want to send them someplace else 
because they want them trained fast so they can get them to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The fact is, he said:




 I don't have the additional funds or equipment to do this.


We have lost 150 Ohioans, 150 in Iraq. In terms of the States, we are 
probably two or three in the United States in the number of members 
lost. We lost two because humvees rolled over and they were not trained 
to drive those humvees. Now they are much heavier than they were 
before.

The Warner resolution makes it clear that we must guarantee the 
troops what they need when they need it. And the Gregg amendment 
underscores the point further. The best exit strategy for United States 
troops is a multifaceted and comprehensive strategy focused on creating 
an Iraq for the Iraqis. We must focus on training the Iraqi security 
forces so the Iraqis can defend and protect themselves. The Iraqi 
people must understand they will be given the full responsibility of 
defending and rebuilding their country. We must remove any ambiguity in 
the minds of Iraqis about our intention and desire to lead and make it 
clear we do not want to be there. In fact, they need to understand we 
want to bring our troops home and we want to help them develop the 
political and military tools necessary to carry on this mission without 
us.

Bringing stability to Iraq will require our best minds, our 
resources, and our bipartisan cooperation. We need a massive 
improvement in interagency coordination, better communication, better 
reporting to Congress, and the help of our allies and friends 
throughout the region.

This is my responsibility as a Member of Congress, to exercise 
oversight and to contribute to our national security. That is why I 
support the bipartisan Warner resolution. Again, I am confident that 
given the opportunity, over 60 Members of this Senate will support it.

Last but not least, all of us who represent the people of this 
country should get down on our knees and ask the Holy Spirit to 
enlighten the President and us in our decisionmaking because the impact 
of Iraq will not only affect Iraq, the Middle East, and world peace, 
but it will impact dramatically the national security of the United 
States of America.

I yield the floor.