# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `4ffbf75156407c3dbde6f365e81cff96`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 June 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman very much for his 
continued leadership and the leadership of the ranking member.

Mr. Chairman, I rise to raise three points, and I'd like to refresh 
the memory of the chairman. As he well knows, over a period of 
congressional terms, I brought to his attention the inability of 
families to publicly acknowledge their loved ones who lost their life 
in battle coming back from a foreign land as they came into Dover Air 
Force Base. I want to recognize the fact that this new administration, 
even though we had a number of legislative initiatives in previous 
defense authorization bills, have now allowed families to be able to 
have their loved ones publicly acknowledged as they have come in from 
losing their life on a foreign field. I think that is an important 
note, and I hope families of America will recognize that the fallen are 
respected the moment they hit the soil of the United States.

I also wish to make note of the increased coverage of TRICARE, but I 
would like to work with the committee as we go forward to expand the 
number of facilities which our active duty soldiers and others can 
access. In particular, I would like to see an emphasis on inner-city 
facilities that would allow or have TRICARE accreditation.

Finally, I would like to acknowledge the GAO study that asked for a 
strategic response to Afghanistan and Iraq. As someone who has 
persistently or continuously expressed her opposition to the present 
Iraq war and the status, I want to keep the pressure on that we begin 
to downsize but, more importantly, that we have a strategy for doing so 
that we can do it safely. And then as it relates to Afghanistan to make 
sure that we also have a strategy so that we can ensure that our troops 
are, in fact, fighting a battle that we can win. We want peace. We want 
freedom. But we want to make sure that we can bring our troops home.

I thank the chairman for the time and the ranking member, and I 
appreciate their leadership on this legislation.