# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `50021b10c61c02208d78e2e7fd0d4691`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I would say to the distinguished chairman, if there is a 
unanimous consent agreement concluded, I would be more than happy to be 
interrupted. I know that business in the Senate needs to proceed. I am 
proud to be joining forces with my colleague from Oklahoma, Dr. Coburn, 
to insist that we stop burdening our children and our grandchildren 
with massive debt.

We have before us today a supplemental appropriations bill totaling 
nearly $60 billion, most of it not paid for, simply being added to the 
ever growing debt, to be paid for by future generations of Americans.

If we are serious about our commitment to reduce our debt and 
eliminate our deficit, then Congress needs to start making some tough 
decisions about our national priorities and we need to start now.

Dr. Coburn is seeking a vote on one of two reasonable amendments, 
both of which would fully offset the cost of this bill. Yesterday, Dr. 
Coburn very eloquently laid out his reasons for offering those two 
amendments. Essentially our fiscal situation is extremely perilous and 
we can no longer afford to approve any new Federal funding without 
eliminating wasteful and unnecessary spending in other areas.

Mr. President, a kind of bizarre thing happened yesterday. In the 
middle of his speech and his argument before the Senate, Dr. Coburn 
yielded the floor to the majority leader who proceeded to file cloture 
on this bill after only 1 day of floor consideration and not a single 
vote on any amendment. So on a $60 billion bill, most of it not paid 
for, we are now going to, without a single amendment having been voted 
on, be voting on a bill, in fact, that will not be paid for. As my 
colleagues know quite well, the editorial page of the Washington Post 
is by no means a conservative, right-leaning, penny-pinching bunch, but 
even they are perplexed about what we are doing here. Yesterday, in an 
editorial entitled ''Congress as Usual: There's an election coming. 
Time to spend,'' the Post wrote:




 All across the Western world, fiscal stimulus is starting 


 to give way to fiscal consolidation. In London, the new 


 British government has announced $8.6 billion in immediate 


 budget cuts. In Paris, French President Nicolas Sarkozy is 


 negotiating to raise that country's retirement age. In 


 Madrid, Spanish civil servants are facing a 5 percent pay 


 cut, followed by a wage freeze. Even Italy is talking about 


 tightening spending. And don't get us started on Greece.



 Only in Washington, it seems, is the long awaited ''pivot'' 


 to fiscal restraint nowhere to be seen. As the mid-term 


 elections draw near, Congress is considering a passel of new 


 spending, necessary and otherwise, most of which won't be 


 paid for.


Sadly, the Washington Post hit the nail on the head and the bill 
before us is the perfect example of Congress's inability to deal with 
the very serious fiscal realities that are facing this Nation.

Under this supplemental, DOD receives $33.7 billion for operations in 
Afghanistan, Iraq, and Haiti. The bulk of this money, $24.6 billion, is 
for operations and maintenance, and much needed other funding. The 
remainder of the DOD funding is for military personnel costs and other 
equipment.

Some say the fiscally responsible way to pay for our war costs is to 
increases taxes. We disagree. The American people, particularly our 
soldiers and their families, are sacrificing enough already. It is time 
for Congress to start making some sacrifices and forgo the earmarks and 
other special deals to help provide our troops with the support and 
equipment they need.

The first amendment of Dr. Coburn saves taxpayers $59.6 billion by 
doing the following: freezing raises, bonuses, and salary increases for 
Federal employees for 1 year; collecting unpaid taxes from Federal 
employees, $3 billion; reducing printing and publishing costs of 
government documents, $4.4 billion over 10 years; reducing excessive 
duplication, overhead, and spending within the Federal Government, $20 
billion; eliminating nonessential government travel, $10 billion over 
10 years; eliminating bonuses for poor performance by government 
contractors, $8 billion over 10 years; repealing the Energy Star 
Program, $627 million over 10 years; eliminating an increase in foreign 
aid for international organizations, $68 million; limiting voluntary 
payments to the United Nations, $10 billion over 10 years; striking 
unnecessary appropriations for salaries and expenses of a government 
commission Congress ignored, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, 
1.8 million; rescinding a State Department training facility that was 
not requested by the community where it is to be constructed, $500 
million.

On the second amendment we can save taxpayers $60 billion by cutting 
budgets of Members of Congress, by disposing of unneeded, unused 
government property, auctioning and selling unused and unneeded 
equipment, rescinding unspent and uncommitted Federal funds, $45 
billion.

We have ways we can cut spending. We have ways we can reduce the 
government, in the first amendment, by nearly $60 billion, and in the 
other one by $60 billion.

In a letter to Speaker Pelosi in April of last year, President Obama 
wrote:




 As I noted when I first introduced my budget in February, 


 this is the last planned war supplemental. Since September 


 2001, the Congress has passed 17 separate emergency funding 


 bills totaling $822.1 billion for the wars in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan. After 7 years of war, the American people 


 deserve an honest accounting of the cost of our involvement 


 in our ongoing military operations.


Quoting from the President's letter of April of last year:




 We must break that recent tradition and include future 


 military costs in the regular budget so that we have an 


 honest, more accurate, and fiscally responsible estimate of 


 Federal spending. And we should not label military costs as 


 emergency funds so as to avoid our responsibility to abide by 


 the spending limits set forth by the Congress.


The President emphasized, again quoting from his letter to the 
Speaker of the House:




 After years of budget gimmicks and wasteful spending, it is 


 time to end the era of irresponsibility in Washington.


I could not agree more. That is why I am disappointed to see yet 
another supplemental spending bill designated as an emergency without 
offsets. Dr. Coburn and I agree with what the President said last year. 
''After years of budget gimmicks and wasteful spending, it is time to 
end the era of irresponsibility in Washington.'' That is precisely what 
we are seeking to do with these two amendments.

In the past 2 years, America has faced her greatest fiscal challenges 
since the Great Depression. When the financial markets collapsed, it 
was the American taxpayer who came to the rescue of the banks and the 
big Wall Street firms. But who has come to the


rescue of the American taxpayer? Certainly not Congress.

So what has Congress done? By enacting inexplicable policies that can 
only be described as generational theft, we have saddled future 
generations with literally trillions of dollars of debt. Since January 
of 2009, we have been on a spending binge the likes of which this 
Nation has never seen. In that time, our debt has grown by over $2 
trillion. We passed a $1.1 trillion stimulus bill.

Remember the assurance that unemployment would be at a maximum of 8 
percent? Now it is 9.9. We passed a $2.5 trillion health care bill. The 
American people are still angry about that. The President submitted a 
budget for next year totaling $3.8 trillion. We now have a deficit of 
over $1.4 trillion, and we just passed, a week or so ago, the $13 
trillion debt mark which amounts to more than $42,000 owed by every 
man, woman, and child in America.

This year the government will spend more than $3.6 trillion and will 
borrow 41 cents for every $1 it spends. Unemployment remains at 9.9 
percent and, according to forbes.com, a record 2.8 million American 
households were threatened with foreclosure last year. That number is 
expected to rise to well over 3 million homes this year. With this 
bill, we are poised to tack another $60 billion onto the tab.

I travel a lot around my State. I know all of my colleagues do. Every 
place I go I meet county supervisors, city councilmen, mayors, elected 
officials from all over the State. I talk to the Governor, the 
legislature. They make tough decisions. The city of Phoenix had to cut 
its budget by some 30 percent last year, a very tough decision. 
Meanwhile, we increased domestic spending by 20 percent. What is the 
difference between the city of Phoenix and us in the Capitol? We print 
money. A debt of $1.4 trillion this year, estimated to be $1.5 trillion 
this year, how can we continue this?

These two amendments by Dr. Coburn can achieve a significant savings, 
$60 billion in each. That is $120 billion that both of these amendments 
could save the taxpayers. Wouldn't it be wonderful to show the 
taxpayers that maybe we are going to do something like cutting the 
budget, cutting our budgets? Wouldn't it be nice to tell the American 
people we are going to eliminate nonessential government travel? 
Couldn't we at least freeze bonuses?

We have an opportunity to show the American people we are going to 
tighten our belts a little bit, too; that we care about generational 
theft; that we care about future generations of Americans. I know some 
of these measures will not be popular, but Dr. Coburn has never been 
one who has tried to win a popularity contest. What Dr. Coburn has 
tried to do is steer the American people on a path to some kind of 
fiscal solvency so we can stop this terrible generational theft we are 
committing.

The greatness of America, certainly one of her greatest attributes, 
is we have handed on to every generation a better one than the one they 
had before them. That has been the great wonder and beauty of America. 
With these kinds of debts and deficits, what can we pass on to our 
children and grandchildren?

I applaud Senator Coburn not only for this effort but many of the 
other efforts he has made. I am pleased to join him. I hope my 
colleagues will understand that the American people are angry and 
frustrated. Look at the latest polling numbers--we do read polls. Do 
you want to reelect your Member of Congress? What is our approval 
rating? It is 14, 13, 12 percent. We are down to blood relatives and 
paid staffers. The point is, let's send a message to the American 
people we are serious.

Yes, there are tough decisions and tough things that are embodied in 
this legislation. I urge my colleagues to at least take a look at them 
and consider putting this Congress and this Nation on a different path.

I yield the floor.