---
---

# HUBBARD ACT
## `500b062d1fbd7fd260ded80b5713b94b`
`Mr. COSTA — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. COSTA. I want to thank Congressman Kind for his hard work in this 
very important legislation.

I rise tonight in strong support of H.R. 6580, the Hubbard Act, named 
after Jason and his brother Nathan Hubbard, to fix a flaw that exists, 
as Congressman Nunes so well stated, in the Department of Defense's 
sole survivor policy that really originated from the Sullivan Act that 
was referenced during World War II when the Sullivan family lost all of 
their sons in a naval combat action during World War II.

Right now, the Department of Defense allows a remaining son or 
daughter serving in the military to be removed from combat or to accept 
an honorable discharge. However, as we found with the circumstances 
facing the Hubbard family, military benefits like signing bonuses or 
access to the GI Bill can be taken away. This is not right. Jason 
Hubbard of Clovis, California was put in this situation after 
tragically losing both of his brothers. This legislation would allow a 
member who voluntarily separates honorably, under the sole survivor 
aspect of the law, to qualify for programs like the GI benefit, to be 
allowed the use of the commissary and base exchange, and entitled to 
benefits of the veteran home loan and other entitlements that our 
veterans who serve their country so honorably deserve. It was tragic to 
find that after the circumstance, that there was a request that he 
return his signing bonus benefit, but Congressman Nunes stepped in and, 
with the Secretary of the Army, changed that.

The legislation that we are about to pass here reflects veterans 
throughout our country. Our Central Valley, the San Joaquin Valley in 
California, has a proud history of men and women who have worn the 
uniform and defended our country in a troubled world, both in the 20th 
century and the 19th century, and of course today in the conflict in 
the Middle East, in the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Hubbard brothers now are a part of this honorable military 
history that all our veterans share in, and like the Sullivan brothers, 
are being recognized for their service.

This bill is fully paid for, and therefore PAYGO compliant. I want to 
thank Chairman Rangel for his willingness to make this extra effort. In 
multiple conversations that many of us had with the chairman, he 
understood clearly, as a fellow veteran, the importance of this 
legislation. Congressman Kind also showed leadership in his efforts. 
And of course as Congressman Nunes noted, without Senator Feinstein and 
Senator Chambliss' help, we would not have gotten the measure out 
through the Senate.

Finally, my good friend, Congressman Devin Nunes, has been tenacious 
on this piece of legislation, representing his constituents and the 
Hubbard family, but more importantly, all veterans throughout the 
United States. The passion and the leadership which Congressman Nunes 
demonstrated on this bill is reflective of his passion for his 
constituency and for our country.

So I want to thank Congressman Nunes for his hard work on behalf of 
the Hubbard family, Nathan and Jarrett, who made the ultimate sacrifice 
for our country, to their family and to their brother Jason, who we 
have named this legislation on behalf of.