---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `502c36e95a8d294fda08c58ee5642ea8`
`Ms. STABENOW — 18 October 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, first of all, I commend my colleague 
from Missouri for her wonderful comments as it relates to health care. 
Also, as to the bill in front of us, I thank the distinguished Senator 
from Iowa for his passionate commitment to the right things as it 
relates to the values and priorities for our families: health care, 
education, and focusing on things that really matter to families every 
day.

I specifically come to the floor, though, because we just saw a vote 
in the House of Representatives that was just completed regarding the 
children's


health care legislation. Unfortunately, it fell short of the override 
we need to have happen in order to be able to provide health insurance 
for 10 million children in America--10 million children of working 
families who are working very hard. They don't want to be on public 
assistance and Medicaid so that their children can get coverage; they 
want to work. They are working, but they are not in a position to be 
able to afford private health care coverage and they don't have it at 
work. So we are, through the children's health care program, rewarding 
work and rewarding the families of America who want to make sure their 
children have health insurance.

It is my understanding that there was just a vote that fell short. 
There were 273 colleagues in the House of Representatives--and I 
commend every one of them.

All of those who have worked so hard on both sides of the aisle in 
the House and the Senate should be commended again. Certainly, our 
leader, Senator Reid, the Speaker, Senator Baucus, Senator Grassley, 
Senator Rockefeller, Senator Hatch--all of our bipartisan colleagues 
should be thanked for their efforts one more time.

I come to the floor to say that we are not done. We are not done. The 
people of this country are appalled at the lack of understanding of 
what average families are going through today. This President will be 
shortly asking us to approve another $200 billion for the war in Iraq--
that will be paid for by our children, by the way, because it is not 
paid for; it goes on the national deficit, so our children and 
grandchildren will be paying for it--but says no to a program that is 
fully paid for, that invests $7 billion a year in making sure the 
children of America have health insurance. Seven billion dollars versus 
$200 billion, on top of another half a trillion dollars that has 
already been spent, on a war the American people want to stop as it is 
currently constituted. They want to change that mission and focus on 
things that will certainly keep us safer.

So I come to the floor to, first of all, commend everyone who has 
been involved to this point. I am very proud to be a member of the 
Finance Committee, where we worked very hard to put together a 
bipartisan agreement. But we are not done. This is a mainstream program 
supported by the broadest possible coalition you could have, from the 
business community and the large pharmaceutical companies to Families 
USA and to organized labor and child advocates and health care 
organizations. This is mainstream. This is the broadest possible 
coalition. Unfortunately, I regret to say it has been defeated by 
misinformation presented by folks who think that if they repeat long 
enough that somehow this covers people making $83,000 a year or repeat 
long enough that illegal immigrants are covered, that it somehow makes 
it true. Now, as the distinguished Chair knows, even in looking at the 
issue of documented or undocumented immigrants, even those who are here 
legally were asked to--were basically put in a position not to be able 
to receive children's health care help.

So to be able to address all of this misinformation that is out 
there, there is a real issue about that which needs to be fixed. So we 
have seen lack of information, misinformation, and more that has gone 
on with this proposal. In the short term, it seems to have worked, but 
it will not work in the long run because the reality is this is the 
right thing to do. It was passed 10 years ago by a Democratic President 
and a Republican Congress. I remember that debate. I was in the House 
of Representatives at the time in 1997. This was a positive step 
forward to support families working hard every day, trying to make sure 
they can put food on the table, pay the mortgage, buy the school 
clothes, and then have children's health care, have health care for 
their children, maybe be able to take them to the dentist so they don't 
end up with an abscessed tooth and the outrageous situation that 
happened with a child who died whom we all read about in the paper.

This is about moral values, priorities. When this President now comes 
to us asking for another $200 billion for a war that is not paid for, 
that is putting brave American men and women in the middle of a civil 
war in Iraq every day, I want to have him answer the question: Why?

Why, Mr. President, is it all right to add $200 billion more to the 
debt and ask our children and grandchildren to pay for it, yet you are 
not willing to stand with the children of America, 10 million children 
in America who are counting on us to be able to make sure they can get 
basic health care? There is something fundamentally wrong with this.

I urge colleagues to join with us. We are not going to stop until 
this is addressed because it is the right thing to do from a moral 
standpoint, and from a fiscal standpoint it is the right thing to do.

When children can't go to the doctor, their family can only use the 
emergency room or the child gets sicker than they otherwise would 
because they only have the emergency room to go to. They can't go to a 
doctor. The hospital pays, and then who picks up the tab? Every 
business that has health insurance. So from a practical economic 
standpoint, it makes sense. Certainly from a moral standpoint, it makes 
sense.


I think this is one of the proudest moments we have had in the 
Senate, of people of diverse backgrounds and philosophies coming 
together, putting the ideology at the door, and saying: You know what, 
this is about children. I don't know how many times I heard the 
chairman of the Finance Committee, the distinguished chairman, say: 
This is about the kids. Just keep focused on the kids. And because we 
did that in this Chamber, we came up with something we can all be very 
proud of.

The American people want to know that we reward work in this country 
and that we understand that families who are desperately concerned 
about health care for their children ought to be able to have a right 
to be able to purchase an affordable policy that will allow them to 
have their children get the health care they need.

So I appreciate our distinguished chairman of the Appropriations 
subcommittee allowing me to speak. I am deeply disappointed, along with 
people all across America, at the vote that just happened. But we are 
not done. Ten million children and their families are counting on us, 
and we are not going to stop until they have the health care they need.

I yield the floor.