# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS MESSAGE HOUR
## `502e69040fd4124771a1dad5570f5c54`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio — 31 March 2008`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. I want to associate myself with the comments of 
my colleague with regard to ending the war in Iraq and the devastation 
that it has had not only on more than 4,000 families but as well as the 
economy of America and the infrastructure of America. All you need to 
do is pick up a paper any day and see that in any city there is a 
bridge that's fallen down, there's a sewer that's blowing up, there's 
streets that are in trouble, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And I 
want to close on this particular note.

It is so important to the improvement of this economy and the status 
of America that we make sure there are good-paying jobs that come back 
to America. I keep hearing these discussions about, well, there are 
jobs, and there are not people in America who want to do these jobs. 
That is not correct. There are good, hardworking people. The people of 
America work harder than people in any other country. They have less 
vacation, less time off, and they work very, very hard.

The dilemma that's faced is the offering of jobs that do not pay good 
salaries; that do not, in fact, provide appropriate benefits. And the 
people of America are going to want go to work, and the innovation 
agenda that was passed last fall in this Congress and signed into law 
by the President speaks to some of those issues.

And it is so important that we do things to improve the education of 
our young people so they are better qualified to work on jobs, and that 
was done through the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2008.

It is also important that we encourage young men and women to go into 
the sciences. The statistics show that, in 2000, only 4 percent of the 
science and engineering jobs in the United States were held by African 
Americans. Nearly 40 percent of Americans under the age of 18 are 
African Americans or other minorities. So we need to do more and more 
and more to encourage young people to go to college to be able to get 
the kind of degrees where they can get a great job such as we talked 
about with the children in Orlando in the Eminence Program.

And finally, we need to support and strengthen small businesses. Two-
thirds of American jobs are supported, are given by small business, and 
we need to encourage small business to continue.

African Americans own an estimated 1.2 billion small businesses with 
annual revenues of more than $88 billion. Legislation enacted in 2007 
included provisions cutting taxes for small business by $4 billion over 
the next 10 years. And the economic stimulus package also speaks to 
those issues as well.

I want to close with this. The Congressional Black Caucus is 
tirelessly working on issues that are important to the African American 
community but as to the greater community as well, and the economy is 
the issue that's in the forefront of everybody's mind right now, 
regardless of their color, regardless of their background. And this 
evening, it was our job to point out to America, those of you listening 
here on C-SPAN, to the issues that are facing the African American 
community and the economy and to help people understand that, if it 
hits the greater community in one way, it doubly impacts the African 
American community.

And on behalf of my colleagues at the Congressional Black Caucus and 
our Chairwoman, Carolyn C. Kilpatrick, I'm pleased to close this 
message hour out and thank the Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, for the 
opportunity to present.