---
---

# NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008
## `503e4e1e4f4157b6522ff6cc33afa2ca`
`Mr. CONYERS — 23 June 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Members of the House, the National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief 
Act is a part of the idea of improving the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention 
Act signed into law by President Bush 3 years ago. It effectuated a 
comprehensive overhaul of bankruptcy, especially with regards to 
consumers. These consumer bankruptcy amendments included the 
establishment of a means testing mechanism to determine a debtor's 
ability to repay debts. Under this test, a chapter 7 bankruptcy case is 
presumed to be an abuse if it appears that a debtor has income in 
excess of certain thresholds.

The measure before us today would exempt certain qualifying National 
Guard members and Reserve members from the means test presumption of 
abuse. Come to think of it, I would like to exempt some other people as 
well.

But this legislation addresses the issue of fundamental fairness. 
Those who find themselves in financial difficulty as a result of 
service in the National Guard or being activated into it or the 
aftermath of their service, particularly overseas, should not face the 
additional burden of the means test.

Since September 11, 2001, almost one-half million members of the 
National Guard and Reserves have been called to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Some of them have even served multiple tours of duty. And so it is easy 
to understand that these unanticipated deployments disrupt their lives 
and their family members and leads to financial hardship. So we are 
happy for the gentlelady from Chicago, Illinois, Jan Schakowsky, who 
has included an effort that has attracted our colleagues on both sides 
of the aisle. I am very happy to report this from the Judiciary 
Committee.

I reserve the balance of my time.

