---
---

# EXPIRATION OF THE PROTECT AMERICA ACT
## `504042c3571e3bf90f37dd12a5b002db`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 25 February 2008`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. One of the things that I think we need to 
dispel is a couple of myths, and they are myths being promulgated by 
the Democratic leadership that is blocking the will of the majority in 
this House from passing this legislation. And one of them is that, oh, 
well, we can start emergency surveillance, emergency wiretaps in a 
matter of minutes. It's really just not that big a deal, when, in fact, 
that's not true.

The requirement under the existing law is that the Attorney General 
can start a wiretap without going to the court in an emergency, but he 
has to stand in the shoes of the court. He has to certify that all the 
elements of probable cause to get a warrant are already


there. So all of the material that would be presented to the court has 
to be completely worked up. And we found in the real world when it 
really mattered, we had three soldiers that were kidnapped in Iraq, it 
took over 24 hours to gather the information, build the case for 
probable cause. And some of my colleagues said, well, you know, you 
should have just gone ahead and done it and we would have just taken 
care of it after the fact. We had testimony in front of the 
Intelligence Committee where the chairman actually said that. And I 
looked at the young man who was there who was a member of the 
intelligence community, and I said, Is it true that initiating a 
wiretap without authority is a felony?

And he said, Yes, ma'am, it is.

I said, Would you be willing to risk a felony, hoping that this body 
would somehow cut you some slack or the prosecutor wouldn't go after 
you?

And he said, I'm an officer of the court. I'm a lawyer. I can't 
knowingly commit a felony. I can't do that.