---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `50616554d29983f1837aab1e190371fe`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank my friend.

Madam Speaker, our time is drawing to a close; so I would like to 
summarize some of the points that we have made and some of the very 
specific solutions that the Center Aisle Caucus is pursuing.

Number one, we have a bipartisan resolution that would direct the 
President to submit and negotiate a status of forces agreement with the 
sovereign government of Iraq.

Number two, we believe that if you are a refugee who was providing a 
critical lifesaving service for U.S. forces as a translator, as an 
interpreter, or some related position and that you have received death 
threats and that you want to get your family out of harm's way that we 
shouldn't make it almost impossible for you to do so, that a 
compassionate nation would reward you rather than building roadblocks. 
So we have proposed legislation cosponsored by Mr. Wolf from Virginia 
and me that would make it a little bit easier for those who have 
provided a service to the United States military to seek special 
immigrant status here.

Number three, we believe that the recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group report ought to be incorporated into policy and not just sit on a 
shelf, the recommendations for a diplomatic surge and all the other 
recommendations. Now, we may not agree on every single one of these 
elements, and we may not agree on every single one of the bills that 
the Center Aisle Caucus has put forward, but we are trying to build 
that critical mass and develop consensus on some clear directions.

Next, the Center Aisle Caucus will be visiting one another's 
districts to hold bipartisan town hall meetings because we may not have 
all of the ideas here. Our jobs are Members of Congress, but we are 
representatives. We are supposed to represent the views that we hear. 
So we will be going out on a bipartisan basis to one another's 
districts to hear those views.

One other thing that I didn't have an opportunity to mention and we 
will mention it in the future is that our colleagues from Tennessee 
(Mr. Cooper) and from Pennsylvania (Mr. English) are working on a 
bipartisan Center Aisle assessment of the War Powers Act. As our 
colleague from Tennessee (Mr. Cooper) said at one of our dinners, ''I 
fear that one day we as Members of Congress will wake up and find out 
that we have just launched World War Three and we are reading about it 
in the newspaper.'' He is very concerned, as is Mr. English, that the 
War Powers Act needs to be assessed. We want to make sure that we are 
exercising our constitutional oversight responsibility and that we 
don't find ourselves in a war without that proper congressional 
authority and oversight. So they will be convening an assessment of the 
War Powers Act and making some legislative recommendations.

I want to conclude by reiterating something that I said when we 
opened up, Madam Speaker. We are not going to end the war tomorrow 
through the Center Aisle Caucus. None of these resolutions will end the 
war tomorrow as


much as many of us would like to end the war tomorrow and may vote to 
end the war tomorrow. But we have had enough screaming at one another 
from both sides of the aisle, and that has not ended the war up to now. 
We have an obligation to the people that I saw yesterday, that my 
colleagues Mr. Dent and Mr. Lampson and Mr. Gilchrest have been 
visiting at our military hospitals and at funerals. They don't want us 
to harp on left and right. They want us to figure out a way forward. 
They want us to put aside disagreements that have paralyzed us and move 
forward on what we can agree to. That is exactly what we intend to 
continue focusing on.

I thank my colleagues for spending time on this very late evening, 
and I hope, Madam Speaker, that the American people understand the 
importance of this engagement, this reconciliation, this dialogue to 
move not left or right but forward.

Did the gentleman want to close?