---
---

# HONORING EL PASO VETERANS
## `506782bfafe4a3c5418ca6ca3def88eb`
`Mr. REYES — 9 November 2009`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor our El Paso area 
veterans. Our nation joins together annually on November 11 to honor 
our men and women who have served in uniform for their service and for 
their sacrifices. From speeches to ceremonies, the voices of Americans 
join in tribute to all veterans, from the patriots who fought for our 
freedom in the Revolutionary War to the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and 
Marines who are serving today in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the 
world.

It is critical that our support for veterans goes beyond words; we 
must honor those who have served with our actions. As a Vietnam 
veteran, I came to office knowing that one of my highest duties would 
be to improve the lives of all of our veterans, particularly those whom 
I have the privilege to represent here in Congress.

El Paso is a community which embraces our nation's military forces 
and the families who support them. El Pasoans have demonstrated our 
support for veterans and the soldiers who live and work on Fort Bliss 
in many ways, from a new USO center and another in the works, to an 
annual Freedom Fiesta. Perhaps the most important development for El 
Paso veterans is the establishment of a new joint Army and Veterans 
Administration, VA, medical center complex. To meet the needs of the 
historic expansion of Fort Bliss and the growing number of veterans, 
these new facilities will bring care to all generations, helping ensure 
that all veterans get the care that they need and deserve.

Congress has greatly expanded veterans benefits in the last three 
years, passing historic increases in VA spending. Congress also enacted 
a new GI Bill to provide a full four-year college education to every 
military member who served on active duty since September 11, 2001. And 
Congress added funds to improve the VA's claims processing and decrease 
wait times for all veterans.

Our veterans swore an oath to serve and defend our nation. They 
backed this oath with their actions, and in some cases their lives. Our 
country owes these brave men and women, not just our pledge to honor 
that service, but tangible benefits which reflect their sacrifices to 
ensure we remain strong, secure and free.
