---
---

# CIA INTERROGATIONS AND ARMY FIELD MANUAL
## `506df5f30a212f36125d1f26a5df5692`
`Mr. REID — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I will use leader time to make a statement.

We are going to vote in a few moments whether to invoke cloture on 
the intelligence authorization conference report. It is my 
understanding the minority is going to support us on this vote. I 
appreciate that very much.

America has been without an intelligence authorization bill for 
almost 3 years. That is certainly long enough. The bill before us 
contains many important provisions that will strengthen our 
intelligence capabilities to fight terrorism and keep our country safe. 
The bill includes a number of provisions that will begin to restore 
proper congressional oversight and includes a provision sponsored by 
Senator Feinstein that will require all intelligence professionals in 
the U.S. Government to adhere to the interrogation standards included 
in the Army Field Manual.

I appreciate the work of Senator Feinstein, who has dedicated much of 
her life to making our country safer. She spends untold hours, along 
with other Intelligence Committee members, in the Hart Building, 
listening to and evaluating what is happening in the intelligence 
community in our country and around the world. She is a good Senator, 
and her insight into what needs to be done in this instance speaks 
volumes. I underline and underscore my appreciation for her work. I 
urge all my colleagues to join with me in voting to support her in this 
effort. We will have that opportunity because cloture is going to be 
invoked.

It is my understanding a Republican or a Democrat will raise a point 
of order regarding the Feinstein amendment. The reason a Democrat would 
do it is to move this along, to get this over with. There is no reason 
to wait 30 hours postcloture, with everyone wondering when it will come 
up. We should do it, get it out of the way, work out some agreeable 
time with my colleagues, or we will go ahead and do it ourselves. There 
is an hour under the rule to debate the motion. There will be an effort 
to waive this point of order which, under the rules, requires 60 votes. 
Should Republicans force a vote to waive the point of order, I urge all 
my colleagues to waive the point of order.


This is a question of moral authority. The Senate should stand as one 
to declare that America has one standard of interrogation. We are 
living as Americans in a world where everything we do is watched and 
watched very closely. We are asking other countries to follow our moral 
lead, to embrace our way of life, to aspire to the American standard of 
liberty. Yet I fear too often this administration's actions betray 
those goals.

A couple weeks ago, Attorney General Mukasey refused to say that 
waterboarding is legal. What is waterboarding? We know what it is. It 
came from the Inquisition and King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella. That 
is where it originated. It is nothing new. It has been going on for 
centuries, and it is torture at its worst where you, in effect, drown 
somebody and revive them after they can no longer breathe.

Last week, CIA Director Hayden publicly confirmed the United States 
had waterboarded individuals who were in our custody. The next day, the 
White House affirmatively declared waterboarding is legal and President 
Bush is free to authorize our intelligence agencies to resume its use.

President Bush may not care much what we in Congress, Democrats or 
Republicans, think. For 6 years, he had carte blanche to do what he 
wanted.


The last year has not been that way. We are an equal branch of 
Government, and it is time we made him understand this.

The administration can develop as many novel and convoluted legal 
theories as it wishes, but they cannot change the simple fact that has 
long been settled law, that waterboarding is torture and it is illegal. 
It is illegal in America, and it is illegal throughout the world. In 
decades past, America has prosecuted our enemies and even our own 
troops for waterboarding.

This debate is not just about one kind of torture. It is not just 
about waterboarding. It is about ensuring that no form of torture, 
cruel or inhumane interrogation techniques that are illegal under the 
Geneva Conventions and prohibited by the Army Field Manual, are used. 
This includes beating prisoners. This includes sexually humiliating 
prisoners. It includes threatening them with dogs, depriving them of 
food and water, performing mock executions, putting electricity charges 
on various parts of their body, burning them.

These techniques are repugnant. They are repugnant to every American. 
They fly in the face of our most basic values. They should be 
completely off limits to the U.S. Government. We have already seen the 
damage these torture efforts can cause. The world saw it in the Abu 
Ghraib prison situation. The revelation that American personnel had 
engaged in such terrible behavior, behavior we have always strongly 
condemned when used by others, caused tremendous damage to our Nation's 
moral authority. The recruiting opportunity it provided our terrorist 
enemies cannot be understated and cannot be undone.

This is not a Senator saying this. Forty-three retired military 
leaders of the U.S. Armed Forces have written us a letter strongly 
stating that all U.S. personnel, military and civilian, should be held 
to a single standard. These honored leaders wrote:




 We believe it is vital to the safety of our men and women 


 in uniform that the United States not sanction the use of 


 interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if inflicted 


 by the enemy against captured Americans.


They stated the interrogation methods in the Army Field Manual ''have 
proven effective'' and that they ''are sophisticated and flexible.''

My friend, the ranking member of this committee, says these horrible 
techniques are necessary. They are not. They are not necessary. There 
are many things that have been used and can be used, as indicated by 
these 43 leading military experts. They say present interrogation 
techniques, setting these others aside, are sophisticated and flexible 
and they work. They explicitly reject the argument that the field 
manual is too simplistic for civilian interrogators.

Our commander in Iraq, General Petraeus, a four-star general, whom we 
like to throw around here as knowing all and has done a wonderful job 
in Iraq, wrote an open letter to the troops in May. He had this to say:




 Some may argue that we would be more effective if we 


 sanctioned torture and other expedient methods to obtain 


 information from the enemy.


He went on to say:




 They would be wrong. . . . [H]istory shows that [such 


 actions] are frequently neither useful nor necessary.



 Certainly, extreme physical action can make someone 


 ''talk;'' however, what the individual says may be of 


 questionable value.


We all know that.




 In fact, our experience in applying the interrogation 


 standards laid out in the Army Field Manual . . . shows that 


 the techniques in the manual work effectively and humanely in 


 eliciting information from detainees.


So says General Petraeus.

Mr. President, just yesterday, a bipartisan group of foreign policy 
experts joined to call upon Congress to endorse the application of the 
Army Field Manual standards across all U.S. agencies.

The group included, but was not limited to, the Chairman and Vice 
Chairman of the 9/11 Commission, Governor Keane and Congressman 
Hamilton; two former Secretaries of State; three former national 
security advisers; a former Secretary of the Navy; and other highly 
regarded officials from both parties.

The Bush administration's continued insistence on its right to use 
abusive techniques gives license to our enemies abroad, puts at risk 
our soldiers and citizens who may fall into enemy hands, and serves as 
an ongoing recruiting tool for militant extremists.

Meanwhile, the widespread belief that our country uses abusive 
interrogation methods has weakened our ability to create coalitions of 
our allies to fight our enemies because other countries have at times 
refused to join us.

Mr. President, many of us thought the Congress had addressed the 
issue of torture once and for all when we overwhelmingly passed the 
McCain amendment in 2005.

But President Bush immediately issued a signing statement casting 
doubt on his willingness to enforce a ban on torture, and his 
administration has worked ever since to undermine what Senator McCain 
offered and was passed here overwhelmingly.

This vote today gives Congress the chance to show President Bush that 
we meant what we said 3 years ago when we passed the McCain amendment.

Today, we have an opportunity to begin to rebuild America's precious 
and diminished moral authority. Today, we can strengthen the war on 
terror.

I urge us to stand together to support cloture and, if necessary, to 
vote to waive the point of order on the Feinstein amendment, which is 
part of the very good conference report dealing with intelligence 
authorization.