# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `5074311c3ba4ebca7723647ab7a0f06d`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. I will in a minute. Do you remember last night 
when I asked you to yield? But that's okay. I will yield to you in a 
minute just to show you what kind of a guy I am.

Anyhow, this is a very difficult time over there. I would like to say 
to my chairman, if he could see this--Mr. Chairman, I hope that you can 
see this. It's very important that we look at the situation on the 
ground in Pakistan right now.

The green area is the area that the government controls. The brown 
area is the area that the Taliban controls. The tan area is where there 
is a strong Taliban presence. The yellow is where there are federally 
supported tribal areas. Of course, up here in the north is the blue 
North-West Frontier Province.

If we lose this, if we lose this here, you've got a heck of a problem 
in Afghanistan. That's the entire border with Afghanistan. If you lose 
that, then the President's goal to stabilize and to win the war in 
Afghanistan is going to go right down the tubes, and this micromanaging 
that you're doing in this bill is not going to be helpful.

Now, in the past, I have not agreed with Senator Kerry. In fact, I 
can't remember ever agreeing with Senator Kerry. But just to let you 
know that there is some bipartisan opposition, I want to read to you 
what he said. Senate Foreign Relations Chairman John


Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, the author of similar Senate 
legislation, Senate bill 962, said, it's ''overly restrictive'' and 
''counterproductive.''

''It sends a message in the Pakistani body politic that the people of 
Pakistan say, 'Well . . . we're just doing their (U.S.) bidding, we're 
their lackeys, we're not in control.' ''

I think that's counter to the kind of message that we want to send to 
Pakistan right now.



This is a very difficult time. This is not just a debate between the 
chairman and the ranking member and me. This is war and peace. It's the 
survivability of Pakistan as an independent country. It's winning or 
losing the war in Afghanistan. And we have to remember that Pakistan is 
a nuclear power. If the Taliban is successful in this area, not only 
will Afghanistan go down the tubes, but in likelihood, they will have 
control of some nuclear weapons. I know we've got precautions that are 
being taken to stop that. But in the event this takes place and we lose 
control of those nuclear weapons, we've got a real possible 
conflagration for the whole area in that part of the world.

So I would like to say to the chairman, and I hope in conference 
committee this is changed, that this micromanaging that you're doing to 
try the tell the Pakistani Government how to conduct its military 
operations in Pakistan, that that is limited or stopped.