---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `50740c5e9c571005e14c967e8fba3d4c`
`Mr. PEARCE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. I would. And I thank the gentleman. As he's talking about 
this new willingness of Iraqis to report suspicious behavior, I would 
remind my colleagues that it was our bill, my bill that was introduced, 
that simply said that you cannot be sued in American courts for 
reporting suspicious behavior, that you cannot be terrorized in our own 
courts of law for reporting the same sort of behavior that you're 
talking about being reported in Iraq creating stable responses, 
stability in the country.

And yet, we had 121 of our Democrat colleagues vote against that 
legislation. They voted with the terrorists to say, you can sue 
Americans in court for reporting suspicious behavior. I think that 
shows the difference between the Republicans in this Congress. All 
Republicans voted with the American citizens to limit those 
capabilities. But the difference between the Republicans and Democrats 
is that the Democrats are still soft on security. They're soft on 
terrorism, and they're soft on funding the troops who are fighting the 
battle.

And I just wanted to, your comments about the Iraqis now turning in 
evidence, bringing those actions to our attention, caused me to 
remember that bill on the floor of the House where we actually had a 
vote here, and the Democrats voted, 121 of them, to let terrorists sue 
us in our own courts.

I'd yield back to the gentleman.