# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL JAMES S. BROWNE
## `50759b8da08f6aa6f3dc22294f3aa8e9`
`Mr. CRAPO — 6 February 2009`

---

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, on February 11, 2009, Mountain Home 
Air Force Base, AFB, in my home State of Idaho will bid farewell to COL 
James S. Browne and his wife Alison. Colonel Browne has been the 
Mountain Home AFB 366th Fighter Wing Commander, and Commander of the 
base, since September 15, 2007.

Under Colonel Browne's exemplary leadership, the Gunfighters of 
Mountain Home AFB have excelled in their respective missions no small 
feat considering that the 366th Fighter Wing consists of 24 squadrons 
and over 5,000 personnel--and that doesn't include family members. A 
base commander is a little like a mayor. Along with military mission 
responsibilities, a base commander is ultimately held accountable for 
community well-being, infrastructure and services, and serves as the 
liaison with local, regional and State civilian government officials. 
Military families tend to move more often than the civilian population. 
As such, base services are critical both when families first arrive, 
and the military member is adjusting to a new job, and throughout their 
time as they make new friends and carve out a niche in what they know 
will be a long-term temporary living situation. Furthermore, when 
deployments occur, it is the responsibility of base leadership to make 
sure that families are taken care of in their loved ones' absence. 
Colonel and Mrs. Browne worked in their own capacities to help ensure 
that facilities, services and community outreach efforts came together 
to make these life transitions easier. In fact, during his time at 
Mountain Home AFB, Colonel Browne oversaw the completion of 318 new 
base housing units.

When it came to the mission of the wing, Colonel Browne excelled in 
promoting and achieving excellence, turning challenge into success 
along the way. As a testament to his remarkable leadership 
capabilities, in March of 2008, the wing achieved the first passing 
grade for a combined phase I and II operational readiness inspection in 
3 years in all of Air Combat Command. That success at the base 
translated into success in the global war on terror. Colonel Browne 
oversaw numerous worldwide Air Expeditionary Force deployments of the 
72 F-15 aircraft operating from the base. During his tenure, over 5,200 
people and over 1,500 tons of cargo were deployed to 18 locations 
worldwide. Colonel Browne's gunfighters demonstrated skill and 
precision in their outstanding contributions to Operation Enduring 
Freedom. In October of 2008, the 391st Fighter Squadron deployed to 
Afghanistan, flying over 1,700 combat sorties for an incredible 98 
percent hit rate in support of coalition forces. Colonel Browne also 
oversaw the successful implementation of a strategic training 
partnership program with the Republic of Singapore Air Force.

Colonel Browne's leadership tenure has been characterized by 
optimism, a firm commitment to the gravity of the mission and a 
dedication to the notion of team dynamics. He maintained a 
comprehensive view of the wing's mission within the context of the 
broader mission of the Air Force and the U.S. Military. His goal-
oriented, vision-


driven approach made him a particularly outstanding Commander. By 
putting people first, Colonel Browne inspired excellence and 
achievement in others.

My staff and I have enjoyed an extremely positive working 
relationship with Colonel Browne and his staff, on issues such as the 
training range, Indian affairs, infrastructure and ensuring that 
Mountain Home AFB not only retains critical missions, but is considered 
for others as it possesses one of the top training ranges in the nation 
and has the strong support of the local community and the State. 
Colonel and Mrs. Browne have been exemplary representatives of the Air 
Force and good friends to Idaho. On behalf of the State of Idaho, I 
wish Colonel and Alison Browne well as they move back to Washington, 
DC, and thank them for their continued service to our nation and for 
their time as gunfighters in the great State of Idaho. They will be 
missed.
