# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `50993a1cc8a74bd408719f8d8a882327`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today with the hope that this 
Chamber will soon find consensus in our efforts to find a new course 
and a new direction in Iraq.

I am more convinced than ever that we must change our mission in Iraq 
from one of combat to one of support. We must place the responsibility 
for Iraq's future and for the security of its citizens in the hands of 
the Government of the Iraqi people. Until we change our mission and we 
take our military out of their streets, Iraqi politicians will not take 
the necessary, courageous, and final steps toward a political 
reconciliation that can achieve a lasting peace for Iraq and for the 
region.

Our military is performing admirably in difficult circumstances. They 
have been tasked with calming streets that are wrought with sectarian 
conflict, with unraveling thousand-year-old webs of Sunni, Kurd, and 
Shia rivalries, with understanding the mixture of motives behind car 
bombings, suicide bombings, roadside bombings, and mass executions. 
They have been told that if they do this and slow the downward spiral 
of civil war, the Shiite-dominated Government will press for national 
reconciliation and a more stable, secure future for Iraq.

Our troops have done their job. The Iraqi Government has not done its 
part. The Maliki government in Iraq has failed to capitalize on the 
opportunities for success our soldiers have provided, and the 
administration has failed to implement a political or a diplomatic 
strategy that is worthy of their sacrifice on the battlefield.

''There is no military solution . . . to the insurgency [in] Iraq.'' 
That is a quote from General Petraeus. It is a quote General Petraeus 
made to the world and to Members of this body many months ago. He was 
right then, and he is right today.

I believe the overwhelming majority of Senators have the same goals 
with respect to our future policy in Iraq. In my view, we share four 
key principles and ambitions.

First and foremost, every Senator in this Chamber wants a stable Iraq 
that can protect its citizens without dependence on American combat 
troops. Regardless of one's position on the merits or demerits of the 
invasion, we must now help Iraq stand as a sovereign nation. We must 
root out the terror cells that have set up shop since the invasion. And 
we must guard against a failed state. We must also find a way to help 
the 2 million Iraqis who fled across the border to Jordan, to Syria, 
and to Iran, as well as the nearly 2 million internally displaced 
persons who have fled the violence of their neighborhoods. It is the 
largest refugee crisis in the world today.

Second, we generally agree that our military mission in Iraq must 
transition at some point from one of combat to one of support. We must 
have the ultimate goal of bringing our troops home. We may disagree 
about the number or the timing of troop drawdowns, but we all know we 
cannot sustain 15 to 20 brigade combat teams in Iraq indefinitely. It 
will take courage and conviction to shift our mission and to bring our 
troops home, but if Iraq is truly to stand on its own, we must take the 
decisive action so we can begin that transition.

The third point on which I believe we can, by and large, agree is 
that this war has been poorly managed. The administration made a series 
of disastrous mistakes and gross miscalculations after the invasion. 
Failing to plan for a postwar Iraq, disbanding the Iraqi Army, purging 
Baathist technocrats from the Government, staffing the Coalition 
Provisional Authority with neophytes, sending our troops into harm's 
way without body armor or armored vehicles--these blunders have cost 
America dearly. They have eroded this administration's credibility, and 
they have cost us in lives and treasure.

Fourth, I believe there is a widely shared view in this Chamber that 
the United States should focus its military and diplomatic efforts on 
the most pressing threats to national security. Senators on both sides 
of the aisle agree that our top national security priorities should be 
to capture the men who were behind the attacks of September 11, to 
break up the terrorist training camps in Afghanistan and in Pakistan, 
and to confront the nuclear threats that we see, especially from Iran.

Sustaining 140,000 troops in Iraq limits our ability to prosecute the 
war on terror where terrorist training camps are actually located. Our 
top intelligence analysts have concluded that al-Qaida has regrouped--
has regrouped stronger than ever--on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. 
While it is true that al-Qaida in Iraq is a franchise, al-Qaida's main 
headquarters are elsewhere and not in Iraq.

Furthermore, prolonged commitments in Iraq limit our strategic 
flexibility should we need to respond to threats elsewhere around the 
world. We must evaluate whether putting all of our eggs in one basket 
in Iraq is the best strategy to protect America against threats and 
future attacks.

On these four points, I believe we should be able to find consensus 
in this Chamber. Our goal of stability in Iraq, our desire to start 
bringing our troops home, our shared frustration with the management of 
this war, and our concern that escalation in Iraq is weakening our 
defenses against terrorist threats and nuclear proliferation--these 
four points of agreement lead to the conclusion that we must find a new 
way forward in Iraq.

The wise heads of the Iraq Study Group laid the groundwork many 
months ago for a comprehensive strategy on how we would move forward in 
Iraq. We commissioned out of this Congress our finest and most 
experienced foreign policy experts, led by former Secretary of State 
James Baker and former Congressman Lee Hamilton, to provide us an 
objective and bipartisan set of recommendations on how we should 
proceed forward in this intractable war. I have reviewed this report 
multiple times, the report of the Iraq Study Group. That report was 
released at the end of 2006. It is a small book, but it contains great 
wisdom of our top diplomats, military commanders, and statesmen from 
around our country and, indeed, around the world.

The report of the Iraq Study Group laid out a political, diplomatic, 
and military strategy for how we create the conditions to end this 
war. Its core military recommendation is simple: It is time to 
transition our troops from a mission of combat to a mission of 
training, equipping, advising, and support of the Iraq military. Iraq 
must take responsibility for its own security, and it must be forced to 
take the political steps necessary toward that reconciliation.


Unlike the President's policy, the Iraq Study Group's prescriptions 
couple a military strategy with a robust and effective diplomatic and 
political strategy. The group recommended making our economic and 
military support contingent upon the Iraq Government devising and 
achieving specific benchmarks. While the Iraqis have made some progress 
in achieving these benchmarks, much remains to be done, and most of 
these benchmarks have not been met.



Finally, the report makes it very clear we need a diplomatic 
offensive to help change the equation in the Middle East. Under this 
diplomatic push, we would reach out to potential partners in the 
region, engaging those partners in the region as we strive to have a 
stake in creating long-lasting peace and stability in Iraq.

I wish to spend a few minutes now speaking about the Iraq war 
provisions in the supplemental which is later on in the day formally 
before the Senate. The bill before us contains many of the propositions 
that would change our Iraq policy in ways that are consistent with the 
Iraq Study Group's core recommendations. First and foremost, the bill 
expresses the sense of the Senate that our troops' mission should 
change from combat operations to counterterrorism, training and 
supporting Iraqi forces, and force protection. It would set a 
reasonable goal--not a deadline, a reasonable goal--of June 2009 to 
complete this transition. This goal is some 15 months past the date of 
March of 2008, which the Iraq Study Group originally proposed as its 
target date for the completion of this transition.

This bill would require the Iraq Government to stand up to its own 
responsibilities in important ways. It would be required to match any 
funds we spend for training of Iraqi security forces or for 
reconstruction. This legislation would ensure that the U.S. military 
pays the same price at the pump as Iraqi civilians are paying today, by 
requiring the Iraq Government to provide the same kind of support for 
the fuel costs we are using to protect Iraq today. We are spending $12 
billion of America's taxpayer dollars each month in Iraq. We are 
spending $12 billion of American taxpayer dollars each month in Iraq. 
After more than 5 years of this war, in my view, it is time for the 
Iraq Government to share this financial burden.

We also need to recognize that this administration's policies have 
stretched our military to the breaking point. Our troops are away from 
their families too long, they do not get enough time to train, and 
readiness is suffering. Under this legislation, the President would 
have to certify that troops are fully trained and equipped before they 
are deployed to Iraq. It would place a time limit on combat deployments 
and ensure that our troops have sufficient dwell time between tours.

Finally, the bill would ban permanent U.S. bases on Iraqi soil and 
require that any mutual defense agreements with Iraq must be approved 
by this Congress and by this Senate.

It is not enough to simply endorse a set of military tactics and hope 
for the best, which is what the President of the United States has 
done. The solution in Iraq, our military commanders tell us, is one 
which is not a military solution but one which combines all those 
elements that were set forth in the Iraq Study Group.

Henry Kissinger once said America needs to rid itself of ''the 
illusion that there are military answers to our security, and that 
policy ends where strategy begins.''

We would be wise to heed Kissinger's advice in this age of turmoil. 
There are no easy answers in Iraq, no easy exits, no certainty of 
success. To stay on the President's path of more of the same is simply 
to embrace a policy that is not working--the same dogmatic leadership 
that led us into war, the same dogmatic leadership that failed to make 
a postinvasion plan, the same dogmatic leadership that chases the hope 
of a mission accomplished without regard to learning the lessons of the 
failures of the past.

To charge a new path--to build a political, diplomatic, and military 
strategy in Iraq--is to embrace the role of a statesman. For it is a 
statesman, Kissinger used to say, who takes responsibility for all the 
favorable results if everything goes as planned but also for all the 
undesirable results if they do not.

To serve as statesmen is our role. This is our role as Senators. It 
is up to the wise heads of this body to take the long view in Iraq, to 
be realistic about our options, and to consider all our national 
security interests--from terrorism to nuclear threats--when pursuing 
our goals of stability and peace in the Middle East.

Thank you. I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum.