# WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER
## `50a5cc347223bcdfbcbc2a1472d07aed`
`Mr. WAMP — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. I thank the speaker.

Mr. Speaker, tonight I come to the floor with several of my 
colleagues over the next hour to recognize that while even tonight 
we've heard these divisions on the floor from both parties and Members 
in each party that have differences of opinion about Iraq and the war, 
we come tonight to talk about the threats around the world that 
continue to emerge, that are real.

But before we get to the discussion about those threats and global 
security and the need for our country to be the leader of all of 
civilization, civilized countries versus, frankly, uncivilized, 
organizations, factions, even countries around the world who actually 
believe that blowing themselves up somehow is right or just. This is 
the struggle, and I do not think we can afford to deny the threats. I 
want to start first, though, by honoring the people who are 
volunteering to this very day to put themselves between the threat in 
our civilian population and serve in the uniform of our Armed Forces, 
first and foremost, the ones that have actually given their life for 
us.

Last week, over the Memorial Day district work period, I joined the 
families of two heroic East Tennesseans, one here in Washington at 
Arlington National Cemetery as I left. Sergeant First Class James David 
Tiger Connell, Jr., of Lake City, Tennessee, was laid to rest here in 
Arlington a week ago Friday for answering the Scriptural call that ''no 
greater love hath any man than to lay down his life for a friend.'' And 
then on Memorial Day, in Chattanooga, Tennessee, I joined the family of 
Private First Class Travis Haslip from Ooltewah, Tennessee, to lay his 
body to rest. Two great American heroes who joined six other heroes 
from my district who have given their life for us. And contrary to what 
some people say, they not only did not die in vain, they joined the 
ranks of the greatest Americans ever who were willing to give their 
life for the cause of freedom.



They were willing to lay it all on the line for the principles that 
this country holds so dear, knowing that every generation sooner or 
later has to face threats like this and somebody has to go and answer 
the call.

If you believe they died in vain, then many, many, many others 
through other wars throughout the history of our country also did, and 
I don't believe it for a second, because I know that it is those 
patriotic Americans that have paid the price.

I want to honor tonight Sergeant Paul Thompson III of Jefferson City, 
Tennessee; Sergeant First Class Stephen Curtis Kennedy of Oak Ridge, 
Tennessee; Sergeant David Thomas Weir of Cleveland, Tennessee, and I 
want to talk about his mom in a minute; Staff Sergeant Daniel M. Morris 
of Clinton, Tennessee; Sergeant John Michael Sullivan of Hixon, 
Tennessee; and Sergeant Terrance W. Prater of Speedwell, Tennessee.

I want to say that Jackie Weir, Sergeant David Weir's mom, wrote me a 
letter which I received over the Memorial Day weekend. This incredible 
mom has on the bottom of her letterhead a quote from General George S. 
Patton. It says, ''It is foolish and wrong to mourn the men who died. 
Rather, we should thank God that such men lived.'' This is on her 
letterhead. She gave her son for our country and its future.

This coming Monday, I will be privileged to join my nephew with the 
181st Field Artillery Brigade as they deploy for Iraq from Chattanooga. 
Jeffrey Watts is my nephew, so a member of our family is going as well. 
May God be with all of them, protect them and strengthen them.

Because, as John Stuart Mill once said, ''War is an ugly thing, but 
it is not the ugliest of things.'' He said, ''The decayed and degraded 
state of moral and patriotic feeling which thinks that nothing is worth 
war is much worse.'' He said, ''A person who has nothing for which they 
are willing to fight, nothing they care more about than their own 
personal safety, is a miserable creature who has no chance of ever 
being free unless those very freedoms are made and kept by better 
persons than himself.''

That is etched in my memory, because I don't believe everything John 
Stewart Miller ever wrote, but I agree with that, that the alternative 
to war sometimes is complete loss of freedom, and it is tyranny, and it 
is terror all the time, and it is oppression. Without the courage to 
fight and stand up, that is where we may end up.

It is easy to forget the timeline. I want to go through it. Then I 
want to recognize the gentleman from Michigan. The timeline though goes 
back a long time.

Twenty-five years ago, April, 1983: A suicide car bombing against the 
U.S. Embassy in Beirut killed 63, 17 Americans.

October, 1983: A suicide car bomb attack against the U.S. Marine 
barracks in Beirut kills 241 servicemen. A simultaneous attack on a 
French base kills paratroopers.

November, 1984: A bomb attack on the U.S. Embassy in Bogota, 
Colombia, kills a passerby. The attack was preceded by death threats 
against U.S. official by drug traffickers.

April, 1985: A bomb explodes in a restaurant near a U.S. air base in 
Madrid killing 18, wounding 82, including 15 Americans.

June, 1985: San Salvador, El Salvador, 13 people are killed in a 
machine gun attack in an outdoor cafe. Four U.S. Marines and two 
American businessmen.

June, 1985: A TWA airliner is hijacked over the Mediterranean, the 
start of a 2-week hostage ordeal. The last 39 passengers are eventually 
released in Damascus after being held in various locations in Beirut.

August, 1985: A car bomb at a U.S. military base in Frankfurt, 
Germany, kills two and injures 20. A U.S. soldier murdered for identity 
papers is found the day after the explosion.

October, 1985: Palestinian terrorists hijacked a cruise liner, the 
Achille Lauro, in response to the Israeli attack on PLO headquarters in 
Tunisia. Leon Klinghoffer, an elderly, wheelchair-bound American is 
killed and thrown overboard.

November, 1985: Hijackers aboard an Egypt Air flight killed one 
American. Egyptian commandoes later stormed the aircraft on the island. 
Sixty people are killed.

December, 1985: Simultaneous suicide attacks are carried out against 
U.S. and Israeli check-in desks at Rome and Vienna international 
airports. Twenty people are killed in the two attacks, including four 
terrorists.

I am going on and on. There are 44 incidents in 25 years by the 
Islamic radicals. You can deny it if you want to. You can say this is 
all about Iraq if you want to. But I continue.

April, 1986: A bomb destroys a West Berlin disco frequented by U.S. 
servicemen, killing one American and one German woman and wounding 150, 
including 44 Americans.

An explosion in April, 1986, damages a TWA flight as it prepares to 
land in Athens, Greece. Four people are killed when they are sucked out 
of the aircraft.

December 21, 1988: A bomb destroys Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, 
Scotland. All 259 people aboard the Boeing 747 are killed, including 
189 Americans, as are 11 people on the ground.

February, 1993: A bomb in a van explodes in an underground parking 
garage in New York's World Trade Center killing six people and wounding 
over 1,000, 1993.



April, 19, 1995: A car bomb destroyed the Murrah Federal building in 
Oklahoma City. This was not al Qaeda. We know what that was.

November 13, 1995: A car bomb in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, killed seven 
people, five of them American military and civilian advisers for the 
National Guard training center.

June 25, 1996: A bomb aboard a fuel truck explodes outside a U.S. Air 
Force installation in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. Nineteen U.S. military 
personnel are killed.

July 27, 1996: A pipe bomb explodes during the Olympic games in 
Atlanta. That was also not them.

June, 1998: Rocket propelled grenades explode near the U.S. Embassy 
in Beirut.

August, 1998: Terrorist bombs destroyed the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, 
Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

October 12, 2000: A terrorist bomb damages the destroyer USS Cole in 
the Port of Yemen, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39.

September 11, 2001: It is all I need to say.

April 11, 2002: Explosions at ancient synagogue in Tunisia leaves 17 
dead.

May of 2002: Car explodes outside hotel in Pakistan, killing 14.

June of 2002: Bomb explodes outside American consulate in Pakistan, 
killing 12.

October of 2002: Nightclubs bombed in Bali, Indonesia, killing 202, 
mostly Australians.

October suicide attack on a hotel in Mombasa, Kenya, killed 16.

May 4, 2003: Suicide bombers kill 34, including eight Americans, in 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

May of 2003: Four bombs kill 33 people, targeting Jewish, Spanish and 
Belgian sites in Casablanca.

August, 2003: Suicide car bomb kills 12, injures 150 at Marriott 
Hotel in Jakarta.

November, 2003: Explosions rock Riyadh Saudi Arabia, killing 17.

November, 2003: Suicide car bombers simultaneously attack two 
synagogues in Istanbul, Turkey, killing 25 and injuring hundreds.

March, 2004: Ten terrorist bombs explode almost simultaneously during 
the morning rush hour in Madrid, Spain, killing 202 and injuring more 
than 1,400.

May 29 through 31, 2004: Terrorists attacked the offices of a Saudi 
oil company in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, taking foreign oil workers hostage 
in nearby residential compound. Twenty-two people dead.

June, 2004: Terrorists kidnap and execute Paul Johnson, Jr., an 
American in Riyadh. Nearly a week after his capture, photos of his body 
are posted on an Islamic website.

December, 2004: Militants believed to be linked to al Qaeda drive up 
to U.S. Embassy consulate in Saudi Arabia, storm the gates and kill 
five.

July, 2005: Bombs explode on three trains in London, England, killing 
52.

October, 2005: Twenty-two killed by three suicide bombers in Bali.

November, 2005: Fifty-seven killed at three American hotels in 
Jordan.

March, 2006: Two residents arrested in this country, one a Georgia 
Tech student.

June, 2006: Canadian plot to behead the Prime Minister and bomb the 
Canadian Parliament. Seventeen arrested.

June, 2006: Florida-based plot to attack the Sears Tower in Chicago, 
seven arrested.

December, 2006: Chicago area Muslim convert arrested for plotting to 
attack a local mall and government buildings using grenades.

May, 2007: New Jersey-based plot to attack soldiers in Fort Dix, New 
Jersey.

Last week, another huge plot exposed to cause unbelievable damage at 
JFK Airport on an energy system that runs between New Jersey and New 
York.

We sure better not ignore these threats. We better stand in the gap 
for the next generation and quit denying that these threats are 
mounting against us. I don't want our country to be the last country in 
the world willing to face this reality.

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Michigan, the Chairman of 
the Policy Committee here among Republican Members of the House, 
Thaddeus McCotter, an expert on these issues.