# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `50b7817937bdb721ae311fe08ae512a9`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, another month has passed, and more 
American troops lost their lives overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan. It 
is only right that we take a few moments in the Senate to honor them.

Since last memorializing the names of our fallen troops on October 
24, the Pentagon has announced the deaths of 72 troops. They lost their 
lives in Iraq and in Operation Enduring Freedom, which includes 
Afghanistan. One Defense Department civilian was also killed. They will 
not be forgotten. So today I will submit their names into the Record:



 PFC Casey P. Mason, of Lake, MI


 SGT Christopher R. Kruse, of Emporia, KS


 CPL Peter W. Schmidt, of Eureka, CA


 SGT Joseph M. Vanek, of Elmhurst, IL


 SGT Phillip A. Bocks, of Troy, MI


 SSG Patrick F. Kutschbach, of McKees Rocks, PA


 SPC Jermaine D. Franklin, of Arlington, TX


 CPT Matthew C. Ferrara, of Torrance, CA


 SGT Jeffery S. Mersman, of Parker, KS


 SPC Sean K. A. Langevin, of Walnut Creek, CA


 SPC Lester G. Roque, of Torrance, CA


 PFC Joseph M. Lancour, of Swartz Creek, MI


 SGT Lui Tumanuvao, Fagaalu, American Samoa


 CPT Benjamin D. Tiffner, of WV


 SSG Carletta S. Davis, of Anchorage, AK


 SSG John D. Linde, of New York, NY


 SGT Derek T. Stenroos, of North Pole, AK


 PFC Adam J. Muller, of Underhill, VT


 SGT Daniel J. Shaw, of West Seneca, NY


 PO2 Kevin R. Bewley, of Hector, AR


 SPC Christine M. Ndururi, of Dracut, MA


 PFC Dwane A. Covert, Jr., of Tonawanda, NY


 SFC Johnny C. Walls, of Bremerton, WA


 2LT Tracy Lynn Alger, of New Auburn, WI


 MSG Thomas A. Crowell, of Neosho, MO


 SSGT David A. Wieger, of North Huntingdon, PA


 Nathan J. Schuldheiss, of Newport, RI


 SGT Daniel L. McCall, of Pace, FL


 PFC Rush M. Jenkins, of Clarksville, TN


 PVT Cody M. Carver, of Haskell, OK


 CPT Timothy I. McGovern, of IN


 SPC Brandon W. Smitherman, of Conroe, TX


 SGT Louis A. Griese, of Sturgeon Bay, WI


 SSG James D. Bullard, of Marion, SC


 MAJ Jeffrey R. Calero, of Queens Village, NY


 MSG Thomas L. Bruner, of Owensboro, KY


 SSG Joseph F. Curreri, of Los Angeles, CA


 SPC David E. Lambert, of Cedar Bluff, VA


 SGT Joshua C. Brennan, of Ontario, OR


 SPC Hugo V. Mendoza, of Glendale, AZ


 PFC Adam J. Chitjian, of Philadelphia, PA


 SSG Robin L. Towns, Sr., of Upper Marlboro, MD


 SGT Edward O. Philpot, of Latta, SC


 SSG Larry I. Rougle, of West Jordan, UT


 Seaman Anamarie Sannicolas Camacho, of Panama City, FL


 Seaman Genesia Mattril Gresham, of Lithonia, GA


 SPC Wayne M. Geiger, of Lone Pine, CA


 CPL Erik T. Garoutte, of Santee, CA


 SSG Jarred S. Fontenot, of Port Barre, LA


 SPC Vincent A. Madero, of Port Hueneme, CA


 SPC Micheal D. Brown, of Williamsburg, KS


 SPC Jason B. Koutroubas, of Dunnellon, FL


 1LT Thomas M. Martin, of Ward, AR


 PFC Kenneth J. Iwasinski, of West Springfield, MA


 SFC Justin S. Monschke, of Krum, TX


 SPC Frank L. Cady III, of Sacramento, CA


 PVT Nathan Z. Thacker, of Greenbrier, AR


 SSG Donald L. Munn II, of Saint Clairs Shores, MI


 SSG Lillian Clamens, of Lawton, OK


 SPC Samuel F. Pearson, of Westerville, OH


 SGT Jason M. Lantieri, of Killingworth, CT


 SSG Eric T. Duckworth, of Plano, TX


 CPL Gilberto A. Meza, of Oxnard, CA


 LCPL Jeremy W. Burris, of Tacoma, WA


 CPL Benjamin C. Dillon, of Rootstown, OH


 SPC Adam D. Quinn, of Orange City, FL


 SGT Joseph B. Milledge, of Pointblank, TX


 CPL Jason N. Marchand, of Greenwood, WV


 SPC Vincent G. Kamka, of Everett, WA


 SPC Rachael L. Hugo, of Madison, WI


 SPC Avealalo Milo, of Hayward, CA


 SGT Ricardo X. Rodriguez, of Arecibo, Puerto Rico


 Seaman Apprentice Shayna Ann Schnell, of Tell City, IN


We cannot forget these brave men and women. The Nation cannot afford 
to forget their sacrifice. We have to remember that these brave souls 
left behind parents and children, siblings, friends. Those left behind 
will feel their sorrow forever. We want them to know the country thinks 
about them, and we make a pledge to preserve their memory with the 
dignity that those who served and paid this price deserve.
