---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `50b9fc3a1b7aba2587e5ebc203231cee`
`Mr. COLEMAN — 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, legislation I am introducing today will 
rescind $1.1 billion in fiscal year 2009 funding for Iraq's 
reconstruction.

As you know, on the first of this month, U.S. forces handed security 
control of the Anbar province to the Iraqi government. This was an area 
that was considered all but lost to al-Qaida just 2 years ago, but as a 
result of the surge and related policies, today the Iraqis are able to 
take over the lead role for security in the province. This not only is 
a shining example of the success of the surge, but also shows the great 
improvements that the Iraqi government has made since the country's 
historic elections in 2005.

In fact, I believe these gains are so significant that it's time for 
the Iraqis to foot the bill for their reconstruction.

From 2005 to 2007, the Iraqi government brought in an estimated $96 
billion--94 percent of that coming from oil revenues--and a cumulative 
budget surplus of $29 billion. An August 5, 2008, report by the 
Government Accountability Office estimated that in 2008 the Iraqis will 
generate up to $86 billion, with a surplus of up to $50 billion. This 
means that, by the end of this year, the Iraqis will have realized a 
budget surplus of up to $79 billion.

I have long been calling for the Iraqi government to assume more 
responsibility for its own reconstruction costs. Just as they continue 
to take the lead in securing their country as the situation on the 
ground improves, I once again call on the Iraqis to take more 
responsibility for their country's reconstruction. The Iraqis have made 
great progress in developing their oil infrastructure, and they are now 
in a position to assume greater financial responsibility of their 
economic future.

There is no reason that we can't begin to return American tax dollars 
to the U.S. Treasury. That is why today I am introducing legislation 
that would rescind more than $1 billion in funding that has been 
appropriated for future Iraqi reconstruction.

My legislation will rescind approximately $1.1 billion in Iraqi 
reconstruction funding appropriated by Congress for fiscal year 2009. 
It is important to note that this legislation will not affect any of 
the funding for our soldiers who are putting themselves in harm's way 
every day. Nor will it affect on-going projects, nor any money that has 
already been obligated.

I urge my colleagues to join me in congratulating the Iraqis in the 
improvements they have made by allowing them to take control of their 
own reconstruction. For the people of Iraq, this is a matter of self-
determination and self-reliance. For American taxpayers, it's a matter 
of fairness.



Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.