# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `50bf95377c99d1d54e82a347edf09e3b`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the Congress and the 
President have come together to find common ground on the fiscal year 
2008 budget. It is often said that politics is the art of compromise, 
and the bill we are considering today--H.R. 2764--represents a 
compromise position that allows the Congressional majority to advance 
some of its priorities while adhering to the President's overall 
budgetary constraints.

H.R. 2764 funds a number of programs that are important to the 
American people, including investments in education, life-saving 
medical research, law enforcement, border security, veterans' health 
care, and energy independence initiatives.

H.R. 2764 is especially good for rural America. The bill rejects deep 
cuts that were proposed by the President in rural health care, housing, 
economic development, Internet access, and law enforcement programs. At 
the same time, the bill nearly doubles funds available for renewable 
energy loans and grants in rural areas, commits significant resources 
to fix aging bridges, and adds $1 million to the President's request 
for rural drinking water and waste water infrastructure projects. 
Additionally, the measure slashes funding for the Administration's 
efforts to create a National Animal Identification Program, reducing it 
by $23 million.

H.R. 2764 also extends through December 31, 2007, most of the 
agricultural disaster assistance programs included as part of the 
emergency supplemental spending bill signed into law earlier this year. 
These programs allow many American farmers to recoup some losses 
associated with drought and other natural disasters in 2005, 2006, or 
in the first two months of 2007. Between February and December of this 
year, Missouri farmers have seen their fair share of damaging weather 
events. I am pleased that Congress is extending disaster programs that 
may be beneficial to qualifying Show-Me State producers.

The measure also funds U.S. military efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
And, while I would have preferred to send the President war funding 
legislation that sets a goal of redeploying most American troops from 
Iraq by next Christmas, H.R. 2764 will provide our service men and 
women with the resources they need to do their jobs while serving in 
harm's way and will alleviate any need by the Administration to 
reallocate funds from domestic military operations.

H.R. 2764 represents a compromise bill that is in the best interest 
of our Nation. I am pleased to support its passage and urge the 
President to sign it into law.