---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `50c74e61cd34f24cfe9906ccc9fd2676`
`Mr. HARE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HARE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California. I 
rise today in strong support of this resolution.

Recently at a town hall meeting that I had, a man approached me, 
pulled out a picture of his son, said that he had just died in Iraq 6 
months ago. His wife won't come out of the home. He said, ''I want you 
to promise me that when you go to Washington, you will do everything 
you can to make sure that this never happens to another family.''



Three days later, I called the family of Senior Airman Daniel Miller 
of Galesburg, Illinois, who lost their son to a roadside bomb explosion 
outside of Baghdad 2 weeks prior to when he was supposed to be coming 
home. I hope and pray I don't ever have to make another phone call to 
another grieving family. That is why I come to the floor this evening 
in strong opposition to the President's decision to deploy 21,500 
additional troops in Iraq, and I strongly support this resolution.

The current situation in Iraq is grave, and it is rapidly 
deteriorating. The sectarian conflict is the principal challenge to 
stability in Iraq, and caught in the middle of this civil war are 
approximately 140,000 of our bravest troops. Over 3,000 troops have 
already lost their lives, while over 22,000 have been wounded.

Our current strategy has not made significant impact on reducing the 
violence. In fact, December 2006 was the third deadliest month since 
the war began. The cost of this war, both in the number of lives lost 
and the amount of dollars spent, has had a profound effect on Illinois 
and my congressional district. Out of the 3,128 deaths, 95 have been 
from Illinois, and eight soldiers from the 17th District.

But not only will an increase in troop levels not solve the 
fundamental cause of violence, it places us at a great disadvantage 
here at home. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the troop 
surge could require as many as 48,000 troops and as much as $27 
billion, which is five times the amount of the President's request of 
$5.6 billion. Also the U.S. military will be forced to deploy many 
combat units for their second, third, and even fourth deployments in 
Iraq, and extend the redeployment of others.

Currently as we sit in debate on this resolution, 16,000 single 
mothers are serving in Iraq. This troop surge would only extend the 
time their children are left at home alone, with their mother or their 
father.

Since the military is already short thousands of vehicles, armor kits 
and other protective equipment, a troop surge threatens the readiness 
of our forces. In fact, if you saw the paper recently, a soldier was 
quoted saying he had to go to the junkyards to dig up pieces of rusted 
scrap missile and ballistic glass so they could armor the vehicles and 
make them combat ready.

While only a first step, this resolution is a good start. It does not 
give up on our troops or declare defeat in Iraq, but offers a new 
forward direction towards a nonpartisan goal of bringing our troops 
home safely, quickly, and securing stability in the region.

Already, this Democratic-led Congress has had 52 oversight hearings 
on various issues related to this war, and many of my colleagues have 
introduced several bipartisan measures that promote political and 
diplomatic engagements.

A person this evening said, Where do we go from here? I would 
strongly suggest that this administration try something it hasn't tried 
yet: diplomacy. It can work. You just have to have the courage to try.

In the coming weeks, I am hopeful that Congress will consider a 
comprehensive measure such as H.R. 787, the Iraq War De-escalation Act, 
of which I am a cosponsor. In addition to requiring the responsible 
redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq and allowing basic force 
protection, it launches a comprehensive regional and international 
diplomatic initiative. I am thoroughly convinced that the only way we 
will attain peace in this region, in Iraq, is through diplomatic 
initiatives.

This legislation also makes the Iraqi Government responsible for 
their own destiny by establishing benchmarks concerning Iraqi military 
readiness to police their own country without United States assistance.

Finally, as a veteran myself, I also hope as we move forward we will 
adequately prepare for the return of thousands of new veterans. Our 
number one priority should be to fully fund the cost of veterans health 
care and PTSD benefits.

This administration's budget calls for cutting prosthetics by $2 
million and severely cuts funds to the VA at a time when it is 
proposing an increase in troop levels. Without full funding for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, our veterans are left without the 
services they were promised when they pledged to defend this Nation.

Madam Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle to support this resolution as the first of many steps towards 
bringing our troops home and securing our success in Iraq. As I told 
the gentleman at my town meeting, I promised him I would do everything 
I could so this would never happen again. That journey begins this 
evening