# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `50db67f2974f4684759ae69d86cf5094`
`Mr. NADLER of New York — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. NADLER of New York. Mr. Speaker, every dollar we spend in 
Afghanistan, every life we sacrifice there is a tragic waste that does 
not enhance the security of the United States.

We were attacked on 9/11 by al Qaeda. Al Qaeda had bases in 
Afghanistan. It made sense to go in and destroy those bases, and we 
did. But those bases are no longer there. They are in Pakistan and 
Yemen and Somalia, and we are not invading those countries. Why do we 
undertake to invent the corrupt government and try to impose it on the 
country?

Afghanistan is in the middle of a 35-year civil war. We have no 
business intervening in that civil war. We have no ability and no 
necessity to win it for one side or the other.

This whole idea of counterinsurgency, that we are going to persuade 
the people left alive after our firepower is applied to love the 
government that we like, is absurd. At this point we must recognize 
that rebuilding Afghanistan is both beyond our ability and irrelevant 
to our purpose of preventing terrorist attacks on the United States.

We should support this amendment. We should support our troops. We 
should bring them home now.

Every dollar we spend in Afghanistan, every life we sacrifice there, 
is a tragic waste that does not enhance the security of the United 
States. We were attacked on 9/11 by Al Qaeda. Al Qaeda had bases in 
Afghanistan; it made sense to go in and destroy those bases, and we 
did. But the CIA tells us that there are fewer than one hundred Al 
Qaeda personnel now in all of Afghanistan--their bases are in Pakistan, 
but we are not invading Pakistan. They have bases in Somalia and Yemen, 
but we are not invading Somalia and Yemen.

An intelligent policy might be to attack the bases from which mayhem 
is being plotted against us, wherever they are--not to try to remake a 
country that nobody since Genghis Khan has managed to conquer. What 
makes us think, what arrogance gives us the right to assume, that we 
can succeed where the Moguls, the British, the Soviets, failed. No 
government in Afghanistan, no government in Kabul, has ever been able 
to make its writ run and rule the country.

Why have we undertaken to invent a government that is not supported 
by the majority of the people, that is corrupt, and try to impose it on 
the country? Afghanistan is in the middle of what is, at this point, a 
53-year-civil war. We have no business intervening in that civil war, 
we have no ability and no necessity to win it for one side or the 
other. This whole idea of counter-insurgency, that we are going to 
persuade the people left alive after our firepower is applied, to love 
the government that we like is absurd.

It will take tens of years, hundred of billions of dollars, tens of 
thousands of American lives, if it can be done at all, and we don't 
need to do it. It's their country. If they want to have a civil war, we 
can't stop them. We can't choose the rulers that they have, we don't 
have to like the rulers that they have, we don't have to like their 
choices. It's not up to us.

Aside from assuring that specific bases are not being used against 
us--we should not spend a nickel, we should not waste a life, in 
pursuit of an unintelligent, unthought-through, unachievable, and 
unnecessary goal.

At this point, we must recognize that rebuilding Afghanistan is both 
beyond our ability, and irrelevant to our purpose of preventing 
terrorist attacks on the United States.

We should support this amendment.

We should support our troops.

We should bring them home.

