# None
## `50eda5d956523d8cc94fe07dcb6f7d41`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. If the gentlewoman would yield, it's a 
wonderful world to live in, though, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. I mean this 
world in which you can spend money on all of these things that you want 
to spend money on, that you can have no one pay for it, that you can 
kind of convince yourself that all of the people that are lending you 
the money aren't going to really ever ask for it back, that you can 
additionally convince yourself that the fact that you owe money to all 
of your enemies isn't going to have any consequences when you want to 
fight them or negotiate with them. I mean, that's a great place to live 
in. A world full of no consequences. A world full of postponing all bad 
things until a moment in which no one is here to answer for them 
anymore. It's a wonderful place to live.

But I've got to believe that that's why Mr. Altmire and I got sent 
here as part of the new class last November, that the American people 
kind of figured out that it was a myth. I mean, they figured out that 
it was an alternative universe. Now, they might not be as big a science 
fiction fan as you are, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, but they figured out 
that something was up. I mean, I come from a district that was 
Republican for 24 years that has these Rockefeller Republicans that are 
sort of socially moderate but fiscally conservative, and they came out 
and voted for Democrats in droves this year because they figured out 
what you knew all along, that this was just a made-up world here where 
you could just spend wildly on a war in Iraq, that you could borrow in 
order to pay for it, that you could rip the guts out of social 
services, and everything would be all right. So the American people, I 
think, have figured it out and they sent us here to fix it.