# WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `5108935faa51bc294c44e94eb8726c91`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I am proud to be here today to bring to the floor of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 985, the Whistleblower Enhancement Protection Act 
of 2007. A month ago today this important bill passed the House 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform unanimously by a vote of 
28-0. I strongly support the bill, and I hope it will receive a similar 
level of bipartisan support on the floor of the House of 
Representatives today. We need to send a strong message that protecting 
the rights of whistleblowers is not a Democratic issue, it is not a 
Republican issue, it is an issue that impacts the lives and the safety 
of every American citizen.

Whistleblowers have long been instrumental in alerting the public and 
the Congress to wrongdoing in Federal agencies. In many cases, the 
brave actions of whistleblowers have led to positive changes that have 
resulted in more responsible, safe and ethical practices. In some 
instances, the actions of whistleblowers have even saved lives.

Unfortunately, despite the importance of whistleblowers in ensuring 
government accountability and integrity, court decisions by the U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have undermined whistleblower 
protections and have unreasonably limited the scope of disclosures 
protected under current law.

The hearings that Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Davis have been 
holding in the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in the 
110th Congress have highlighted the need for expanded protections for 
workers who shed light on wrongdoing by government agencies and 
departments. Several hearings held by the committee have helped uncover 
waste and fraud in government contracting, both here in the United 
States, and in Iraq, waste and fraud which has led to the loss of 
billions of taxpayer dollars and has jeopardized the safety of 
Americans here at home and those serving abroad.

At another hearing, we learned that some officials in the Bush 
administration have sought to manipulate Federal climate science, 
compromising the health and safety of American families and the future 
of the planet solely for political gain.

Perhaps the starkest reminder of the need to protect those who remain 
silent in the face of government wrongdoing came at last week's hearing 
at Walter Reed, at which we learned about the terrible living 
conditions and bureaucratic hurdles that soldiers have endured there.

At the hearing, it became clear that nobody dared to complain about 
the squalid living conditions and inadequate care at what is supposed 
to be the best military facility in the world because of fear of 
retribution.

Because of this fear, it took an expose by a newspaper in order for 
action to be taken on these severe and systemic problems, and many of 
our Nation's heroes had to suffer there for far too long.

The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007 makes important 
changes to existing law that will strengthen protections for government 
workers who speak out against illegal, wasteful and dangerous 
practices.

The bill protects all Federal whistleblowers by clarifying that any 
disclosure pertaining to waste, fraud or abuse, ''without restriction 
as to time, place, form, motive, context or prior disclosure,'' and 
including both formal and informal communications, is protected.

The bill also gives whistleblowers access to timely action on their 
claims, allowing them access to Federal district courts if the Merit 
Systems Protection Board does not take action on their claims within 
180 days.

In addition, the bill clarifies that national security workers, 
employees of government contractors, and those who blow the whistle on 
actions that compromise the integrity of Federal science are all 
entitled to whistleblower protection.

As we continue to fight terrorism and other national security 
threats, this landmark legislation will give whistleblower protections 
to national security whistleblowers for the first time. It may be hard 
to believe, but currently employees at key government agencies in 
charge of protecting the United States, including the FBI, the CIA, and 
the Transportation Security Administration, are excluded from 
whistleblower protections.

These are the employees who work every day to keep our country safe 
and secure. These workers deserve to have the same protection as other 
Federal employees, and the American public deserves to know that 
workers who come forward with information that is essential to national 
security will not be punished for helping to keep us safe.

A good example is former FBI agent Coleen Rowley, Time magazine's 
Person of the Year in 2002. Special Agent Rowley graduated from 
Wartburg College in Waverly, Iowa, which is located in my district. 
Like me, she received her law degree from the University of Iowa 
College of Law. She is married and has four children.

After the terrorist attacks on 9/11, Special Agent Rowley wrote a 
paper for the Director of the FBI, which laid out in detail how 
personnel at FBI headquarters failed to take action on concerns raised 
by the Minneapolis field office concerning its investigation of 
suspected terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui. These failures, identified by 
Special Agent Rowley, could have left the United States vulnerable to 
September 11 attacks in 2001. Special Agent Rowley later testified 
before the Senate and the 9/11 Commission about these very same 
concerns.

Following those hearings, Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley, a Republican


who has been a proponent of whistleblower protection, pushed for a 
major reorganization at the FBI, resulting in the creation of the 
Office of Intelligence, which significantly expanded FBI personnel with 
counterterrorism and foreign language skills.

Senator Grassley commended the actions of Rowley, saying on the floor 
of the Senate last June, ''in typical FBI fashion, the missteps from 9/
11 would have been swept under the rug if it weren't for whistleblowers 
like Coleen Rowley . . . it looks to me like she's the only one who did 
anything to make sure the FBI was held responsible for its lack of 
responsiveness.''

The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act also ensures that 
employees who work for companies that have government contracts are 
protected when they report waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars. 
This provision is especially important, considering the use of private 
contractors by the United States Government has reached an all-time 
high, and that spending on Federal contracts has almost doubled since 
2000, reaching $400 billion in 2006.

Private companies with government contracts are now performing some 
of the most important work of the government, including protecting 
civilian workers in Iraq and ensuring the safety of American citizens 
in the United States. This bill will help ensure that employees of 
government contractors, who report on the abuse of taxpayer dollars or 
other wrongdoing, do not have to fear the loss of their jobs or other 
retribution.

Finally, Mr. Chairman, this bill clarifies that employees who blow 
the whistle on political interference in Federal scientific research 
and reports are also entitled to whistleblower protections. It is 
essential that we have the best and most accurate scientific research 
and information that is possible.

Americans trust that their tax money is funding thorough and adequate 
scientific studies that are free from political interference or 
manipulation. As lawmakers, we also depend on accurate and unbiased 
scientific information to make policy decisions that will impact the 
lives and futures of American families.

Protecting government researchers who report actions or policies that 
compromise the accuracy and integrity of Federal science is critical to 
ensuring the public and the lawmakers are able to make wise and 
informed decisions that affect our lives now and will have 
repercussions far into the future.

I would like to thank Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Davis for 
their work on this bill in the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform.

Again, I strongly urge my colleagues to support the passage of the 
Whistleblower Enhancement Protection Act today.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.