---
---

# HONORING AND EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO THE 1ST BATTALION OF THE 133RD  INFANTRY OF THE IOWA NATIONAL GUARD
## `510b4eaa25e88978075186a15eb868f6`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and 
commend the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Braley) for introducing it. This 
specific resolution honors and expresses gratitude for the service in 
Iraq of the 1st Battalion, 133rd Infantry, known as the ''Ironman 
Battalion'' of the Iowa Army National Guard. Their service has been 
long and honorable.

The soldiers of this battalion mobilized in the fall of 2005, 
deployed to Iraq in the spring of 2006, were due to come home in April 
of this year, but had their tour extended until July of 2007.

For 15 months, their ''boots on the ground'' made a difference in the 
al-Anbar Province, one of the most dangerous areas in Iraq. They 
completed more than 500 convoy security missions, logged over 4 million 
mission miles, and delivered over one-third of the fuel needed to 
sustain coalition forces in Iraq.

The battalion came home to Iowa on July 25 to welcoming and thankful 
families and communities, completing a 22-month mobilization. That 
period of honorable service made the battalion the longest serving Iowa 
Army National Guard unit since World War II.

While serving in Iraq, two members of the battalion were killed in 
action in September of 2006: Sergeant First Class Scott Nisely and 
Sergeant Kampha B. Sourivong.

For their ultimate sacrifice and for the service and sacrifice of the 
members and families of the 1st Battalion, 133rd Infantry, the Nation 
owes a debt of gratitude. This resolution helps to remind us of that 
debt. Today, Congress, by this resolution, honors and thanks the men 
and women of this unit and their families for their dedication and 
selfless service to the people of America.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.