---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `510cb9c84b3f3f5b217783d9f2fe5083`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise enthusiastically to 
support this very important rule.

I congratulate the very strategic design of the Appropriations 
Committee. This is tough, and I thank the Rules Committee for listening 
to us as we presented our amendments.

But I rise today to say that war is ugly. But we applaud and 
appreciate the young men and women on the front lines. We forever honor 
them. Just a few minutes ago I was in a room listening to returning war 
veterans from Iraq, and they gave us these words, horrible stories, 
such as calling the


Iraqis hajis or sand niggers, telling us about the impact on their 
families, how many families were destroyed, how many have attempted to 
commit suicide.

I offered an amendment that many focused on the idea that everything 
we have asked the soldiers to do under the 2002 resolution has been 
done, and, therefore, it should expire. The President has no more 
authority to continue this war.

Then I wanted to debunk the actions of what happened to the Vietnam 
vets and call for a national day of celebration, a national day of 
honor for all the returning war heroes that will come home. This is 
what we should be doing today as we vote against the funding of this 
war in Iraq. It is important to stand for these soldiers.

But I am glad that we have extended GI benefits for veterans' 
education. Some of them were telling us that they are now being denied 
these benefits because of a general discharge, because of their 
opposition to the war. Yes, it is valuable because we move on to help 
Americans in this bill as well, extending unemployment compensation, 
getting rid of these cuts in Medicaid and making sure that we don't 
damage specialty hospitals that are in our rural and inner city areas 
who are helping us.

I am grateful to what the Appropriations Committee did on world and 
food hunger. It is a disaster, and they moved it up higher than what 
the President asked for. We had a briefing on world hunger and it was 
appalling what is going on around the world. I am grad that we have 
monies for refugee assistance and the Merida funding.