---
---

# None
## `5118ea3de3f24fb44b1b975e6cfe8509`
`Mr. AKAKA — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I was pleased today to vote, along with my 
Senate colleagues, for the passage of H.R.1585, the Defense 
Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2008. I thank the managers of this 
bill, Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain, for working so 
diligently and in such a collegial manner toward passage of a bill that 
addressed so many complicated and potentially divisive issues. It is to 
their credit that we have been able to move this bill along which is so 
vital to the support of our brave men and women in our armed services.

This bill was passed out of committee with a number of provisions to 
improve


the lives of our military members and the effectiveness and readiness 
of our armed services which I, as a senior member of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee and chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, 
worked to ensure were a part of the bill language. They include 
important acquisition reforms such as a series of provisions that would 
help the DOD manage its oversight of contract services and the creation 
of a Chief Management Officer for the Department of Defense. I also was 
able to work with my colleagues to incorporate language that 
establishes a Director of Corrosion and Control Policy and Oversight in 
addition to other provisions that further my efforts to establish 
effective corrosion control in all branches of our services. H.R. 1585 
also contained my legislation to establish a National Language Council 
to develop and implement a long-term and comprehensive language 
strategy.

In addition to the provisions that I initiated and supported in the 
underlying language, I was able to successfully introduce and cosponsor 
a number of amendments during the Senate's consideration of the Defense 
Authorization Act. As chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, I 
was particularly pleased to see that language from the Dignified 
Treatment of Wounded Warrior Act which addresses shortfalls in the 
quality of health care provided to our servicemembers was included as 
an amendment to this bill. Similarly, I was pleased that my amendment 
related to the Wounded Warrior Act was passed by the Senate. This 
legislation will enhance the quality of care that members of our Armed 
Forces receive once they transition to veteran status, improve the 
capability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to care for veterans 
with traumatic brain injuries, and improve access to VA mental health 
and dental care. In addition, my amendment addresses the issue of 
homelessness among newly discharged servicemembers and recognizes the 
importance of the National Guard and Reserve in the VA's outreach 
programs.

This bill also includes an amendment I offered to end the disparate 
treatment of employees who accepted discontinuation of service 
retirement following a reduction in force. My amendment ensures that 
these Federal employees would be able to return to work at DOD and 
continue to earn toward retirement. It is vital that this Nation have a 
viable plan to produce individuals who are capable of effective 
communication in today's global environment. I also applaud the 
inclusion of the fair competition amendment, introduced by Senator 
Kennedy which I cosponsored, which will minimize the harmful effects of 
the current A-76 process for outsourcing Federal jobs to private 
contractors by removing several unfair advantages that contractors 
currently have in the contract competition process.

I was disappointed, however, that the Webb amendment which I was 
proud to cosponsor was not agreed to by the Senate. The Webb amendment 
would have lessened the burden placed on our soldiers and their 
families by setting a minimum time between deployments in order to 
ensure that members of our Armed Forces have as much time at home with 
their loved ones as they fight overseas for this Nation.

I was also disappointed that the Levin-Reed amendment which would 
have set a clear and definitive deadline for the withdrawal of forces 
from Iraq was not passed. One of the key elements of stabilizing the 
ongoing chaos in Iraq is for the Iraqi Government to begin to take more 
responsibility for ensuring their own nation's security and assume 
primary combat role in protecting and defending their nation. This will 
not occur without the development and implementation of a coherent exit 
strategy. The Levin-Reed amendment offered just such a plan.

As a senior member of the Senate Armed Services and chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Readiness and Management, I will continue to work with 
my Senate colleagues to change the course of this war by insisting that 
the administration provide to this Congress and the people of our 
nation with a comprehensive exit strategy.











 Unanimous Consent Request--S. 1327
