---
---

# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `511ab58f6548dab59259a7d9c88d8e1e`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. And I want to ask the leader, if he can bear with me for a 
moment. I wish to spend a couple moments talking about a few of the 
legislative provisions. One, to remedy the military commissions law. It 
has been basically thrown out by the Supreme Court. We cannot hold 
people in front of military commissions and try them before military 
commissions under the current law. We have to modify this law. We have 
spent months doing it. The modifications are in the Defense 
authorization bill. Until these modifications are signed into law by 
the President of the United States, we cannot have detainees tried 
before military commissions.

We want to get equipment to Afghanistan. Many of us are focusing on 
strengthening the Afghan Army as a


way that we can succeed in Afghanistan, to get their numbers up, to get 
their equipment up. But in order to get nonaccess property from Iraq to 
Afghanistan, we have to authorize it. That is in the bill that is now 
being held up because, apparently, there is an unwillingness on the 
part of some of the Republicans to agree to a unanimous consent 
agreement with a time agreement for debate. No one is trying to preempt 
anybody from talking.

There is one other example. Unless we act, soldiers who are getting 
care at TRICARE facilities are going to have to pay $100 a day extra. 
We have to stop that from happening--to continue the provision in law 
to extend the limitation on charges for patients who are getting 
TRICARE. On and on and on.

We have critically important legislative provisions, and my question 
to the leader is this: Am I correct in my understanding that we have 
offered a unanimous consent agreement, given a willingness to enter 
into a time agreement on how many hours of debate--and I know there are 
people who oppose the hate crimes provisions, for instance, in our 
bill. We are not trying to preempt debate. It is the opposite. We are 
trying to get on with the debate. So my question is: Is it true we have 
offered a unanimous consent agreement on the Defense authorization bill 
and that it has so far been rejected?