---
---

# RECENT TRIP TO INDIA, SYRIA, AND ISRAEL
## `51263e45f3fb81bcc6b8c1a00d45a843`
`Mr. SPECTER — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to report on 
the recent trip I made from December 13 to December 30 to India, Syria, 
and Israel.

The trip to India was a revelation to me--to see the vast economic 
progress that this gigantic nation of 1.1 billion people has made. For 
a long time, the nation of India resisted foreign investment, perhaps 
as a result of the colonialization by the British. But for most of the 
past two decades, India has been open for investment and trade. During 
the course of my travels there, which are detailed in a lengthy 
statement that I will include for the Record at the conclusion of my 
extemporaneous remarks, I have detailed the many U.S. plants we 
visited, such as GE and IBM, all showing a remarkable aptitude for the 
technology of the 21st century.

I recall, several years ago, being surprised when I sought a number 
from information and found out that the answering person was in India. 
I have since learned that this is a common practice because, whereas, 
it used to cost about $3.50 for a minute conversation between the 
United States and India, it now costs about 7 cents.



The Indians are very highly educated. They are able to take on jobs, 
so-called outsourcing, at a much lower rate of compensation. They have 
physician groups who are available to read, through the miracles of 
modern technology, x rays. They have a 10/1/2/-hour time difference, so 
they are prepared to do it on pretty much on an around-the-clock basis. 
While, obviously, there is a loss of jobs with outsourcing, I think our 
long-range benefits in trade with India--a major trading partner--and 
the strengthening of this democracy in Asia will provide a tremendous 
source of strength and assistance to the goals of the United States. I 
think it is especially important to see the Nation of India develop 
with its 1.1 billion people as a counterbalance, so to speak, to China 
with 1.3 billion people. We have in India a democracy, contrasted with 
the authoritarian government which prevails in China and, in the long 
run, the incentives and the productivity of free people in a democracy 
should be quite a counterbalance, if not a nation which will exceed the 
tremendous strides which China has seen.

A major topic of conversation on my trip to India was the recent 
agreement between the United States and India, where we will make 
nuclear technology available to the nation of India. When I first 
learned of that proposal, I had very substantial misgivings because 
India was not a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. But on 
examining the issues further and seeing that India had not joined that 
treaty as a matter of principle, feeling it was discriminatory, since 
the only people who were part of the so-called nuclear club, or were 
recognized to be part of the so-called nuclear club, were the five 
major powers. I think if the U.N. Charter were being written today, 
India would be included as one of the five major powers of the world. 
At any rate, that was a major topic of conversation.

The nuclear technology that the United States will make available to 
India will strengthen India's economy and will be a good bridge in 
cementing relations between the United States and India.

I had the privilege of meeting with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of 
India to discuss a wide range of issues. He expressed great pleasure at 
his relations with President Bush and with the signing of the nuclear 
agreement, and he made a comment that India did not want another 
nuclear power in the region and specifically said he was opposed to 
seeing Iran gain nuclear weapons. I thanked Prime Minister Singh in 
India for the vote which they cast in support of the U.S. position in 
the United Nations on the Iranian issue, and I think the agreement will 
be very helpful in promoting good relations between the United States 
and India.

I then traveled to Syria, which was my 16th visit to that nation, 
starting in 1984. During the course of those visits--I have had the 
opportunity to meet with former President Hafez al-Assad, on nine 
occasions, and with his successor, his son, President Bashar al-Assad, 
on four occasions. I recollect that the first meeting I had with Hafez 
al-Assad was in January of 1988, and it lasted 4 hours 38 minutes, 
discussing a wide range of issues on the Iran-Iraq war, which had just 
been concluded, and then on Syrian-Israeli relations and then on U.S.-
U.S.S.R. relations, and I found President al-Assad at that time to be a 
very engaging interlocutor. I suggested, on a number of occasions, that 
I had taken a sufficient amount of his time, and he generously extended 
the time until we had discussed a very wide range of issues. I found 
those discussions with President Hafez al-Assad to be productive.

In 1996, when Prime Minister Netanyahu took office, he made a public 
announcement that he would hold Syria responsible for the Hezbollah 
attacks on northern Israel. Syria then realigned their troops. I was in 
Jerusalem, and Prime Minister Netanyahu asked me to carry a message to 
President Hafiz al-Assad that he wanted peace, and I did. Later, now 
Foreign Minister Walid al-Mouallem said that that comment helped to 
defuse the situation.

For many years, President Hafez al-Assad refused to negotiate with 
Israel unless all five of the major superpowers sponsored the 
international conference. Israel's Prime Minister Shamir was opposed on 
the grounds that he would attend the conference sponsored by the United 
States and the U.S.S.R. but not when the odds were stacked 4 to 1 
against Israel. I discussed that matter on a number of occasions with 
President Hafez al-Assad, whether my urging him had any effect. The 
effect is that President Hafez al-Assad agreed to go to Madrid in 1981 
to a conference sponsored by the United States and the Soviet Union. I 
had urged President Hafez al-Assad to allow the Syrian Jews to leave. I 
made a point to him in the early to mid-1990s that the Jewish women in 
Syria had no one of their own faith to marry. He made an interesting 
suggestion. He said that if anyone will come and claim a Syrian Jewish 
bride, she could leave the country. I translated that offer to the 
large Syrian-Jewish community in New York and, regrettably, there were 
no takers. But after a time, President Hafez al-Assad let the Jews go 
on his own, which was a constructive move.


I first met President Bashar al-Assad at the funeral of his father. I 
was the only Member of Congress to attend the funeral. It was a 33-hour 
trip--15 hours over, 3 hours on the ground, and 15 hours back. I made 
the trip to pay my respects and to meet the new President. On this 
occasion, I met extensively for more than an hour with Foreign Minister 
Walid al-Mouallem and the next day for a little over an hour with 
President Bashar al-Assad. President Assad said that he was interested 
in undertaking peace negotiations with Israel. He said he was obviously 
looking for a return of the Golan but that he had a good measure of 
quid pro quo to offer Israel and assistance on the fragile truce which 
Israel now has with Hezbollah and also assistance with Hamas. In my 
formal statement, I go into greater detail on that subject.

I pressed President Bashar al-Assad on the obligations Syria had to 
abide by U.N. Resolution 1701 to not to support Hezbollah, and he said 
Syria would honor that requirement, that obligation. I, also, pressed 
him on allowing the U.S. investigation into the assassination of 
Lebanese Prime Minister Hariri, and again I received assurances on that 
subject. It is always difficult to know the validity of the assurances, 
but I think the dialog and the conversation and pressing the point is 
very worthwhile.

With respect to Iraq, President Bashar al-Assad said that Syria would 
be interested in hosting an international conference attended by the 
warring factions in Iraq and that Syria had already gained the 
concurrence of Turkey to participate and Syria would invite other Arab 
countries to such a discussion. I realize that there is some 
disagreement with the issue of dialog with Syria, but it is my view, 
developed over many years of foreign travel, that dialog and talk is a 
very important and worthwhile undertaking.

My trip there followed visits by Senators Bill Nelson, Chris Dodd, 
and John Kerry. I think all came away with the same conclusion that the 
dialog was very much worthwhile. I then traveled to Israel, where I had 
an opportunity to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Olmert. I relayed to 
him the interest that Bashar al-Assad had in dialog. Prime Minister 
Olmert had been reportedly cool to any such discussions subsequent to 
my visit. Some more positive statements were coming from Israeli 
officials about possible negotiation also with Israel, but Prime 
Minister Olmert insisted on having some display of good faith on the 
part of Syria before even considering undertaking such discussions.

We also met with Foreign Minister Livni and former Prime Minister 
Netanyahu and our conversations are detailed in my written statement.

We then traveled to Ramallah to talk to Salam Fayyad and Hannan 
Ashrawi, members of the so-called Third Way, a very small Palestinian 
party but a very able people and very stalwart advocates for peace. 
Those comments are contained in my written statement.

I ask unanimous consent that the full text of my prepared statement 
be printed in the Record.