# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `512e95eec6a8f52b1fb0b8342645bdcf`
`Mr. CASTLE â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, regrettably, I rise in opposition to the 
Fiscal Year 2007 Emergency Supplemental Spending bill.

Earlier this year, our military submitted a request to Congress for 
emergency funding to protect our brave soldiers, and it is our duty to 
respond to this important request in a timely fashion. Unfortunately, 
the legislation before us today includes billions of dollars in non-
emergency spending and numerous provisions relating to troop withdrawal 
not requested by the Administration, which have the potential to delay 
passage of this vital emergency funding.

Much of the extra spending included in this bill will go to wasteful 
pork barrel projects and non-emergency subsidy programs, including 
millions of dollars for spinach farmers in California and peanut 
storage in Georgia. While I have strongly supported some of the policy 
provisions added to this bill, such as the minimum wage increase and 
expanded funding for homeland security, I am concerned that the 
Democratic leadership is attempting to hold critical resources for our 
soldiers in limbo in order to force political votes.

Our military leaders on the ground in Iraq have warned that 
disruptive changes in day-to-day operations will occur without 
immediate supplemental funding. In fact, the acting Secretary of the 
Army recently stated that if it does not receive additional funding by 
the end of April, the military will be forced to start making difficult 
decisions, such as postponing repairs on equipment. Sadly, rather than 
providing our military with the tools it has requested, the Democratic 
leadership is forcing a political agenda, which is certain to lead to 
an impasse with the Administration and further delay this important 
funding.

I have disagreed with many aspects of our strategy in Iraq, and I 
have worked hard to convince our government to change its course in the 
region and begin pursuing robust diplomacy to end the conflict. Indeed, 
I am hopeful that my efforts, and those of my colleagues, have prompted 
the Administration to begin engaging in an intense diplomatic 
initiative to establish peace and stability, so that our troops may 
return home to their families. However, when it comes to funding for 
our soldiers who are serving in harm's way, it is not appropriate for 
Congress to set arbitrary timelines for withdrawal or condition 
military resources based on partisan objectives. It is important that 
our strategy in Iraq include goals for bringing the troops home, but 
excluding the judgment of U.S. commanders and mandating an exact 
deadline for withdrawal--regardless of the situation on the ground--
would endanger our brave soldiers.

Mr. Speaker, the President has pledged to veto this legislation due 
to the inclusion of non-emergency spending and policy provisions. We 
can not afford to waste precious time arguing over disingenuous 
political proposals and extraneous pork barrel spending projects. I 
intend to vote against this bill and I will adamantly oppose any 
attempts to play politics with funding for our soldiers.