# BRIAN K. SCHRAMM POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `513a20c15ee365984e1ea42cbf7ac3c6`
`Mr. LEE of New York — 28 April 2009`

---


Mr. LEE of New York. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I wanted 
to thank the chairman and the ranking member for helping to bring this 
legislation to the floor. I also want to thank the members of our New 
York delegation for cosponsoring this measure.

Last month, I visited with Army National Guardsmen based out of 
Western New York who spent part of 2007 and most of 2008 serving in 
Afghanistan. These are soldiers who put their lives on hold for more 
than a year to help train the Afghan national army and police. They 
take great pride in the work that they do over there, but what they are 
most proud of is the fact that everyone came home safe and sound. Of 
course, not all units are fortunate.

A great hero by the name of Brian Schramm, who grew up in Monroe 
County, a native of the town of Greece, heard the call to serve early 
on in his life. He signed up not long after graduating high school and 
went on to become a tremendous Marine.



On October 15, 2004, Lance Corporal Schramm was on his second tour of 
Iraq when he became the first resident of the 26th Congressional 
District to be killed in action in Iraq. He was 22.

Brian made the ultimate sacrifice to protect the values that sustain 
this country, family, community, hard work and freedom. That is why I 
introduced this proposal to rename the post office in his honor just a 
few miles down the road from where Brian had grown up.

This is one way to pay tribute not only to Brian's sacrifices, but 
those of his loved ones as well, his parents, Keith and Mary Ellen; his 
older sister, Jennifer; and his two younger brothers, Kyle and Michael.

Keith and Mary Ellen, who I've had the privilege to meet, have 
honored their son's legacy by becoming very active in local veterans' 
issues. Mary Ellen recently started the Rochester chapter of Gold Star 
Mothers.

Being part of a military family requires a great amount of courage, 
and in Keith and Mary Ellen, the town of Greece has two everyday 
heroes.

This post office would certainly not be the last tribute to Brian's 
memory. Each year a student at Brian's alma mater of Greece Olympia 
High School receives a scholarship in his name. This award is a 
testament to Brian's incredible work ethic and his lifelong desire to 
help others.

Today, western New Yorkers seek to take another step towards repaying 
the great debt of gratitude we owe to Lance Corporal Schramm by 
redesignating a Federal facility in his honor.

This legislation will make it so that children growing up in the town 
of Greece now and years to come will ask their parents, who was Brian 
Schramm? And then they will come to know about the selfless individual 
and brave patriot who gave his life to protect this Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I can think of no better way to ensure that Brian's 
legacy endures.