---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5155047f2529e34c41a0fb670e2c18da`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I rise today to honor SSgt Nathan M. 
Cox who was killed on September 20, 2008 in Korengal Valley, 
Afghanistan. Staff Sergeant Cox was serving with B Company, 1st 
Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, out of Fort 
Hood, TX, and died following the injuries that he sustained after his 
vehicle encountered an improvised exploding device by the roadside. I 
would like to express my condolences to Nathan's friends and family, in 
particular Nathan's parents Jane and Leslie, wife Annie, and 5-year-old 
daughter Sophia. They are in my thoughts and prayers.

Staff Sergeant Cox was deployed to Afghanistan in July of this year, 
having spent a year in Iraq prior to his arrival in Afghanistan. He had 
attended Davenport Central High School in Davenport, IA, and enlisted 
in the Army straight after leaving high school. Nathan spent 3 years in 
Bosnia during the mid 1990s. Then, in 2005, at age 29, he re-entered 
the Army to make it his career. Nathan made the ultimate sacrifice 
defending the country and the


people that he loved, so that those of us back home can enjoy safety 
and freedom. His bravery and the bravery of all of his comrades will 
never be forgotten by a grateful nation.

Jane Cox, Nathan's mother, said that Nathan was very interested in 
foreign affairs and hence chose the Army to utilize his talents. She 
added that Nathan had finally come to terms with his ''gift of being a 
leader.'' People who knew him describe a man with a great sense of 
humor who always looked on the bright side of everything. It is during 
these times of uncertainty abroad and at home that we look to the 
examples set by people like Staff Sergeant Cox, who carry out their 
duty in a way that is both courageous and honorable. I know that Nathan 
did not die in vain, but his tremendous sacrifice has helped to secure 
peace and freedom for the United States and our allies around the 
world.
