---
---

# None
## `515c0174cf4247e25d28586cd63dddf5`
`Mr. OBEY — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. I thank the gentlewoman for the time.

Madam Speaker, our principal obligation on this bill is simply to 
keep the government open. We've got enough problems in the economy 
right now without adding to people's uncertainty. We had concluded that 
the least disruptive way to do that and the way with the least delay 
was to attach this continuing resolution to the one appropriation bill 
that was ready to be conferenced, the Legislative Branch Appropriation 
bill.

This is a relatively straightforward and unadorned CR. As far as 
funding levels are concerned, we are simply allowing agencies to 
continue fiscal 2009 levels, with three exceptions:

First, we are following the House's lead when it voted 388-32 to 
allow the postal service to cover a budget shortfall by postponing a 
payment intended to prefund its retiree health benefits;

Second, we're funding the census at a somewhat higher rate to allow 
it to ramp up activities so the 2010 census can proceed. The calendar 
is not going to change to suit congressional convenience;

Third, we are providing additional funding for the Veterans Health 
Administration. The VA expects to treat


over 6 million patients in 2010, including almost 420,000 veterans of 
Iraq and Afghanistan.



The CR also extends a number of authorizations that would otherwise 
expire: transportation programs, child nutrition, stop-loss payments to 
our troops, E-Verify, and various other programs.

So, as I said, this is a relatively routine CR which keeps the 
government open for the next 30 days.

Outside of those items, we make no policy judgments. We change no 
existing policy except that, in accordance with the House vote last 
week, we also say no more funds for this 30-day period for ACORN. There 
have been some objections by the minority to this process. They claim 
it is procedurally outrageous because we are attaching the continuing 
resolution to a specific appropriations subcommittee bill. This is 
certainly not out of the ordinary.

In fact, in September of 2006, our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, when they controlled this House, attached the continuing 
resolution to the defense bill. I have the roll call on that if anyone 
cares to take a look at it. If you do, you would find out there were 
only two Members of the other party who voted against it, and in the 
Senate, the vote was 100 to nothing in support of it.

So there is no difference in what we are doing today, but there is a 
difference in how we do it. We are up front with what we are doing. We 
included this action in the conference notes, and voted on it in the 
conference. That was certainly not the case in 2006 when the action of 
adding the CR was not flagged or noticed in any way during the 
conference or in the conference notes. I have a copy of those 
conference notes here if anyone wishes to see them. So the action that 
was taken then was simply taken after the fact in contrast to our doing 
it up front and in full view. So I believe that, in comparison to that, 
this action is, certainly, totally transparent.

Now I need to take this opportunity to note one other point: Until 
last night, we were not in a position to move other appropriations 
bills because of a dispute between the House and the Senate over how to 
deal with for-profit earmarks. As I think the membership knows, we have 
put in place in the last few years significant reforms to the earmark 
process. When we took over control of the Congress in 2007, we put in 
place a moratorium on earmarks for that year until we could reform the 
process and make it much less susceptible to wasting taxpayers' money. 
Since then, including this year's bills, we have cut the dollar amount 
of earmarks by 50 percent. We require every Member to request earmarks 
publicly, ending the practice of anonymous earmarks in the House, and 
to certify that they have no financial interest.

This year, we have gone one step further. Recognizing the potential 
for abuse in sole-source contracting, we have insisted that all House 
earmarks designated for for-profit entities must undergo a competitive 
bidding process. We still allow those entities to be named so we can 
help, for instance, small businesses get a foot in the door so that 
they can be noticed by Federal agencies, which all too often simply 
notice people with whom they are familiar in their inside processes, 
but we nonetheless require that those entities still submit a bid and 
compete in a fair competition.

The Senate did not do that this year, and up until last night, was 
objecting to even allowing the House to follow this policy. Last night, 
we reached an agreement that will allow us to proceed with House 
earmarks subject to that new policy.

There is still one small area of disagreement that remains. There are 
a small number of projects, approximately 5 percent, which have been 
included in both the House and Senate bills. Until last night, the 
other body was refusing to allow those to be competed. Under the 
agreement we reached this year and this year only, those projects will 
be dealt with according to Senate policy. Next year and thereafter, 
they will be managed by House policy. So they, too, will be subjected 
to competition next year.

We reached this agreement because the other body insisted that, 
because they had proceeded all year under their policies, it was too 
late to change the rules of the game for them. We recognize that 
changing policies at this point would be a procedural problem for the 
other body. We do appreciate their agreement that, starting next year, 
we can all agree on how to handle for-profit projects and that they 
will be handled in accordance with the House procedures.

This will enable us to now proceed to conference on a number of other 
appropriations bills which have been passed by the Senate: We have had 
a motion to go to conference on energy and water. We expect next week, 
after two small matters are resolved, to also be able to go to 
conference on the Agriculture bill. We hope that, within a week, we 
will be able to resolve a few remaining differences on the Homeland 
Security bill and to also go to conference on that and other bills as 
the Senate grinds through them in their processes.

So, having reported that to the House, I would simply urge an ''aye'' 
vote for the legislation before us, and would simply note that, given 
the calendar, a vote against this proposition would be a vote to shut 
down the government.

With that, I thank the gentlewoman for the time.