---
---

# None
## `516c1e77ab7533f74bde1de500a2cbdc`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 15 June 2009`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I want to commend and thank my good friend, the gentleman from New 
York for his sponsorship, again, of this important resolution and 
certainly thank him for his insights and understanding of the current 
situation that we're faced with as far as dealing with North Korea.

Mr. Speaker, the geopolitical situation now, the realities and the 
development as a result of North Korea's latest activities now, makes 
it absolutely necessary for the United States to strengthen our 
alliance and partnership with South Korea.

The security alliance between the United States and Korea has been 
pivotal ever since it was forged through much shedding of blood during 
the Korean War some 60 years ago. As I recall, over 33,000 of our men 
and women in military uniform died as a result of that terrible 
conflict known as the Korean War.

Without question, South Korea has remained a steadfast U.S. ally, 
especially in our time of need, whether it be the horrific conflict of 
Vietnam, where I personally served at the time, where some 50,000 South 
Korean soldiers were right there fighting alongside the members of our 
Armed Forces there at that time. When we needed assistance in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Lebanon, and other global hotspots, South Korea responded 
affirmatively and dependably as our ally. The foundation of our 
friendship and alliance is unshakeable. Through our shared values and 
common history, we are able to meet global challenges together, ranging 
from terrorism to the current crisis in North Korea.

Mr. Speaker, our economic and trade relationship with South Korea is 
one of the strongest in Asia, and currently South Korea is our seventh-
largest trading partner in the world. In 2007 our two countries 
concluded a free trade agreement that now awaits approval by our 
Congress as well as the Korean National Assembly.

In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement will 
bring tremendous benefits to both of our countries. The International 
Trade Commission has forecast that the elimination of tariffs on U.S. 
goods under the agreement would increase our GDP by about $11 billion a 
year. The agreement will also eliminate regulatory and other nontariff 
barriers that have historically restricted access by farmers, 
manufacturers, and service providers. And to the South Korean market, 
with growing difficulties and the health of our economy, in my opinion, 
this proposed agreement will be a win-win situation: a win for our 
workers, a win for our businesses, and a win for our consumers.



But perhaps the most compelling argument supporting a free trade 
agreement with this important ally of ours is the very reason that we 
are gathered here in support of House Resolution 309. The geopolitical 
factors in East Asia and North Korea's recent destabilizing actions 
necessitates a firm and tangible U.S. commitment in the region. And 
realizing that the free trade agreement would send the right message to 
both North and South Korea that we seek an even stronger and more 
comprehensive economic and trade relationship with our important ally, 
the Republic of Korea.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.