---
---

# HONORING LANCE CORPORAL NIGEL K. OLSEN, USMC
## `516c07c643ba1461798235ef020a2484`
`Mr. CHAFFETZ — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. CHAFFETZ. Madam Speaker, I rise for the second time in just one 
short week to honor a young Marine from my district who paid the 
ultimate price for our country, and reminded us with his sacrifice that 
freedom isn't free.

Marine LCpl Nigel K. Olsen died on March 4, 2010, while serving in 
the Helmand province in Afghanistan, just days after Lance Corporal 
Aragon, a fellow Utah Marine in his unit passed away.

Like so many serving with him, Lance Corporal Olsen rose to answer 
the call of duty with a maturity and patriotic honor far beyond his 
years. He had finished high school at Mountain View High in Orem just 3 
years earlier, and enlisted right after graduation. He knew from a 
young age that he wanted to serve in the military, to serve the country 
he loved, even before he rode on an aircraft carrier from Hawaii to 
California in elementary school.

We honor Lance Corporal Olsen's mother Kim and father Todd, and his 
sister Stacy and her daughter as well. They also loved their country--
our country--enoughh to let the son and brother and uncle whom they 
loved serve in Afghanistan with his fellow Marines.

At this time of their loss, I would ask my colleagues to join with me 
in extending our Nation's heartfelt condolences and appreciation for 
the service and sacrifices of Lance Corporal Olsen and his family. We 
ask so much of these fine young men and women in the Armed Forces.

May we ever keep our servicemembers and their families in our 
thoughts and prayers, and may God bless them, and the United States of 
America.
