---
---

# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `517c75250982de67e883ea73dd20ca31`
`Ms. LEE of California — 11 June 2009`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, first let me thank the chairman 
for his very effective work on this bill and for your leadership and 
for really bringing this forward to the committee so that all of us 
could have an opportunity to weigh in, and talk about, and amend, and 
include many of the provisions that we believe allowed us to come to 
this floor today to support this bill.

I believe, like many believe, that addressing Pakistan, rather than 
an escalation of the war in Afghanistan, is a much more effective way 
to address terrorism and our national security. I'm greatly encouraged 
by the goals of this legislation, which aims to put United States 
''smart power'' to work, which many of us have been talking about for 
many years. The smart power. This helps to reshape our relationship 
with Pakistan based on a long-term commitment to social, economic and 
political development. The legislation integrates key benchmarks and 
limitations absent in previous aid packages which resulted in really 
$10 billion in United States aid since 2001, yielding little or no 
results or progress on many fronts in Pakistan. So you can imagine why 
some of us initially were very skeptical of this.

This legislation also seeks to reshape the U.S.-Pakistan relationship 
by shifting unconditional United States military assistance away from 
this historical trend of exclusively unconditional military assistance. 
I want to make that point very clear. This is not unconditional. This 
is conditional. And it also provides a two-to-one ratio in terms of the 
development assistance, economic assistance, social and democratic 
priorities, which we all believe we should support.

Simply put, this bill really reflects the sentiments shared by many 
of my colleagues, that the national security of our Nation hinges upon 
much more than military might. Instead, it hinges upon the success of 
diplomatic and development efforts around the globe.