---
---

# None
## `51814072e24cc1a0842a0256cfe91d8c`
`Mr. HAYES — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the colonel for yielding. I 
appreciate Congressman Kline for his diligence in bringing this 
important matter to the floor. You and I have been friends for years. I 
have been here a little longer, but I say without reservation that 
probably the main motivation that you and I serve, aside from our 
specific constituents in our own districts, is our love for the 
military and our desire to do anything and everything we can to support 
them at all levels of service.

I represent Fort Bragg, Pope Air Force Base, Joint Special Operations 
Command, U.S. Army Special Operations Command at the epicenter of the 
universe in Fayetteville, North Carolina. And as I have spent time with 
these young men and women in all parts of the world, I am continuously 
astounded, amazed, and incredibly appreciative for what they do every 
day and every night of the year to keep us free. I say that simply as a 
little bit of a background to pick up on what Colonel Wilson and Dr. 
Gingrey have said in tribute to General Peter Pace.

For 40 years, Pete Pace has absolutely signified, has identified, has 
personified, the greatest qualities of the American citizen-soldier-
marine that anybody could absolutely personify. He served in virtually 
every theater for 40 years. He has exemplified Semper Fi. He has been 
faithful beyond belief to our country. He would still be serving, were 
it not for political correctness and cheap-shot politics, that has 
unfortunately become a part of what we do.

I think General Pace said it better than anyone. When given the 
opportunity to resign, he said, ''Why would I


leave my men on the battlefield? If you tell me my job is done, then my 
job is done.''

General Pace, your job has never been done. It will never be over, 
because the memory of your service will be extremely strong in all of 
our minds.

Colonel, I would like to add a few more remarks. I feel it is highly 
inappropriate that the Senate majority leader would make disparaging 
remarks about General Pace and General Petraeus, the commander of our 
troops in Iraq and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Mr. Speaker, General Petraeus and General Pace have had a tough job, 
and now they should not be fodder for political gain with a group of 
left-wing liberal activists, or anyone else for that matter. Gentlemen, 
scholars and warriors, they have devoted their lives to serving our 
Nation, and have done it well.

What is most puzzling is that the Senate majority leader put his 
endorsement behind General Petraeus and trusted him to carry out our 
objectives in Iraq when he was confirmed on January 26 of this year. 
Obviously he felt General Petraeus was more than competent when he 
voted to confirm him.

Mr. Speaker, I don't think anyone is content with the existing 
situation in Iraq, neither General Petraeus nor General Pace. General 
Petraeus, the commanding general, has cautioned it is too early to 
judge the success of Baghdad's security and stability. He informs us 
that the new security effort is just beginning to reach the full number 
on the ground, because they still have an additional brigade just 
coming into Iraq, General Petraeus is now in his third tour of duty in 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the majority leader and others have visited troops 
serving as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. I have been there. I think 
it is good that lawmakers see the situation firsthand. But there is 
real arrogance in saying that someone with a commander's-level 
experience and General Pace's experience is out of touch with the 
situation in Iraq.

As I said, I have visited Iraq many times and recognize General 
Petraeus as a military commander and as the expert he is on this issue. 
As he makes determinations regarding the security situation in Iraq, I 
will ask tough questions. If you are going to declare that he is out of 
touch or incompetent, then you have already made up your mind. You have 
already determined the outcome is going to be labeled a failure.

Mr. Speaker, what message are we sending our troops when the 
leadership of the other body has already declared that their effort in 
this new security strategy is a failure before they have really begun?

The 82nd Airborne from Fort Bragg in my home district is currently 
deployed to Iraq as part of the troop surge. These servicemembers and 
others are there at the tip of the spear. It is time for everyone to 
put partisan politics aside and stand together in solid support of our 
men and women in uniform.

General Pace has had an incredible, distinguished career, serving in 
every capacity, and he deserves much better. His record merits thanks 
and a second term as chairman. Instead, he becomes another victim of 
the campaign of personal destruction.

General Pace, thank you for Semper Fi. You have always been faithful.

Nobody wants their troops to return home sooner or more safely than I 
do. They should not stay in Iraq one day longer than necessary. While 
we have soldiers on the ground fighting the war on terror for us over 
there, we should have no patience for cheap-shot political gamesmanship 
on this critical national security issue here at home.

Colonel Kline, again, thank you. General Pace, thank you, and Lynn, 
and your family. We are ever grateful for your service.