---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `51939e6f6d9a083821472eea48bf62bd`
`Ms. HOOLEY — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join the discussion on Iraq that is 
taking place in this Chamber, across this country, in classrooms, 
coffee shops, living rooms and across back fences. This resolution asks 
whether the House of Representatives believes with regard to the war in 
Iraq that doing more of the same is a correct strategy to adopt.

Since this war began, 3,125 American soldiers have died and 23,417 
have been wounded. There have been over 100,000 Iraqi casualties and 
nearly $500 billion has been spent. We have tried troop surges before 
in this war and we have seen the results. In November of 2004, the 
United States increased the troop levels by approximately 18,000. And 
guess what happened? Insurgent attacks went up by 17 percent. Did that 
surge work? No.

In June of 2005, we increased troop levels again, this time by 21,500 
troops. Guess what happened? Insurgent attacks went up 29 percent. Did 
that surge work? No.

If we allow to surge troop levels again, by how much can we expect 
insurgent attacks to rise this time? Einstein once suggested that 
insanity is doing something over and over and over again and expecting 
different results.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against going to war in Iraq, but ever since the 
President committed our first soldier, I have done everything in my 
power to support our troops and give them equipment to keep them safe. 
Our warrior soldiers have done everything we have asked of them and 
more, and I remain committed to our troops until the very last soldier 
leaves Iraq, and I will do whatever it takes to protect our soldiers. 
But putting an additional 37,000 American troops in harm's way when 
there hasn't been a change in strategy is not how we as a country 
support our troops.

Last November, the American people spoke loud and clear. They said 
that the current tactics in Iraq weren't working and they don't support 
more of the same. An escalation of troops will not quell the violence, 
but will lead to increased violence, more American casualties and a 
further destabilized Iraq.

There is a moment when wisdom requires change, and I believe that the 
time has come to say enough is enough. America's military involvement 
in Iraq needs to draw to a close and it is time for the Iraqi people to 
assume control over their own country.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in voting ''yes'' on this 
resolution.