# TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE AND SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 2008
## `51b8a6cb887b40af96812a1566c0921a`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, to pick up on my colleague's comments 
about fairness, one of the provisions in this legislation deals with 
closing the loophole for KBR, a former Halliburton subsidiary, that 
used the Cayman Islands to avoid paying taxes. And that is, it was 
discovered that in fact KBR, they're a company that was doing its 
operations in Iraq, was not paying and consciously set up a company in 
the Cayman Islands, just a post office box, set up a company to avoid 
paying Social Security, Medicare, and unemployment insurance, which is 
how they became the low bid.

It is the company, by the way, I'm sure you remember this, that 
served contaminated water to our troops, costing the taxpayers more 
money to take care of the health of those troops.

They set up an operation in the Cayman Islands, and in fact, their 
post office was Post Office Box 847, One Capital Place, 4th Floor, 
Shedden Road, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1103. And the reason 
they were the low bidder? They didn't pay their fair share.

And the truth is the American people care about two things when it 
comes to American taxes: Simplicity of the code and fairness. And this 
is an example of the unfairness of our code.

In fact, if you look at the Ugland House in the Cayman Islands, one 
building houses 12,000 companies who have established post office boxes 
or ZIP codes or modems there, and the only purpose they're there for is 
to avoid paying their fair share of their taxes. And one of the pieces 
of this legislation is, in fact, to shut down the operation so 
companies cannot get contracts doing government work here in the United 
States, paid for by the taxpayers, whose sole purpose is to avoid 
paying their fair share.

The company acknowledges that the reason they set up the Cayman 
Islands was so they didn't pay Social Security, they didn't pay 
unemployment, they didn't pay Medicare.