# None
## `51c1034f3fb5797654a4d01d2bba0394`
`Mr. KERRY — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today we saw the floor of the Senate 
hijacked for purely partisan political purposes at a time when we need 
the U.S. Senate to instead come together for the purpose of protecting 
our national security and changing a policy in Iraq that is not 
working.

What happened in the Senate today is partisan, political and 
demeaning of this institution. The Republican minority is desperate to 
distract the Senate and our country from the real issue at hand, which 
is a failed escalation and an administration policy in Iraq that is 
every day costing American blood and treasure. The same Senators who 
have gone along with the President's Iraq policy every step of the way, 
who have expressed not a shred of outrage about nonexistent weapons of 
mass destruction, predictions of a ''cakewalk,'' ''mission 
accomplished,'' or ''an insurgency, its last throes'' will now say and 
do anything to avoid talking about what is really happening in Iraq. 
They would rather express outrage about a newspaper ad run by an 
independent entity, than express outrage about a policy pursued by 
their party and their administration. And certainly they don't want to 
address the outrage of more Americans dying for a policy we know is not 
working.

The Senate did not need to spend hours today on this debate. Nine 
days ago, the first time I was asked about the ad which the Senator 
from Texas loves to talk about, I said it was ''over the top'' and 
''inappropriate, period.'' I said that, as a veteran, I thought it was 
wrong to characterize any member of the military in the way General 
Petraeus was characterized in that advertisement. I have nothing but 
respect for General Petraeus. I wasn't alone in that feeling. Senator 
Reid spoke out. Senator Biden spoke out. There was no question about 
where Democrats stood. And we ratified that opinion in a broad 
condemnation of that behavior--including the Petraeus ad--in the Boxer 
amendment.

But I also asked that we all recognize that the emotion behind that 
ad is an emotion shared by the American people: frustration--
frustration as we head into the 5th year of being told one thing about 
Iraq and finding out another. That is why we should be having a real 
debate and a real discussion about the policy in Iraq rather than 
trying to score partisan points over the politics of Iraq. It is as 
insulting as it is illuminating that in a week-long debate in which 
each side can offer just


five amendments, the Republicans would waste one of their chances to 
change a broken policy by choosing instead to embrace a political 
stunt.

We are where we are. I vehemently oppose the kind of political abuse 
of the Senate embodied in the Cornyn amendment, and I am saddened if 
not surprised to see that so many of the Republicans who believe that 
what happened to General Petraeus was wrong, could not bring themselves 
to vote for the Boxer amendment which made clear that the assault on 
Senator Cleland's patriotism in 2002 was wrong, and that the lies 
broadcast about my own military record in 2004 were also wrong. The 
votes against the Boxer amendment--an amendment which makes clear our 
disagreement with the ad which ran September 10--speak volumes about 
the partisan motivations behind the Cornyn amendment, and the fact 
that, apparently, many of our colleagues believe that attacking the 
integrity of veterans and members of the military is fair game as long 
as they are Democrats. I would remind them that when you sign up for 
military duty, no one asks whether you are a Democrat or Republican, 
liberal, or conservative.

Over the last years, I have defended veterans who have been under 
assault from any quarters, left or right. I spoke out in 2000 when John 
McCain's integrity and military record was questioned by the Bush 
campaign in South Carolina. I spoke out when Max Cleland's patriotism 
was savaged by people who had never worn the uniform. I defended Jack 
Murtha when vicious partisans on the right called that decorated marine 
a ''coward.'' I spoke out when the Bush administration questioned the 
patriotism of career military men and Generals throughout the war in 
Iraq, whether it was General Shinseki, or many in uniform who spoke out 
against Secretary Rumsfeld. I don't reserve my defense of patriotism 
for Democrats, I defend all who have worn the uniform, whether they 
agree with me or not. I wish I could say the same for those who brought 
forward the Cornyn amendment and voted against the Boxer amendment.

This was not a proud day in the Senate, or a high mark in our 
politics; rather, it was hours lost and time wasted when the Senate 
should have delivered what all the men and women of the armed forces 
truly deserve: a policy equal to their sacrifice.