# SSI EXTENSION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED REFUGEES ACT
## `51c8095c8131ab32bdbbd67a51d007c3`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I think the torch of the Statue of Liberty might just 
be burning a little brighter today because we are soon going to send to 
the President a bill that helps the most vulnerable on our shores, 
refugees coming to America fleeing persecution, injustice, torture and 
even the threat of death. They are Jews from the former Soviet Union, 
Kurds from Iraq, Hmong fighters from Vietnam and other oppressed 
peoples from around the globe.

Refugees often flee their home countries with little more than their 
clothes on their backs. When they are disabled or elderly, employment 
can be difficult, which means they face almost complete destitution 
without assistance. Our Nation's program that is designed to help low-
income elderly and disabled individuals, the Supplemental Security 
Income program, or SSI, now terminates assistance to these refugees 
after they have been in the United States for 7 years. This cutoff was 
designed with the expectation that refugees would become citizens 
within this time frame and would then be eligible for continued 
benefits. However, a series of obstacles make that transition to 
citizenship difficult within the 7-year limit of SSI benefits. First, a 
refugee must live in the United States for at least 5 years before they 
are even eligible to submit an application for citizenship. A refugee 
must then confront a lengthy application process which takes up to 3 to 
4 years. Backlogs in processing citizenship applications have been 
caused by a variety of issues, including protracted background checks 
put in place after the September 11 terrorist attacks.

There are other barriers to citizenship, such as the continuing 
impact of a recent annual cap on the number of asylees who may become 
legal permanent residents, a status which asylees must maintain for 4 
years before they submit an application for citizenship.



Also, many disabled and elderly refugees encounter difficulties 
navigating the application process, which includes both an English 
language test and a U.S. civics test.

We passed bipartisan legislation a year ago in the House to extend 
SSI benefits for refugees and other humanitarian immigrants. The 
legislation before us today is that same bill sent back to us with an 
amendment by the Senate. The most significant modification by the 
Senate was to require all refugees to sign an affidavit that they are 
making a good faith effort to become U.S. citizens.

This bill, H.R. 2608, would generally extend SSI benefits for an 
additional 2 years for disabled and elderly refugees, asylees and other 
qualified humanitarian immigrants, including those whose benefits have 
expired in the past. Benefits could be extended for an additional time 
for those awaiting a decision on the pending application for 
citizenship. These policies would be in effect through 2011 and would 
restore SSI benefits for roughly 20,000 refugees.

The legislation completely offsets the cost of this SSI extension for 
refugees with a provision that would reduce Federal tax refunds to 
recover fraudulent unemployment insurance payments. This Federal tax 
revenue offset authority already exists to collect unpaid child 
support, unpaid State taxes and debts owed to Federal agencies.

Before pursuing a tax offset, a State would be required to notify the 
individual and provide them with at least 60 days to contest the amount 
being recovered. By catching and reducing fraud in the unemployment 
insurance system, this provision not only offsets the cost of SSI 
extension for refugees, but it also would reduce unemployment taxes on 
employers. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates the legislation 
will cut payroll taxes by $315 million over the next 10 years.

Madam Speaker, refugees come to this country fleeing persecution. 
They reside in our country legally, and those eligible for SSI are 
disabled, elderly or both. This legislation extends a modest benefit to 
help them provide for their most basic essentials. The bill will not 
add one dime to the Federal deficit, and it will even provide a tax 
cut. This combination has generated very broad support for the measure, 
which passed the House unanimously last year and did likewise in the 
Senate last month. Additionally, the Bush administration has proposed 
the same policies in the President's budget.

I would like to expressly thank my colleague, Mr. Weller, the ranking 
member, for working with me to forge this bipartisan bill. Today's 
action is the last step needed to provide a helping hand to those who 
need it most.

I reserve the balance of my time.