# EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JUANITA  MILLENDER-MCDONALD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
## `51ce88fa8ae4688e0d7f705afb7ad250`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia â€” 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I wish to offer my sincerest 
condolences to the family of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald. 
My thoughts and prayers go out to them in their time of mourning.

Congresswoman Millender-McDonald amassed many firsts and 
accomplishments during her life as a public servant by breaking racial 
and gender barriers. She was the first African-American woman to serve 
as Ranking Member and Chairman of the powerful House Committee on 
Administration. She was also the first woman to serve on the Carson 
City Council; the first to chair two powerful California State Assembly 
committees--the Insurance Committee; and the Revenue & Taxation 
Committee in her first term as a state legislator. She was also the 
first African-American Democratic Chair of the Congressional Caucus for 
Women's Issues and in that capacity she led the women on two 
groundbreaking meetings: One with U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan to 
talk about the plight of women globally and another with the chairman 
of the New York Stock Exchange to develop strategies for increasing 
women's investments and net worth.

In recognition of women who served in our military, Congresswoman 
Millender-McDonald initiated the first annual Memorial Day Tribute to 
Women in the Military at the Women's Memorial at Arlington National 
Cemetery and she led the fight to secure $15 million for the 
maintenance of the memorial. Most recently secured $50 million for 
counseling services for our returning men and women serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

During her 6 terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, her ability 
to reach across the aisle and effectively move bipartisan legislation 
was evident during her work on a range of issues, including ensuring 
equal rights for women and minorities, improving our education system, 
combating poverty, protecting voting rights, and stopping the genocide 
in Darfur.

Congresswoman Millender-McDonald devoted her life to her family and 
to service on behalf of her constituents in the 37th District of 
California and to the Nation. Congresswoman Juanita Millender McDonald 
was truly a phenomenal woman. She is a friend and colleague who will be 
sorely missed.