---
---

# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `51d84e3d713dd7bd47015d61d2bacd55`
`Mr. MEEK — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK. Will the gentleman yield for a second? I know you're an 
appropriator and we are talking about appropriations. You and Mr. 
Murphy are kind of throwing around these big words tonight. Let it be 
known that some of us in the room just want to break it down a little 
bit here in this Chamber.

I can't go back to my district and tell Ms. Johnson and Ms. Rodriguez 
or Ms. Jones who worked their entire lives that because the President 
decides to veto the Labor-Health bill, and I think it's important that 
we share this with the Members, we can't tell those individuals to suck 
it up. I am sorry that you weren't in the Defense bill. I am sorry that 
it had nothing to do with Iraq and Afghanistan, that we can't be for 
you.

One thing I can say here in this House is that we are for them and 
that we are standing for those individuals, and they are Republicans 
and they are Independents and they are Democrats and they are nonvoters 
and individuals thinking about voting for the first time. They are the 
sick and shut-in on that sick and shut-in list when people go to 
wherever they worship, or whatever the case may be. They are the 
individuals counting on this Congress to stand for them.

The Congress is doing what we are supposed to do, Mr. Altmire. But 
the bottom line is that the President has to do what he has to do, and 
he has to be the President of the United States of America, not just to 
secure the issue in Iraq. We have Americans here right now that need 
our support and our help.

I am glad that we are here and I am glad that we are putting the 
pressure on the minority party to do the right thing on behalf of their 
constituents and the American people.

Mr. Altmire.