---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `51d9717e3cca362505c24e5d0f3efb27`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, since its inception in 1997, I 
have been a steadfast proponent of SCHIP, known in Georgia as PeachCare 
for Kids, and I rise today to urge my colleagues to join me in 
sustaining this successful program by voting to override the 
President's veto.

Let me first say that, while my support of children's health care has 
been unwavering, this is not a perfect bill. Like many of my 
colleagues, some provisions in the bill concern me. But let us not let 
''perfect'' be the enemy of the ''good.''

On health care, our country faces a tremendous challenge, and while 
disagreement still impedes finding creative solutions to encourage 
responsibility for health care to solve problems of access for adults, 
it is our moral imperative to rise up and meet these challenges for our 
Nation's children. Furthermore, as Members of this body, it is our 
solemn duty to protect the youngest and most vulnerable among us. This 
legislation presents us with such an opportunity.

It is disappointing to see the administration throwing up so many 
roadblocks. Indeed, this administration has proven its willingness to 
''rise up and meet'' other challenges. Beyond that, it has proven its 
willingness to sign blank checks for a military operation with an ever-
changing, increasingly expensive mission. For the past 4/1/2/ and years 
we have been engaged in an overseas conflict that has taken a large 
toll on this country--in terms of both human life and taxpayer money. 
While it is of utmost importance to ensure our troops continue to have 
every dollar, dime, nickel, and penny they need to fight this war, we 
must not neglect our domestic priorities.

The SCHIP reauthorization asks the administration to rise up and meet 
the challenge of one of those domestic priorities. Plainly, the bill 
asks for just 41 days worth of Iraq war funding to embark on a clearly-
defined, targeted, and morally justifiable mission--providing American 
children from low-income families with comprehensive health care.

That's right--just 41 days worth of Iraq war funding would pay for 
the entire SCHIP bill. Just one week of the Iraq war would pay for 1.7 
million children. That's enough to cover all the children eligible for 
SCHIP in Georgia, as well as several other States. One week of war 
funding would do all that.

To my colleagues opposing this legislation, let me reiterate 
something many know very well: the President, recently, asked for 
compromise legislation.

This bill, in fact, represents a compromise, as evidenced by its 
broad bi-partisan support. Forty-three of our Nation's Governors, 
including Governor Sonny Perdue of Georgia, support this legislation, 
as do 270 organizations representing millions of Americans, 68 Senators 
and a majority of Congress.

I urge my colleagues to join the bi-partisan majority and vote in 
favor of overriding the President's veto.