# None
## `51dc2623354c453b00e18e70242c98e5`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to say it today that the 
conversation about corruption in Iraq, this isn't theoretical. It is 
not hypothetical. It is not just about numbers or statistics. 
Corruption in Iraq is real. It has a face. And, frankly, it is no 
secret to those Iraqis who are picking up their newspapers and their 
media outlets every day and finding out the corruption that is rampant 
there. So I think it is worthwhile just for a second to talk about the 
face of corruption in Iraq.

This is Salam al-Maliki, the former Iraqi Minister of Transportation. 
He is also the Prime Minister's cousin. He was accused of abusing his 
official position to purchase real estate at a fraction of its value. 
But the Prime Minister issued an order barring, barring, his case from 
being referred to court.

I want to now introduce you to Aiham Alsammarae. He was the Iraqi 
Minister of Electricity who was convicted in Iraq of the abuse of 
national funds; yet he escaped from the Green Zone with the help of 
U.S. contractors. He is now living, if you can believe it, in Chicago, 
running his own business and traveling around the world.

Finally, this is Hazem Shaalan. He was the Iraqi Minister of Defense, 
accused of embezzling almost $1 billion that should have been spent on 
weapons and vehicles for the Iraqi Army. Iraqi courts reportedly have 
audiotapes of his deputy discussing payoffs to various officials. After 
his conviction, he also fled the country, and he is now living in 
Europe or the Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, this is just the tip of the iceberg. But this 
administration doesn't think that the American people should be 
concerned or even know about this. By refusing to answer questions and 
retroactively classifying corruption reports, this administration has 
proved once again that they either don't trust the American people, or 
they know that their case for continuing this war is so weak that they 
have to obfuscate the facts on the ground.

Now government contractors are getting into the game. Two weeks ago, 
Erik Prince, the CEO of Blackwater Security, refused to disclose to 
this committee his salary or the profit margins of his company, despite 
the fact that Blackwater makes 90 percent of its money off of U.S. 
taxpayers.

This cannot stand, Mr. Speaker. I, for one, will never support 
another war funding authorization that doesn't provide for the 
redeployment of forces out of Iraq.

But for those on this floor who do support this war, I plead with you 
to at least demand accountability for the billions of wasted dollars 
that we have thrown at the Iraqis. Do not stand here on the House floor 
telling us that we cannot afford to heal children throughout the United 
States of America if we aren't even asking questions and getting the 
appropriate documentation that we require on the billions of wasted 
dollars in Iraq.