---
---

# None
## `51dde4041cfcfb26db0a6066dee81f65`
`Mr. THORNBERRY — 26 February 2010`

---


Mr. THORNBERRY. I thank the gentleman from California for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, since a number of our colleagues were watching the 
events or participating in the events at the White House yesterday, 
like the gentleman from California, I think it's important to review 
briefly the history of this legislation.

The Intelligence Committee referred or reported out H.R. 2701 out of 
committee on June 26, 2009, by a party line vote of 12-9. The Rules 
Committee first reported a rule out for its consideration on July 8, 
2009, and from July 8, 2009, until February 24, 2010, it just sat 
there, no action.

Meanwhile, there were at least eight attempted terrorist attacks or 
plots for which arrests were made against our homeland. Meanwhile, 
events changed in Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, Iran. All around the 
world things were changing, but we couldn't find time on the floor to 
deal with the Intelligence authorization bill. We had important things 
to do. We had post offices to name.

But then on February 24, 2010, the Rules Committee reported the 
second rule out, which included the McDermott language as part of a 
manager's amendment that was 31 total amendments combined into one. 
That McDermott language would create a new crime and penalties only for 
our intelligence professionals if they did things like deny terrorists 
a proper amount of sleep or if they did something that would violate a 
terrorist's religious beliefs however the terrorist chose to define 
those religious beliefs. There was no standard of reasonableness there 
at all.

So throughout the day yesterday, as most people were watching events 
in the White House, we argued against that provision; yet it was 
defended on the other side of the aisle throughout


the day. Some people said, Oh, it just restates current law. Mr. 
McDermott answered that himself in a 1-minute last night. He said, My 
amendment would have expanded on the President's Executive order to 
define what constitutes cruel, inhuman, and degrading interrogation, 
and it will create criminal penalties for those who use those kinds of 
interrogations.

People over there who said that it just restates current law were 
just mistaken. Somebody else said it reflects American values. I don't 
know when it became American value to treat terrorists better than we 
treat Americans in the criminal justice system. When it came time to 
vote, the majority found that they didn't have enough votes to pass the 
bill, and so they went back to Rules a third time on this bill. Now 
this rule strips out that provision that the majority spent the whole 
day yesterday defending.

Now, I heard what the gentleman from California said. I am not quite 
clear that I have understood why we have had this amazing turn of 
events, why the Rules Committee on Wednesday night would say this 
provision is so important it must be in the manager's amendment, but on 
Thursday night they say, no, we are going to have a rule that does 
nothing but strip it out. Maybe they didn't really know what the 
McDermott language did. Maybe they just voted the way the Speaker's 
office told them to vote.

As a matter of fact, there is a report in the Washington Times today 
that says a House Democratic aid told the Washington Times leadership 
supported the amendment and told the House Rules Committee to put it in 
the provisions. Maybe they were just persuaded by our eloquence on the 
floor yesterday, Mr. Speaker, and decided that it needed to be removed. 
I don't know, but this provision is deplorable; it needs to be 
scrapped. But it's a symptom, I would suggest, of a deeper sickness 
that, in fact, some in this body, some in the administration, of how 
they view our intelligence professionals. Their reflex action is to 
blame the intelligence community first. We see it when special 
prosecutors are appointed to go after our intelligence professionals. 
We see it when classified interrogation memos are released, despite the 
protestations of five former CIA directors.
