---
---

# None
## `51ddabd325141c0abce3b52bda16a6d0`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 30 March 2009`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today in 
support of H.R. 1513, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act of 2009. Previously, I served on the Veterans' Committee 
for 6 years, and I'm very glad to see Chairman Filner and Ranking 
Member Buyer doing this fine work this year, as they did in the 2 years 
that I was on the last time.

While all veterans made sacrifices for our Nation, those men and 
women who were disabled during their service must receive proper 
benefits in order to meet their care. Disabled veterans have given 
their blood, sweat and tears on battlefields from Germany to Japan, 
from Korea to Vietnam, from Iraq to Afghanistan.

In this time of economic turmoil, it is vital that Congress preserve 
the cost-of-living adjustment to help disabled veterans. Indeed, with 
rising prices and falling home values, it's more important than ever 
that the needs of veterans be adequately funded.

The cost-of-living adjustment means that veterans will be better 
armed with the resources that they need to survive in our communities.

As President Lincoln said in his second inaugural address, 
government's obligation is, and I quote, ''to care for him who shall 
have borne the battle and for his widow and orphan.'' It is our sacred 
obligation to care for those injured while in the service.

I thank my colleague from Arizona for introducing this bill. And I 
urge all of my colleagues to support its passage.