---
---

# HONORING SERGEANT NICHOLAS WALSH
## `51e1ac541c3ba1a2597ffeec53e483d5`
`Mrs. MUSGRAVE — 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. MUSGRAVE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of SGT 
Nicholas Walsh and pay tribute to his patriotic service to our Nation.

As a team leader with Charlie Company, 1st Reconnaissance Battalion, 
1st Marine Division, Sergeant Walsh bravely led fellow Marines on 
special operations missions in Iraq's Al Anbar Province. On May 26, 
while on a mission in Fallujah, Sergeant Walsh tragically lost his 
life.

After graduating from John Carroll High School in Birmingham, 
Alabama, Nicholas Walsh followed in the footsteps of a number of his 
family members and joined the Marines. Sergeant Walsh served four years 
before leaving the Marines. He married his wife Julie and started a 
family. Two years after leaving the Marines, Sergeant Walsh re-enlisted 
in the Corps he loved so much.

Like so many of our brave men and women in uniform, Sergeant Walsh 
often demurred at being identified as a hero. When asked if he would 
like to be buried at Arlington he responded: ''No way; that place is 
for people better than me. That place is for heroes.'' Madam Speaker, 
Sergeant Walsh is a hero.


He is a hero for his selfless service to our Nation. He is a hero for 
paying the ultimate price for freedom and liberty.

Today, I echo the words written by neighbors of Sergeant Walsh's 
parents, Maggie and Jerry: ''We know that no words we could say can 
comfort you, but our thoughts are with you and our hearts ache for 
you.'' Our hearts ache for Sergeant Walsh's wife Julie, his sons 
Triston and Tanner, and the many loved ones and friends Sergeant Walsh 
leaves behind.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Walsh is a true hero. Today, with a heavy 
heart, I extend to Sergeant Walsh's family my deepest sympathies. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in honoring the patriotism and selfless 
sacrifice of SGT Nicholas Walsh.
