---
---

# None
## `51e57f8fb90257d1bf65973d99bfcc34`
`Mr. HELLER — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. HELLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the heroic sacrifice 
and service of SPC Tim Hall of the 173rd Airborne Brigade of the United 
States Army. On June 10, 2010, SPC Hall of Reno, Nevada, was severely 
wounded by a mortar attack in Kabul, Afghanistan. Although he was 
severely injured and lost both of his legs, SPC Hall continues his 
courageous effort on the road to recovery. My sincere gratitude, 
appreciation, and thoughts are with SPC Hall and all of our service 
members as they continue to heroically and selflessly sacrifice for our 
Nation. I am honored to represent SPC Hall and his family in Nevada's 
2nd Congressional District. I am proud to submit a poem penned in his 
honor by Albert Caswell for the Record.
















The Hall of Fame



 In our country Tis of Thee. . . .


 All in this our Nation of the free . . .


 But stand, the greatest of all Americans indeed. . . .


 Are but all of those who go off the war, for you and me. . . 





 .


 The ones who answer That Call To Arms . . .


 Who put themselves, and their families all in such heartache 





 and grave harm. . . .


 To our Nation's Hall of Fame, belong. . . .


 The ones who now so lie in the soft cold dark graves, so all 





 alone. . . .


 And all of those others who come back home. . . .


 Without arms and legs, and burns upon their bodies own. . . .


 Our best and our brightest, our very bravest who so fight 





 this. . . .


 Her most magnificent names. . . . are all but in our Nation's 





 Hall of Fame!


 Men, like SPC Tim Hall. . . . of the 173 Airborne, who stood 





 tall. . . .


 As a mortar attack, left him dying. . . .


 As it was but then his brave heart to him, started crying. . 





 . .


 Not to give up or to give in. . . . as this warriors new 





 battle would begin!


 With his two fine legs gone, he told himself it was time to 





 move on. . . .


 Get Up. . . . Get Moving. . . . Get Airborne!


 As so deep down in his heart, so worn. . . .


 Was the courage and the faith, to somehow move on. . .


 Another Hall of Famer born. . . . with his profiles in 





 courage soars . . .


 To new heights. . . . To Teach Us. . . . To So Beseech Us. . 





 . . oh Tim what form!


 As he so Reaches Us, and somehow carries on!


 As one of Nevada's Finest Sons. . . .


 There's gold in his heart, this one!


 For this man is Army Strong!


 Hoooah, for in his heart beats such a song!


 A song of Strength In Honor, all day and all night long!


 And if I had a son, I wish he but shine like this one. . . .


 As thy will be done, for he's in The Hall of Fame this son!


 Showing us all to what new heights a heart can run!


 America's Son!


 So on this Christmas morning as you awake. . . .


 Or during the Festival of lights, would you so take. . . .


 So take the time to remember, all of these. . . .


 Selfless Souls, who so bring us peace!


 Who our Nation's Hall will never cease!
