---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `51ee1c1d7f74c2bb5b47b1ddb8a48ce8`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. I very much appreciate my colleague for 
yielding.

Madam Speaker, my friend, Mr. Murtha, has spent some time at 
Bethesda, and I would like to recognize the contributions that he has 
made to this bill and to the work he has done with Mr. Young.

Madam Speaker, it has taken months to get to this point but I'm 
pleased to see that we are finally considering a Defense Appropriations 
bill to provide funds for the men and women of our armed forces and the 
national security needs of our country.

We should have been on the House floor months ago--months ago--
passing a clean Defense funding bill. Like many Members, I questioned 
the priorities of the Democrat leadership in moving this year's funding 
bills, particularly the decision to send the President the Legislative 
Branch conference report as our first completed bill. It sent an 
unmistakable signal that the House majority was putting the needs of 
Congress first and placing the needs of our troops at the end of the 
line.

I know there has been great temptation to use the Defense bill as the 
vehicle to carry many unrelated legislative items that could not and 
would not muster enough support to pass on their own. And while this 
package before us is far from clean, it's a streamlined version of what 
was, just a few days ago, shaping up to be the mother of all Christmas 
tree bills.

It was Chairman Obey who, on December 18th, 2005 said, and I quote, 
''The defense bill ought to be about delivering equipment and 
supporting our troops. There is something especially outrageous and 
callous about the willingness of the majority party leadership to allow 
the Defense Department bill in a time of war to be held hostage to 
totally unrelated legislative items.''

But that is precisely what we are doing by including a variety of 
non-defense related legislative provisions in this package. Some items 
like COBRA, food stamps, and so-called ''poverty guidelines'' have been 
manipulated in a way to suit the Chairman's purposes for redistributing 
income in America but do not reflect the agreement reached to garner 
bipartisan support on this bill.

We are also designating as emergency spending an additional $20 
billion worth of program extensions. I'm not arguing that some of these 
are unworthy but merely pointing out that they should have no place in 
a defense spending bill. At the very least, we should pay for them 
honestly rather than continuing to add to our mountain of debt.

More curious to me is the fact that buried within this legislation is 
an airdropped Member project in the form of bill language authorizing 
the payment of nearly $13 million to a county in North Carolina. I can 
only assume that this project meets all of the necessary requirements 
for congressional projects. No one


seems to know how or why this project was included in this package but 
it's there in black and white for the world to see.

Also disconcerting is the fact that the underlying defense spending 
bill fails to include funding needed for additional MRAPS to support 
the 30,000 troop surge in Afghanistan. My understanding is that the 
House and Senate majority and minority were in full agreement to 
funding an additional 4,000 MRAPS--and yet a decision was made at 
another level--perhaps even at a staff level--to leave this vital 
funding out of this package. Again, it's a decision like this that 
causes me to scratch my head and question the priorities of this 
majority leadership.

At the end of the day, this legislation is far from perfect; I would 
vote against Division B if given the opportunity. But it is a vast 
improvement over the massive train wreck that was heading our way 
earlier this week. I strongly support the underlying defense portion of 
this package and ask our colleagues to support our troops who are 
defending freedom at home and abroad.