---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `51fd083c849dc801e220d4a188f621dc`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, last week the 2,100th American 
child had to be informed that they will never see their daddy or mommy 
again because their parent was killed in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, our military families deserve a policy worthy of their 
sacrifice. They deserve better. This war is going to turn out to be one 
of the worst military, political, economic and moral blunders in 
American history.

I heard my colleague refer to 9/11. We now know that we were brought 
into this war through deliberate deception and the politics of fear. 
Saddam Hussein had nothing to do with 9/11, wouldn't allow al Qaeda 
into his country. In fact, he wasn't trying to get nuclear weapons. He 
had no weapons of mass destruction. All those mobile labs didn't 
manufacture chemical weapons. Nor is this war being paid for with Iraqi 
oil.

And yet, you want us, 4 years later, to believe the very same people 
that brought us into this fiasco. When do you start to lose your 
credibility? After we have had 58,000 soldiers killed as in Vietnam? We 
are up to 3,300 now. About 25,000 seriously wounded. And how can you 
stand before them and tell them that this fiasco was worthy of their 
sacrifice?

The government that we are supporting doesn't go outside the Green 
Zone in Baghdad. They don't serve their people. In fact, many of its 
ministers are corrupt. That is the reality of our policy in Iraq.



And the fact too is that if the government we are supporting had the 
opportunity, they would turn Iraq into a Shi'a theocracy. Is that 
really worth our military families' sacrifice? The answer is no.

Support this rule and vote for this supplemental.