---
---

# RECOGNIZING PFC EDWIN ``EDDIE'' WOOD
## `51fd9bde666012505f6ac293013c8950`
`Mr. TERRY — 14 July 2010`

---


Mr. TERRY. Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness that I rise to pay 
tribute to a young man from Omaha who was killed recently in 
Afghanistan, in the service of our country.

PFC Edwin ''Eddie'' Wood, a scout with the Army's 10th Mountain 
Division, was on patrol when an IED exploded and killed him and another 
soldier and wounded three others. He is the first soldier from Omaha to 
die in Afghanistan. He had been in the Army for less than a year and 
had not even reached his 19th birthday.

Private First Class Wood was a graduate of Omaha North High School, 
where he was involved in Boy Scouts, drama, and was a member of the 
ROTC all 4 years. He also participated in early American re-enactor 
events with his father.

Scouting was a big part of Eddie's life. He started as member of Cub 
Scout Pack No. 5 and then moved up to Boy Scout Troop No. 20, earning 
all the ranks up to Life Scout--just below Eagle Scout. He earned and 
was awarded 32 merit badges. In 2006, I wrote a letter to Eddie, 
helping him to earn his Citizenship in the Nation badge. His love for 
Scouting continued even after he enlisted in the Army. He was listed as 
an active member of the Boy Scouts Mid-America Council.

Madam Speaker, it is times like this when we truly realize the 
sacrifices that are being made every day by the young men and women who 
serve in our armed forces. It also brings home the sacrifices that 
families make in watching their children go off to war. We are so 
grateful to them.

Today, I join my colleagues in extending our thoughts and prayers to 
military families, especially the Wood family during this difficult 
time.
