---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `520264406dda9f1b59f346dc200f7525`
`Mr. LYNCH — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. LYNCH. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Before I begin, Madam Chair, I would like to thank Foreign Affairs 
Committee Chairman Berman for considering my amendment. I congratulate 
the committee for drafting a bill that, I think, will truly strengthen 
our Foreign Affairs profile overseas as well as strengthen our 
capabilities.

I rise in support of my amendment, which will direct the State 
Department to assess and to report to Congress on the Special Immigrant 
Visa Program for certain Iraqi and Afghan nationals employed by or on 
behalf of the United States in both Afghanistan and in Iraq.

As a member of the House Oversight Committee and as a member of its 
National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee, I've been to Iraq 
and to Afghanistan on numerous occasions. I've had the pleasure of 
meeting with some of the brave Iraqi and Afghan workers who actually 
serve right beside our own men and women in uniform as interpreters, as 
assistants in military operations and also in the civil operations that 
are going on in both of those countries. It is extremely dangerous 
work, and they do deserve incredible recognition for taking a very 
difficult position in aiding our troops in their mission. They are 
deserving of our admiration.

There is a sad truth, however, that, in choosing to support U.S. 
forces in Iraq and in Afghanistan to rebuild their countries, they are 
also putting their lives on the line and those of their families. The 
insurgents in Iraq and in Afghanistan have targeted these hardworking 
patriots and their families in the hopes of terrorizing the local 
people and in discouraging cooperation.

It is because of this very real danger that Congress created the 
sections 1059 and 1244 Special Immigrant Visa Programs. They allow for 
certain Iraqis and Afghans who actually serve as translators--these are 
the folks who are actually protecting our young men and women in 
uniform as translators or as interpreters or who are otherwise employed 
by the U.S. or its contractors--to come to the United States to escape 
the targeting by these terrorists and insurgents.

I am aware that the State Department prepared a study of these 
programs in July 2008, but I believe it is necessary, actually, to 
follow up on this previous study in light of the troubling reports that 
I received earlier this year. I was informed by our State Department 
folks in Iraq and in Afghanistan and I was informed by General Ray 
Odierno, the commander of the United States forces in Iraq, that they 
are still dealing with unclear eligibility requirements, that they're 
having difficulty processing these Iraqis with visas and that they're 
facing long processing times, which has worked to the detriment of 
these individuals and has also hampered our effort to recruit others to 
take their places.

With wait times up to a year, these applicants are in constant danger 
while their applications are sorted out. I think we owe it to these 
brave men and women, who are doing the right thing, to ensure that any 
delays are only as long as is absolutely necessary.

Through this study, we will be able to determine the root causes of 
these difficulties. Then, based on the findings, Congress can act to 
ensure that these programs are run efficiently and effectively while 
protecting the applicants' lives, our national security and our men and 
women in uniform.

I urge my colleagues to support both this amendment and the 
underlying bill.

I reserve the balance of our time.