# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `52038a3132449d5a89269d62eabb75ec`
`Mr. SPRATT — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. SPRATT. I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this is where we are. Bobby Jones, a great golfer once 
said, ''You play the ball where it lies.'' The fact of the matter is 
that after 8 years of the Bush administration this, sadly, is where the 
ball lies.

When President Obama came to office less than 100 days ago--and 
remembering that, I think everyone would have to fairly concede these 
are not problems that he created. When he came to office, he found 
awaiting him on the doorstep of the White House a budget that was $1 
trillion, nearly $800 billion in deficit for this year and 
substantially in deficit for the forthcoming year.



He didn't create it; he didn't ask for it. It was thrust upon him and 
left to him by the Bush administration.

He found an economy in crisis and he found that remedial steps had 
been taken that cost the country hundreds of millions of dollars, a 
good portion of which is being spent out--the TARP program is an 
example, the takeover of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae is an example. All 
of these things cost substantial sums, and they were policies taken 
before this administration came to office. They have swollen the 
deficit to the unprecedented size of $1.7 billion this year.

The budget that we are proposing--which I now seek to have sent to 
conference so we can wrap it up, put it to bed and make it 
enforceable--the budget that we are proposing is a deficit-reduction 
budget. How can I say that? I can say that because we show credibly, I 
believe, that the budget deficit declines from $1.752 trillion under 
our resolution to $586 billion in the year 2013. In 4 fiscal years, we 
will reduce the deficit by a trillion dollars.

How can we do that?

One of the reasons we can do it is that quite a few of the items that 
have swollen the deficit in this and next fiscal year are nonrecurring, 
and when they are finally played out, the problem of debt reduction 
will be much,


much more manageable. That is, if we have a plan, it will be 
manageable. We cannot simply leave it to some open-ended plan. And so 
what we have proposed here is a plan that will systematically, 
methodically move the deficit down, down, down by $1 trillion over the 
next 4 to 5 fiscal years.

Now, it's a deficit reduction budget. No question about it. But it is 
not so committed to deficit reduction that it overlooks and postpones 
other priorities. For example, national defense will grow by 4 percent, 
a healthy growth rate that means national defense, including what is 
spent on supplementals for Iraq and Afghanistan, will be $686 billion 
next year.

Veterans. Let's not forget our veterans. We appreciate them more than 
ever. We will be putting $5 billion more into veterans health care, 
raising it to $53 billion.

Health care reform. This budget tackles issues that other 
administrations have either ignored, dodged, avoided, or failed to 
implement. Health care reform. Tough nut to crack, but it takes it on.

The environment. Energy independence, critically important. We've 
seen it with the spike in energy prices over the last year. This is 
something we need to do and do now. This bill provides for that.

Education. If you want to be able to say to a small child the next 
time you go in an elementary classroom, You can go to college. Yes, you 
can. You can go to college like anybody else. Yes, you can, then you 
should vote for this resolution because it strengthens Pell Grants by 
more than any bill we've passed in a long time to come.

So this is a deficit reduction bill, which is a bill with a 
conscience, with priorities, that carefully laid out here and carefully 
provided for here, and, therefore, I would submit that everyone 
interested in education, the environment, energy independence should 
take a close look at this bill.

Now, it's been said that we have substantially increased taxes in 
this bill. That's not true. Read CBO's report. Over the next 5 years, 
there is a net reduction in tax revenues of some $480 billion and $1 
trillion more than that over the next 5 years after that. There is 
deficit reduction left here. The marital penalty provisions, the middle 
class, middle-income tax cuts that we passed in 2001 and 2003 are, for 
the most part, all reenacted and extended by this resolution.

So 233 Members, a very solid majority of the House, listened to the 
arguments pro and con, read and listened to the debate and decided this 
is a better way to go. I submit, let's stick with the course we set for 
ourselves several weeks ago. Let's send this budget on to conference 
where we can make it an enforceable piece of legislation.

I yield back my time.