---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `5205878510bf202c799324d6330319eb`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 10 November 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, this week, thousands of families across 
our country are stopping to honor the


memory of those who have served for us because of Veterans Day tomorrow 
and to thank them for all they have done to protect and defend our 
country. It is a time when many American families are watching what is 
unfolding at Fort Hood this week. It is a time in my State where today 
we are having a memorial service at Fort Lewis honoring seven soldiers 
who lost their lives a few days ago in Afghanistan. Our hearts and 
condolences go out to those families who have suffered the ultimate 
loss, especially at this time when everyone is recognizing the 
tremendous sacrifice so many people have given.

As a Senator from a State with a very large military presence and 
communities that are heavily populated with the men and women who 
dedicate their lives to protecting our country, I was particularly 
saddened by the senseless violence that ripped through our Nation's 
largest active-duty base last Thursday. As anyone who has ever spent 
time on a U.S. military base knows well, those are some of our most 
safe and compassionate communities in the entire country. They are 
places where a young family plants roots and raises a child and 
establishes a life for themselves. They are a place where military 
spouses form bonds that they carry with them throughout their 
deployments. They are a place where neighbors always lend a hand to 
those in need. I have seen that firsthand at places such as Fort Lewis 
Army Base in Tacoma and Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane. I know the 
pain of the loss of those 13 public servants extends to everyone at 
Fort Hood and to the U.S. military community as a whole.

I wish to make special mention today of Michael Grant Cahill who came 
from Spokane, WA. He was the lone civilian killed in that attack. He 
was a physician's assistant who worked in rural clinics and veterans 
hospitals, places where our veterans desperately need care and we 
desperately need workers. At the time of his death, he was only 4 years 
from retirement. In an interview with the Spokesman-Review newspaper a 
day after her father was killed, Cahill's daughter Keely told the paper 
that her dad was ''a wonderful person, that he loved his job and loved 
working with people and helping them with their physical needs.''

My thoughts and prayers are with Keely and the family members of all 
those who died or were wounded and the U.S. military families who are 
still reeling from this tragedy.

To the families who have lost soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan 
recently, especially those having military services today in my home 
State of Washington at Fort Lewis as well as many others, I want them 
to know that we know we are their voice and we need to stand up for 
them. As we all know, Veterans Day tomorrow is a day we celebrate and 
honor the great sacrifices all veterans have made. It is because of 
their sacrifice that we can safely enjoy the freedoms our country 
offers. It is because of their unmatched commitment that America can 
remain a beacon for democracy and freedom throughout the world.

Growing up I saw firsthand the many ways military service can affect 
both veterans and their families. My father served in World War II. He 
was among the first soldiers to land in Okinawa. He came home as a 
disabled veteran and was awarded the Purple Heart. Like many soldiers 
of my dad's generation, he didn't talk about his experiences during the 
war. In fact, we only learned about what he did and his heroism when he 
passed away, and we found his journals and read them. I think that 
experience offers a larger lesson about veterans in general. They are 
very reluctant to call attention to their service, and they are 
reluctant to ask for help. That is why we have to publicly recognize 
their sacrifices and contributions. It is up to all of us to make sure 
they get the recognition they have earned and, by the way, not only on 
Veterans Day. Our veterans held up their end of the deal. We have to 
hold up ours.

Veterans Day must not only be a day of remembrance, it must also be a 
day of reflection. It is a chance for all of us to reflect on our own 
responsibilities to our Nation's veterans. It is a chance to look at 
what we can do to make sure we are keeping the promise we made to our 
men and women when they signed up to serve. It is a chance to take 
stock of where care and benefits have fallen short, where new needs are 
emerging, and how we can make it easier for veterans to get the care 
and benefits they deserve.

It is appropriate that on the eve of this very important day, 
Veterans Day, we are working to pass a bill that takes a hard look at 
many of the challenges facing veterans and their families. It is a bill 
that is the product of collaboration with veterans, their families, 
caregivers, and scores of veterans service organizations.

As a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, I am aware we have a 
lot of work to do for the men and women who serve our country. Not only 
must we continually strive to keep up our commitment to veterans from 
all wars, but we also have to respond to the new and different issues 
facing veterans who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, wars that 
are being fought under conditions that are very different from those of 
the past. That is precisely what the caregiver and veterans omnibus 
health bill seeks to do.

One of the changes we have seen in our veterans population recently 
is the growing number of women veterans who are seeking care at the VA. 
Today more women are serving in the military than ever before. Over the 
next 5 years, the amount of women seeking care at the VA is expected to 
double. Not only are women answering the call to serve at unprecedented 
levels, they are also often serving in a very different capacity. In 
Iraq and Afghanistan, we have seen wars that don't have traditional 
front lines. All of our servicemembers, including women, find 
themselves on the front lines. Whether it is working at a checkpoint or 
helping to search and clear neighborhoods or supporting supply convoys, 
women servicemembers face many of the same risks from IEDs and ambushes 
as their male counterparts. But while the nature of their service has 
changed in these conflicts, the VA has been very slow to change the 
nature of the care they provide when these women return home.

Today at the VA there is an insufficient number of doctors and staff 
with specific training and experience in women's health issues. Even 
the VA's own internal studies have shown that women veterans are 
underserved. That is why we included in the veterans health bill a bill 
I have introduced and worked on that will enable the VA to better 
understand and ultimately treat the unique needs of female veterans. 
The bill authorizes a number of new programs and studies, including a 
comprehensive look at the barriers women currently face when they try 
to get care at the VA. It includes a study of women who have served in 
Iraq and Afghanistan to assess how those conflicts affected their 
health. It includes a requirement that the VA implement a program to 
train and educate and certify VA mental health professionals to care 
for women with sexual trauma and a pilot program that provides 
childcare to women veterans who seek mental health care services at the 
VA because, as we know, women will choose to take care of their kids 
before they take care of themselves. I believe we need to provide that 
childcare so those women get the care they need.


This bill I am talking about is the result of many discussions with 
women veterans on the unique and very personal problems they face when 
they return home from war. Oftentimes, when I hold veterans meetings in 
my State, the men who are there speak up and talk to me about some of 
the barriers they face, and it is not until the meeting closes and 
everybody is going out the door that the women come up to me and speak 
silently and as quietly as they can in my ear about the barriers they 
face. Some of these women have told me they did not even view 
themselves as a veteran and therefore did not even think of seeking 
care at the VA. Oftentimes, they have told me they lack privacy at 
their local VA or they felt intimidated when they walked in the doors. 
They have told me about being forced into a caregiving role that 
prevented them from even asking for care because they had to struggle 
to find a babysitter in order to keep an appointment. They should not 
have to speak quietly into my ear at the end of a meeting. They have 
served our country honorably. We should move this women veterans health 
bill so they get the care they support.



To me and to the bipartisan group of Senators who cosponsored the 
women veterans bill, these barriers to care they face are unacceptable. 
So as we now have more women transitioning back home and stepping back 
into their careers and their lives as mothers and wives, this VA has to 
be there for them. So this bill in the omnibus bill in front of us will 
help the VA to modernize to meet those needs.

Another way this bill meets the changing needs of our veterans is in 
the area of assisting caregivers in the home.

As we have seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, medical advances have helped 
save the lives of many of our servicemembers who in previous conflicts 
would have perished from the severity of their wounds. But these 
medical miracles mean that many of those who have been catastrophically 
wounded now need round-the-clock care when they come home.

In many of our rural areas, where access to health care services is 
very limited, the burden of providing that care often--and most often--
falls on the family of that severely injured veteran. For those family 
members who are providing care to their loved ones, it now becomes a 
full-time job for them. They often, I have been told, have to quit 
their current jobs--forfeiting not only their source of income but also 
their own health care insurance at the same time. It is a sacrifice 
that is far too great, especially for families who have already 
sacrificed so much.

So this underlying omnibus bill we are trying to bring forward 
provides caregivers with health care and counseling and support and, 
importantly, a stipend so they can take care of their loved ones when 
they come home.

This bill also takes steps to provide dental insurance to veterans 
and survivors and their dependents and improves mental health care 
services and eases the transition from Active Duty to civilian life. It 
expands outreach and technology so we can provide better care for 
veterans in our rural areas. And it initiates three programs to address 
homelessness among veterans, which is especially troubling during these 
economic times.

This is a bill that is supported by numerous veterans service 
organizations and the VA. It is supported by many leading medical 
groups. It was passed in our Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee with 
broad bipartisan support after hearings with health care experts and VA 
officials and veterans and, importantly, their families.

Like other omnibus veterans health care bills before it--bills that 
have often been passed on this floor with overwhelming support--it puts 
veterans before politics. It is a bipartisan bill designed to move 
swiftly so its programs can be implemented swiftly. It is a bipartisan 
bill that is designed to make sure our veterans do not become political 
pawns. Yet here we are today facing delays.

The fact that this bill is now being held hostage by ideology is both 
a disservice to our veterans and a troubling precedent for our future 
efforts to meet their needs. Providing for our veterans used to be an 
area where political affiliation fell by the wayside. But today, 
because of an effort to score political points on issues that are far 
removed from the struggles of families who are delivering care to their 
loved ones with injuries or women veterans who are returning home to an 
unprepared VA or the mounting toll of this economy on homeless 
veterans, we are faced with delay on the floor. For our Nation's 
veterans, it is a delay they cannot afford. Our aging veterans and the 
brave men and women who are currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan 
need our help now. And how we treat them at this critical time will 
send a signal to a generation of young people who might now be sitting 
at home considering whether they want to go into the military.

It is imperative that we keep our promise to our veterans--the same 
promise Abraham Lincoln made to America's veterans 140 years ago--''to 
care for the veteran who has borne the battle, his widow and his 
orphan.''

Our veterans have waited long enough for many of the improvements in 
this bill. We should not ask them to wait any longer. So I urge our 
colleague to withdraw his objection to consideration of this bill and 
to let us move it quickly through the Senate so the families and the 
servicemembers who are waiting for its passage--whether it is a family 
taking care of a veteran who has been seriously injured or a woman 
veteran or anyone who has served our country--can know we stand behind 
them when they serve our country.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.