---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `52088c8e86db9812ee9963037b851645`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. I thank the gentleman from North Carolina for being 
generous with his time. I also want to sincerely thank the gentleman 
from North Carolina for his effort to resolve the issue successfully 
and for bringing those of us who are speaking here this morning 
together and for organizing this time.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to vote for this resolution for many reasons 
that I will explain, but this resolution is not a retreat from Iraq. 
This resolution is understanding the new phase that we find ourselves 
in with the war in Iraq and the war on terrorism. So it is a step 
forward in the right direction.

I want to begin by commending our American troops and the 
intelligence community for their bravery, their professionalism and 
their stunning competence in Iraq and Afghanistan under very difficult 
circumstances. Those young men and women have eliminated terrorist 
training camps and gotten rid of Saddam Hussein and his band of 
terrorists, who for years have brutalized the Iraqi people and many 
people, many thousands of people in the region.

They have eliminated the potential for weapons of mass destruction, 
these young men and women, and we are proud of that. The Taliban is 
disbanded and al Qaeda is on the run. These are our troops and the 
intelligence community.

Where are we now? We find ourselves now, the war on Iraq, and the 
global war on terrorism, in a new phase, the President understands that 
phase. The Congress is grasping with that phase. We now know the war in 
Iraq is in a new phase, and a global war on terror continues, so how do 
we respond?

How do we approach this new phase? Let's look at the recent past. 
Let's go back to the 1950s. President Eisenhower said, for the United 
States to be safe and secure we need a strong military, the best 
intelligence, and consensus and dialogue.

President Eisenhower implemented all of those practices, especially 
after Nikita Khrushchev pounded his shoe at the podium of the United 
Nations and pointed to the Western diplomats and said, ''we will bury 
you.''

Eisenhower's response? He invited Khrushchev to the United States for 
a dialogue.

President Kennedy was told there were armed nuclear warheads in Cuba. 
What did President Kennedy do? Proceed with dialogue and talking with 
the Soviets. We did not go to war. Nixon went to China.

Who during that period of time did we not have a dialogue with? It 
was Ho Chi Minh; 53,000 Americans died in the Ten Thousand Day War. 
Hundreds of thousands were wounded, and millions of Vietnamese were 
killed. What if we had a dialogue with Ho Chi Minh about ending the 
French colonial period and encouraging Vietnam to have self-
determination, that which we fought for in World War II? What would 
have happened?

Fifty-three years of dialogue with North Korea just now may be 
yielding results, 53 years of dialogue. Ask yourself this question. Is 
a century of dialogue without resolution better than one day on the 
battlefield? Don't be quick to answer that, but ask that question to 
yourself.

The world, rich and poor, the people of the world, are intimately 
familiar with American history, especially with the following man. They 
know the words of Thomas Jefferson. ''We hold these truths to be self-
evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their 
Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, 
liberty, the pursuit of happiness.''



They know Lincoln's words, ''with malice toward none and charity for 
all.'' They know Martin Luther King, Jr.'s, words, ''You should be 
judged by the content of your character.''

America is the race of races. The melting pot has become a common 
heritage with the world's people. Our enemies are ignorance, arrogance 
and dogma. Monstrous certainty has been and is the tragedy of mankind. 
The new phase of the war in Iraq and the global war on terror not only 
includes the military, it not only includes the intelligence community, 
but in this instance it must include a surge of diplomacy, to integrate 
the Middle Eastern countries in a diplomatic dialogue about the 
stability of the region, including reconciliation, economics, trade 
issues, medical and educational exchanges, et cetera, et cetera. This 
must be and is a necessary part of that complete strategy to make 
America safe and secure. The blueprint, the starting point, is to vote 
''yes'' today on today's resolution.

The second phase of that is to understand the words which is the 
blueprint for this new phase, the Iraq Study Group. What do we do with 
U.S. troops in the Middle East? There are strong recommendations for 
that. What do we do about training and equipping the Iraqi Army and 
making them prepared? That is in the Iraq Study Group.

What is the framework for cooperation with the Iraq people, the Iraq 
Government, and the problems with sectarian violence? That is in the 
Iraq Study Group.

What about a new diplomatic initiative with all of Iraq's neighbors, 
including Iran and Syria? How about consultation with Congress? Vote 
for this resolution, and we can move on to end the violence, the 
sectarian chaos, the foolish, bitter electronic exchanges between 
countries, electronic exchanges, instead of face-to-face conversations.

That effort, fully implemented, will bring our troops home sooner. 
They will have a brighter future, and the generations to come for the 
people in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We as Members of Congress are at the controls. We are able to control 
the policy. How? With our vote. Do we know how to use the military? Do 
we know how to use the intelligence community? Do we know the 
possibilities of consensus and dialogue with all the countries of the 
region? If our young men and women are brave enough to go into Iraq and 
Afghanistan, then we as Members of Congress must be brave enough and 
informed to start a dialogue in Damascus, in Tehran, in the entire 
region, to hasten peace.

The first step is an ''aye'' vote on this resolution.