---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `52126e5880fe5e1df88ed2dabce3ece0`
`Mr. BROWN — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, as we near Christmas, our troops are 
overseas, away from their families during this holiday season, facing 
dangers most of us cannot even contemplate. Many in this Chamber have 
long supported the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the loudest 
supporters of war today are leading the charge in trying to block the 
Defense appropriations bill.

It is irresponsible, plain and simple, to play politics with the 
funding of our troops. It is a disservice to them. It is a disservice 
to their families. It is a disservice to our great country.

We do not agree on health care reform. I understand that. I get that. 
But to hold up the funding for our troops, I do not get that. This bill 
funds our overseas military operations and provides our troops with a 
hard-earned


pay raise. It includes funds for joint IED Defeat Fund, Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected Vehicles, so-called MRAPs. It provides equipment for 
our National Guard and Reserve.

The tired politics of delay and distraction offered by my Republican 
friends does a disservice to our troops, to their families, and to the 
Nation.

It does a disservice to the millions of Americans also who would 
benefit from the provisions of the Defense appropriations bill that 
would extend the COBRA Premium Assistance Program.

This month, thousands of Americans--hundreds in the Miami Valley were 
hit so hard, where in the Dayton area they were hit so hard from DHL to 
General Motors to NCR to the suppliers for those companies, hundreds 
and hundreds in the Mahoning Valley, where people in the Washington 
Post read about Warren, OH, what happened to people there with this 
terrible recession.

It is a disservice to hundreds all over my State who saw a 65-percent 
spike in their monthly health insurance premium. That is because the 9-
month COBRA subsidy--one of the things we did right earlier this year. 
The government has never stepped in to do that to help people in tough 
times with their health insurance. The 9-month COBRA subsidy started 
phasing out in December.

COBRA provides a much needed health insurance option to those 
Americans out of work. It allows workers to stay on their previous 
employer's health plan for 18 months, but it could be prohibitively 
expensive. That is why I introduced a bill 11 months ago--the Coverage 
Continuity Act--to provide a health insurance subsidy to laid-off 
workers. They simply cannot afford COBRA without it.

Remember, COBRA is the health insurance program where if you lose 
your job, you can keep your same health insurance. You continue to pay 
your own premium, but you have to pay the employer contribution. If you 
have lost your job, it is pretty hard to do that, putting it mildly.

This, for the first time, gives a very generous subsidy so people can 
keep their insurance. A version of that proposal I introduced in 
January was included in the stimulus. It provided a 65-percent subsidy 
toward the price of a COBRA premium for recently laid-off workers.

Now that subsidy has expired for some. It is about to expire for many 
more. Nearly 16 million Americans are out of work still and 14,000 lose 
their health insurance every day.

When I hear my friends on the other side of the aisle say: You have 
to slow down on health reform, we don't want to do this too fast, they 
need to go back to their States. I hope they get some time off at 
Christmas. I hope, after they spend time with their family, they go out 
and start talking to people getting hurt by this recession. They are 
not hard to find. They are in every neighborhood in every community in 
every State--people who lost jobs and are losing their health 
insurance.

In Ohio--from Toledo to Millard to Mansfield to Ravenna, Gallipolis--
350 Ohioans every day lose their insurance. Across this country, 1,000 
people a week die because they do not have health insurance. Mr. 
President, 1,000 people a week die because they do not have health 
insurance. Yet too many people in this institution, too many people 
think we have to wait.

They need to know, when you think about 1,000 people dying every week 
without health insurance in this country, they need to understand a 
woman with breast cancer is 40 percent more likely to die if she does 
not have insurance than a woman who has breast cancer with insurance. 
If that is not reason enough for them to get on board and stop their 
delay tactics and quit saying: Let's slow down; let's slow down, it 
clearly has not worked. That is why the COBRA extension is so 
important. The extension is similar to one included in S. 2730, the 
COBRA Subsidy Extension and Enhancement Act, which I introduced with 
Senator Bob Casey in November.

The bill before us will ensure Americans receive the COBRA subsidy 
for 15 months, not 9. It means that most workers who first started 
receiving the subsidy last March when it started will continue to 
receive it until May of next year.

It extends the day on which you can be laid off and still be eligible 
for the subsidy. Under current law, only those who lose their job in 
the next 2 weeks will be eligible. We need to extend that eligibility 
window at least to February of next year. This will help Americans, 
such as Don Hall from Castalia, OH. Castalia is a community west of 
where I live near Sandusky, OH, in the northwest part of the State.

Don was laid off from an auto supplier in October of last year. As 
severance, the company gave him 6 months of paid COBRA coverage and 
then he became eligible for the premium assistance program we included 
in the stimulus.

However, his ninth and final subsidy payment came through in 
November. He is still out of work. Earlier this month, on December 1, 
he and his wife were charged $763 for their coverage, up $500 from the 
month before. He was paying about $250. Now he is paying $763. Don is 
also fighting to save his house from foreclosure. He has cut back as 
much as he can, but he doesn't want to stop paying for a cell phone 
because that is his only way for potential employers to contact him. He 
has had six job interviews in the last 13 months. None have panned out 
because there are not enough jobs in Castalia, Sandusky, Toledo, and 
Lorain.

Don worked hard and played by the rules. Similar to so many American 
men and women, he is experiencing hard times and needs some help. They 
on the other side of the aisle say: Let's slow down; we have to slow 
down.

For Don, slowing down means the loss of his house. It means he is 
more likely to get sick and ruined financially because they want to 
slow down.

Don's story is not unique. Take Tim Wolffrum from Milford, OH. His 
COBRA subsidy is scheduled to expire at the end of December, at which 
point he will owe $417 a month. That is nearly as much as he receives 
in unemployment benefits.

When Tim started shopping around in the individual market knowing he 
would be forced out of COBRA, everything he found either had exorbitant 
premiums or bare-bones coverage. That is because Tim suffered a heart 
attack 2 years ago and suffers from a digestive disease. These 
preexisting conditions made him a liability for private insurance 
companies.

Tim is confident he can find a job once the economy picks up. But in 
the meantime, he needs the COBRA subsidy.

Carol Williams from Dayton, OH, is in a similar bind. She is 63 years 
old and was employed at R.J. Reynolds for 18 years before being laid 
off in October of last year. She started receiving the COBRA subsidy in 
March but was responsible for the entire premium this month.

Remember, COBRA is what you were paying when you were employed. If 
you lose your job, you continue to pay COBRA to keep your insurance and 
you also have to pay your employer's contribution. Almost nobody can do 
that after they have lost their job for very long. That is why the 
subsidy we put in the stimulus package back in February and that is why 
the subsidy we want to put in this Defense appropriations bill is so 
darn important to so many Americans.


Because Carol remains unemployed and suffers from minor thyroid 
problems and high blood pressure, her insurance options are limited.

She decided to pay the full COBRA premium in December, with the hope 
that Congress will act to extend the subsidy. Here is her calculation: 
While they delay, while they say: Let's slow down, on the other side of 
the aisle, Carol says: My premium went up several hundred dollars. If I 
cancel, I will never have insurance. If I dig deep and do not heat my 
house as warm, do not eat as well for the next few weeks, I will pay 
more and hope Congress passes this so she can get that better rate 
again.

That is what delay says; delay for their little political reasons and 
the little political games and tricks the other side of the aisle is 
playing, such as they did at 1 o'clock this morning, puts Carol 
Williams in a position where she has to make those hard decisions. I 
wish some of my friends on the other side of the aisle would meet the 
Carol Williams of the world. I wish for 1 day we could walk in the 
shoes of the Carol Williams of the world and see the kind


of horrible decisions they have to make because they want to play their 
political games.

Let's not let Carol down and Don and Tim down. Let us in this Chamber 
hear their cries. I hope they hear the cries of thousands of people in 
Helena, Kalispell, Wilmington, Dover, and all over this country. It is 
too important for us to fail.

I yield the floor.