---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `521f1d09d392b081168ecceb4cd559ec`
`Mr. THORNBERRY — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I have listened to much of the debate 
yesterday and today, and I appreciate the efforts of my colleague from 
Michigan to remind and educate us all about what is at stake for our 
security and how Iraq fits into the larger war against radical Islamic 
terrorists. That is serious work.

Unfortunately, this resolution is not serious work. I believe we have 
to start by asking a basic essential question: Why are we doing this? 
What is the purpose of this resolution? What good will come from 
passing it? I cannot find an acceptable answer.

The struggle in Iraq and the larger war against radical Islamic 
terrorists is, in my view, the preeminent national security issue 
facing our country. It is important for Congress to devote serious, 
meaningful attention to it. But whatever we do should have a purpose, a 
purpose that makes the United States stronger, a purpose that will help 
us be successful, a purpose we can explain and be proud of in years to 
come.

Here we have a nonbinding resolution, which means it does not have 
the force of law. It conveys an opinion. Now, we do that from time to 
time. We congratulate a sports team, we express concern about curing a 
disease, we pat somebody on the back. We do express opinions.

What is the opinion in this resolution? It is that we support the 
troops, but we do not support their mission. We support the troops, but 
we do not support their new commander, who is this Nation's preeminent 
strategist and expert on counterinsurgency, who just wrote the manual 
for counterinsurgency, who was just approved by the Senate unanimously. 
We support the troops, but we don't support him or her or what he is 
trying to do. Now, what is the purpose of expressing that kind of self-
contradictory opinion?

And I continue to be troubled when I think, when in the history of 
the United States has Congress passed a resolution expressing an 
opinion on a battlefield strategy for an ongoing operation that 
Congress has approved? It is like June 13, 1944, D-Day plus seven: 
Congress passes a resolution that says, ''We support the troops, but 
Eisenhower should never have landed in Normandy. And, besides, he 
doesn't have the right number of people to hit those beaches anyway.''

Mr. Speaker, I can only conclude that this resolution is more about 
political posturing than it is about anything else, and I think every 
American ought to be saddened and disappointed by it. We have a 
spectacle going on in this country where a group of people running for 
President try to outdo one another to see who can be the most against 
our involvement in Iraq. Now we come to add to that spectacle with a 
nonbinding contrary resolution.

Just put yourself in the shoes of those men and women going into 
battle in Baghdad. Does this resolution encourage you or discourage 
you? Put yourself in the shoes of those people who do not want 
stability in Iraq, our adversaries. Does this resolution encourage you 
or discourage you? Put yourself in the shoes of those families like Ms. 
Granger, just visited, or the Britt family in Wheeler, Texas, or the 
Das family in Amarillo, Texas who have lost their sons in this effort. 
Does this resolution encourage you, or does it discourage you? Who is 
helped by this resolution?

Mr. Speaker, I do not want to be misunderstood; mistakes have clearly 
been made with regard to our involvement in Iraq, and Members should be 
part of a serious study to learn from them. There are a good many 
questions that need to be asked, and there is very good reason for 
skepticism that this new strategy is really going to work. We should 
ask those questions. We should hold Iraqis accountable for doing what 
they say they are going to do. I know there are some people who say we 
don't need to ask any more questions, they have already made up their 
mind; they are ready to vote to leave today. Fine, let's vote on that. 
It is a serious vote, with consequences, and people that vote that way 
ought to be ready to shoulder the responsibility for the consequences 
that come from that sort of vote.

But this resolution is not serious, it is just political posturing, 
pure and simple.

Mr. Speaker, this struggle is going to require the best of us for 
years and possibly decades to come. It will require that we put aside 
the political temptations to get a momentary partisan advantage. It 
requires that we do our constitutional duty not to be a rubber stamp to 
any administration, but to be an independent branch of government 
committed to serious, thoughtful work.

To prevail over these radical Islamic terrorists and protect our 
people, we are going to have to bring the full array of national 
assets. Yes, our military, but also our diplomats and our


foreign assistants and our ideas and our ideals. All of that is going 
to have to be at our best. But it is going to require the best of us, 
too, and we are not giving our best with this resolution. Hopefully, we 
can do better.