---
---

# HEALTH CARE
## `5234a839c54c8cf6fac2885012215664`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I thank my friend from New Jersey. Just for me, this 
past election was, the people wanted a new direction. They wanted 
checks and balances back in this country. They wanted a different 
perspective to be brought to the values of this Nation. As my friend 
from Wisconsin and my friend from New Jersey, my friend from Florida 
said, this budget that the President has presented reflects his values, 
but I don't think it reflects the values of this country.

Just as we did last week with the concurrent, with the continuing 
resolution, with the budget that we passed last week, we are going to 
reflect what I believe are the values of this country, whether it is 
with veterans. And I just notice, in the President's proposed budget, 
he is increasing medical care fees for military retirees. The budget 
increases enrollment fees and deductibles under TRICARE. I can tell 
you, as I have gone around, my area, Golden, Colorado, Brighton, 
Aurora, wherever it might be in the suburbs of Denver, those military 
retirees are already complaining about increases in TRICARE and cuts in 
benefits that come with respect to that, that we haven't fulfilled the 
promises that we have made for the great service that we have received 
from these men and women in our Armed Services.

Now, you know, what are our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq to expect? 
We are going to provide them with the best care and the best service 
that we can. And we have got to show prior military retirees that same 
respect. We have got to do it for our troops now. I question the 
President's budget on these things. We are going to change the 
direction of this Nation. We are going to show what our values are, and 
they are the values of the people of this country. I am glad to be 
here, to be a check and balance on this current administration.