---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE VITAL ROLE FAMILY READINESS VOLUNTEERS PLAY IN  SUPPORTING SERVICEMEMBERS AND THEIR FAMILIES
## `52512b89862feeee1a8a7ddecbd4046e`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 October 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise before you today in 
support of H. Res. 408, ''Recognizing the vital role family readiness 
volunteers play in supporting servicemembers and their families''. I 
would like thank my colleague, Representative Davis, for introducing 
this resolution, as well as the co-sponsors.

Since 2001, nearly 2,000,000 active duty and reserve sailors, 
soldiers, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guard personnel have deployed for 
duty in the battlegrounds of Afghanistan and Iraq. To add to this 
service, the more than 1,800,000 family members of regular component 
members of the Armed Forces and an additional 1,100,000 family members 
of reserve component members make significant sacrifices on behalf of 
the United States in support of their loved ones deployed overseas.

But while the readiness of the United States Armed Forces is 
predicated on the ability of each member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
Marines, and Coast Guard to focus on their mission during deployments, 
this military necessity of long and often unpredictable deployments, 
frequent relocations, and infrequent family contact for members of the 
Armed Forces can be extremely challenging for members and their 
families.

In response to these sacrifices and challenges, family readiness 
volunteers from each branch of the Armed Forces have stepped forward to 
provide critical support during deployments to servicemembers and their 
families. These programs in each service help commanding officers have 
a better understanding of the welfare of the families within his or her 
command during a deployment and allow families to be informed about the 
status of their loved ones' unit overseas.

The thousands of family readiness volunteers are generally spouses of 
members of the Armed Forces who provide assistance to military families 
while also enduring the challenges of military life. They consist of 
Army Family Readiness Volunteers, Navy Ombudsmen, Coast Guard 
Ombudsmen, Air Force Key Spouse Volunteers, and Marine Corps Key 
Volunteers. These volunteers are motivated by the desire to improve the 
lives of other military families and to assist future generations.

Family readiness volunteers also connect the community with military 
families and local military installations, often leveraging donations 
and resources for military families, as well as provide their services 
on a voluntary basis, with little public recognition and financial 
assistance, and often contribute their own resources to help other 
military families.

It is no exaggeration to say that the outstanding performance of our 
servicemembers is a testament to the great success of family readiness 
volunteers. That is why I join this distinguished body in recognizing 
and honoring the family readiness volunteers of each branch of the 
Armed Forces who selflessly devote their time, talent, energy, and 
resources in service to the United States and commend family readiness 
volunteers for their dedicated contributions to the quality of life of 
members of the Armed Forces and their families.
