# SPECIALIST BLAINE E. REDDING
## `52660e91e338b1655688cc51d7fa3970`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 17 June 2010`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Army SPC 
Blaine E. Redding, who lost his life as the result of an improvised 
explosive device in Konar, Afghanistan, on June 7, 2010.

Specialist Redding, who grew up in Plattsmouth, NE, was assigned to A 
Company, 2nd Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne 
Division out of Fort Campbell, KY. He was serving in Afghanistan with 
his younger brother Logan, who was also a member of the 101st Airborne.

Having previously served a year in Iraq, Specialist Redding was just 
4 weeks into his deployment in Afghanistan when the vehicle he was 
riding in was hit by the roadside bomb. Four others were lost in this 
tragic event.

Specialist Redding served his country honorably and made the ultimate 
sacrifice for his fellow Americans. His courageous choice to protect 
his country and help the people of Iraq and Afghanistan achieve peace 
and security represents all that we can be proud of in our Armed 
Forces.

I commend SPC Blaine Redding's bravery and selflessness, while 
offering my deepest condolences to his young wife Nikki and the family 
members he left behind. It is a small comfort for those who must now go 
on without one they loved so dearly, but they know that Specialist 
Redding gave his life for a noble goal. I join all Nebraskans--indeed, 
all Americans--in mourning the loss of this fine young man.
