# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `5297aa29c07c7a6b7715eb48bd098508`
`Mr. MURTHA — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, this bill provides for a 3.5 percent pay 
raise for military personnel. It rejects the President's proposed 
increase in TRICARE copays and funds TRICARE by $1.9 billion, 
appropriates $2.6 billion to provide our military families with the 
immediate need for more counselors, teachers and child care providers. 
It also looks to the future.

The bill provides $938 billion above the President's request for 
advance construction funding for additional ships, provides an 
additional $980 million to purchase essential National Guard and 
Reserve equipment. We're looking beyond Iraq, trying to take care of 
any threat that may threaten this country in the future.










Conference Agreement Totals and OverView


The President requested $463.1 billion in total FY 2008 new budget 
authority for the Department of Defense and intelligence community 
programs that fall under the purview of the Defense Subcommittee. This 
is an increase of $43.3 billion over last year's enacted level--a 10.3 
percent increase in nominal terms. The lion's share of the increase 
over FY 2007 (some 80 percent) was allocated to operation and 
maintenance and procurement programs.

The conference agreement meets the budget authority allocation of 
$459.6 billion for FY 2008. This figure is a little more than $3.5 
billion below the President's budget request. Nonetheless, the 
conference agreement provides an increase for Defense of $39.7 billion 
over the FY 2007 enacted level, or about 9.5 percent in nominal growth.

The House bill shifted funding for certain programs between the FY 
2008 base budget bill and the FY 2008 war supplemental in order to meet 
the budget authority allocation. However, because consideration of the 
FY 2008 supplemental has been delayed, some items deferred in the House 
bill have been restored to the base bill in the conference agreement to 
prevent production gaps and other consequences that might arise if 
funding were delayed until next May. This largely affected 
appropriations for the Department's operation and maintenance 
activities and ammunition procurement accounts. The House bill 
recommended an overall reduction to the operation and maintenance 
accounts of some $5.7 billion below the request. The conference 
agreement includes a total reduction of $2.8 billion. Nonetheless, the 
conference agreement fully funds home-station training, equipment 
maintenance, and other key military readiness programs covered in these 
accounts.

Meeting the allocation also required deferring consideration of 
several high profile programs until the FY 2008 war supplemental is 
taken up. These include:

The Air Force Reserve Basic Allowance for Housing shortfall

War-Related Special Pays--Hostile Fire Pay, Hardship Duty Pay, 
Foreign Language Proficiency Pay.

The ground forces' strategic reserve readiness and equipment 
rehabilitation.

Funding for additional Stryker vehicles ($1.1 billion).

The purchase of at least 10 C-17 cargo aircraft ($2.9 billion).

The purchase of additional Black Hawk MEDEVAC helicopters.

The Department's Global Train and Equip program.

















 Highlights


The conference agreement achieves a balance between preparing units 
for near-term deployments, supporting our military members and their 
families, and modernizing our forces to meet future threats. Highlights 
of the agreement are:

Supporting Our Troops and Their Families: First and foremost, the 
conference agreement recommends robust funding for programs important 
to the health, well-being, and readiness of our forces. In addition, 
the agreement proposes several initiatives that address issues raised 
by troops, their families, and Department of Defense officials in 
testimony before the Committee and visits to military bases in the 
United States and overseas.

The conference agreement includes funding of about $2.2 billion to 
cover the full cost of a 3.5 percent military pay raise, supported by 
both the House and Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2008 National 
Defense Authorization bill.

Under their ''grow-the-force'' initiatives, the Army and Marine Corps 
propose to add 7,000 and 5,000 new troops, respectively. The personnel 
costs of these increases are fully covered in the conference agreement, 
as are the associated equipping and outfitting costs. For the Army the 
equipping costs for these new troops amount to more than $4 billion; 
for the Marines the costs exceed $2 billion.

Home-stationing training, optempo, and flying-hour costs are funded 
at robust levels. All told, the conference agreement provides for a 19 
percent increase in funding for these activities over last year's 
level. Home station training dollars increase by 32 percent and 45 
percent for Army and Marine Corps respectively.

The military services' force structure and basing infrastructure are 
in a state of transition. The Army, in particular, has been forced to 
manage significant changes in force structure (known as Army 
Modularity), base closures, and a global repositioning of forces, all 
while meeting the demands of war. Based on detailed information 
provided by the Army, the conference agreement includes a House 
initiative to assist the service in meeting this challenge. The 
conference agreement adds $615.7 million to the Army's facilities sus- 
tainment and restoration budget request to offset the growing 
infrastructure costs associated with the global repositioning of its 
forces. This funding, however, will only partially cover the Army's 
needs. It will be necessary to address additional infrastructure 
requirements of approximately $686 million in operation and maintenance 
costs and over a billion in military construction costs during 
consideration of the FY 2008 emergency supplemental request.

The conference agreement also includes a House initiative to directly 
respond to the needs of our military families. Total funding of $2.6 
billion is recommended for the military's family advocacy programs, 
childcare centers, and dependent's education programs. This amount is 
an increase of $237 million over the Administration's request, with 
most of the increase allocated to DoD's family advocacy programs. This 
program provides counseling, education, and support to military 
families affected by the demands of war and episodes of child or spouse 
abuse.

The agreement includes several initiatives and additional funding to 
address health care issues raised over the past year, including 
improving the Department's electronic medical records and fostering 
better coordination between DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
enhancing preventative medicine programs, and advancing military 
medical research. Also, the conference agreement fully covers the $1.9 
billion shortfall in health funding created by the disapproval of DoD's 
proposed fee and premium increases.



Preparing for the Future: The conference agreement provides robust 
funding for weapons systems purchases and research programs designed to 
meet future threats.

The conference agreement supports full funding, as requested, for the 
F-22 tactical fighter aircraft procurement programs.

The conference agreement includes increases above the President's 
request allocated for development programs that address so-called 
''asymmetric'' threats from weapons of mass destruction and cruise 
missiles. Additional funding of $10 million is provided to pursue 
cruise missile defense, $20 million for chemical and biological defense 
research programs, $21 million to improve fissile material detection 
systems, and $50 million for the Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction 
account to counter weapons proliferation and chemical/biological 
agents. Finally, the conferees agreed to add $100 million to improve 
U.S. space situational awareness in light of the Chinese anti-satellite 
missile test in January of this year.

To support the Army's evolution to a larger, more lethal, and more 
rapidly deployable force, the conference agreement recommends $3.4 
billion for continued development of Future Combat Systems, a cut of 
slightly more than $200 million, $925 million for additional Stryker 
vehicles, and full funding for procurement of four Joint Cargo 
Aircraft.

Testimony before the committee revealed that our National Guard and 
Reserve forces continue to suffer from equipment shortfalls. To address 
this need the conference agreement recommends providing an additional 
$980 million to purchase Guard and Reserve equipment. These additional 
funds will enhance these forces' ability to meet overseas deployment 
demands, and respond to natural disasters here at home.

Economic Stability: Fostering economic stability in DoD's weapons 
modernization programs has been a consistent theme of the Committee. As 
such, the conference agreement includes a series of recommendations 
that will help stabilize certain programs by adding funds and/or 
adjusting procurement or development schedules.

The Navy's shipbuilding program has been beset by planning and 
resource instability for many years, resulting in ever-increasing costs 
to the American taxpayer. Clearly, at current production rates and 
price levels, the Navy will be unable to meet its force structure 
requirements in the future. The conferees respond by providing advance 
procurement funding for an additional five ships. To purchase these 
ships or to initiate planning and construction, the conference 
agreement provides an additional $938 million above the Navy's request 
for shipbuilding and sealift.

The success of the Department's Joint Strike Fighter, F-35, program 
is critical to our nation's ability to field a modern, capable fighter 
aircraft fleet for decades to come. To maintain stability in this 
program--and limit the potential for cost increases over time--the 
conference agreement recommends an increase of $200 million for F-35 
production enhancements. These funds are to be used to outfit 
facilities with the latest in production line equipment and work-flow 
technology. In addition, the conference agreement recommends adding 
$480 million to continue development of an alternative engine for this 
aircraft, thereby ensuring a competitive base for engine production. 
The conference agreement reduces the JSF budget request by $266 million 
to account for payments the program will receive in fiscal year 2008 
for double billing by the contractor. This reduction does not adversely 
affect the aircraft production schedule.

Accountability: The Committee's fiduciary responsibility to the 
American taxpayer requires holding accountable organizations, 
officials, and programs that have performed poorly. The conference 
agreement focuses attention on the following issues:

Fiscal discipline: The conference agreement affirms several important 
House initiatives to improve DoD's fiscal discipline and Congressional 
oversight. (These are described in an appendix to this memorandum.)

Contracting Out: The conference report also includes recommendations 
to adequately manage and oversee the growth in and cost-effectiveness 
of contracting out. (These are described in an appendix to this memo.)

Basic research: The conference agreement includes a 35 percent cap on 
the amount of overhead charges that can be charged on a basic research 
grant or contract.











Summary of Recommendations by Title



 Military personnel

The conference agreement provides $105.3 billion for military 
personnel pay and benefits accounts, a slight decrease of $111 million 
to the President's FY 2008 request, but an increase of $5.4 billion 
over the FY 2007 level.

The military personnel pay raise of 3.5 percent is funded at $2.2 
billion. This rate is 0.5 percent greater than the President requested. 
Also, the conference agreement includes $2.4 billion for retention 
bonuses and recruiting incentives.

The conference agreement increases the Basic Allowance for Housing, 
BAH, 4.2 percent to $15 billion, which is $1.6 billion over the 
projected FY 2007 enacted level. This continues to ensure no out-of-
pocket expenses for service personnel and supports the privatization of 
housing units for military families.

Army end-strength is increased by 7,000 in the conference agreement, 
to a total of 489,400, or $5.7 billion over the FY 2007 enacted budget 
amount. The conferees increase and fully fund Marine Corps end-strength 
by 5,000 to a total of 180,000.

The Navy and Air Force, on the other hand, will continue to reduce 
their manpower levels. Navy plans to cut 12,300 in 2007; Air Force 
intends to reduce their force by about 5,600. The conference agreement 
includes a mandated review of Air Force end-strength requirements.

The conference agreement assumes the Special Operations Command will 
grow to a level of about 54,250 personnel, up about 6,400 over FY 2007 
levels. By FY 2013, the Command projects its end-strength to grow to 
about 59,000.


 Operation and maintenance

The conference agreement provides a total of $140.1 billion for 
operation and maintenance accounts, a decrease of $2.8 billion from the 
request, but an increase of $12.8 billion or 10 percent over the FY 
2007 baseline O&M enacted level.

The conference agreement makes significant reductions to the military 
services' O&M accounts, particularly the Army and Air Force, for the 
following reasons:

Unjustified growth over FY 2007 funding levels, beyond amounts 
necessary to fully fund all training, optempo, and maintenance 
activities.

Excessive buildups of spare parts inventories.

Excess cash in working capital funds, beyond levels necessary to 
ensure cash flow.

The conference agreement fully funds a 3 percent civilian pay raise, 
which is scheduled to take effect January 1, 2008.


 Procurement and R&D

Procurement is funded at $98.2 billion, $1.4 billion below the 
request and the House bill. This is still an increase of 21 percent, 
the largest percentage increase of all the major accounts in the DoD 
budget. R&D is funded at a total of $77.3 billion, about $2.1 billion 
more than requested. Of note, the conference agreement provides funding 
for shipbuilding that totals $15 billion. This funding allows for the 
procurement of 5 ships and advance construction funding for an 
additional 5 ships above the President's request.

Funding of $3.9 billion is provided to fund the purchase of 20 F-22 
aircraft, as requested. Additionally, the conference agreement 
recommends $2.7 billion for the procurement of 12 F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter aircraft and $2.0 billion for the procurement of 24 F/A-18E/F 
aircraft.

The conference agreement includes $99 million for modifications to 
the Air Force's combat search and rescue platform, the HH-60.

Funding for the Missile Defense Agency decreases to $8.6 billion from 
last year's level of $9.4 billion.


 Defense Health Program

The Defense Health Program is funded at $23.5 billion, an increase of 
$0.9 billion above the President's request.

Major increases for this activity include: $70 million for the 
Wounded Warrior Assistance program; $138 million for peer reviewed 
breast cancer research; $80 million for prostate cancer research; and 
$10 million for ovarian cancer research.

HIV/AIDS research and prevention programs receive a total increase of 
$16 million in the conference agreement.

The conference agreement includes $50 million for the Congressionally 
Directed Medical Research Program.

The conference agreement also includes $379 million to cover the 
''efficiency wedge'' shortfall.


 Special Operations Command

The conference agreement for the Special Operations Command is $5.5 
billion, a slight increase to the President's request. This amount 
includes $3.3 billion for operation and maintenance, a reduction of $23 
million from the President's request based on past obligations data and 
other reductions provided by the Command.

For procurement, the conferees recommend $1.8 billion, a decrease of 
$50 million from the request. This reduction includes a decrease of $23 
million for equipment and modifications associated with one CV-22; the 
agreement provides that funding for one of the five mods requested can 
slip based on the ability of the contractor to outfit the aircraft. The 
conference agreement also includes a $19 million reduction for C-130 
modifications associated with the 30 mm weapons program and problems


assimilating this weapon onto the C-130. Within the funding provided, 
an increase of $17 million is included for SPEAR body armor and eye 
protection.

Finally, for R&D the conference agreement includes $450 million, an 
increase of $5 million above the request. Within this amount, an 
increase of $5 million is provided for an ongoing Special OpslNavy 
joint program to improve UAV systems. This initiative is a high 
priority of the House Armed Services Committee.













 Notable General Provisions


A provision is included allowing the Department of Defense general 
transfer authority of $3.7 billion. The Department requested transfer 
authority of $5 billion.

The conference agreement includes a general provision limiting the 
amount of reimbursable indirect costs on a basic research contract to 
not more than 35 percent of the total cost of the contract.

A new provision is included permitting a competitive expansion of 
domestic VIM/VAR steel production capacity.

A provision is retained from previous Defense Appropriations acts 
which prohibits the sale of F-22 fighters to foreign countries.

A provision is included appropriating $10 million for Fisher Houses.

Funds are provided to the joint U.S.-Israeli Arrow missile defense 
system in a general provision. Also, funds are added for a study of 
future Israeli missile defense requirements.

A new provision is included which prohibits the Department from 
initiating new programs through reprogramming requests, as proposed by 
the House.

Another new provision proposed by the House is included which 
establishes a separate ''major force program'' budget and program 
designation for DoD's space programs. This will improve the Committee's 
oversight of these activities.

The conference agreement includes two provisions restricting the 
establishment of permanent bases in Iraq and prohibiting torture as 
carried in the House bill. These provisions are consistent with 
existing law.

The conference agreement includes a provision restricting the payment 
of any award fees to contractors who fail to meet contractual 
requirements.
