# None
## `529ac562ff74209d549e313bba2d3e96`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, my good friend, the majority leader, 
seems to regret that we are having a debate on the matter he put in the 
queue for us to have a debate on. We would not be dealing with this 
issue this week but for his decision to file cloture on two motions to 
proceed on two Feingold bills. The first Feingold bill which is before 
us, we have actually essentially voted on four times already since the 
new majority took over in January of 2007. In fact, this will be the 
35th Iraq vote we have had since the new majority has taken over.

We spent a lot of time discussing Iraq over the last year. During 
much of that time, the view of what was happening in Iraq was not 
nearly as positive or optimistic as it is now. Why we should have a 
truncated discussion of Iraq at a time when things are getting 
dramatically and measurably better strikes me as somewhat curious.

So obviously the Iraq debate of the moment has commenced. I have a 
number of speakers on my side who wish to talk about the success of the 
surge, the improvement in Iraq, the improvement on the Government side 
as well as the military side. So we are happy to engage in this debate. 
It was not our decision to schedule it. This was the decision of the 
majority to devote whatever time was necessary this week to a 
discussion of these two Feingold bills related to Iraq.

So we look forward to the discussion. I believe we have a number of 
people lined up who would be happy to engage in the Iraq discussion, 
and we will continue that until such time as there is a mutual 
agreement to yield back time, which may or may not occur, depending 
upon the situation and how many speakers we have. This is the way the 
Senate frequently operates. It is the way it was when our good friends 
on the other side were in the minority. There is nothing unusual about 
this at all. The one thing we know the majority leader can do is 
schedule, and it was his decision to schedule the two Feingold bills, 
and the first of which is now being talked about.

I yield the floor.