---
---

# CONGRATULATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS CENTENNIAL
## `529f1adcc8673e5fc25bc06e294c49a4`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I'm honored to sponsor this 
bipartisan resolution, along with Representatives Buyer, Shimkus and 
Taylor, to congratulate the United States Army Reserve on its 100th 
anniversary, which will be formally celebrated on April 23, 2008.

The resolution, which has 260 cosponsors, also commemorates the 
contributions of Army Reserve veterans who've helped to ensure that the 
United States' vital national security interests are protected and 
defended in times of war and peace.

I'm very gratified by the outpouring of bipartisan support that this 
resolution has received. It's indicative of the high regard and esteem 
in which the Army Reserve is held among Members of Congress and the 
American people.

As a current member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, as 
well as the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Committee, I've 
been extremely impressed by the level of commitment that Army Reserve 
soldiers bring to their work, and by their high degree of 
professionalism. They truly are ''twice the citizen,'' as Winston 
Churchill once remarked.

Today, the U.S. Army Reserve is composed of more than 30,000 officers 
and 150,000 enlisted soldiers. They have an active presence in 1,100 
communities across our Nation, contributing military values, important 
job skills, and economic support. They are husbands and wives, fathers 
and mothers, sons and daughters. They are our neighbors, our friends, 
our acquaintances and our colleagues at work. These soldiers can be 
called up at any time to serve our Nation, and they must be trained and 
prepared to respond at a moment's notice.

Here in the House of Representatives, 24 Members, including myself, 
have been privileged to serve in the Reserves. In fact, two of the lead 
sponsors of this resolution, Representatives Steve Buyer and John 
Shimkus, still serve in the Army Reserve.

As this resolution notes, the role of today's Army Reserve soldier 
has expanded and changed dramatically since President Roosevelt first 
requested that Congress establish a reserve of trained officers. On 
April 23, 1908, Congress responded to the President's request by 
establishing a permanent reserve corps of trained medical officers. The 
modest corps represented the humble start of what is today a multi-
faceted operational and strategic force.

Since then, their duties have expanded. The Army Reserve is now an 
integral component in any active U.S. Army mission. They have answered 
the call of duty in World Wars I and II, Korea, Vietnam, the Cold War, 
Panama, the Gulf War, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo and, of course, 
since September 11, 2001, in Operation Noble Eagle, Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, and Operation Enduring Freedom.

Through October 31, 2007, 102 Army Reserve soldiers made the ultimate 
sacrifice while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since then, an 
additional four Reserve officers have lost their lives in combat. We 
dedicate this resolution to their memory and to the memory of all 
Reserve soldiers who fought and died defending our Nation's freedoms 
throughout our history.

We dedicate this resolution to our living heroes as well, to those 
men and women who continue their service to our Nation in the U.S. Army 
Reserve today.



I want to commend several staff members for the outstanding work in 
bringing this resolution to the floor: Kevin Coughlin, Joe Hicken and 
John Chapla on the House Armed Services Committee, Tim Welter and Abel 
Carreiro on Congressman Buyer's staff, Grant Culp from Congressman 
Shimkus' staff, Randy Jennings on Congressman Taylor's staff, David 
Whitney on the House Judiciary Committee, Lieutenant General Jack C. 
Stultz and Lieutenant Colonel Rob Young of the Army Reserve, and 
Jonathan Halpern and Ed Larkin on my staff.

Madam Speaker, I, again, thank my colleagues who are cosponsors for 
their extraordinary support of this resolution, and I urge its 
immediate adoption.