# None
## `52a6720819c3b89936aab7c432ba2ae9`
`Mr. SPACE — 4 May 2007`

---


Mr. SPACE. Madam Speaker, today, May 3, 2007, it is my distinct honor 
and pleasure to welcome home 13 members of the Ohio Army National 
Guard's Sentinel Platoon of the 2-174th Air Defense Artillery 
Battalion.

These brave men deserve the thanks and admiration of our nation for 
the sacrifices they have made as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. I 
know I speak for many when I say that we are forever indebted to the 
heroism exhibited by: SGT Adam D. Binckley, SGT Clinton O. Bozenske, 
SGT Eric M. Coffman, SPC Christopher S. Dearth, SPC Adam C. Dick, SGT 
Daniel S. Holdren, SPC Bryan D. Lee, SPC Todd W. McCutcheon, SGT Kyle 
W. McDaniels, SFC Kevin L. Mettler, SSG Nathan A. Stewart, SGT 
Christopher J. Weeks, and SGT Shawn E. Wiseman.

I commend these Guardsmen for heeding the call to serve our nation, 
and I applaud their families for simultaneously sacrificing alongside 
of their loved ones. So often the parents, spouses, and children of 
deployed soldiers and reservists are the support systems our men and 
women need to accomplish the difficult tasks that they are asked to 
undertake.

The 13 men I've named should be forever proud of the commitment, 
courage, and strength of character that they possess. Their 
selflessness should serve as an example to us all.

Again, I offer my most sincere gratitude to the 13 members of the 
Ohio Army National Guard's Sentinel Platoon of the 2-174th Air Defense 
Artillery Battalion.



