---
---

# RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX ACT OF 2007
## `52a9b32b84496fe596fe54931be65264`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 4 August 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of energy independence, national 
security and weaning ourselves off of Middle Eastern oil.

It is sheer madness that--6 years after 
9/11--we still rely on unstable and dictatorial regimes like Saudi 
Arabia to feed our oil habit. They have shown time and time again that 
they care nothing for international peace, peace in the Middle East or 
helping us find a solution for the debacle in Iraq: We know they use 
our oil dollars to fund terrorist organizations like Hamas, and Sunni 
insurgents in Iraq. And yet we still send them billions of dollars a 
year in oil revenues, because we are so dependent on their oil to fuel 
our energy needs.

We are funding both sides of the war on terror. No country on Earth 
has ever successfully fought a war against itself. This bill is a step 
in the right direction by funding alternative, clean energies that will 
set America on the path to energy independence.

With Mr. Rangel's leadership, my colleagues and I on the Ways and 
Means Committee have expanded and extended the tax credits for plug-in 
hybrid vehicles, cellulosic alcohol, ethanol and biodiesel.

This package also promotes alternative fuels by providing assistance 
for the installation and conversion of E-85 fuel pumps and the 
production of flex-fuel vehicles that run on renewable fuel. Another 
provision encourages the domestic development and production of 
advanced technology vehicles and the next generation of vehicle 
batteries and plug-in hybrid vehicles.

Our addiction to oil has gone on long enough. It is time we declare 
independence by harnessing the Sun, wind, geothermal, biomass and other 
clean renewable technology, so that future generations of Americans 
won't have to rely on our enemies to satisfy our energy needs.