---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF THE 101ST AIRBORNE DIVISION
## `52c7ccaa1e612dc47da218d08c24ce34`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1080, 
honoring the extraordinary service and exceptional sacrifice of the 
101st Airborne Division, more commonly known as the Screaming Eagles.

On August 16, 1942, the day the 101st Airborne Division was 
activated, Major General William C. Lee observed that ''The 101st has 
no history, but it has a rendezvous with destiny.'' Since that day over 
60 years ago, the 101st Airborne Division has distinguished itself time 
and again.

Currently headquartered at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, the 101st 
Airborne Division has faithfully answered America's call to service and 
has a distinguished history as the only air assault division in the 
world. The division cleared the way for the 1st and 4th Infantry 
Divisions at Omaha and Utah Beach on D-day in Normandy.

One of the most notable of the Screaming Eagles' achievements was the 
defense of Bastogne, Belgium during the Battle of the Bulge, where the 
division was surrounded by advancing enemy forces who demanded their 
immediate surrender. Brigadier General Anthony McAuliffe led the 101st 
through the siege, which was broken on December 26, 1944.

The division again proved its laudable skill and courage fighting 
bitter battles in Vietnam. The 101st established an extraordinary 
helicopter force of troops trained and ready for combat in Vietnam. 
Dense jungle and uneven terrain made the use of helicopters highly 
desirable for maneuverability and aided in the Tet Offensive.

The 101st Airborne Division (Air Mobile) was designated the 101st 
Airborne Division (Air Assault) in October 1974. The Screaming Eagles 
continued their rendezvous with destiny by faithfully completing combat 
missions in the Middle East, and humanitarian and peacekeeping missions 
in Rwanda, Somalia, Haiti, and in Bosnia. During the 1990 invasion of 
Kuwait, the division


conducted the largest air assault in history.

Today, the 101st continues their history of exemplary combat service 
to our Nation in Iraq and Afghanistan. Thousands of men and women 
proudly wear the patch of the Screaming Eagle on their right shoulder 
as they deploy to defend the liberties that we enjoy here in the United 
States. Today, we recognize the Screaming Eagles and the hundreds of 
thousands of their brethren in uniform who volunteer to defend our 
Nation each and every day.

I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.