---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `52df540d3e50db1ad297b61f4463f42b`
`Mr. CONRAD — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, reclaiming my time, I will be happy, when 
I have completed my presentation--the Senator has half the time, and I 
know he will use it well. I hope he will give me the opportunity to 
complete my presentation, and then I am happy to answer all of his 
questions.

Mr. President, when you look on the Internet--this is my favorite 
one:




 Live tax free and worldwide on a luxury yacht. Moving 


 offshore and living tax free just got easier.


That is the kind of scam which is going on that is costing the 
Treasury of the United States, according to our own Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations, over $100 billion a year.

It doesn't stop there. This is a picture of a sewer system in Europe. 
What does a sewer system in Europe have to do with the budget of the 
United States? Well, as it turns out, it has a lot to do with it 
because this sewer system in Europe was actually purchased by wealthy 
U.S. investors, depreciated on their books for U.S. tax purposes, and 
then leased back to the European city in which it is actually located. 
It has no business purpose. There is only one purpose, and that purpose 
is to operate as a scam. This is the kind of thing which should be shut 
down. Nobody can justify this. Nobody can defend this. That is what is 
going on.

So I believe the combination of closing the tax gap, just a tiny 
portion of it, combined with shutting down these offshore tax havens, 
combined with shutting down these abusive tax shelters, could easily 
provide the 2 percent of revenue we have that is over and above the 
President, according to a Congressional Budget Office score, with no 
tax increase to anyone.

The budget conference report we bring to the floor also funds a 
number of critically important priorities for the American people, 
including expanding health care coverage for children. When you look at 
the comparison, the President has provided $2 billion for this purpose 
over the 5 years. We provide $50 billion so that there is the prospect 
of covering every child in America who is not otherwise covered with 
health insurance. That is good policy, it is a good investment, and it 
is morally right. We ought to ensure that every child in America has 
health care coverage. It is good policy because if you solve a health 
care problem for a child, you get a return on that investment for their 
lifetime.

Another area that has been a priority in this budget is education. 
Under this budget, we provide some $6 billion in this next year over 
and above what the President provided because we think education is the 
future. If we are not world class in education, we are not going to be 
a world-class power. So we have provided that additional investment in 
education.

The third area of initiative is in veterans health care. If there is 
any scandal that I think has troubled the American people more than 
what we saw at Walter Reed where heroes returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan have been subjected to subpar medical treatment, I don't 
know what it is. I don't know of anything that has so angered so many 
people, at least in my constituency. So we have adopted a budget here 
that closely follows the independent budget which is put forward by the 
veterans organizations themselves which provides for $43.1 billion in 
funding in the next fiscal year, compared to the President's $39.6 
billion.

To recap, the budget resolution we bring to the floor, the conference 
report, puts the Nation back on a sound fiscal path. It balances by 
2012 with a $41 billion surplus in 2012. It reduces spending as a share 
of gross domestic product each and every year of the 5 years of the 
budget. It reduces debt as a share of gross domestic product from 2010 
on. It adopts spending caps and restores a strong pay-go rule. What is 
pay-go? Pay-go simply says that if you want to have more mandatory 
spending or more tax cuts, you can have them, but you have to pay for 
them, and if you don't pay for them, you have to get a super-majority 
vote.

This budget also meets the Nation's priorities. It fully funds the 
President's defense and war cost requests. It rejects the President's 
cuts in certain key priority areas. It provides increases for 
children's health, for education, and for our veterans health care, an 
area in which the American people overwhelmingly want us to invest.

In addition, this budget resolution keeps taxes low. It extends 
specifically the middle-class tax relief provisions, including marriage 
penalty relief, the child credit, and the 10-percent bracket. It 
provides alternative minimum tax relief so that more and more middle-
class people don't get swept up in that tax. It provides for 
fundamental estate tax reform. It includes the deficit-neutral reserve 
funds for additional tax relief and for the extension of other expiring 
provisions. It includes no assumption of a tax increase.

This budget also prepares for the long term. It provides for program 
integrity initiatives to crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse in both 
Medicare and Social Security. It includes health information technology 
and comparative effectiveness reserve funds to address rising health 
care costs. According to the Rand Corporation, widespread health 
information technology alone could save $81 billion a year. It also 
adopts a new budget point of order against long-term deficit increases.

I will conclude by saying this budget has specific proposals 
addressing our long-term fiscal challenge. It provides program 
integrity initiatives to crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse. It 
provides new mandatory spending, and tax cuts must be paid for in the 
pay-go provision. It provides that long-term deficit increase face a 
point of order, a super-majority hurdle on the floor of the Senate. It 
provides for the health information technology reserve fund. I have 
already indicated that the Rand Corporation indicates that health 
information technology could save $81 billion a year. Finally, it 
includes the comparative effectiveness reserve fund, so that we look at 
the technologies and approaches being used across this country on how 
we could save money by using the best practices in health care.



We think this is a responsible budget, one that meets the needs of 
the American people. We believe it merits our colleagues' support.

Before I yield the floor, I want to thank my colleague, Senator 
Gregg. I acknowledge that we have differences about this budget. That 
is healthy. That is the strength of our democracy, that we have a 
debate and differences. But I wish to say that Senator Gregg has always 
conducted himself as a professional and has been extremely helpful as 
we have gone through the process. He and his staff have cooperated with 
us closely, while they have disagreed very strongly with respect to 
some of the conclusions we reached. I wish to acknowledge the way in 
which he and his staff have conducted themselves as we have gone 
through this difficult process. I thank him for the many courtesies he 
has extended to us as we have gone through the budget resolution this 
year.

I yield the floor.