---
---

# COMMEMORATING AZERBAIJAN'S REPUBLIC DAY
## `52e3328defc94424d209ddca016472a7`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise as a senior member of 
the House Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the House Azerbaijan 
Caucus, to honor the people of the Republic of Azerbaijan--a strong 
strategic partner and ally not only to the United States but also among 
the democratic nations of our world--as they prepare to celebrate 
Republic Day on May 28.

Republic Day commemorates the day Azerbaijan first declared 
independence from the Russian Empire in 1918--becoming the first ever 
Muslim democratic republic. Although the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic 
only lasted 2 short years, succumbing to Soviet forces in 1920, in its 
2 years of independence Azerbaijan made great strides in areas such as 
state building, education, and economic growth. The Azerbaijan 
Democratic Republic was even ahead of the United States in terms of 
granting suffrage to women; which didn't happen here in the U.S. until 
1920.

Azerbaijan's second opportunity for freedom and independence began in 
1990 when Azerbaijanis began openly gathering in protest against Soviet 
rule. Tragically, January 1990 will forever be known to all 
Azerbaijanis as Black January, as these peaceful demonstrations were 
crushed by Soviet intervention at a cost of over a hundred and thirty 
civilians' lives.

Yet even in the face of such brutality Azerbaijanis never gave up 
their dream of freedom and independence and following the final 
collapse of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan quickly declared its re-
independence.

By August 30, 1991, a free Azerbaijan's Parliament adopted the 
Declaration on the Restoration of the State of Independence of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan, and on October 18, 1991, the Constitution was 
approved.

Having lived under Soviet rule, the people of Azerbaijan have a great 
appreciation of living in a democratic civil society and since its re-
independence, the Republic of Azerbaijan has been an invaluable ally in 
the Global War on Terror; committing both their human resources and 
their leadership to the fight. Azerbaijan was among the first nations--
Muslim and non-Muslin--to offer unconditional support to the United 
States in the war against terrorism; providing airspace and the use of 
its airports for Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. Today, 
Azerbaijan peacekeeping troops continue to serve with distinction in 
Kabul under the leadership of the International Security Assistance 
Force.


Azerbaijanis have also fought shoulder-to-shoulder with our troops in 
the second front in the war against terrorism, Iraq. In fact, 
Azerbaijan--in another first--was the first Muslim nation to join the 
Coalition and send troops to Iraq.



Finally, Azerbaijan has joined all 12 international conventions on 
counter-terrorism and continues to support regional cooperation on 
fighting terrorism through numerous local agreements as well as its 
participation in the activities of regional organizations such as NATO, 
the Organization for Security in Europe and others.

Azerbaijan has also assumed an important political role in the fight 
against terrorism and tyranny. As a founding member of the GUAM 
Organization for Democracy and Economic Development--whose namesake 
members include Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova--Azerbaijan 
has been a leading voice on enhanced regional economic cooperation 
through development of a Europe-Caucasus-Asia transport corridor; and a 
facilitator for discussion on various levels of existing security 
problems, promoting conflict resolution and the elimination of other 
risks and threats, such as illegal trafficking and border security.

I believe that the past several years have proven that the people and 
government of Azerbaijan are committed to democracy. They have taken a 
bold and courageous stand for freedom and democracy by committing 
troops and resources to the fights in Afghanistan and Iraq. They have 
expended their political capital to bring different nations together in 
their region, and abroad, to peacefully organize and build, through 
democratic institutions and commerce, a safer world.

Madam Speaker, I would ask all of my colleagues to join me now to 
thank the people of Azerbaijan for their friendship, to congratulate 
them on the 89th Anniversary of Republic Day and to renew our 
commitment to further develop and strengthen the bonds between our two 
peoples.
