---
---

# None
## `52f9d3ecf7611abcef1b9c8d7208ea71`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. No, I will not.

I also say to the Senator, I am a cosponsor of the Iraq Study Group 
legislation by Senator Salazar, on which he worked so hard and so 
honestly to build bipartisan support. But what happened when the 
President gave his State of the Union Address 2 years ago when things 
looked as though they were not going very well in Iraq? We had more 
deaths, more violence, and a bipartisan group did come together, some 
of the great minds on this issue. What did the President do? He 
dismissed the document.

I am not sure what the Senator from Tennessee thinks, maybe the 
President will wake up tomorrow morning and decide to read the report. 
But he hasn't read it for 2 years. It is not being implemented. That is 
what this debate is about.

I don't know how many more commissions we could commission. I don't 
know how many more experts we could gather. I don't know how many more 
Republicans and Democrats could come together to explain to this 
President it is not working. So I am not sure about creating another 
commission. We have already had many. He doesn't even read the 
recommendations. They are right here. Here they are, not implemented 
into law. But can we vote on this? No, because the minority leader says 
they don't want to have a vote on these recommendations.

I wish to say another thing about the role of the Congress and the 
President. I am so tired of hearing the other side say: Why does 
Congress have anything to say about this matter? Maybe because our 
Constitution says we should, maybe because the intelligence reports 
that are done are not just presented to the President and his military 
generals and leaders and war fighters. The intelligence reports are 
given to us. There was one delivered this morning I would like to read.

Before I read what it says, I wish to read the way it says it.




 Since its formation in 1973, the National Intelligence 


 Council has served as a bridge between the intelligence and 


 policy communities, a source of deep, substantive expertise 


 on critical national security issues, and as a focal point 


 for Intelligence Community collaboration. . . . [It] provides 


 a focal point for policymakers . . .


That would be me, I am a policymaker. I ran for the job. I am 
elected. I am here to make policy, and I intend to make it.




 . . . Warfighters, and Congressional leaders to task the 


 Intelligence Community for answers--


We sure need some important questions, such as how to win the war 
against terrorism.

They don't send this to the President and say: After you finish 
reading it, let us know what you want us to do. They send it to us, and 
today they sent us another one.

What it said in this report is:




 Al-qa'ida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the Homeland, as its central leadership continues 


 to plan high-impact plots, while pushing others in extremist 


 Sunni communities to mimic its efforts and to supplement its 


 capabilities.


It is clearly saying, yes, there are some threats and activities in 
Sunni areas in Iraq, but there are also Sunni areas around the world. 
And so Osama bin Laden is still loose.

I brought his picture tonight so I could remind the President what he 
looks like. He is still on the loose, the leader of al-Qaida. This is 
his description. He is 6 foot 4 inches to 6 foot 6 inches, 
approximately 160 pounds. He is thin. Occupation unknown. We know now 
what he does. His hair is brown. His eyes are brown. His complexion is 
olive. And there is a reward--and thank goodness they let us have a 
vote on Byron Dorgan's amendment because now the reward is $50 million 
instead of $25 million. Maybe the President will veto that provision. I 
don't know. But I, frankly, think that was a good idea. Maybe we should 
raise it a little higher. I don't know what Congress is doing 
discussing what the reward should be for Osama bin Laden. Clearly, we 
have nothing to say about this issue. I am glad we voted to increase 
the reward. I would like to see if we can find him and


kill him. If we would stop spending $500 million a day, $35 million 
before breakfast every day in Iraq, maybe we could find him because he 
is not in Baghdad.

We, obviously, have disagreements about the way to proceed, but I can 
assure my colleagues this is not a stunt. This is a real debate that is 
taking place in a real place that is the real Senate of the United 
States. It is not Hollywood.

The President and the Republican leadership have made many mistakes. 
Nobody is perfect, and we all make them. But we have to change course. 
What we are doing is not working. He is still loose. The estimate today 
says that al-Qaida is as strong as it was on 9/11. If we are winning 
the war, I am not sure that 4 years after you engage, if your enemy is 
stronger than it was when you started, that is winning under any 
definition. But that is what the Republican leadership continues to 
tell people: despite the mounting casualties, the increased funerals, 
and the tremendous strains on our soldiers and their families coming 
home, that we are most certainly winning. The American people don't 
believe it.

Some people are asking to pull out. I am not asking that, but I am 
asking for a change of direction. I brought this picture to the floor 
today to remind everybody how we got here in the first place. Saddam 
Hussein did not attack the United States, Osama bin Laden did, and he 
is still alive, and now terrorism is around the world in places it was 
not before we started down this road. If we are not careful, we are 
going to spend all our money there, all the American people's patience 
there, and all their will there and still not find the guy we are 
looking for and the central intelligence of al-Qaida. I know he is not 
the only part of al-Qaida, but he is the leader, and we need to find 
him.

So however one feels about the issue, I don't think spending one 
night on the floor of the Senate, which is not a Hollywood set but the 
real deal, is too much to ask, since our soldiers have spent every 
night for 5 years on the battlefield around the world.

I will make one more point. I hope that nobody comes to my State or 
on the floor and accuses me of not supporting our troops in uniform 
because I will have several words for them. Every time we disagree 
about procedures, the ones who don't agree with the President are 
accused of not supporting our troops. We couldn't support them more.


So I hope we can get past that reasoning and perhaps we can find a 
better consensus. But the place we are going, the direction we are 
going is not right. We need to change course, and we need to fight 
smart, we need to fight tough, we need to go where the enemy is, and we 
need to protect America.

According to this intelligence report that was issued this morning, 
it doesn't look like we are doing that. That is what this debate is 
about. I look forward to continuing many nights into the future and 
days ahead.

I yield the floor.