---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `53118db2e7ef116aed58f2c98258e56a`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I would like to talk first about the 
process and then the substance of this legislation. As everybody knows, 
we will soon be considering the war supplemental bill entitled ''The 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq 
Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007.''

That title is very important. As the title says, the legislation is 
an appropriations bill. The title refers to troop readiness. There is 
finally, after several months of legislative wrangling, funding for the 
troops that the President can sign.

The title refers to veterans care. There is funding for that. The 
title refers to Katrina recovery. There are funds for Hurricane Katrina 
damage. The title also refers to Iraq accountability. There is language 
finally in the form acceptable to the President so that he can sign it 
dealing with benchmarks on our mission in Iraq and the role of the 
Iraqi Government.

The title of the bill, however, does not refer to any matters within 
the jurisdiction of a committee I am very familiar with, the Finance 
Committee. But take a look and you will find three categories of 
Finance Committee matters: One, the small business tax relief package; 
two, the so-called pension technicals; and, three, Medicaid and SCHIP 
provisions.

Now, why does it matter whether these policy provisions travel in a 
tax-writing committee bill or an appropriations bill? It matters for 
several reasons. I had the pleasure of serving on both the Finance 
Committee, and for a very short period of time during my career in the 
Senate, on the Appropriations Committee. They are the money committees 
of the Senate.

Appropriations bills, by and large, spend money. That is not 
entitlements, that is the set-asides in the budget. Finance Committee 
bills, on the other hand, raise revenue and deal with most of the 
health and welfare entitlement spending.

Both the Appropriations and Finance Committees have very strong 
constitutional traditions, expertise in the complex subject matter, and 
seasoned memberships motivated and dedicated to service of the 
respective committees. All you have to do is look at the careers of 
Chairman Byrd, the ranking member, or Senator Baucus, to know that they 
dedicate themselves to these two great money committees of the Senate.

So when policy issues are processed outside of the Appropriations or 
outside the Finance Committee, necessary care, expertise, and 
experience is lost. When I was chairman, I took great pains to avoid 
taking on appropriations matters. More often than not, policy made 
outside of either of these committee jurisdictions will, it seems, 
somehow need to be corrected.

There is another reason it matters; that is, policy made through the 
committee process is very transparent, and that is what American 
Government and the Congress is all about, transparency--the public 
business to be done publicly. The committee's role is to air and 
carefully consider proposals in the areas of committee jurisdiction.

We are really talking about transparency. Sunshine is the best 
disinfectant. When the committee process is end-run, as I will 
demonstrate in part of this bill, there is usually no positive reason. 
Usually the reason is expediency on the part of people, maybe even 
beyond the control of the committee chairman, and I would suggest 
legislative leadership.


It has happened not just now, it has happened under Republicans and 
under Democrats. But I am pleased to say it has been effectively very 
rare over the last few years. Skipping the committee process on new 
proposals was the exception rather than the rule.

Unfortunately, now, with respect to the critical pieces of Finance 
Committee jurisdiction, it looks as if leadership prefers to skip the 
committee, after I have been told privately and publicly so many times 
all of the work is going to be done through the committee. So I am 
hoping that what I am going to complain about is pretty much a 
temporary pattern.

To sum it up, the people's business should be done in committees in a 
transparent way so the people of this country know what is going on. 
Committee process means sunshine. I think the committee process was 
abused on this legislation.

But the conference process was also abused. We never even went 
through the trappings of the committee process. We have an amended 
House bill that because of the imperative of an acceptable war funding 
package has the force of a conference report.

How was the process abused? Just take a look at the bill, and you 
will find a patchwork of unconnected provisions in the Finance 
Committee jurisdiction that is not even mentioned in the title. Aside 
from a small business tax relief provision, no real back-and-forth 
discussion occurred on these matters, either in the Finance Committee 
or in conference.

With respect to the small business tax relief provisions, the House 
and Senate Democratic leadership set an arbitrary ceiling that 
constrained our outstanding chairman, Senator Baucus, from reaching a 
bipartisan agreement which is so much in the tradition of how Senator 
Baucus and I work together.

The bottom line is, Republicans opened the door to a conference 
agreement without receiving assurances of a fair deal. I don't think we 
got a fair deal. Once Republicans opened the door to the conference, 
the door was effectively shut on full and meaningful participation.

Now, in the past, Republican leadership did similar things, and 
Democrats cried foul. I am proud to say that on most, not all, Finance 
Committee conferences, the Senate Democrats were represented and 
present for final conference agreements. After crying foul about some 
conference processes, the Senate Democratic leadership insisted in 
previous years on preconference agreements before letting Republicans 
go to conference.

As I feared earlier in the year, the Senate Republican leadership 
will have to similarly insist on assurances before conferences are 
convened. This supplemental and its vetoed predecessor made the case 
that the conference process can't be trusted.

Senate Republicans have no recourse other than to insist on 
preconference agreements, as we can learn from the Democratic minority 
of the previous 4 years.

Now, I want to turn to the substance of three categories of the 
Finance Committee matters that were inserted in the process, after 
spending my previous minutes on that process. Now to the substance.

The first matter deals with the small business tax relief package 
that traveled with a minimum wage increase. The deal in the conference 
is basically the same deal presented by the Democratic negotiators on 
the last appropriations bill. It favors the House position in number 
and composition of that package, practically ignoring the great work 
that Senator Baucus and I did on these provisions.

From a small business standpoint, the House bill was a peanut shell. 
The


Senate bill was real peanuts. Real peanuts--still not enough from my 
perspective but more, much more than what the House has.

As you can see here, I have got Mr. Peanut up here to demonstrate the 
Senate bill, the House bill, and the conference report. From a small 
business standpoint, then, I want to repeat: The House bill was a 
peanut shell. The Senate bill was real peanuts. It is a missed 
opportunity because a conference agreement is a single, shriveled 
peanut, not helping small business the way small business ought to have 
been helped to offset the negative impacts on small business of a 
minimum wage tax increase.

We could have, in fact, provided small business with meaningful tax 
relief that is contemporaneous with the effects of the minimum wage 
hike that I say, and I think economists agree, are negative toward 
small business.

This chart shows Mr. Peanut. It shows this bill at each of its 
stages--a peanut, a peanut shell, and shriveled peanut. What we are 
going to be voting on will be that shriveled peanut.

There is another matter that bothers me and this is the so-called 
pension technical corrections. What is a technical correction, one 
might ask. Technical corrections measures are routine for major tax 
bills. Last year's landmark bipartisan pension reform bill certainly 
can be described as a major tax bill. It contained the most significant 
retirement security policy changes within a generation. There are 
proposals necessary to ensure that the provisions of the pension reform 
bill are working consistently within congressional intent and to 
provide clerical corrections. That is what technical corrections means. 
Because these measures carry out congressional intent, no revenue gain 
or loss is scored by the Congressional Budget Office.

Technical corrections is derived from a deliberative and consultative 
process among the congressional as well as administration tax staffs, 
where there is a great deal of expertise. That means the Republican as 
well as the Democratic staffs, regardless of who is in the majority or 
minority of both the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate 
Finance Committee, are involved, as well as Treasury Department 
personnel, whether we have a Republican or Democratic President. All of 
this work is performed with the participation and guidance of the 
nonpartisan professional staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation. A 
technical enters the list only if all staffs agree it is appropriate. 
Any one segment I have listed can veto it. That is why we know it is 
nonpartisan. That is why we know it is technical. That is why we know 
it is not a substantive change in law. If it were, it would not be 
technical.

The pension provisions in this bill, the one we will be voting on in 
a little while, represent then forgetting this process so you know 
things are done right. It represents a cherry-picking of some, not all, 
of the technical corrections that these professional people, in a 
nonpartisan way, are currently trying to put together with a bill that 
will come up later on.

In addition, there are pension provisions included in this bill that 
are called technical but are of great substance and are not then 
technical. Some of these proposals are even controversial. I have 
reviewed legislative history over the last 15-plus years, and that 
history informs me that this may be an unprecedented treatment of 
technical corrections. Techincals were processed on a 2000 year bill 
that was not a tax-writing committee bill, but that package was a 
consensus package. All the committees and the administration had signed 
off that year, 7 years ago. In other instances, technicals were 
processed on tax-writing committee vehicles. In all these instances, 
the packages represented an agreement between all the tax-writing 
committees, Republican and Democratic, and the Treasury.

In this case, there are four committees involved, the two tax-writing 
committees and the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Committee, what we call the HELP Committee, and the House Education and 
Labor Committee. To illustrate the controversy over the pensions 
technical package, I ask unanimous consent to print in the Record a 
copy of a letter from HELP Committee Chairman Kennedy and Ranking 
Member Enzi. The letter lays out their objections to the House 
technical process. I also ask unanimous consent that a copy of a letter 
I wrote regarding the Finance Committee's jurisdiction be printed in 
the Record.