---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `5319d0de985e965f7201063730810b87`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, today is a landmark day in our efforts to 
end the war in Iraq. There is nothing more offensive to a democracy 
than a war being waged against the people's will. Yet that is the 
situation our soldiers face every day.

Tonight, the House has a chance to reflect the will of the people on 
the most important issue of our time. We have the opportunity to vote 
to reunite our soldiers with their families. Let this body speak with 
one booming voice that cannot be denied. Mr. President--no more surges. 
Bring them home.

I have opposed this war from day one. But now is not the time to talk 
about the past. It's time to talk about the future of this country. 
Under the legislation proposed by my friend from Massachusetts, Mr. 
McGovern, most of our soldiers and contractors in Iraq will be back 
with us in 9 months.

The Iraq war has ended the lives of nearly 150 New Yorkers, and 
nearly 3,400 Americans. The young people we have lost in Iraq are as 
diverse as America itself--they are people of color, teenagers, women, 
immigrants of many faiths, and many are from my own home in Brooklyn. 
Tens of thousands more are severely injured and will need our care for 
the rest of their lives.

We do not serve Iraq by staying there. While our military can help 
the Iraqi Government with security, no surge can resolve Iraq's bitter 
political differences. Our diplomatic efforts will carry more weight 
after we leave. We can better ask Iraq's neighbors to help when we are 
Iraq's partner, not its occupier.

It's time to bring our troops home to their families. By supporting 
Speaker Pelosi's package of H.R. 2237, H.R. 2206, and H.R. 2207, we can 
achieve critical domestic priorities, fund our soldiers and veterans, 
and begin a swift withdrawal from Iraq. I urge the support of my 
colleagues.