---
---

# COMMENDING THE 1ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM/34TH INFANTRY DIVISION OF THE  MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
## `531d6766f79e93f4e2f880b208d92241`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for her 
kind words, and I thank the gentleman from Minnesota for his many years 
of leadership and his service also and to the whole Armed Services 
Committee for this important legislation.

I am urging my colleagues, and I am sure it will not take a lot of 
urging. This House of Representatives understands. This resolution, 
House Concurrent Resolution 185, has recognized the incredible 
contributions, courage, and sacrifice of the 1st Brigade Combat Team of 
the National Guard that they have given to our Nation.

In July of 2005, members of the 1/34th Brigade Combat Team of the 
famed Red Bull Division were notified of their deployment. Twenty-two 
months later, in July of 2007, they began returning home, after a 22-
month deployment. As my colleague from Minnesota said, they had no 
intention or no knowledge that they would be setting a record. They 
simply said yes when they were called upon.

As you have heard from each of my colleagues, the statistics are 
amazing on what this unit did: 5,200 combat logistic patrols covering 
2.4 million convoy miles. You heard Mr. Kline talk about the number of 
IEDs that were found. A full 37 percent of the total IED incidents 
during their time there were attributed to the diligent work of this 
unit.

They helped start the Iraqi newspapers that you heard about, and they 
also helped produce documentaries on the positive work that our units 
are doing in Iraq. They completed 137 reconstruction projects; and 
during this deployment, as you heard, they reenlisted 1,400 of these 
brave citizen soldiers. And I think a really special thing is 21 of 
them became citizens during their time in service to this country.

Although they were originally slated to come home, they endured a 
125-day extension, and their families and employers endured that with 
them. This record of the longest continuous deployment of any U.S. 
military operation in Iraqi Freedom is something to be incredibly proud 
of. Being there is one thing. Contributing positively the way they did 
is quite another.

The soldiers sacrificed 2 years of their lives in service to their 
country. I know how much they have given, as I was a former member of 
this Red Bull Division myself; and I know many of these men and women 
personally.

They have added to the long and impressive list of the Red Bull. 
Their lineage goes back to the 1st Minnesota Volunteers, the first unit 
to volunteer for the Civil War. The Red Bulls had 517 days of actual 
combat in World War II, that is more than any other U.S. division 
during the war, and captured more enemy hills and territory than any 
other division in World War II.

I, along with the rest of the Minnesota delegation in both the House 
and the Senate, introduced this resolution to honor their service and 
to recognize not just the soldiers, but their families and employers 
who patiently supported, loved and cared for them and waited for them 
until they returned to the Midwest.

I want to thank my colleagues from Minnesota for their work in 
support of this resolution, especially my colleague Mr. Kline from 
Minnesota. My colleague from Minnesota himself is a lieutenant colonel, 
a lifelong and career Marine Corps officer and one that served with 
distinction. He understands and he too knows the sacrifice that they 
have given.

I want to thank the 30 other Members of Congress who cosponsored this 
resolution to show their support of the 1st Brigade Combat Team. But 
most of all, I want to thank the 2,447 soldiers of the 1st Brigade 
Combat Team from Minnesota. The other soldiers that augmented this unit 
came from Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Kentucky, 
Idaho, and Washington.

The Red Bulls have truly lived up to their long and heroic tradition 
and have contributed bravely to the war in Iraq and this Nation's 
security. Regardless of what any American feels about the war in Iraq, 
it is clear that America's servicemembers, like those from the 1st 
Brigade Combat Team, have performed brilliantly and magnificently; and 
they deserve our full support.

Now Congress must do its part to recognize their service and provide 
them the benefits and the health care that they need. The Minnesota 
National Guard has a world-class reintegration program, the Beyond the 
Yellow Ribbon program, which helps soldiers readjust to civilian life.

I want to thank my friend and colleague and fellow Minnesotan, 
Congressman Kline, for working to expand this program nationwide for 
all soldiers. His leadership in this is appreciated by soldiers and 
families across this Nation.



Their needs will go far beyond reintegration. Long after the initial 
fanfare fades, Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs must 
stand ready to assist these brave warriors throughout the rest of their 
lives. They have more than earned our support, and we must be certain 
they always have it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to show their support for 
the Red Bulls by adopting this resolution.