# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `532046ca568a905e1e86c901e235e273`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 6 June 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank the chairman of our committee, Chairman 
Lantos, for his leadership for so long on this issue.

Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like to voice my strong support for the chairman's bill, H.R. 
2446, the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act, and that's the 
key part of what we're talking about today, security support. This 
legislation is the product of the bipartisan cooperation that our 
committee has shown on an issue of critical importance to the United 
States and our allies in the war against Islamic militant extremists.

Five years ago, our Nation experienced a terrible tragedy, and it led 
our Nation to destroy the al Qaeda safe haven in Afghanistan that the 
brutal Taliban regime had created there. Our focus was to provide a 
safe, stable and secure Afghanistan that would deny global jihadists a 
base of operations to conduct their campaign of terror and destruction 
against our Nation and our critical security interests around the 
world.

Since then, Afghanistan has taken notable steps to emerge from 
decades of war, of violence, of oppression, toward a prosperous, 
secure, free, democratic nation. Today, over 5 million Afghan children 
are in school, including 2 million girls. This was prohibited under the 
Taliban rule. Hundreds of clinics and new schools are now open to serve 
the population as a result of international efforts. Media, cultural, 
business and political leaders are free to meet to discuss, to 
demonstrate and to guide policies that are transforming their nation 
across all sectors.

The Afghan economy is growing at an incredible rate, and 
institutional assistance for Afghan economic reconstruction has been 
forthcoming. Most importantly, the Afghanistan people, through their 
active direct participation in the political process, have demonstrated 
their desire to accelerate and ensure the movement of Afghanistan 
toward modern society.

However, challenges to these and other efforts remain, as Mr. Lantos 
has pointed out. A dramatic increase in illicit opium cultivation is 
financing and strengthening the Taliban and anticoalition activity. 
It's increasing crime and corruption, and it is eroding the authority 
of the central government institutions.

Afghanistan's ballooning drug trade has succeeded in expanding the 
ranks of the Taliban. It is no coincidence that opium and heroin 
production dramatically increased at the same time that the Taliban-
staged massive counteroffensive, particularly in the south of the 
country.

The issue of Taliban and al Qaeda resurgence cannot be considered in 
a vacuum. In response, this critical legislation seeks to address the 
current situation in an integrated fashion, to include the confluence 
of the short-term goals to reduce opium activity and related 
corruption, while addressing longer-term developmental goals which have 
an impact on our counterterrorism and our counternarcotics policies and 
objectives.

In particular, within this critical legislation, we have worked to 
establish the means for developing a long overdue and coherent 
interdepartmental and counternarcotics strategy that addresses the 
deadly and the neglected illicit drug trade and its links to radical 
Islamic terrorism that imperil the future of Afghanistan.

In February of this year, I, along with some of my other colleagues 
on the Foreign Affairs Committee, wrote to the administration on the 
need for an across-the-board policy change on the illicit drug threat 
fueling the resurgence of the Taliban, the attacks on our coalition 
troops, and official corruption in Afghanistan.

The bill before us incorporates many of the recommendations that we 
proposed in this letter, and I thank Chairman Lantos for working so 
closely with us. I believe that his bill will prompt much-needed 
changes by mandating the appointment of a high level, interdepartmental 
Afghan coordinator with emphasis on a development of a coherent 
government-wide counter drug policy. This includes bringing the U.S. 
military into the fight, providing meaningful support for the drug 
enforcement administration with an emphasis on interdiction and on the 
extradition of major drug kingpins.

This legislation also contains limitations on assistance to senior 
Afghan local and provincial government officials who, based on 
evidence, are found to be supporting Islamic terrorist activities or 
narco-traffickers or drug producers or are involved in other criminal 
activities. This important oversight provision will be instrumental in 
assuring that vital U.S. reconstruction assistance is properly 
allocated and utilized.

I am also pleased that we were able to come to an agreement with 
Chairman Lantos on the extension of draw-down authority for military 
equipment, which promotes greater ability to operate with the 
international security assistance force and other allies in the country 
of Afghanistan.

In addition, the bill ensures that there will be prevetting of the 
recruits of the Afghan police to help adequately assess the candidates' 
aptitude, professionals skills, integrity and other qualifications for 
law enforcement work before they enter the service. Our efforts in 
Afghanistan, in particular, and our campaign against militant Islamic 
extremists in general must be pursued in a comprehensive manner.

As illustrated by this critical legislation, it requires an effective 
and unified reconstruction strategy with a unified counternarcotics 
strategy, counterterrorism strategy, and an Afghan government committed 
to fighting and eliminating corruption.

Only with this comprehensive approach will we accelerate economic 
development and reconstruction, improve the quality of life for 
Afghanistan and address the underlying conditions that fuel extremist 
acts and decisively defeat the jihadist elements that want to once 
again control Afghanistan.

My daughter-in-law, Lindsay, after serving her military tour in Iraq 
as a marine pilot, is now serving in Afghanistan. We hope that she will 
be back home with us by Thanksgiving. But we thank every brave man and 
woman who is wearing our Nation's uniform in Afghanistan, and we thank 
them for freeing an entire population, and we hope that their 
contributions will always be celebrated in this House.

This bill before us brings us closer to making sure that Afghanistan 
remains a free country and be without the extremist Islamic elements 
that seek to destroy it.



Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of our time.