---
---

# FAMILY SMOKING PREVENTION AND TOBACCO CONTROL ACT
## `532325ffe2ea0e4e8450c22b94c41a46`
`Mr. REID — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I wanted to say this to the occupant of the 
Chair personally, but I will take the opportunity to say it now. The 
presentation the Senator made on the floor regarding health care was 
stupendous, terribly impressive. I am going to take much of what the 
Presiding Officer said today and use it in the information I give 
people in Nevada and the presentations I am making on the floor. It was 
very good.

As the health care debate has heated up this week, Republicans have 
once again rolled out one of their standard, stale talking points: They 
question the efficiency of our government. When all else fails, all 
they do is berate the government.

But if Republicans want to have an honest debate about how our 
government operates, I think one of the first things I would suggest is 
that they should start looking in the mirror at themselves.

Today, Republicans are wasting more taxpayer time and more dollars 
for no good reason. The tobacco bill on the floor right now is both 
responsible and overdue. After making us wait out all the 30 hours of 
procedural time before even moving to the bill--Mr. President, the 30 
hours isn't all of it. To get to that point, you have to file cloture, 
which takes 2 days, and then we have the 30 hours--a total waste of 
time. Republicans are now making us wait another 30 hours before we can 
vote on this bill. So it is 30 hours just to move to it, and then 30 
hours once we are on it.

Let me reiterate how important the bill we are wasting time on not 
doing is to the American people. Every day, 3,500 Americans try a 
cigarette for the first time, and the vast majority of them are 
children. Nationwide, 3/1/2/ million high schoolers smoke; 3/1/2/ 
million boys and girls in high school smoke. That is more kids than 
participate in athletics in our schools who are smoking. Tobacco 
companies make money hand over fist by marketing and selling their 
poisonous products to our kids.



The bill before the Senate takes smart steps to keep our children and 
families healthier and keep the tobacco companies honest. It will make 
it harder for those companies to sell tobacco to children; help those 
who smoke overcome their addictions; it will make tobacco products less 
toxic for those who cannot or do not want to stop.

We have tried in good faith since last week to reach agreement with 
Republicans on amendments to this bill. Our floor staff has given the 
Republican floor staff a finite list of both Democratic and Republican 
amendments that we wanted to vote on as we consider the bill. With rare 
exception, the amendments were germane. If not germane, they were 
arguably germane. But no. These amendments included three from Senator 
Hagan, and one each from Senators Coburn, Enzi, Bunning, and Lieberman.

Unfortunately, despite repeated efforts to move forward, our 
Republican colleagues have said no every time.

Republicans are also slowing down our government in another way. In 
the few short months since President Obama took office, Republicans 
held up many of his nominees for crucial positions. There are 25 being 
held up right now, as we speak. Let me give you a few of them. We have 
had to have cloture votes this year on the Secretary of Labor; the 
Deputy Attorney General, the No. 2 person for a massive Justice 
Department; the Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior, 
which is like the Chief of Staff for the Department of the Interior; 
two members of the Council of Economic Advisers; and, incredibly, 
America's Ambassador to Iraq, Chris Hill. They held him up for a long 
time. Every time I spoke to Secretary Gates, he wanted to know where 
his Ambassador was, somebody to run that country--at least American 
interests in that country.

Today, they are holding up 25 or more qualified and noncontroversial 
nominees, including Rand Beers, nominated to be Under Secretary of the 
Department of Homeland Security, a pretty important position; Cass 
Sunstein, nominated to head the Office of Management and Budget's 
Information and Regulatory Affairs division. You could go to any law 
school in America today and ask them to name the top 10 academics in 
law schools, and Cass Sunstein's name will be one of the 10 on 
everybody's list. But he is not good enough for the Republicans to get 
him cleared; Hilary Chandler Tompkins, nominated to be the Solicitor 
for the Department of the Interior. That is the lawyer there. They have 
70,000 employees. Secretary Salazar thinks it is a good idea that he 
has a lawyer there. They are not going to allow that; William Sessions, 
nominated to be Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Listen to this 
one. We have been told the reason he is not going to be approved is 
because he is from Vermont, and Senator Leahy is chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee. They want to embarrass a friend, the chairman of 
that committee, Chairman Pat Leahy; Harold Koh, nominated to be the 
State Department's legal advisor. Just like the Interior Department, 
the State Department, Secretary Clinton wants a lawyer there, in that 
huge, most important office. But no. Robert Grove, nominated to be 
Director of the Census--no.

I have only mentioned five. There are 20 others. The Republicans 
recklessly refuse to confirm our new Ambassador to Iraq. Listen to what 
they are doing now. They are holding up LTG Stanley McChrystal, an 
eminently qualified soldier, whom President Obama and Secretary Gates 
chose to be our new commander in Afghanistan. I met him in my office 
the other day. This is a man with the military in his blood. His father 
was a great general. His father won five Silver Stars fighting for our 
country around the world. Stanley McChrystal is an expert in 
counterinsurgency, which we need so badly in Afghanistan. But, no, we 
are not going to get him approved--at least for now.

Republicans are so opposed to everything, they even oppose putting 
people in some of the most important positions in our government. We 
believe--the majority, Democrats--that those who have been chosen to 
serve our country must be able to get to work without delay.

Republicans across the country agree with that, also. But we have 40 
Members of this body--Republicans--who don't represent Republicans 
across this country. Republicans, if given a chance, wouldn't they 
approve LTG McChrystal? Of course they would. And the other people I 
mentioned. We believe those who have been chosen to serve our country 
must be able to get to work without delay. President Obama was elected. 
Shouldn't he have the people he wants to work with him? Perhaps those 
listening think this is how the Senate always operates. The occupant of 
the chair is a new Senator. This isn't how it used to operate.

Let me put these delays into context. In the first 4 months of the 
Bush administration--the second Bush administration--I am sure it was 
the same in the first Bush administration--when the Senate was 
controlled by the President's party, and we were in the minority, there 
wasn't a single filibuster of a Bush nominee--not one. But in the first 
4 months of the Obama administration, Republicans have filibustered 
eight of his nominees. Those are the ones we had to file cloture on. I 
have indicated that there are many others. With the constraints we have 
in the rules of the Senate, I cannot file cloture on every one of 
these. Those filibusters in the first 4 months of Senator Obama's 
administration are twice as many as President Bush faced in his first 4 
months.

I hope people who are listening or watching understand this: We are 
not berating Republicans in Oregon or in Nevada or across the country. 
What I am saying is the Republicans here in the Senate--40 of them--are 
not being fair to our President and our country.

Last year, after Republicans held up the work of the Congress more 
than any other time in history--remember, we had 100 filibusters last 
year--the American people rejected the Republican status quo. They said 
no to Republicans' just-say-no strategy. I would hope they would learn 
that the American people don't like this--Independents, Democrats, and 
Republicans don't like it. We want to work together.

Take health care. They have seats at the negotiating table. We want 
to work with them. Energy, the same thing. There is no question the 
American people are taking notice, and they are fed up with petty 
partisan games. There is no question that these reckless tactics have 
consequences.

Republicans delay and delay and delay to their own peril. The truth 
is that all Americans suffer. It is time that the Republicans let us 
get to work and allow President Obama to have his nominees, and let's 
get this bill off the floor. Every day we wait, 3,500 more people are 
subject to being addicted to tobacco.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.