---
---

# None
## `532a5817602d2ccc3b0b07aed0b9fc82`
`Mr. DREIER — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

I am happy to see the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules 
has joined us here on the floor, and I have to say, Madam Speaker, that 
I am going to encourage our colleagues to defeat the previous question 
on this rule. Why? Because this resolution is all about tackling the 
issue of corruption.

One of the things that we tragically learned is there has been 
corruption not only in Iraq, and we all, including the State 
Department, recognize there has been serious corruption in Iraq. But 
there has been corruption right in this body as well. It has been 
widely heralded; it is bipartisan. We have had problems on both sides 
of the aisle.

We want to take on this issue of corruption. And there was a promise 
made last fall that we would in fact see a great new day when it came 
to the issue of earmark reform. I was very proud, Madam Speaker, that 
last October we were able to pass legislation that provided full 
transparency, disclosure, and accountability on all earmarks, 
appropriations, authorization, and tax bills.

Now, we were told that that measure that passed last year, Madam 
Speaker, was in fact a sham. And, Madam Speaker, I have to tell you 
that we have passed earmark reform in this Congress, but unfortunately 
it doesn't go nearly as far as the bill that we passed in the 109th did 
on the issue of transparency, accountability, and disclosure. Why? The 
disclosure we have today only deals with the issue of appropriations. 
It does not, as we did in the last Congress, have full transparency, 
disclosure, and accountability on authorization and tax bills. Meaning, 
Madam Speaker, that the structure that we have now, unfortunately, 
creates the potential for corruption right here in this body.

That is why, since we have in this resolution an attempt to take on 
the issue of corruption in Iraq, the vote on the previous question that 
we are going to be offering to defeat the previous question to make in 
order the resolution, that we have as a discharge petition that our 
Republican leader (Mr. Boehner) has offered in the well of the House. 
We hope colleagues will sign because that hasn't come forward. But what 
we are trying to do with the defeat of the previous question is to make 
in order that measure so that we can take on the issue of corruption in 
this institution.

So, Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the 
previous question so that we are able to make in order that measure.

I ask unanimous consent to include in the Record just prior to the 
vote on the previous question the text of the amendment and extraneous 
material.