---
---

# None
## `534056d741af978ab214ba0ece7e3723`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 15 June 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Chairman, I would like to commend Chairman Obey 
and Ranking Member Lewis for their leadership in bringing the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill to the House floor. 
I would also like to commend Chairman Thompson and Ranking Member King 
for their unyielding efforts to ensure that the Department of Homeland 
Security receives adequate funding to carryout its mission--to help 
prevent, protect against and respond to acts of terrorism on U.S. soil.

I am pleased that for fiscal year 2007-2008, the Committee recommends 
$2,065,387,000 above the amount requested for discretionary resources. 
On February 5th, President Bush delivered the fiscal year 2008 budget 
request for the Department of Homeland Security and it failed to 
address our Nation's most pressing security needs. It left gaps in our 
Nation's border, port, mass transit, rail, aviation, cyber and critical 
infrastructure security. Essentially, the administration's proposed 
budget failed to aggressively promote the necessity of protection, 
prevention, and preparation.

With the recently foiled JFK terrorist plot and the issues of 
coordination surrounding the TB case, it is clearly evident that we 
need to put more resources into the DHS. While we passed supplemental 
funding for the war in Iraq, protecting our Nation's security must 
remain a priority. Homeland terrorism is still a prevalent threat.

H.R. 2683 makes key investments in areas such as first responder and 
port security by appropriating $1.97 billion above the President's 
request. These grants were funded at $4.92 billion in 2004 and have 
been cut every year since. I am also pleased that the bill 
appropriation includes $50 million above the administration's request 
and $797 million above 2007. This will allow DHS to strengthen our 
Nation's borders beyond our Mexican border and include areas in the 
Caribbean such as my district--the U.S. Virgin Islands.

H.R. 2683 also addresses lessons learned from Hurricanes Rita and 
Katrina. This includes increase funding for improvements to FEMA's 
management operation called for after Katrina. The bill also provides 
$200 million above 2007 for assistance to State and local governments.

Overall, this appropriation bill reflects numerous hours of oversight 
hearings on every aspect of security and terrorism issues affecting our 
Nation's borders and infrastructure. H.R. 2683 demonstrates to our 
Nation this Congress is serious about protecting our citizens and I 
urge its passage.

Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Homeland Security and the Homeland Security for their 
hard work to increase funding for the Department of Homeland Security.