---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `5363af9aff4ecb2a2fc29d412ee7c926`
`Mr. KYL — 3 August 2010`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, Elena Kagan is intelligent, well spoken, 
personable, and schooled in the law. She is skilled in the art of 
argument, perhaps to a fault. Ignoring her own advice in the now famous 
University of Chicago Law Review article, she did not testify 
meaningfully before the Judiciary Committee, concealing and disguising 
her views and playing the same game of ''hide the ball'' as some who 
went before her, albeit with more skill. Probably because she 
criticized the practice so directly, many expected her to set a 
different standard.

Others have asked whether Judiciary Committee hearings have been 
rendered largely free of substance and what, if anything, can be done 
about it. The former Judiciary Committee chairman, Arlen Specter, who 
lamented that Ms. Kagan, during her testimony, had not ''answered much 
of anything,'' went on to say this:




 It would be my hope that we could find some place between 


 voting no and having some sort of substantive answers. But I 


 think we are searching for a way how Senators can succeed in 


 getting substantive answers, as you advocated in the Chicago 


 Law Review, short of voting no.


I confess that, similar to Senator Specter, I don't know how we can 
force nominees to be forthcoming except through our votes.

To be clear, my threshold for supporting a nominee does not require 
answering how one would vote on issues sure to come before the Court, 
nor necessarily expressing agreement or disagreement with decisions or 
Court opinions. It is possible to learn much about a nominee's approach 
to judging without committing one to a specific position in future 
cases. What we should expect, however, is candor and a willingness to 
honestly discuss background and general constitutional principles, 
approaches to judging and writings and matters within the nominee's 
background that bear on the nominee's suitability for the bench.

In explaining why I could not vote for now-Justice Sotomayor, I said 
I thought she was disingenuous with the Judiciary Committee. Obviously, 
reaching such a conclusion precludes support, notwithstanding other 
qualifications for the position. Reluctantly, after analysis of her 
testimony, weighed with her past writings, statements, and actions, I 
have reached the same conclusion regarding Elena Kagan.

Exhibit A is her insistence on redefining her position on military 
recruiting on Harvard campus. Her ''separate but equal'' defense and 
attempt to downplay the steps she took to undermine the legal policy of 
don't ask, don't tell were, ultimately, unbelievable. It is almost 
unfathomable, for example, that someone with Ms. Kagan's considerable 
legal acumen could have, as she asserted, always thought we were acting 
in compliance with the Solomon amendment.

Ms. Kagan tried to convince the Judiciary Committee that her actions 
against the military were a justifiable response to a policy she viewed 
as discriminating against homosexuals. But


as Senator Sessions noted, her stand against homosexual discrimination 
was not universal. She did not speak out, for example, when Harvard 
accepted $20 million from a member of the Saudi royal family to 
establish a center for the study of Sharia law, even though under 
Sharia law ''sexual activity between two persons of the same gender is 
punishable by death or flogging.'' Her decision to punish the military 
for a policy adopted by Congress is especially perplexing, given her 
failure to express concern over or take action against the 
establishment of a center to promote a legal system linked to the abuse 
of homosexuals, women, and others.

Exhibit B is her astonishing legal definition of what she meant in 
her effusive praise for Justice Marshall's vision of the role of the 
Court, presumably to avoid the obvious conclusion that she agreed with 
his activist approach to judging. Justice Marshall had an enormous 
influence on our jurisprudence, starting with his advocacy before--and 
most especially with--Brown v. Board of Education. But no serious 
student would argue that he didn't try to push the law as far as he 
could in furtherance of his philosophy.

Indeed, consider the comments of another former Marshall clerk, 
liberal law professor Cass Sunstein, who now serves in the Obama 
administration, who has said this:




 A serious commitment to Marshall's vision of constitutional 


 liberty would entail an extraordinary judicial role, one for 


 which courts are quite ill suited.


He has also acknowledged:




 Even if the best substantive theory calls for something 


 like Marshall's vision, institutional considerations would 


 argue powerfully against it.


Ms. Kagan's attempt to define Justice Marshall's philosophy as 
meaning only that he wanted everyone to have equal access to the courts 
is--there is no other word for it--disingenuous.

Because Ms. Kagan apparently embraces his philosophy but feared 
public acknowledgment of that would confirm the concern that she would 
be a results-oriented judge, she fudged. In doing so, she confirmed the 
suspicion and compounded the problem with deceptive testimony.

Exhibit C is the explanation of several of her bench memos to Justice 
Marshall, insisting they did not contain her views but were merely a 
channeling of his. Ms. Kagan offered this explanation of her memo 
categorizing litigants as ''good guys'' and ''bad guys,'' another memo 
stating that the government was ''for once on the side of the angels,'' 
and a memo expressing fear that the Court might ''create some very bad 
law on abortion and/or prisoners' rights.'' Reading these memos, one 
gets the sense that Ms. Kagan was not simply channeling her boss but 
was instead expressing her own personal policy views on matters before 
the Court and that they had as much to do with who the litigants were 
as what the issues were.

Ms. Kagan also attempted to recast her praise of Israeli Supreme 
Court Justice Aharon Barak, who, in the words of the Associated Press, 
is widely acknowledged as someone who took an activist approach to 
judging. Well, that is exhibit D. Judge Richard Posner described Judge 
Barak's history on the Israeli Supreme Court as ''creating a degree of 
judicial power undreamed of even by our most aggressive Supreme Court 
justices.''

Under his leadership, the Israeli Supreme Court aggrandized its own 
power far beyond what even many of those on the left would view as 
acceptable in America. To cite one example of Justice Barak's judicial 
philosophy, he wrote a judge's role ''is not restricted to adjudicating 
disputes in which parties claim that their personal rights have been 
violated'' but rather ''to bridge the gap between law and society.''

Well, bridging gaps, clearly, and using the law to address societal 
problems is not the job of the courts. That is a political approach.

Ms. Kagan claimed, during her hearing, that her praise for Justice 
Barak had nothing to do with his leftwing judicial philosophy. But an 
examination of her statements tells a different story. In 2002, Ms. 
Kagan praised Aharon Barak for ''presiding over the development of one 
of the most principled legal systems in the world.''

In 2006, she again heaped professional praise on Justice Barak, 
calling him her ''judicial hero.'' Ed Whelan, who is a noted legal 
commentator, summarized this event well:




 Kagan begins by referring to the portraits of four ''great 


 justices'' with whom Harvard Law School has been associated--


 Brandeis, Holmes, Brennan, and Frankfurter. But, she says, 


 ''the Harvard Law School association of which I'm most 


 proud''--more proud, that is, than of the associations with 


 Brandeis, Holmes, Brennan, or Frankfurter--''is the one we 


 have with President Barak of the Israeli Supreme Court.


And then she continued:




 I told President Barak, and I want to repeat in public, 


 that he is my judicial hero. He is the judge or justice in my 


 lifetime whom [sic], I think, best represents and has best 


 advanced the values of democracy and human rights, of the 


 rule of law and of justice.


During her confirmation hearing, Ms. Kagan, under oath, testified 
that she admired Justice Barak for his role in:




 . . . creating an independent judiciary for Israel. . . . 


 not for his particular judicial philosophy, not for any of 


 his particular decisions.


That testimony cannot be squared with her public declaration that 
Justice Barak ''is the judge or justice in my lifetime whom [sic], I 
think, best represents and has best advanced the values of democracy 
and human rights, of the rule of law and of justice.''

Exhibit E is Ms. Kagan's answer to whether she is a legal 
progressive. Her statements, again, were designed to cloud her views. 
Vice President Biden's Chief of Staff, Ron Klain--who served as chief 
counsel of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Chief of Staff to Attorney 
General Reno, and Chief of Staff to Vice President Gore--has known Ms. 
Kagan as far back as 1993, when they worked together on the Ginsburg 
hearings. At Ms. Kagan's hearing, Senator Sessions pointed out that 
after Ms. Kagan was nominated, Mr. Klain said:




 Elena [Kagan] is clearly a legal progressive. I think Elena 


 is someone who comes from the progressive side of the 


 spectrum. She clerked for Judge Mikva, clerked for Justice 


 Marshall, worked in the Clinton administration, worked in the 


 Obama administration. I don't think there's any mystery of 


 the fact that she is, as I said, of more of the progressive 


 role than not.


Senator Sessions then asked Ms. Kagan:




 Do you agree with the characterization that you're a legal 


 progressive?


She replied:




 I honestly don't know what that label means.


So Senator Sessions pressed Ms. Kagan:




 I'm asking about his firm statement that you are a legal 


 progressive, which means something. I think he knew what he 


 was talking about. He's a skilled lawyer who's been in the 


 midst of the great debates of this country about law and 


 politics, just as you have. And so I ask you again: Do you 


 think that is a fair characterization of your views? 


 Certainly, you don't think he was attempting to embarrass you 


 or hurt you in that process.


She again dodged with an answer that strains credulity.




 I love my good friend, Ron Klain, but I guess I think that 


 people should be allowed to label themselves. And that's--you 


 know, I don't know what that label means and so I guess I'm 


 not going to characterize it one way or the other.


So a nominee to the highest Court in the land and a former dean of 
one of the Nation's most prestigious law schools insists that she 
doesn't know what the term ''legal progressive'' means.

But later in the hearing, Senator Graham mentioned that Greg Craig, 
President Obama's first White House Counsel, had praised Ms. Kagan. Mr. 
Craig said:




 [Elena Kagan] is largely a progressive in the mold of Obama 


 himself.


So Senator Graham asked:




 Would you consider them, your political views, progressive?


Then Ms. Kagan acknowledged that, yes, her ''political views are 
generally progressive.''

It is hard to believe Ms. Kagan knows what a political progressive is 
but not a legal progressive.

Exhibit F: Her attempt to redefine her views in the letter sent to 
Judiciary Committee on November 14, 2005, in which she objected to the 
Graham-Kyl-Cornyn amendment dealing with treatment of enemy detainees. 
Her characterization of our approach as being similar to the 
''fundamentally lawless'' actions of ''dictatorships'' was clearly, I 
believe, injudicious and revealed the fervor of her position, much like 
her


characterization of the don't ask, don't tell policy as ''a moral 
injustice of the first order,'' and it could suggest a viewpoint that 
she would have a hard time laying aside if similar questions ever came 
before her as a Supreme Court Justice.

Her attempt to distance herself from the obvious application of her 
views to places other than Gitmo--obvious because her letter bemoaned 
the ''serious and disturbing reports of the abuse of prisoners in 
Guantanamo, Iraq and Afghanistan''--and issues other than conviction 
and sentencing--even though her letter stated that our amendment 
''unfortunately'' would ''prohibit challenges to detention practices, 
treatment of prisoners, adjudications of their guilt and their 
punishment''--suggests either that she was uncomfortable defending her 
position or she wanted to preserve her right to sit on such cases in 
the future or both. The attempt to obscure positions she had previously 
stated was, I believe, an attempt to run away from those positions and 
mislead the committee.

Exhibit G: Ms. Kagan's doublespeak on the question of same-sex 
marriage. Prior to her confirmation as Solicitor General, when she was 
not restricted, as judicial nominees are, in her ability to comment on 
issues that may come before the courts, Senator Cornyn asked Ms. Kagan 
a direct question about her personal views:




 Do you believe that there is a fundamental constitutional 


 right to same-sex marriage?


Her answer then seemed clear. She wrote:




 There is no Federal constitutional right to same-sex 


 marriage.


But at the hearing, when I asked Ms. Kagan to confirm her views on 
this subject, she distorted both Senator Cornyn's question and her 
answer. She told me Senator Cornyn had asked whether she could 
''perform the role of the Solicitor General'' and vigorously defend 
DOMA, given her opposition to don't ask, don't tell. When I pointed out 
that Senator Cornyn's question was about a constitutional right to 
same-sex marriage, not DOMA, Ms. Kagan then asserted that her answer to 
Senator Cornyn--that ''there is no Federal constitutional right to 
same-sex marriage''--intended to convey that she ''understood the state 
of the law and accepted the state of the law.'' Having reinterpreted 
her previous answer, she then told me that, as a Supreme Court nominee, 
it would not be ''appropriate'' for her to share her personal views on 
the subject, since such a case may come before the Court.

It strikes me that Ms. Kagan was, at the time of her nomination to be 
Solicitor General, trying to create an impression--apparently a false 
one--that she did not personally believe the Constitution could be read 
to include a right to same-sex marriage.

That leads to Exhibit H: her involvement, while serving as Solicitor 
General, in a case concerning the constitutionality of the Defense of 
Marriage Act, DOMA.

When nominated for the job of Solicitor General, Ms. Kagan emphasized 
in her opening statement the ''critical responsibilities'' that the 
Solicitor General owes to Congress, ''most notably the vigorous defense 
of the statutes of this country against constitutional attack.'' Later, 
Ms. Kagan reiterated that she could represent the interests of the 
United States ''with vigor, even when they conflict with my own 
opinions. I believe deeply that specific roles carry with them specific 
responsibilities and that the ethical performance of a role demands 
carrying out these responsibilities as well and completely as 
possible.''

Ms. Kagan even cited former Solicitor General Ted Olson's defense of 
the campaign finance laws as an example of the way a Solicitor General 
should approach the job. She said, ''I know that Ted Olson would not 
have voted for the McCain-Feingold bill, but he . . . did an 
extraordinary job of defending that piece of legislation. . . . And 
that's what a solicitor general does.''

Yet, there is substantial reason to doubt that Ms. Kagan genuinely 
carried out her obligation to ''vigorously defend'' a Federal statute 
in district court, the Defense of Marriage Act. In response to 
questions at her Supreme Court hearing, Ms. Kagan acknowledged that she 
was involved in two district court cases involving DOMA. Her personal 
involvement in these cases was itself unusual as she admitted in 
response to written questions: ''In the normal course, the [Solicitor 
General's] Office does not participate in district court litigation.''

Her involvement would not have necessarily raised concerns were it 
not for the position that the government advocated in the cases. In the 
first case, Smelt v. United States, the Department of Justice filed a 
brief that, as part of its so-called ''defense'' of the DOMA statute, 
admitted to the court that ''this Administration does not support DOMA 
as/matter of policy, believes that it is discriminatory, and supports 
its repeal.'' How can a lawyer mount a ''vigorous'' defense of a 
statute while declaring the statute to be discriminatory? But it gets 
worse. The Justice Department's brief also asked the court to ignore 
one of the strongest arguments in support of DOMA--namely that 
traditional marriage serves as a valuable vehicle for encouraging 
responsible procreation and childbearing. The brief asserted that the 
government ''does not believe that DOMA is rationally related to any 
legitimate government interests in procreation and child-rearing.''

It is clear that the Justice Department's brief, which was supposed 
to be filed in support of the DOMA statute, in fact undercut the law's 
constitutionality. As one legal scholar and proponent of same-sex 
marriage said about the Justice Department's argument:




 This new position is a gift to the gay-marriage movement, 


 since it was not necessary to support the government's 


 position. It will be cited by litigants in state and federal 


 litigation, and will no doubt make its way into judicial 


 opinions. Indeed, some state court decisions have relied very 


 heavily on procreation and child-rearing rationales to reject 


 SSM [same-sex marriage] claims. The DOJ is helping knock out 


 a leg from under the opposition to gay marriage.


The Smelt case was later dismissed by the district court for other 
reasons. And that brings us to the second DOMA case in which Ms. Kagan 
was involved--Gill v. Office of Personnel Management. In Gill, the 
Justice Department again offered the same half-hearted defense of DOMA 
and repudiated its strongest legal arguments. This time, however, the 
district court seized on the Justice Department's rejection of the 
procreation and child-bearing rationales and found that DOMA was 
unconstitutional. Ed Whelan, the noted legal commentator and a former 
principal deputy of the Office of Legal Counsel, has explained that the 
decision in Gill ''would be ridiculous but for DOJ's abandonment of 
Congress's stated justifications for DOMA. Under proper application of 
the very deferential 'rational basis' review, for example, it would be 
enough to recognize that it would have been reasonable for Congress in 
1996 to regard traditional marriage as a valuable vehicle for 
encouraging responsible procreation and childbearing.''

Although Ms. Kagan admitted being involved in both Smelt and Gill, 
she refused to tell us her role in the deliberations. In response to 
written questions, Ms. Kagan did admit that her participation in Smelt 
was ''sufficiently substantial'' that she would recuse herself should 
the case come before the Supreme Court. But this promise itself was 
disingenuous because the Smelt case had already been dismissed, so 
there was no chance that it would come before the Supreme Court. On the 
other hand, the Gill case may very well make its way to the Supreme 
Court, but Ms. Kagan did not promise to recuse herself from 
participating in it, despite her involvement in formulating the Justice 
Department's flawed defense of DOMA in the case.

We will likely never know what Ms. Kagan's advice was in these cases. 
What we do know is that Ms. Kagan has a history of ignoring the law 
when it conflicts with the gay rights agenda. We also know that she 
took the unusual step of getting involved in these district court cases 
challenging DOMA. And we know that the Justice Department went out of 
its way to abandon one of the fundamental rationales for the DOMA 
statute, which resulted in a court, for the first time ever, ruling 
that DOMA was unconstitutional. On the basis of these facts, I believe 
that any reasonable observer would question whether Ms. Kagan kept her 
promise to us that she would ''vigorously defend'' Federal statute as 
Solicitor General.


Exhibit I is her dubious explanation of why, in another case that she 
handled as Solicitor General, she declined


to appeal the Ninth Circuit's adverse ruling in Witt v. Department of 
the Air Force, a case challenging the constitutionality of the 
government's don't ask, don't tell statute. At her hearing, Ms. Kagan 
claimed that allowing the Ninth Circuit decision to stand, and 
accepting a remand and trial in district court, would provide the 
Supreme Court with a ''fuller record'' and would help the government 
''show what the Ninth Circuit was demanding that the government do'' to 
defend don't ask, don't tell.

But a review of the Ninth Circuit opinion and the record in the case 
shows that Ms. Kagan's explanation was disingenuous. The Ninth Circuit 
itself had already said what the government would need to prove for the 
Federal law to survive--there was no need to develop a ''fuller 
record'' or seek further clarification from the courts.

Ms. Kagan's decision to let the case return to the district court 
ensured that members of the military would be subjected to invasive and 
humiliating trials in the Witt case and in all other challenges against 
don't ask, don't tell--trials in which soldiers would be compelled to 
testify against their comrades, discuss their views of a fellow 
soldier's sexual practices, and watch as the unit's personnel files 
become fodder for lawyers trying to condemn what is supposed to be a 
military-wide policy. The government rightly argued before the trial 
court that such trials are guaranteed to destroy unit cohesion--the 
very thing that Congress sought to protect when it passed the don't 
ask, don't tell statute. And the trial court records show that Kagan 
knew in advance that the trial process would harm the military's 
interests. But she decided to thrust the government into exactly the 
position the military's lawyers most wanted to avoid, perhaps to keep 
in place, and insulate from Supreme Court review, a Ninth Circuit 
ruling that places don't ask, don't tell policy in jeopardy.

In addition to my concerns that Ms. Kagan was less than candid with 
the Judiciary Committee, I am also concerned about her leftist ideology 
and the potential it will influence her judging. I will discuss three 
areas of concern.

First, is her defense of the brief filed in Chamber of Commerce v. 
Candelaria. It takes a clever lawyer to argue that the Court should 
take this immigration case, but not Lopez-Rodriguez v. Holder on the 
traditional reasons for granting certiorari. In Candelaria, she asked 
the Supreme Court to strike down an Arizona law that permits the State 
to suspend or revoke the business licenses of companies that knowingly 
employ illegal aliens. She did this even though Federal law expressly 
authorizes States to enforce immigration laws ''through licensing'' and 
even though the courts that have considered the issue have determined 
that States could do precisely what Arizona did. Yet, in Lopez-
Rodriguez, another immigration case, she refused to appeal a decision 
by the Ninth Circuit that permits ordinary deportation hearings to be 
bogged down by long legal fights over the admissibility of clear 
evidence that a person is illegally here. Unlike Candelaria, the Ninth 
Circuit's decision in Lopez-Rodriguez was in conflict with the 
decisions of other courts--including the Supreme Court--involved a 
significant constitutional issue. It is difficult not to conclude that 
Ms. Kagan's actions in these two cases were driven less by the law, and 
more by political expediency.

My second concern about ideology is that Ms. Kagan has shown she may 
hold a limited reading of the second amendment, even after the Heller 
and McDonald cases. When asked whether the right to bear arms was a 
''fundamental right,'' Ms. Kagan said, ''I think that that's what the 
court held in McDonald.'' She also said that the holding was ''[g]ood 
precedent going forward.'' Of course, there is a record of nominees 
describing the holding of a case and proclaiming that it is ''good 
precedent,'' only to vote to overturn or distinguish that precedent 
once they ascend to the bench. Justice Sotomayor did just that on this 
issue.

But we need not rely on cynicism to demonstrate that Ms. Kagan may 
not view the recent second amendment precedents as settling the 
question of whether gun ownership is a ''fundamental right.''

Generally speaking, when a constitutional right is ''fundamental,'' 
any government restriction of that right is subject to ''strict 
scrutiny'' by the courts. But at her hearing, Ms. Kagan left open the 
possibility that some other, lesser standard of scrutiny should apply 
to second amendment restrictions. She said that ''going forward the 
Supreme Court will need to decide what level of constitutional scrutiny 
to apply to gun regulations.'' This does not sound like a commitment to 
the principle that the second amendment guarantees a fundamental right. 
When weighed with her well-documented work in the Clinton 
administration to advance gun control legislation, I believe there is a 
justifiable concern that Ms. Kagan would vote to construe Heller and 
McDonald as narrowly as possible.

Third, I am concerned that Ms. Kagan sees few, if any, limitations on 
Congress's authority to regulate behavior, or interstate commerce. In a 
remarkable exchange, Senator Coburn asked Ms. Kagan whether it would be 
constitutional for Congress to pass a law requiring Americans ''to eat 
three vegetables and three fruits every day.'' Although Ms. Kagan said 
that such a law sounded ''dumb,'' she refused to say that such a law 
would be unconstitutional. In fact, during the course of the exchange, 
Ms. Kagan repeatedly emphasized that a court analyzing such a statute 
should ''read the [commerce] clause broadly'' and give ''real 
deference'' to Congress.

I agree that the commerce clause gives the Congress substantial 
authority, but it does not give Congress unlimited authority. That Ms. 
Kagan was unwilling to say a law requiring the consumption of produce 
is beyond Congress's authority suggests she would vote to uphold 
statutes that exceed the boundaries of the commerce clause. Stretching 
the commerce clause gives too much power to Congress.

Finally, it is worth noting that Ms. Kagan came to the Senate with a 
lack of legal and judicial experience, especially when compared to 
other recent nominees. Some have reached back 40 years to compare Ms. 
Kagan's experience to that of Chief Justice Rehnquist, the last nominee 
without prior judicial experience confirmed to the Supreme Court in 
1972. William Rehnquist, however, spent 16 years as a practicing 
litigator in my home State of Arizona and 2 more years as Assistant 
Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, a position that was later 
held Justice Scalia 1974-1977 and that, according to the Department of 
Justice, ''typically deal[s] with legal issues of particular 
complexity'' and ''provides authoritative legal advice to the President 
and all the executive branch agencies.'' In contrast, Ms. Kagan's law 
practice is confined to two years in private practice shortly after law 
school and 1 year as the Solicitor General.

Her limited experience is not by itself disqualifying, but it did 
increase the importance of her hearing. Had she answered questions in 
an honest and straightforward manner, we might have a better basis to 
know what kind of judge she would be. But instead, Ms. Kagan either 
dodged questions or gave what were clearly disingenuous answers 
intended to mask her views. She also failed to make the case that her 
political ideology would not influence her judging. For all of the 
reasons I have discussed, I cannot support her nomination.