---
---

# AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND WESTERN STATES EMERGENCY  UNFINISHED BUSINESS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `536aca4104ac795a6ef7c0d210069bf3`
`Mr. OBEY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, this motion is really quite interesting. What 
it says is that the same folks who want to spend $57 billion on tax 
cuts on millionaires this year, all paid for with borrowed money, the 
same folks who are comfortable with the idea that we have got over a 
trillion dollars in unfunded tax cuts, all paid for with borrowed 
money, the same folks that want us to spend, no questions asked, at 
least $600 billion in a sad, sad war in Iraq, these folks have suddenly 
gotten religion, and they now have a motion that says they would like 
to see this bill be deficit neutral.

What that mean is they are going to ask the farmers of America to 
bear the full weight of deficit reduction in this bill. This is simply 
a device to kill the bill because instead of asking that the bill be 
reported forthwith, it asks that the bill be reported promptly. That, 
as you know, is code language for killing the bill. I don't think I 
need to say anything further.

If you want to provide the funding in this bill, you will vote 
against this motion to recommit. If you care about the farmers, if you 
care about the western wildfire problem, if you want to meet our 
obligation to the parts of the country that generally get stiffed and 
ignored, then you vote against the motion to recommit. If you care 
about these folks, you will vote against the motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.