---
---

# None
## `53731d159cd0fb693ef45ced0f159d0b`
`Mr. STEARNS — 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This is a simple resolution, just basically expressing support for 
the goals of Veterans Educate Today's Students Day, and for other 
purposes. I believe that in this case it will be November 10, the day 
before Veterans Day, when this will be celebrated. So obviously we need 
to support this resolution. It expresses the sense of the support of 
Congress for the goals of this VETS Day.

It is noticeable that we recognize the importance of educating the 
children of today about this sacrificial history of veterans and their 
families so close to the national day of honor for those same veterans, 
which is on November 11, Veterans Day.

My colleagues, the number of veterans today is not as large as it 
used to be. The children in schools are less likely to have a parent, 
uncle or aunt who served in the military who could tell them about 
their experiences. My father served in Iwo Jima. He could tell me about 
his experience during that Pacific war. He has since been deceased. But 
I remember him talking about it and how much education it was for me. 
So those from the Greatest Generation who have passed from this world 
leave behind a legacy of courage, loyalty, and honor. This legacy was 
picked up and continued by the next generation of veterans from the 
Korean War, the Vietnam War, military engagements in Haiti and Kosovo, 
Gulf War I, and today in the current conflicts in Afghanistan and in 
Iraq.

So, Mr. Speaker, to set aside a specific day to educate our children 
about the sacrifice, the gallantry of our Nation's heroes demonstrates 
the importance of that service. It is because of them that we still 
have the freedom in this Chamber and the freedom we cherish today.

Now, some school districts are already taking steps in this direction 
by inviting veterans to speak in their classrooms on Veterans Day and 
share their stories with the students and all the teachers. We should 
encourage this worthwhile educational activity in more schools across 
the Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in support of H. 
Con. Res. 60.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.