# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1905, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE
## `537673ffafe9ace4ee1c113c2662e4fb`
`Mr. ARCURI â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 317 provides for consideration of H.R. 
1905, the District of Columbia House Voting


Rights Act of 2007, and H.R. 1906, a direct spending offset bill.

Mr. Speaker, this Nation was built upon the principle that it is 
patently unjust to require free men and women to pay taxes to a 
government within which they have no direct involvement; a principle so 
important that the Founding Fathers knew if they were unsuccessful they 
would become outlaws and probably forfeit their lives.

The fact that approximately 600,000 U.S. citizens live under taxation 
without representation within the United States today is repugnant to 
our very notion of democracy. How can the United States deny democracy 
in its Capital while it promotes democracy abroad?

These citizens pay billions of dollars in Federal taxes, have 
sacrificed their lives in Iraq and other wars since the American 
Revolution.

However, when you look at the text of the 16th amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution, which states, ''The Congress shall have the power to lay 
and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without 
apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any 
census or enumeration,'' you might ask yourself: Since there is no 
mention of the District of Columbia in this amendment, and it only 
refers to ''the several States,'' then how is it that D.C. residents 
are required to pay Federal income taxes?

The answer is that Congress, by statute, specifically, enacted the 
District of Columbia Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947, which 
imposed Federal income taxation on the residents of the District of 
Columbia.

And when the law was challenged in the courts in 1970 in the case of 
Breakefield v. D.C., the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of 
Columbia Circuit upheld both the tax and Congress's constitutional 
authority to levy it. Further, the Supreme Court later denied even to 
hear the appeal.

This is taxation without representation at its worst, and it is 
completely undemocratic. Furthermore, what is clearly evident from the 
Court's review of Breakefield is that if Congress can levy taxes on 
D.C. residents without a constitutional amendment, then surely Congress 
can give D.C. residents a full voting representative within the House 
of Representatives without a constitutional amendment. This notion that 
there is a binding precedent for Congress to legislate on all matters 
related to the District of Columbia is further supported by decisions 
in such cases as Tidewater, and Adams v. Clinton.

Our actions today would correct this injustice by granting the 
citizens of our Nation's Capital a full voting representative in the 
House of Representatives.

Some of my colleagues have suggested that the D.C. House Voting 
Rights Act is unconstitutional and that we in Congress will be acting 
outside the power enacting this bill. This is not true. Article I, 
section 8 of the Constitution clearly enumerates the powers of 
Congress. And among the powers listed, article I, section 8 states that 
Congress shall have the power to exercise exclusive legislation in all 
cases whatsoever over the District of Columbia. Article I, section 8 
also gives Congress the power ''to make all laws which shall be 
necessary and proper'' to execute the enumerated powers.

Further, in 1790, Congress passed the Residence Act, giving residents 
of the new District of Columbia the right to vote. Since the Capital 
was still being established, citizens were allowed to continue voting 
in their States, Maryland and Virginia. Congress then took that right 
away by statute in 1800 when the Federal Government assumed control of 
the District. In the political battles that followed, District 
residents were denied a vote in Congress. Now, certainly, if Congress 
can grant the right and then remove that right by statute, so too can 
it reinstate the right by statute if it so chooses.

In the landmark Supreme Court case McCulloch v. Maryland, Chief 
Justice John Marshall said: ''Let the end be legitimate, let it be 
within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are 
appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not 
prohibited but consistent with the letter and spirit of the 
Constitution, they are constitutional.''

Extending full representation in the House to residents of the 
District of Columbia is a legitimate end. It is within the scope of 
Congress' power to exercise exclusive legislation in matters concerning 
the District of Columbia and consistent with not only the letter of the 
Constitution, but also the spirit in which the Constitution was written 
by the Founding Fathers, that ''taxation without representation is 
tyranny.''

Too much time has passed. Every day that we fail to act is one more 
day that we deny democracy. It is time to correct this grave injustice 
and provide the citizens of the District of Columbia the same rights 
afforded to every other citizen in this great Nation. Our actions today 
will do just that.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.