---
---

# None
## `5379d23491604a7b3e9e9e2bc71a8d9b`
`Mr. PAYNE — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. PAYNE. Thank you very much for yielding.

Let me commend the sponsor of this great resolution and also let me 
just commend Representative Skelton for the outstanding work that he 
has done for so many years in the Armed Services Committee.

I stand in support of this resolution, H. Con. Res. 297, because as 
we all know, there were many, many African Americans who have fought 
valiantly through many of the wars. I'm very proud to have an uncle who 
just passed away 2 years ago, 3 years ago, who was in the invasion of 
Normandy. I used to recall as a young boy receiving the letters that he 
would send that were photocopied and made about the size of your hand 
where anything they felt was strategic was blacked out. And my Uncle 
John was a staff sergeant. As I mentioned, he was in the invasion of 
Normandy. And his wife, Ruth Garrett, who is still alive, worked in 
Picatinny Arsenal in New Jersey for the war effort making weapons for 
our armed services. He was very proud when the World War II monument 
was opened, and he proudly sat with his uniform and his cap and his 
medals and made us very, very proud of his service. Even today, one of 
my employees, Richard Turner, is serving in Iraq.

But there have been African Americans who have served for so many 
years. It took Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt to fly with the Tuskegee Airmen 
for them to finally allow the Tuskegee Airmen to fly in combat because 
there was resistance to that. And as we know, the first person, as a 
matter of fact, to die in the Revolutionary War was Crispus Attucks 
back in 1770 on March 5 when he and four other patriots were taken down 
by the British to start the Revolutionary War in the Battle of Bunker 
Hill where we had Crispus, and where we had Salem Poor who fought at 
the battle of Bunker Hill. And we can go on and on.

A neighbor of mine, Needham Roberts and Sergeant Henry Johnson, 
captured 30 German soldiers in World War I and kept them captive for 
over a month. And people wondered how two soldiers could have kept so 
many enemy soldiers at bay. And so I am so proud to have this 
recognition and certainly pay tribute to Harry S. Truman. He was a 
person who had said ''the buck stops here.'' He was from Missouri. He 
said that he'll take the heat, and he did.

And so I would just like to once again commend so many of the men and 
women who continue even today to show their appreciation and strength 
for our Nation as they serve valiantly in the United States Armed 
Services.