# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `5397ad2a2eeb49a30a561398462d8527`
`Mr. BUNNING — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, it is my distinct honor to rise today and 
speak in support of the nomination of David Petraeus to become the 
commander of the multinational forces in Iraq. I am confident that with 
General Petraeus's experience, leadership skills, and judgment, he will 
prove to be an outstanding commander.

I can speak from experience because General Petraeus is a personal 
friend of mine. Not only is he a friend of mine but also of the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky.

I met General Petraeus initially at Fort Campbell in Kentucky, but 
even more importantly, when I made a codel to Iraq in 2004 with former 
Senator Zell Miller, we spent some time with General Petraeus and the 
101st in Mosul. At that time, he was the commander of the 101st 
Airborne Division in Mosul. As many of my colleagues might know, the 
101st Air Force is based out of Fort Campbell, KY.

While in Mosul, I had an opportunity to spend some time with General 
Petraeus and see his troops in action. What I saw was one of the most 
impressive military leaders I have ever met, and I have met a lot of 
them.

In his 27 months in Iraq--27 months in Iraq--General Petraeus was 
asked to lead a division into battle, to oversee the reconstruction and 
governance of Iraq's third largest city, and to build up from virtually 
nothing Iraq's army and police force.

General Petraeus not only met all of these challenges, but he 
succeeded in showing them a unique type of flexibility and adaptability 
in his leadership. I believe this to be a very important skill that 
will serve him well in his new mission in Iraq.

While in Iraq, I was able to see firsthand how this skill of 
adaptability transcends General Petraeus and was passed on to his 
troops serving under his command. It was soon after the fall of Saddam 
Hussein when the 101st Airborne Division got the orders to go to Mosul. 
They were charged with restarting the city's economy, getting civil 
institutions on their feet, and creating a working democracy.

Under the command of General Petraeus, some officers supervised 
cement factories, others electricity generation. Soldiers who had 
studied military aviation tactics found themselves figuring out how to 
run a university, and an artillery officer was responsible for figuring 
out how to get the region's oil flowing again.

General Petraeus himself even supervised the city's first elections, 
elections of Iraqis of very diverse backgrounds.

How did he do all this? He did it through a partnership between the 
U.S. forces and the Iraqis, the exact type of partnership the President 
is calling for in his new way forward in Iraq. It is this type of 
forward thinking which will help our mission in Iraq to succeed.

General Petraeus has also managed to earn the respect of the Iraqis, 
the Kurds, Sunnis, and Shias. This type of working relationship of 
mutual respect is desperately needed at this time in Iraq. I recognize 
it, General Petraeus recognizes it, and so does the President of the 
United States.

One of the key components in the President's new strategy in Iraq is 
creating a real partnership between U.S. forces and Iraqi forces where 
we would effectively train the Iraqis to secure their own neighborhoods 
and then act, the U.S. troops, as reserve reinforcements. Through this 
training and security, Iraq neighborhoods could once again begin to 
rebuild themselves, restoring vital services such as water and 
electricity to the Iraqi people. Eventually we can begin to restore 
peace to embattled neighborhoods in Baghdad.

This is no easy task, and no one knows that better than General 
Petraeus. He has even admitted to it being a daunting task. But I am 
confident in his ability to lead. His service in Iraq has equipped him 
with expertise in irregular warfare and operations and a true 
understanding of the enemy we face.

Like many of my colleagues here on the floor of the Senate, I, too, 
was initially skeptical of sending additional reinforcement troops to 
Iraq. But I am convinced that we have to allow General Petraeus the 
opportunity to succeed in this mission. In this effort, he has offered 
to provide Congress with regular reports on the status of his mission, 
on the performance and commitment particularly of the Iraqis to their 
promises. I, for one, would like to take General Petraeus up on his 
offer, and I am sure everyone in the Senate feels the same way.

I believe it is vital that we keep up to date daily on the situation 
in Iraq as it changes so we can best help our new commander address the 
situation he faces. Judging how the Senate's Armed Services Committee 
unanimously voted him out of committee on Wednesday, I know I am not 
alone in my confidence in him.

I urge my colleagues today to support General Petraeus's nomination. 
I wish him Godspeed in his mission and look forward to seeing the 
progress we can make in Iraq under his leadership as we continue to 
defeat the terrorists and to win this war against them.

I yield the floor.