# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `53aab2ebe4dfa208b0076c56914dbbdf`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. America went to war against Iraq based on a lie. We 
were told in 2002 Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. The previous 
administration even pursued torture to try to extract false confessions 
to try to justify the war.

It's time to tell the truth. The truth is, we should not have 
prosecuted the war against the Iraqi people. The truth is, the 
Democratic Senate could have stopped the Iraq war in 2002. The truth 
is, we Democrats were given control of Congress in 2006 to end the war. 
The truth is, this bill continues a disastrous war which has cost the 
lives of thousands of our soldiers. The truth is, the occupation has 
fueled the insurgency. The truth is, the Iraq war will cost the 
American and the Iraqi people trillions of dollars.

As many as 1 million innocent Iraqis have lost their lives as a 
result of this war. Don't tell the American people you're ending the 
war by continuing to fund the war. Don't tell the American people that 
the war will end when their plans leave 50,000 troops in Iraq. Don't 
tell the American people that the way out of Afghanistan is to escalate 
and more counterinsurgency.

Get out of Iraq. Get out of Afghanistan. Come home, America. Come 
home.

I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 2346, War Supplemental 
Appropriations for FY 2009. This bill devotes an additional $84.5 
billion to military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for fiscal year 
2009. I believe that the U.S. has a moral obligation to fulfill in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. We must remain dedicated to reconstruction, stability 
and prosperity in these countries and in the region.

The U.S. cannot be in and out of Iraq at the same time. The U.S. has 
agreed to withdraw all combat troops from Iraqi cities by July of this 
year. However, recent news reports indicate that some combat troops 
will remain beyond this date. Our continued funding of war operations 
in Iraq only ensures our continued presence and undermines our stated 
goals for withdrawal by 2011. Funds for Iraq should be dedicated to 
bringing all of our troops and contractors home. We must meet our moral 
obligation to rebuild Iraq and support viable solutions to the refugee 
and internally displaced populations. We must hold ourselves 
responsible for the death of over 1 million innocent civilians in Iraq.

Funding of expanded combat operations in Afghanistan will not meet 
the security objectives of the U.S. Sending additional brave American 
service members to Afghanistan does not increase security and it is not 
an act of diplomacy. Sending additional troops sends one message: The 
U.S. is ramping up combat operations. This message only encourages the 
Taliban and other insurgent groups to do likewise. We have ensured that 
the months and perhaps years ahead will be bloody. And we have failed 
to present an exit strategy.

Bombing raids and drone attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan have 
inflamed the civilian populations in these countries. Innocent 
civilians are killed in these massive and unpredictable attacks. This 
includes innocent children, mothers, fathers, grandparents, sisters and 
brothers. Communities, homes and infrastructure are destroyed. The 
number of refugees and the internally displaced continue to rise from 
the destruction.

The brutalities of war produce more than news reports of so-called 
''collateral damage.'' Taliban and insurgent recruitment profits from 
these failed policies. The drone attacks are propagating extremism in 
the targeted areas. Former Chief of Staff to Colin Powell maintains 
that drone attacks are not an effective counterinsurgency technique. If 
the Administration will not stop the drone attacks, Congress must use 
the power of the purse to ensure their cessation.

Ninty percent of the resources devoted to Afghanistan over the last 
eight years have gone to support military resources. This is contrary 
to the counter-insurgency strategy put forth by General Petraeus that 
calls for an 80-20 split, that devotes 80 percent of resources to 
political solutions and only 20 percent of resources to military 
operations. General Eaton, who trained Iraq Security Forces in 2004, 
has echoed this strategy. This bill fails to correct the imbalance and 
continues the failed status quo.

We need to provide for the traditional sense of security by first 
ensuring economic security, health security, and job security for all. 
The roots of terrorism begin not in hatred, but in desperation. All 
people seek the basic necessities such as food, clothes, shelter, good 
health, and the ability to earn a decent living. If we can level this 
playing field, there is no desperation that may potentially evolve into 
hatred. We have failed to meet these objectives in Afghanistan.

Stability in Afghanistan requires that aid dollars reach local 
Afghans, Afghan institutions and organizations. The current instability 
of Afghan institutions must be replaced with strong education and 
health care systems, judiciary and law enforcement systems, workforce 
development and transportation systems. These institutions must be 
built and run by Afghans. The current practice by which foreigners fill 
high-skill and high-level positions will leave Afghanistan without the 
skills and leaders to ensure sustainable, long-term stability in the 
country.

The U.S. must partner with Afghans to empower women and girls. 
Currently, one in six women die in childbirth in Afghanistan; 80% of 
women are illiterate; and development assistance has not reached Afghan 
women. We can encourage and foster reform by investing in Afghan 
institutions that create educational, economic, social and political 
opportunity for women.

National security will not be achieved through military might but 
rather through our dedication to supporting Afghans as they build a 
foundation of human security, social security and economic security.

Security cannot blossom from the ravages of war. Terrorism will not 
be stopped by acts of terror.











[From the Nation, May 12, 2009]












 The Politics of Escalation










 (By Tom Hayden and Joseph Gerson)




 Congressional leaders are cooperating with the Obama 


 administration in quashing any serious criticism of growing 


 military escalation in Afghanistan and Pakistan.



 Indications are that there will be no benchmarks or 


 conditions set on the $96 billion supplemental appropriation 


 before Congress beginning this week. The administration, 


 which once promised no more rushed supplemental 


 appropriation, is rolling funds for war and swine flu into 


 one package, while not yet disclosing how much is earmarked




 specifically for Afghanistan. Rep. David Obey says he wants 


 to give the Obama administration a one-year deadline for 


 results, which likely means making it more difficult to 


 withdraw from a deepening quagmire.



 The only current Congressional vehicle for dissent is a 


 proposed amendment by Rep. Jim McGovern (D-Mass) that 


 requires the secretary of defense to report on an exit 


 strategy from Afghanistan by this December, six months after 


 Congress has appropriated funds for escalating the war. Even 


 that modest measure, with fifty co-sponsors at present, has 


 met with administration resistance to an exit strategy with 


 benchmarks.



 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, under fire for what she knew 


 about Guantanamo waterboarding and when she knew it, is going 


 along with the administration by preventing the McGovern 


 amendment from being voted on. Congressional leaders believe 


 that war opponents are not sufficiently powerful to either 


 require a vote on the McGovern measure to achieve more than 


 two hours of debate on the supplemental, which could also 


 include soliloquies on the swine flu.



 The Congressional Progressive Caucus has met with President 


 Obama and, according to sources attending, will not be 


 opposed at this point to his Afghanistan-Pakistan policies. 


 Instead, the caucus is sponsoring a series of informational 


 hearings on public policies for the region.



 The Senate, with the possible exception of Sen. Russ 


 Feingold, is not expected to question the Obama policies, 


 either.



 Insiders say the dominant message behind closed doors is a 


 political one, not to embarrass the president. On policy, one 


 knowledgeable expert reports, doubt is widespread in Congress 


 and ''no one has any idea where it will all end.''



 The desire to protect the resident may shy Democrats away 


 from demands that were routinely made of the Bush 


 administration: requiring regular reports on an exit 


 strategy, transparency in the budgets for war, clear 


 definitions of casualty levels on all sides, application of 


 human rights standards in detention centers, and others.



 It is understandable that the economic crisis and high 


 expectations for the new president have deflected 


 Congressional Democrats away from their oversight role. As 


 the quagmire deepens, however, antiwar questioning will rise 


 again. The danger is that by then the Obama administration 


 will be engulfed in the politics of escalation, as happened 


 to earlier Democratic presidents.