---
---

# None
## `53da676b41280c4f540d794798aa720b`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, traumatic brain injury is the signature 
injury of the war in Iraq.

Let me explain a little bit what happens to a veteran soldier with a 
traumatic brain injury. They remove part of your skull so that your 
brain can expand into that while it's swelling up. They give you blood 
thinners so that you don't have blood clots. They give you antibiotics, 
and they put on a vest that keeps your body temperature cold, again so 
that you don't swell up and cause more injury. So this is the kind of 
thing that these veterans, these soldiers are going through.

And we estimate that there's approximately 12,000 servicemembers with 
some degree of traumatic brain injury. That's why I was motivated, 
along with Mr. Boozman from Arkansas, to introduce the Caring for 
Veterans with Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2007.

H.R. 2199 ensures that the VA will develop the infrastructure 
necessary to meet the needs of an increasing number of veterans 
diagnosed with TBI. Among other things, the bill requires the VA to 
screen all veterans for TBI. It creates a registry for veterans with 
TBI so that we don't lose track of them once they're diagnosed, and it 
also creates transition offices for patients with TBI who live in areas 
where the Veterans Administration isn't able to meet their needs.

I'm thankful for the leadership of Mr. Michaud and Mr. Filner on this 
issue, and for the opportunity to speak in favor of 2199.