# HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `53de5671cb2d28ab9b0574a7ced8f2fa`
`Mr. WARNER — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for the kind remarks 
of the Senators. Mr. President, I will just tell a short story. Senator 
Kennedy mentioned the importance of this to the Armed Forces to have a 
pool of trained individuals to join the military today. I would like to 
contrast it to an early experience I had in life. In the winter of 
1945, the war was raging in Europe--although it ended in May, it was 
still going on, as was the war in the Pacific. Like everybody else on 
my block, all students who were 17 and 18, we all joined the military. 
I don't claim to have a military career of any great consequence, but I 
will never forget the first night. We had been on a small train that 
stopped in stations all across the east coast picking up a dozen or two 
17- and 18-year-olds on the train. It was cold as the dickens, and the 
train was chugging its way up to the Great Lakes.

We arrived at 2 or 3 in the morning. We were tired, cold, and huddled 
into a great big room. A petty officer, who was quite rotund, got up on 
a little platform and screamed at us, ''All you guys who can't read and 
write raise your hands.'' I had the benefit of a wonderful education in 
high school. I almost flipped out. I did not realize, really, that many 
people didn't have the basic skills that I had been given.

Then the petty officer said, ''All you smart so-and-sos fill out the 
forms for the others.'' About 20, 25 percent of the fellows came out of 
the coal mines and steel mills of Pennsylvania and up through the 
valley, where the train went picking up these guys. So we filled out 
the forms.

I want to say that those men had very short training once we got to 
the Great Lakes. The rest of us were shunted aside for technical 
schools. Within 90 days, they went aboard ships and right into the 
battle.

On those ships in those days there were dozens of jobs that persons 
who could not read and write could perform, and perform very well. In 
no way do I denigrate their abilities to fight, as they did bravely in 
World War II--those who could not read and write. Today's ship in the 
U.S. Navy--take a destroyer. The destroyers today are considerably 
larger than the destroyers of the past. But the crews are dramatically 
reduced in number, which means that every one of those naval persons 
today has to have high-tech skills. It is true also in the Army and 
Marine Corps.



When you visit Iraq and see the troops there, as most of us have, 
they are all working with high-tech equipment. There is no place 
available today in the military for one who is not skilled in high-tech 
work. So it is a changed society, albeit my story dates back more than 
a half century. They were fighters then, but in today's military we 
access those in the military with high school equivalent. The ones who 
show a technical proficiency are immediately moved into advanced 
technical courses.

So this legislation is laying the foundation for those in these 
institutions who so desire to join the U.S. military, and they will 
arrive on the first day not requiring a fellow soldier, sailor, airman, 
or marine to fill out their form. They are all smart and able to work 
with the high-tech equipment.

I yield the floor.