---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5411529ed985b3c7ee0daea456a8eeb6`
`Ms. BALDWIN — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution 
expressing disapproval of the President's decision to escalate the war 
in Iraq.

During the past 4 years, I have embraced, stood by, and prayed with 
Wisconsin families as they said their last goodbyes to their brave sons 
and daughters and husbands and wives. Those fallen soldiers have served 
with the utmost loyalty and courage, trusting decision-makers in 
Washington, the President, his administration, and this Congress to do 
the right thing. Like almost all of my colleagues, I have visited with 
wounded troops at Walter Reed and at home and joined with families and 
communities to send troops off to war and to welcome them back home. 
All of them, all of them, the dead, the wounded, the deployed, the 
returned, and their families, deserve political leaders who will make 
decisions worthy of their enormous sacrifice. Mr. Speaker, we have 
fallen well short of that goal, and we will only honor their sacrifices 
when we acknowledge this and end the war.

I want to review just some of the things that we now know. We all 
know that this is a war of choice, not a war of necessity. We all know 
that Iraq posed no imminent danger to America that would justify what 
this administration called a ''preemptive'' war. We all know that Iraq 
had nothing to do with the tragic September 11 attacks that our Nation 
suffered. We know that few in the world stood with America as we 
undertook this nearly unilateral war. And we now know that our war in


Iraq has diverted our attention and our resources from efforts to 
combat terrorist threats to our Nation.

And beyond that, we know now that worldwide resentment of our 
military presence in Iraq has become a central recruiting tool for 
terrorist organizations worldwide. Therefore, we know that this war 
continues to make America less safe and more vulnerable.

What else do we now know? We now know that the planning and execution 
of this war was wrought with enormous miscalculations. We know that 
more than 3,000 American servicemembers have lost their lives in Iraq, 
and we know that between 56,000 and 61,000 Iraqi civilians have been 
killed since the war began. And based on polls released Monday, we know 
that 68 percent of Americans disapprove of the President's handling of 
this war.

Mr. Speaker, I was among the first group of House Members to speak 
out against the prospect of going to war in Iraq, and I voted against 
authorizing the use of force in Iraq; and as an early and consistent 
critic of the war, I understand the importance of offering a new course 
in Iraq. We must bring an end to our military occupation and replace it 
with a program of humanitarian relief, rebuilding political 
stabilization, and diplomatic engagement. We must participate in a 
robust regional diplomatic effort, including direct discussions with 
Syria and Iran, to promote stability in Iraq. And I think that this 
effort will be well received by Iraq's neighbors because regardless of 
whether these countries are close allies of the United States or not, 
Iraq's neighbors have more to gain if Iraq is stabilized and more to 
lose if it is not.

We must also heed the advice of many, including the Iraq Study Group, 
and acknowledge that other conflicts in the Middle East require our 
attention and leadership if the region is to achieve lasting stability. 
Therefore, we must also initiate a new push for Arab-Israeli peace. I 
believe that Congress has not only the right but the responsibility to 
assert its constitutional role as a co-equal branch of government in 
overseeing the conduct of this war and bringing it to an end. In doing 
so, I believe all options, including using the power of the purse, 
should be on the table.

The United States is the lone superpower in the world today. And 
along with that awesome power comes responsibility to humankind. 
America's reason for maintaining its superpower status must be to 
export the best of our democratic system of governance and the hope of 
the American Dream to the rest of the world. But these cherished ideals 
cannot be exported through force. We must teach and lead by example

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution expressing 
disapproval of the President's decision to escalate the war in Iraq.

During the past 4 years I have embraced, stood by, and prayed with 
Wisconsin families as they said their last goodbyes to their brave sons 
and daughters, husbands and wives. Those fallen soldiers have served 
with the utmost loyalty and courage, trusting decision-makers in 
Washington--the President; his administration and this Congress--to do 
the right thing. Like almost all of my colleagues, I have visited with 
wounded troops at Walter Reed and at home, and joined with families and 
communities to send troops off to war and to welcome them back home. 
All of them, all of them--the dead, the wounded, the deployed, the 
returned, their families--deserve political leaders who make decisions 
worthy of their enormous sacrifices. Mr. Speaker, we have fallen well 
short of that goal, and we will only honor their sacrifices when we 
acknowledge this and end the war.

I want to review just some of the things that we know. We all know 
that this is a war of choice, not a war of necessity. We all know that 
Iraq posed no imminent danger to America that would justify what this 
Administration called a ''pre-emptive'' war. We all know that Iraq had 
nothing to do with the tragic September 11 attacks that our Nation 
suffered. We know that few in the world stood with America as we 
undertook this nearly unilateral war. We now know that our war in and 
occupation of Iraq has diverted our attention and our resources from 
our multi-faceted efforts to combat terrorist threats to our Nation and 
its allies. And beyond that, we now know (based upon last year's 
declassified intelligence estimates) that worldwide resentment of our 
military presence in Iraq has become a central recruiting tool for 
terrorist organizations worldwide to increase their ranks. Therefore, 
we know that this war continues to make America less safe and more 
vulnerable as long as it persists.

What else do we now know? We now know that the planning and the 
execution of the war following our invasion were wrought with enormous 
miscalculations. We now know that billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars 
have been lost or squandered through no-bid contracts, lack of 
accountability measures and lack of Congressional oversight under the 
previous Republican majority. We know that more than 3,000 American 
service members have lost their lives in Iraq. We know that between 
56,000 and 61,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed since the war began. 
And, based on polls released Monday, we know that 68 percent of 
Americans disapprove of the President's handling of the war in Iraq and 
72 percent of Americans believe that things are going badly in Iraq.

The situation in Iraq today has variously been called an all-out 
civil war or more simply a state of chaos.

For years many Americans, including many members of this Congress 
from both parties, gave this war a chance. It is time for this 
administration to give peace a chance. It is time for the President to 
pay attention to the vast yet still growing majority of Americans that 
want us to get out of Iraq.


Mr. Speaker, I was among the first group of House Members to speak 
out against the prospect of going to war in Iraq. I voted against 
authorizing the use of force in Iraq, and as an early and consistent 
critic of the war, I understand the importance of offering a new course 
in Iraq. Many of my colleagues have introduced bills that would 
redeploy our troops in a responsible manner within a reasonable time 
frame, while focusing on aggressive diplomatic efforts to stabilize the 
Middle East. A number of these bills and resolutions establish concrete 
benchmarks for the Iraqi government. It is long overdue for this 
Administration to start paying attention to these alternative 
proposals, that chart a new course in Iraq. I believe that we must 
redefine our mission in Iraq. We must bring an end to our military 
occupation and replace it with a program of humanitarian relief, 
political stabilization,and diplomatic engagement. We must participate 
in a robust regional diplomatic effort, including direct discussions 
with Syria and Iran, to promote stability in Iraq. And I think that 
effort would be well received by all Iraq's neighbors, because 
regardless of whether these countries are close allies of the United 
States, or not, Iraq's neighbors have more to gain if Iraq is 
stabilized and more to lose if it is not.

We must also heed the advice of many, including the Iraq Study Group, 
and acknowledge that other conflicts in the Middle East require our 
attention and leadership, if the region is to achieve lasting 
stability. Therefore, we must also initiate a new push for Arab-Israeli 
peace.

I believe Congress not only has the right, but the responsibility, to 
assert its constitutional role as a co-equal branch of government in 
overseeing the conduct of this war and bringing it to an end. Our 
Constitution explicitly authorizes Congress the power to declare war 
and to raise and support armies. If Congress is given the power to make 
wars, we must also exercise our power to end wars. In doing so, I 
believe all options, including using ''the power of the purse,'' should 
be on the table.

The United States is the lone superpower in the world today. Along 
with that awesome and unprecedented power comes responsibilities to 
humankind. America's reason for maintaining her superpower status must 
be to export the best of our democratic system of governance and the 
hope of the American Dream to the rest of the world. But these 
cherished ideals can't be exported through force. We must teach and 
lead by example.

Mr. Speaker, while I support the resolution, I strongly believe 
Congress needs to do more to represent the will of the people and 
pursue all options that would lead to an end to this occupation and 
this war.