# None
## `5414b3a88ec4c08040f8886d312ca479`
`Mr. THUNE — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, like so many of my colleagues, I spent the 
week of the Fourth of July traveling my State of South Dakota. I met 
with members of the general public at an energy forum, met with small 
businesses, folks in the tourism industry. Everywhere I went it was the 
same story: High gas prices are crippling the American economy.

I remember stopping in the small town of Parkston and visiting with 
someone who manages a small cafe there, and visiting with them about 
the impact that high gas prices are having on their business.

She said: Well, it is not really the weekend travelers, the RV 
owners, the people who camp, but it is those people who are commuting 
to work every single day who now do not have the money to eat out 
nearly as often.

Of course, Parkston is a small town. It is about 20 miles, give or 
take, from Mitchell, SD. There are a number of people who commute back 
and forth. It is those commuters who are feeling the most economic 
hardship as a result of high energy prices.

I attended my parents' 65th wedding anniversary in my hometown of 
Murdo. In my hometown, tourism, the visitor industry, is the very 
lifeblood of that community. I grew up in that business, worked in 
restaurants, motels, that sort of thing. And I even had a forum, as 
well, with members of the tourism industry in South Dakota in Rapid 
City when I was home just to gauge the impact of high fuel prices on 
their individual businesses.

The Rapid City mayor, who owns a campground, said: I think we are 
going to reach a tipping point where the very foundations of the travel 
industry could be shaken.

Bill Honerkamp, president of the Black Hills, Badlands and Lakes 
Association said tourism fell about 7 percent in the region in May, and 
numbers for the rest of the summer are barely holding steady.

Teddy Hustead, president of the popular South Dakota tourist stop 
Wall Drug, said tourist stops were down 1 percent in June. But he went 
on to say that Wall Drug needs to be up 4 to 5 percent to be a healthy, 
growing, viable concern, and it is hard to grow a business when gas is 
increasing by 10, 20, and 25 percent every single year.

Sean Casey, the vice president of another popular South Dakota 
tourist destination, Bear Country USA, noted that visitation is down 7 
percent for the year 2008. And he went on to say: Energy is pinching 
us. I always joke that we are going to a model like the space shuttle--
two visitors at $10 million each.

Jo Casky of the Spearfish Convention and Visitors Bureau noted that 
convention is dropping because of high gas prices. One particular 
convention was booked with a prediction of 1,200 to 1,400 attendees. 
That is unlikely now because of the rising pump prices.

Casky said: We are now at about 800. As soon as gas started getting 
to the $4 mark, we started to see reservations back off.

High gas prices are having a dramatic impact on families, small 
businesses, the tourism industry, the airline industry, the 
agricultural industry, and virtually every sector of the American 
economy.

I toured a UPS facility in Sioux Falls, SD. Many of my colleagues may 
have heard what they are doing in terms of dealing with the price of 
fuel. They actually now, as they diagram routes for their drivers, 
diagram routes that only allow them to make right turns so they do not 
sit in a left-turn lane and idle thereby using more energy.

My point is that people are taking extraordinary steps to deal with 
the high cost of energy. Higher costs for companies such as UPS, 
transportation companies, get passed on to consumers in the form of 
higher prices for everything they buy. They are looking for leadership 
in Washington, DC. But instead of leadership, they have seen a decade 
of inaction, as arguably the most important issue of impacting the 
American economy has been left unattended.

We have done nothing to affect the basic law of supply and demand. 
Some argue, and perhaps rightly so, that high energy costs are partly a 
function of the weak dollar. They would be, as I said, accurate to say 
that because oil is denominated in dollars. When it takes $1.57 to 
purchase a Euro, it is going to make anything denominated in dollars 
more expensive.

There are those who think speculators are driving up the cost of 
energy in this country, and it is true that trading in energy 
commodities has increased dramatically over the past 30 years since the 
exchanges were created. I, for one, happen to believe we need to look 
for ways to define the degree to which speculation is impacting energy 
prices in this country and also look at what we can do to address that 
issue in a way that makes matters better and not worse.

Trading since 2004 on the NYMEX Exchange has nearly tripled. So we 
need to make sure our farmers, our ranchers, our airlines, our trucking 
companies, have the opportunity and ability that they need to manage 
risk. That is what those markets were created for. We also need 
transparent markets where all traders are subjected to the same sets of 
rules.

I believe we need more cops on the beat. We need to make sure the 
CFTC has the funding it needs to do its job and to enforce our laws. I 
think we can do some things, such as codifying CFTC position limits and 
transparency for foreign boards of trade. I guess my point is that 
there are a number of things we can do to address the impact that 
speculators may be having on the price of energy in this country. And, 
frankly, I think that is a role and responsibility that Congress should 
fill.

But if you take the weak dollar, and you take speculators out of the 
equation, we still have a major problem and a major crisis in this 
country. That problem is that we have greater demand for energy than we 
have supply. We use about 86, 85 to 86 million barrels of oil every 
single day worldwide. Of that amount, the United States uses about 20 
million barrels or about 24 percent of the total. Of that amount of 20 
million barrels that the United States uses every single day, about 12 
million barrels are imported.

In other words, 60 percent of the oil that we use every single day in 
America comes from outside the United States. We are transporting and 
shipping and transferring about a half trillion dollars every single 
year of American wealth outside of the United States to petro dictators 
who are being enriched by that American wealth and using it in ways 
that I think most of us would disagree with; in fact, in many ways to 
support terrorist organizations in places around the world.

Now, we cannot solve our dangerous dependance upon foreign sources of 
energy absent affecting that basic law and rule of supply and demand. 
We have to find more energy in this country. We should be taking steps 
now to add supply and to reduce our demand.

One of the things we need to continue to support and intensify, in my 
view, is our commitment toward renewable energy. I want to read 
something that Tom Friedman said in an op-ed on June 29. The op-ed was 
titled ''Anxious in America.''

But he said:




 My fellow Americans. We are a country in debt and in 


 decline, not terminal, not irreversible, but in decline. Our 


 political system seems incapable of producing long-range 


 answers to big problems or big opportunities. We are the ones 


 who need a better functioning democracy. More than the Iraqis 


 and Afghans, we are the ones in need of nationbuilding as it 


 is our political system that is not working.


He goes on to say:







 I continue to be appalled at the gap between what is 


 clearly going to be the next great global industry, renewable 


 energy and clean power, and the inability of Congress and the 


 administration to put in place the bold policies we need to 


 ensure that America leads that industry.


Well, one of the things that we did, and it was a moonshot in terms 
of renewable energy and making an investment in our future, is the 
renewable fuels standard. Last December there were 80 Senators who 
voted to increase the renewable fuels standard to 36 billion gallons by 
the year 2022. That was a policy that was put in place less than a year 
ago, and yet already we have people, Members of the Senate, politicians 
in Washington, who are talking about rolling that back. That could be 
the absolute worst thing that we do.


We do not need less energy in this country, we need more energy in 
this country. We need more renewable fuels. The 8 or 9 billion gallons 
of renewable energy that we produce in this country every single year 
today is taking pressure off gasoline and oil prices by, according to a 
study conducted by Merrill-Lynch, up to about 15 percent.

In the current market economy that is about 50 to 60 cents per gallon 
of gasoline. Someone has said it is ethanol and corn prices that are 
driving up the cost of everything we buy in this country, and 
particularly with regard to this whole food-versus-fuel debate. But the 
American Truckers Association recently did a study which found that in 
late 2004 it cost about 16 cents per box of cereal to transport that 
box of cereal to the marketplace. Today it costs about 36 cents per box 
of cereal. So we have seen a 20-cent increase in the transportation 
cost for a box of cereal. Couple that with the fact that the amount of 
corn in a box of Corn Flakes is about 10 cents per box, and you can see 
what is driving up the cost of everything in our economy. It is the 
increasing price per barrel of oil, increasing price of energy in this 
country.

We need to speed cellulosic ethanol to the marketplace. We need to 
increase the blends of ethanol. We need not fewer gallons of renewable 
energy in this country, we need more gallons of renewable energy. I 
hope those in Washington, in the administration and Congress, who are 
talking about considering rolling back the renewable fuels standard 
would reconsider that and think about the importance of renewable 
energy and what it can do for America's future and our dangerous 
dependence on foreign sources of energy.

The second thing, of course, we have to do is we have to increase our 
domestic supply. That means the Outer Continental Shelf. That means the 
oil shale in places in the Western States. It means ANWR. It means coal 
to liquid. It means nuclear. It means wind. We have all of these 
domestic energy supplies in this country, and we have heard people say 
it would take 5 to 100 years to develop some of these energy supplies. 
Well, that is what they were saying 5 or 10 years ago about many of 
these same things.

We did not do it then, and now we are paying a price for it. Is it 
not our job as policymakers to be looking down the road to future 
generations to make decisions that are in the best interests of 
America's future. There is not any issue, I would argue, that is more 
important to America's future than energy security because it ties 
directly into and correlates directly into our national security.

We have to have more domestic supply, and the last thing we have to 
do is we have to use less. We have to find more sources of energy, more 
domestic sources of energy, so we do not continue to get 60 percent of 
that energy from outside the United States. And we have to figure out 
ways in this country to use less energy.

I have a bill that I have introduced. I am on a bill that Senator 
McConnell, the Republican leader, has introduced which has 43 
cosponsors. I have introduced a bill of my own to deal with this energy 
situation. I am working with a group of both Republicans and Democrats. 
We need to put the politics aside, the partisanship aside, and work on 
getting a solution for the American people.

In the bill that I introduced, one of the things I include is a 
provision that requires that of additional Government lands that are 
leased for energy production--whether they be offshore, whether they be 
oil shale in the Western States, whether it be ANWR, the lease revenue, 
half of the lease revenue that comes into the Federal Government be 
plowed back into research and development and new technologies, in 
renewables, alternative sources of energy, things like plug-in hybrid 
cars, cellulosic advanced biofuels, hydrogen fuel cells.

Those are the types of things we also need to be investing in to make 
sure that not only are we increasing the supply of energy in this 
country, the amount that we have, but also that we are using less.

We can do this. We can put aside the finger-pointing and the blame 
game and do something for our energy future. I believe when people come 
together, and when they decide that this is an important priority for 
America's future, we can get this done.

But we can't do it by saying no to every proposal put on the table. 
My colleagues on the other side--many of them; not all, but many--have 
said no to offshore production, no to oil shale, no to nuclear, no to 
coal to liquid, no to additional refinery capacity. We can't solve this 
problem by saying no. We have to start saying yes to more domestic 
production and to more measures that would allow us to conserve and 
reduce the amount of energy we use. We have to get serious about this 
issue. It starts with addressing that fundamental law and rule of 
supply and demand. We can do all these other things, the dollar can 
start firming up, we can address the role of speculation in the 
marketplace. But at the end of the day, we don't solve the problem 
unless we get serious about increasing our domestic supply of energy 
and reducing and using less energy. When we do that, we will see the 
price per barrel start to come down, the price per gallon of gasoline 
start to come down, and we will see the American economy, in places 
such as South Dakota, where tourism and agriculture are so critically 
important, start to rebound and start to draw more visitors to the 
tourism industry and to make sure our farmers continue to produce food 
and fiber in a way that allows them to maximize their return on 
investment and not get choked with high input costs coming from higher 
energy costs.

I hope before we adjourn for the August recess, we will come together 
behind an energy proposal and plan that is good for America's future, 
that emphasizes renewables, more domestic supply and production, and 
addresses the important issue of conservation. But we can't do that by 
continuing to say no. I ask my colleagues on both sides to quit saying 
no and to start saying yes to America's energy independence. Say no to 
our dangerous dependence upon foreign energy but yes to making America 
energy independent and making this country more prosperous for 
America's future.

I yield the floor.