---
---

# ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' AFFAIRS IN THE 110TH  CONGRESS
## `541f3599e8c35122b40b90442cdb2c8a`
`Mr. AKAKA — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as we prepare to return to our home States, 
I believe it is important to remind our colleagues about the work we 
have done for the veterans of this Nation. As Chairman of the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs, I have had the privilege of working with almost 
every entity and level of Government, veterans and military service 
organizations across the Nation, and every branch of the military, in 
an ongoing effort to better serve those who have served us.

In the past 19 months, the committee has held over 50 hearings, 
taking testimony from over 320 witnesses. The committee staff has 
carried out over 140 days of investigations and visits across the 
country. I commend the hard-working members of our committee, on both 
sides of the aisle, for their work this session.

After years of underfunding veterans programs, I wish to remind 
everyone that this Congress appropriated the largest increase in the 
history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. These funds are helping 
to provide better health care to veterans and enabling the Veterans 
Benefits Administration to hire thousands of new employees. It is my 
profound hope this investment will produce marked improvements in care 
and in reduced backlog of veterans' disability claims. Last year, in 
connection with the disclosures about Walter Reed, America learned of 
the disgraceful treatment of some of our disabled servicemembers and 
veterans. Congress responded promptly and the Armed Services and 
Veterans' Affairs Committees collaborated in an unprecedented manner to 
address the issues at Walter Reed and elsewhere. One result of this 
cooperation was the wounded warrior provisions included in last year's 
National Defense Authorization Act.


I take special pride in one particular wounded warrior provision 
which more than doubled the period of automatic VA health care 
eligibility for returning troops. Servicemembers returning from Iraq 
and Afghanistan are now eligible for 5 years of VA health care upon 
separation from service.

I am also pleased with the work we have done in seeking an expanded 
outreach to veterans of the National Guard and Reserve. It is vital 
that the growing role they play in our all-volunteer military be 
recognized and that those who have been deployed in Iraq and 
Afghanistan be recognized and helped.

Congress also enacted the 21st Century GI bill of rights. Like others 
who served in World War II, I personally know how that GI bill changed 
our country for the better. I hope this improved benefit will provide 
similar help for today's and tomorrow's troops.

But for all we have done, much remains unfinished in these waning 
weeks. Important legislation is pending in both the House and the 
Senate. To name two bills, we are still waiting for action on S. 1315 
and S. 2162.

S. 1315, the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007, would 
provide needed assistance to veterans young and old, including the 
Filipino veterans of World War II who served under U.S. command but 
were denied veterans status for over 60 years.

S. 2162 is the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements 
Act of 2008. This bill responds to the growing need among veterans for 
high quality mental health care. Many veterans return from war 
suffering from invisible wounds. If left untreated, these wounds can 
infect a veteran's life and livelihood, with dire consequences. The 
bill represents a tribute to Justin Bailey, a young Iraq veteran who 
overdosed while under VA care. We must not let other veterans suffer a 
similar tragedy.

Both of these bills passed the Senate with unanimous or nearly 
unanimous support, and both count strong supporters in the House. I 
hope that before this session ends, we will see both become law.

I do not report today that our work for veterans is anywhere near 
done, but I do say it is work in progress. I thank my colleagues in 
both Chambers and both parties for their support and cooperation.
