# IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL
## `5420e373a95f7bc791052e66dbc82087`
`Mr. CORNYN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I join my distinguished colleague from 
Wyoming in addressing the pending business of the Senate, which is the 
emergency supplemental to help fund our troops who are serving in 
harm's way. The problem with this particular legislation is it does 
more than that. In fact, contrary to its advertised purpose of 
supporting the troops, it undermines the ability of our commanders on 
the ground to actually succeed in the goal they volunteered to achieve 
and which we have asked them to do because it sets artificial timelines 
and attempts to micromanage the fighting of the war on the ground.

It ultimately jeopardizes the ability to get funds for the troops, to 
provide the necessary equipment, to provide the replenishment of used-
up resources that are necessary as we rotate troops who are in the 
battlefield today. It would ultimately make it more likely that troops 
who are already there--who sacrificed a lot, along with their 
families--are going to have to sacrifice even more because the troops 
necessary and the equipment necessary to actually rotate in and relieve 
them of their responsibilities will not be available.

The other thing that is so unseemly, to me, about this whole process 
is, because this is the train leaving the station and colleagues know 
that this bill needs to pass, or at least some version of it--emergency 
spending to support our troops--that the House, in particular, and now 
the Senate has joined in a similar manner in larding this 
appropriations bill with various pork projects.

My colleague from Wyoming has pointed out that the nature of 
emergency spending means this money goes straight to the deficit. In 
other words, the bill is passed on to the next generation and beyond 
and not paid for.

We just went through an elaborate process in passing a budget 
resolution. Time and time again, the new majority has said they want to 
engage in some budget and fiscal discipline, but that stated goal, to 
try to deal with taxpayer dollars responsibly, to find offsets for 
spending and have pay-as-you-go rules is completely belied by the 
actions reflected in this particular appropriations bill.

The fact is, we did debate this issue just 2 weeks ago with regard to 
artificial timelines and micromanaging the war. The Senate voted 48 to 
50 not to approve cloture on S.J. Res. 9, which was an effort by our 
Democratic colleagues to micromanage and set artificial timelines. They 
lost that vote by 48 to 50. Now they are back again, trying it another 
time.

Giving the enemy a timetable when American troops will withdraw from 
Iraq without regard to conditions on the ground, without regard to the 
early signs of progress that we are making, only helps the enemy plan 
on how to establish and accomplish their goals, not our goals. Our 
focus should be on how to succeed in Iraq, not how to tie the hands of 
our troops, jeopardize the funding that is necessary for their success, 
and to micromanage something that we have no business micromanaging 
from the Halls of Congress, thousands of miles away from the 
battlefield.

The tragedy of this is it now represents 18 different proposals by 
the Democrats in Congress on how to lose in Iraq and not a single 
proposal on how to succeed. The chairman of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee on which I serve has pointed out that there are between 5,000 
and 6,000 al-Qaida operatives now in Iraq. To pass legislation which 
sets an arbitrary deadline for withdrawing our combat forces without 
defeating al-Qaida makes no sense, no sense at all. It will create a 
power vacuum, much as Afghanistan was after the fall of the Soviet 
Union, which then gave rise to a failed state and a launching pad for 
terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. We need 
to do everything in our power to prevent that from happening again and 
not forget the lessons of 9/11 and allow it to be repeated in Iraq.


The Iraqis know our commitment there is not open ended, and they 
understand the future of Iraq is in their hands. But to pass 
legislation that micromanages how our troops should fight the enemy and 
essentially allow the creation of safe havens for terrorists is the 
height of irresponsibility.

We pointed out before, but it is worth pointing out again, we 
unanimously confirmed General Petraeus, the architect of the 
counterinsurgency plan currently being carried out in Baghdad. He does 
not need the armchair generals in the Senate dictating military tactics 
to him. If the Members of this body really support the troops, we will 
provide, unencumbered, the resources necessary for our troops to 
accomplish the goals which they so valiantly and bravely volunteered to 
do, under the leadership of great generals such as GEN David Petraeus.

We all want our troops home as soon as possible. We all share that 
goal. But any decision to withdraw from Iraq before the Iraqis 
themselves are able to stabilize their country, with our help, to allow 
them to govern and defend themselves, will not heighten America's 
national security but, rather, will jeopardize it.

We have had 18 proposals to date from our colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle. Every attempt they have had to try to pass one of 
these proposals has failed. But as Yogi Berra said, ''It's deja vu all 
over again.'' Here we go again. We just voted last week 48 to 50 
against legislation that would impose a deadline. I hope we will not 
have to continue to debate this over and over again and continue to 
send the message to our enemies: Yes, you are that much closer to 
breaking America's will in this contest of wills in something that is 
so important to our national security. We need to get this legislation 
passed and passed soon, so our troops do not have to guess whether the 
funding necessary to carry out their mission will be forthcoming.

Using the supplemental appropriations to play political games and to 
pay off domestic priorities, such as peanut subsidies and spinach 
subsidies, is not in the best interests of our men and women in 
uniform. That is why the President has threatened to veto this bill, 
due to the pork and the timelines that are included in it. I encourage 
my colleagues to think long and hard before moving forward in a way 
that would compromise the mission of our troops who are serving to 
protect all of us.

I yield the floor.