---
---

# None
## `54230b6f395f6df93444251838f0c9f9`
`Mr. ROSS — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Georgia, a fellow Blue Dog 
member, a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, for joining us to 
discuss the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition's House 
Resolution 97 that provides for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost 
accountability.

The Constitution clearly gives Congress oversight authority, and this 
Congress, this new Democratic Congress, is going to provide oversight 
of this administration, of this government, and fulfill our 
constitutional duty and demand that our troops get the money they need 
to get the job done as safely as possible; but also demand that it be 
done in a way to where this administration is held accountable for how, 
Mr. Speaker, your tax money is being spent in Iraq.

I recently received an e-mail from a soldier from my hometown. He 
wrote to me in an e-mail from Iraq, and there are a couple of points I 
would like to point out. I am quoting this soldier now in Iraq. 
''Needless to say, war profiteering is high, and disgusting to witness 
as a taxpayer.'' This is a citizen soldier, this is a soldier that 
comes to us from the Army Reserve. He has now been in Iraq 7 months. 
And in his e-mail to me he said, ''Needless to say, war profiteering is 
high, and disgusting to witness as a taxpayer.''

He goes on to say, ''And the black market thrives over here as well. 
For example, much of the fuel never reaches the military; it ends up in 
the wrong hands through a complex network of interconnected 
relationships that truly reminds me of the Mafia.''

Another example from a soldier on the ground in Iraq that has been 
there 7 months about the need for accountability for how tax money, 
some $400 billion so far, some 20 percent of that $400 billion is 
unaccounted for, according to the most recent reports.

As members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we are offering up a resolution 
to demand that this money, your tax money, Mr. Speaker, be accounted 
for in how it is being spent in support of our soldiers in Iraq. And 
you know what? We might just find enough waste, fraud and abuse in Iraq 
that we could take that money and invest it in veterans' benefits, to 
ensure that our men and women coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan are 
properly cared for.

With that, I yield to a gentleman that knows a lot about this 
subject, a gentleman that is not only a very important member of the 
Blue Dog Coalition, but someone who served on the House Armed Services 
Committee, someone who now serves on the Foreign Operations 
Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, and that is the 
gentleman from Long Island (Mr. Israel).