# None
## `542ca446ea9e012eb76f7876d9281f74`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is a critical piece of legislation which 
expands and improves health care services available for women veterans 
through the Department of Veterans Affairs.

The bill will be explained in greater detail by the chairwoman of the 
Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, Ms. Herseth Sandlin, as the 
person who introduced the bill and we thank her for her steadfast 
commitment to helping women veterans.

Mr. Speaker, we had a roundtable at our full committee, where we had 
representatives and women veterans from all around the country. It was 
searing testimony which revealed serious weaknesses in the culture of 
the VA.

The VA health care system, after all, was built to accommodate the 
war-related illnesses and injuries of male veterans. The increased 
percentage of female veterans that has been occurring, especially with 
the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, has led many women veterans to say 
that we need some changes in the culture of the VA. Women walk through 
the lobbies of VA hospitals and are given catcalls. There are not 
sufficient women doctors available for the women who want them. The 
male doctors don't yet seem to have the respect for the sacrifice of 
women veterans.

There was one woman who testified who had an amputation of one arm 
from combat. When she showed up at the doctor's office, he just assumed 
that it was lost from something else like cancer. He didn't even think 
that this could be a combat-related injury. And we can go on and on, 
but we need to change the culture and change the resources and change 
behavior, and that's what this bill by Ms. Herseth Sandlin starts to 
do.

There are about 1.8 million women veterans today, or 7 percent of the 
nearly 24 million veterans that we serve. Assuming that the current 
enrollments remain the same, the number of female veterans who use the 
VA system will double in the next 5 years, making female veterans one 
of the fastest growing subgroups of veterans. In this environment of 
organizational transformation and changing demographics, H.R. 1211 has 
the potential to lay the foundation for improved health care services 
for our women veterans.

I urge my colleagues to support the legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.