# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `542de7d59721f4053f084da5be11d02b`
`Mr. WYDEN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Under the Conrad budget, and the fair flat tax I have 
introduced, we could have a one-page 1040 form. People in the State of 
Ohio--I advise the Presiding Officer, our colleague from Ohio, and we 
are thrilled to have him in the Senate--could be filling out their 
taxes on a one-page form, ensuring progressivity, getting rid of the 
clutter, and holding down rates for everybody. Money magazine, when 
they took that form, said they could do it in 15 minutes. So all of the 
people in the State of Ohio and elsewhere who are pulling together 
their shoe boxes and their receipts right now in order to fill out 
their taxes, they could have an alternative, something based on a 
system we know works because Democrats and Republicans came together in 
1986 in order to have such a tax system.

The Conrad budget makes it possible for us to enact tax reform even 
before the Bush tax cuts of 2010 expire.

On the health care side, the same bipartisan effort could occur: 
Democrats and Republicans could come together and fix health care. We 
establish a universal coverage fund, a health care reform fund, in this 
budget. It would allow, for example, for legislation, like the Healthy 
Americans Act which I introduced, that has brought together Andy Stern 
of the Service Employees International Union and Steve Burd, the CEO of 
Safeway, to say: This is where we ought to start. It would allow for 
the Democrats and the Republicans--who signed a letter to the President 
of the United States and said: We want to work with you, Mr. President, 
to fix health care--it would allow for that important effort.

A number of my colleagues on the Republican side have been extremely 
constructive in working with me and others to get that legislation 
before the Congress--not in 2009, when the popular wisdom suggests we 
will talk about health care, but in this session. But before that 
happens, because of the efforts in the Budget Committee that are 
included in the Conrad budget, we will first protect and expand the 
program that ensures justice for children in health care--the CHIP 
program.

The CHIP reauthorization will come first. Passing CHIP legislation, 
however, is not going to diminish our efforts to work in a bipartisan 
fashion on overall health reform.

Both Senator Gregg and Senator Conrad are on the floor now. I just 
want to let both of them know, and our very talented staff director, 
Mary Naylor, that I believe they have brought extraordinary 
professionalism to this effort. They reflect great credit on the Senate 
in terms of how the two


of them and their staff work on this budget.

I urge my colleagues to support the budget that is before us 
particularly because it lays the foundation for the Senate to tackle 
the two big domestic issues of our time, taxes and health care. There 
are a lot of issues that come before us. Certainly Iraq is the premier 
issue as it relates to the international front, but the big issues at 
home are taxes and health care. The Conrad budget allows for Democrats 
and Republicans to come together on taxes, as was done in 1986 for a 
system that gave everybody the chance to get ahead.

I know the Presiding Officer, my friend from Ohio, has heard a lot 
about the whole topic of class warfare and the like. I think the 
Senator from Ohio hears the same thing I hear at home; that everybody 
ought to have the chance to get ahead. Everybody ought to have the 
chance to do it. We could do that with a tax reform program that is 
fair to all. This budget allows it, and it allows for Democrats and 
Republicans to come together on health care as well.

I urge my colleagues to support the budget. I commend Senator Conrad 
and Senator Gregg.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.