---
---

# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT  STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS
## `544aca191875adfb856877d6bb33e15f`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, this discussion is about the technical changes to 
existing ill-advised legislation that came through this Congress, not 
through the Judiciary Committee, but it came to this floor without the 
due process and the consultation that would come from people on both 
sides of the aisle that could have examined this and measured the 
consequences, in fact, the unintended consequences of this legislation.

Under current law the President can set the number of refugees, and 
the Secretary of State administers this. We've met with the Secretary 
of State on this, and the definition I provided in my remark of 
existing law that is well-founded and well-tested says that the 
refugees meeting this standard can come into the United States under a 
number of items as agreed to by the administration, generally by the 
Secretary of State. And a person who would qualify would be a person 
who is


persecuted or who has a well-founded fear of persecution on account of 
their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social 
group, or political opinion. These applicants that would come under 
this standard don't meet this standard that exists under refugee law 
because the threat is not as great, and they want to open this up for 
folks that have not faced a threat that is as great.

So now the language that's in the bill that we are seeking to 
technically correct here is language that says, well, what kind of 
standards do they meet? Well, up to 125,000 of them, perhaps, over this 
5-year period of this authorization, what do they have to be? They have 
to be an Iraqi. They have to have worked for Uncle Sam. Their work had 
to have had value. And then they had to have experienced or maybe 
currently are experiencing a serious threat. And I will submit that 
everybody that works for the Federal Government experienced a threat. 
Anybody that set foot inside the Green Zone experienced a threat. 
Anybody that set foot outside the Green Zone probably experienced a 
greater threat. So the experience of the threat that's defined in this 
bill is opened up to all Iraqis that might want to present themselves 
if they are an Iraqi; if they worked for the Federal Government, if 
Uncle Sam cut them a check, worked for a year; and then if their work 
had value, which I think all work really does have value.

So what we're doing here is a technical correction that shouldn't 
have been passed in the first place, that should have gone through the 
regular order, that should have been submitted to the committee 
process, who would have had the opportunity to examine the effect of 
the numbers in this open door for perhaps 125,000.

So we can talk about process here, Mr. Speaker, and we can debate 
about the right way to bring legislation through so that we have an 
opportunity to perfect that legislation. But I think the bottom line is 
there's a consequence to this that weighs poorly for the Iraqi people 
in general. And that is if this legislation is technically corrected 
today, if this legislation passes and receives the signature of the 
President and becomes law, perhaps 125,000 Iraqis, perhaps more, can 
come to the United States under a standard that's looser than the 
refugee standard that the Secretary of State has to uphold today, and a 
Nation of about 26 or 27 million people could lose 125,000 of its best 
citizens and its best people. The allies of the United States of 
America and coalition forces, the people who believe the most in 
freedom, those who stepped up and did put their lives on the line, 
those that will be the vitality to rebuild a country that's emerging 
from the surge and continuing day by day, and the numbers and the data 
that we are looking at look more and more optimistic, they need good 
people.

It's people that are policy. We know that in our own offices. We know 
that within our companies. We know that within our own military, within 
our own government. People are policy. Good people in Iraq will rebuild 
Iraq. We need people there. I want to see Americans go there to help. I 
want to see the Iraqi people stay there and rebuild their country. 
That's a high level of patriotism for them to show.

This is a bill that discourages that and actually works inversely to 
the best interests of the United States and the best interests of Iraq. 
So I urge its defeat.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.