# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `545c6ca7cf937924bcc3071f3479f8d8`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, failure in Iraq is not an option. We 
enjoy our freedom today only because we have been willing to fight for 
it in the past. We must win the war on terror that has been thrust upon 
us.

Before going any further, let me first clearly state that I do not 
believe we should have an open-ended commitment in Iraq. I believe a 
new strategy is needed. America has a proud history of promoting and 
fighting for democracy around the globe. I don't believe now is the 
time to abandon that commitment.

While a new strategy is needed, the resolution that we are debating 
does not present us with any new policy options. Instead, we are voting 
on a nonbinding status quo resolution which will not do anything to 
change the situation in Iraq. It smacks of political posturing. 
Americans expect more of the world's greatest legislative body.

Let us not debase the honor and tradition of the great men and women 
who have served before us. We are duty bound to serve the public and 
engage in serious lawmaking, not political pandering. This resolution 
does nothing. Worse, it endorses the status quo of the violence and 
bloodshed. Maintaining the status quo is what ultimately resulted in 
the situation we find ourselves in today.

The debate before is more consequential than the question of should 
we engage in a troop surge or not. None of us want to see Americans 
unnecessarily be put in harm's way. The debate before us is about the 
global threats facing the United States and how we choose to respond to 
them. Failure to forcibly respond to previous acts of terrorism has 
undermined America's credibility around the world and projected us as 
weak to our enemies.

Some examples of these attacks include: the World Trade Center in 
1993; U.S. troops in the barracks in Saudi Arabia; sailors on the USS 
Cole; and


the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
Unfortunately, Americans were too quick to forget these terrible acts.



Like many Members of Congress, I believe there should be strategic 
benchmarks that are designed to hold both the administration and the 
Iraqi Government accountable for success in Iraq. These benchmarks 
should measure whether sufficient progress is being made. 
Unfortunately, under the restrictive rules imposed upon this debate, we 
will not have an opportunity to vote on other proposals which would 
institute benchmarks for success.

I am compelled to vote against this status quo resolution. Americans 
deserve a real debate with multiple options for success in Iraq, not 
closed proceedings that are intended to be a political ploy.

I would rather America fight the terrorists on the streets of 
Baghdad, instead of allowing the terrorists to attack our homeland.

I am concerned that the resolution we are debating this week is a 
precursor to cutting off funds for our troops. The Democrats have even 
called it a first step. I have heard it several times tonight. Our 
troops must have all the resources they need to accomplish their 
mission. I support our troops in the field. Therefore, I will vote 
''no'' on this resolution.

General Petraeus has indicated that reinforcements will hasten the 
end of the Iraq battle, allowing us to direct our efforts elsewhere in 
this greater war on radical Islamic terrorists.

The national commander of the VFW, the Nation's largest organizations 
of combat veterans, issued a statement earlier this week which says, 
''We need to send a message to our troops that America wants them to 
succeed in Iraq by giving the buildup a chance to succeed.''

As a Member of Congress, I will always do whatever possible to 
support our brave men and women in uniform. As such, I will actively 
oppose efforts to cut off funding to our troops.

I cannot support this resolution, but I am committed to working with 
the President and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the actions 
taken in the war accomplish the following: Moves Iraq closer to a 
peaceful and stable democracy; improves America's security; ensures the 
utmost safety and best equipment for our soldiers; and provides the 
shortest feasible time frame for their return to their families.

Failure in Iraq will lead to Iraq becoming a training and staging 
ground for terrorist groups intent on destabilizing the entire Middle 
East and destroying the United States and our allies.

In closing, I thank and offer my prayers for all our troops, 
including those brave men and women in the Ninth Congressional District 
and throughout the State of Florida who have answered their Nation's 
call to duty.

God bless our troops, and keep them safe.