# CONGRATULATING LITHUANIA ON 1,000TH ANNIVERSARY
## `5463a6c68e1c59374178576f142cbea5`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H. Res. 285, 
which recognizes the 1,000-year anniversary of Lithuania, and I yield 
myself such time as I may consume.

I wish to thank my good friend from Illinois (Mr. Shimkus) for 
introducing this resolution. It allows the House to add its voice to 
the Senate's in congratulating the Lithuanian people on this momentous 
occasion.

In the year 1009, the name Lithuania first appeared in European 
records when it was mentioned in a German manuscript. The gentleman 
from Illinois would note that a number of us, Democrats and 
Republicans, were in Lithuania earlier this year and had the 
opportunity to meet with the government and talk about the history. It 
was a great opportunity.

Since that time, the country has had a long and distinguished 
history. The state of Lithuania was established by Duke Mindaugas in 
1236; yet his official coronation as King was on July 6, 1253, a date 
that is still celebrated as a national holiday in Lithuania.

By the end of the 14th century, Lithuania had become the largest 
country in Europe. On February 16, 1918, Lithuania was established as a 
sovereign and democratic state.

In June 1940, Lithuania, along with its Baltic neighbors, was 
forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union. On March 11, 1990, 
Lithuania became the first Soviet Republic to declare its independence.

Lithuania has since become an active member of the national 
community, helping to strengthen Euro-Atlantic relations through its 
participation in NATO and the European Union.

Lithuania has helped secure peace and stability through its many 
contributions to international and civilian military operations in 
Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Balkans.

Lithuania has also been a strong ally of the United States, as our 
countries marked 85 years of continuous diplomatic relations in 2007.

The subject of Lithuanian-American relations came up during our 
recent participation in the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue. 
Members of Congress felt it was important to urge Lithuania to enact 
property restitution laws in order to bring some sense of justice and 
closure to the families of victims of the Holocaust, and I look forward 
to working with our colleagues in Lithuania to resolve this issue. This 
will surely continue to strengthen our relationship.

While we Americans celebrate our national independence on July 4th, 
the people of Lithuania commemorated their day of statehood on July 6. 
It is therefore appropriate, during this festive month, that the House 
passes a resolution to congratulate Lithuania on its 1,000th 
anniversary and reaffirm the close ties between our peoples and 
countries.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this resolution and urge my 
colleagues to do the same.

I reserve the balance of my time.