---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `548e72d2cac7a640ee929e76dc0eab83`
`Mr. HOLT — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this important bill.

To help support our troops and their families, this bill provides a 
much-deserved 3.4 percent military pay increase, as well as $472.4 
million for Family Advocacy programs and full funding for Family 
Support and Yellow Ribbon to provide support to military families, 
including quality child care, job training for spouses, and expanded 
counseling and outreach to families experiencing the separation and 
stress of war. Additionally, H.R. 3326 provides $29.2 billion ($3 
billion above the 2009 level) for the Defense Health Program to provide 
quality medical care for servicemembers and their including $120 
million for Traumatic Brain Injury and Psychological Health Research.

Regarding the Defense Department's operations, I'm pleased that the 
bill provides $5 billion to allow defense personnel, not contractors, 
to perform critical department functions. The Department estimates that 
every position that is converted from contract to federal civilian 
saves on average $44,000 per year. Additionally, the bill reduces 
contracted advisory and assistance services by $51 million, and 
includes general provisions to stop further conversions by the 
Department of Defense from government functions to contractors. The 
bill also contains important policy provisions I support, including a 
bar on the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq or Afghanistan, and 
the continuation of a general requirement prohibiting the torture of 
detainees held in U.S. custody.

I am disappointed that we were forced to include in this bill a 60 
day extension of three expiring Patriot Act authorities. The very good 
Patriot Act reform bill reported out of the Judiciary Committee 
eliminates over-broad surveillance authorities, tightens requirements 
for the issuance of national security letters, and contains important 
oversight requirements that will help us protect our people from both 
potential terrorists and an out-of-control executive branch. That bill 
should be passed by the House in January 2010 and the Senate should 
adopt it.

Some non-defense policy items are also attached to this bill, 
including expanded unemployment benefits, including increased payouts 
and longer duration of benefits, through February 28, 2010. The bill 
also extends from nine to 15 months (to February 28, 2010) the 65 
percent COBRA health insurance subsidy for individuals who have lost 
their jobs. The COBRA subsidy extension would help New Jersey families 
between jobs immediately, as without this subsidy the average New 
Jersey family would pay $1,156 a month for COBRA coverage, which would 
consume over two-thirds of their unemployment benefits.

Overall, this bill meets important national security and domestic 
policy needs, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
bill.