# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `549054bac93a96c7baf1f300a9e8c43f`
`Mr. GRASSLEY â€” 12 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, for 27 years, I have come to the Senate 
floor to discuss legislation that will help the Government run 
efficiently and effectively. I have been an outspoken advocate for 
whistleblowers, which whistleblowers in good faith bring forth 
information about waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayers' dollars. I have 
championed oversight efforts, and I have spent my time in the Senate 
asking the tough questions of Government bureaucrats in order to expose 
these problems, particularly problems that have been brought to my 
attention by patriotic whistleblowers.

One thing I learned from oversight is that no matter how engaged 
Congress may be, there are not enough hands to find all the waste, 
fraud, and abuse in Government programs. Instead, we have to rely then, 
as I have indicated, on those courageous and patriotic individuals who 
speak out and blow the whistle, to go to court to collect Government 
money that was lost to unscrupulous contractors who are selling false 
or fraudulent goods, in the case of 100 years ago, to Union troops 
because that is why the False Claims Act came about, and to make sure 
that we protect whistleblowers when a program is not working and 
taxpayers' dollars are being lost.

These whistleblowers, by sticking their necks out, are individuals 
often at risk. They risk everything to fix problems within our 
Government because they believe in doing their job the way it was 
intended to be done, and they probably do not get the attention of 
higher-ups in the bureaucracy. That is why they become whistleblowers 
and come to Congress to bring these faults out. Somehow they end up 
being as welcome in the bureaucracy as a skunk is at a picnic.

However, pointing out fraud is one thing; getting results, fixing the 
problem, and recouping taxpayers' money lost to fraud, waste, and abuse 
is quite another thing.

The key to recouping these lost funds is ensuring that we have 
effective laws on the books. One such law is the Federal False Claims 
Act. I have come to the floor today to remind people about the history 
of the False Claims Act, but also to suggest some improvements in that 
act so it can be an even more useful tool in the fight against waste, 
fraud, abuse, and the protection of whistleblowers.

I have referred to the False Claims Act. This is known as the Lincoln 
law because it has some history going back to the Civil War. The 
Lincoln law was originally passed by Congress to combat war 
profiteering by Government contractors during the Civil War. The False 
Claims Act allowed individual citizen whistleblowers to go to court to 
collect Government money that was lost to unscrupulous contractors who 
were selling false or fraudulent goods to Union troops.

This legal mechanism, known as qui tam, a Latin term, is the key 
component to the False Claims Act allowing individual citizens to act 
as private attorneys general to help stop fraud and recover lost money. 
However, following World War II, the False Claims Act was weakened by 
an act of Congress which lowered the penalties limiting the money the 
Government could recover from fraud. This remained the state and the 
language of the False Claims Act until 1986 when I authored amendments 
to the act which restored teeth and breathed new air and new life into 
a law that was designed to protect all American taxpayers.

I am happy to report that in the 20 years since I introduced and 
Congress passed the 1986 amendment, the Federal Government has used the 
False Claims Act to recover over $20 billion from those who defraud 
Government. That is $20 billion that would otherwise be lost and gone 
forever.

More importantly, this $20 billion serves as a deterrent reminder to 
those who wish to steal from the Government. We cannot measure the 
deterrent value of this legislation, but I personally feel, and I have 
had students of Government tell me, the deterrent value of the False 
Claims Act is much greater than even the $20 billion that we can 
quantify that has come back to the Federal Treasury.

Today, the False Claims Act faces a situation where it may not be as 
effective as intended. Recent decisions by Federal courts have limited 
the False Claims Act in a way that was not envisioned when I authored 
the 1986 amendments. These court decisions threaten to undermine both 
the spirit and intent of the 1986 amendments.


The first case, U.S. Totten v. Bombardier Corporation, held that 
false claims presented to Government grantees, in this case employees 
at Amtrak, were not actually presented to the Federal Government. As a 
result, the Government was precluded from recovering money lost to 
fraud and abuse perpetuated against Amtrak.

The second case, Rockwell International Corporation, et al, v. U.S.,


was decided earlier this year by the U.S. Supreme Court. In this case, 
the Court interpreted an area of the False Claims Act, known as the 
public disclosure bar, which prohibits a false claims case from moving 
forward if the case is based upon publicly disclosed information, such 
as a government report, unless the whistleblower filing the case was 
the ''original source'' of the information.

Now here, the Supreme Court held that a qui tam whistleblower was 
barred from receiving a share of any money recovered unless that 
whistleblower was the original source of all claims ultimately settled. 
Now, I say to my colleagues that this may not sound like a very 
troublesome decision. However, it is, and the impact is that oftentimes 
a case is brought by a whistleblower on a certain set of facts and then 
expanded by the Department of Justice, which ultimately settles on 
other grounds. As a result, this case creates a disincentive for a 
whistleblower to bring forth information about fraud, as they may not 
get to share in any part of the recovery.

You see, one of the incentives for the whistleblowers is if they 
bring a case that brings back money into the Federal Treasury, they get 
part of that settlement as an incentive to do this. Quite frankly, a 
whistleblower sticks their neck out. By doing the right thing, they are 
probably ruining themselves professionally. Let us say that they get 
part of the recovery. Well, the Federal Government gets billions of 
dollars that we would not have even gotten if we had not had the 
information from the whistleblower. That is why the whistleblower is 
very important.

Now, there is another case that gives us problems. This third case 
that challenges the intent of the False Claims Act is United States DRC 
v. Custer Battles, decided a year ago. In that case, a jury found that 
a defense contractor in Iraq had defrauded the Government of $10 
million. However, the judge overturned the jury verdict, finding that 
the money lost was not U.S. taxpayer money but was instead Iraqi money 
under the control of the U.S. Government. As a result of this case, the 
U.S. Government may not recover for any fraud committed against the 
U.S. Government if the funds are not American funds, even if the U.S. 
Government has been entrusted with the management of those funds.

These decisions, I can tell you as author of this legislation, are 
contrary to the spirit and the intent of the 1986 amendments. Today, I 
am joined by Senator Durbin as the lead cosponsor, along with Senator 
Leahy and Senator Specter--and in those two individuals I will say that 
Senator Leahy is chairman of the Judiciary Committee which has 
jurisdiction, and Senator Specter is the former chairman of the 
committee and now the Ranking Republican--so I feel by having Senator 
Durbin, Senator Leahy, and Senator Specter as cosponsors of this False 
Claims Act Correction Act, as powers within the Senate to bring 
attention to what the courts have done, this injustice to the False 
Claims Act and gutting of the False Claims Act, this act will bring it 
back to its original intent.

This legislation will correct judicial interpretations damaging the 
False Claims Act. This bill is narrowly tailored to ensure that the 
intent of Congress in the 1986 amendments is upheld and nothing more. 
The False Claims Act Correction Act will correct these three judicial 
interpretations in addition to also making technical and correcting 
amendments.

First, the bill will address the Totten decision by removing the 
requirement that false claims be directly presented to a government 
official, instead tying the liability directly to Government money and 
property.

Next, the bill will address the Rockwell decision by requiring the 
Attorney General to file a timely motion to dismiss claims that violate 
the public disclosure bar. By allowing the Attorney General to present 
to the court information about public disclosures upfront in a case, 
the bill would eliminate procedural uncertainties that exist now by 
allowing public disclosures to be addressed at any time in the case.

The False Claims Act Correction Act also clarifies that nontaxpayer 
funds under the trust and administration of the U.S. Government subject 
to fraud are actionable under the False Claims Act. Thus, money 
directly under the control of the U.S. Government subject to fraud that 
are currently outside the scope of the False Claims Act would now be 
covered. This will correct the problems that have arisen following the 
decision in the Custer Battles case.

Additionally, the bill clarifies a split between the Federal Circuit 
Courts of Appeal that currently exists regarding whether a government 
employee may file a False Claims Act case. More specifically, the bill 
provides that a government employee would be able to bring a False 
Claims Act case based upon information learned in the course of their 
employment, only when the employee: No. 1, discloses the fraud to their 
supervisors; No. 2, discloses the fraud to the inspector general of 
that agency; and, No. 3, discloses the fraud to the Attorney General 
and then waits 12 months without the Government acting. After these 
conditions are met, then, and only then, may a government employee act 
as a qui tam whistleblower.

Finally, the bill makes two technical corrections to the False Claims 
Act. The first is a technical-correcting amendment that clarifies the 
statute of limitations. The second is a technical amendment to the 
civil investigative demands that the Department of Justice is already 
authorized to issue. These technical corrections will streamline the 
procedures for filing as well as prosecuting False Claims Act cases by 
both qui tam whistleblowers as well as cases instituted originally by 
the Department of Justice.

The False Claims Act Correction Act is a narrowly tailored bill that 
seeks to ensure the legislative intent of the 1986 amendments is truly 
understood. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue. It is an 
American taxpayer issue. I am proud to say this bill has strong 
bipartisan support, as I am joined by Senator Durbin as the lead 
Democratic cosponsor, and I wish to emphasize Senator Leahy's and 
Senator Specter's cosponsorship of this legislation.

I am glad we have a bipartisan coalition ready to work to fix the 
False Claims Act with these narrowly tailored corrections, but I 
encourage my colleagues not to bow to special interest groups who have 
worked to weaken the No. 1 tool for recovering Government dollars lost 
to fraud.

I will say at this point that yesterday I had a private discussion 
with a Senator who will go unnamed. He said, even as corrective as this 
legislation is, and it is only meant to be correcting, that already we 
have the pharmaceutical companies out working against this legislation. 
So this may not be easy to get through, even though it is sticking with 
the original intent. So I don't want to get into a situation such as I 
did in 1986, when we wrote a bill that was bipartisan, and it took 
about a year to get the various holds off that were put on this. In 
those days, we had secret holds. Under the new rules of the Senate, we 
are not supposed to have any secret holds anymore.

So if people have complaints about this legislation, I wish to work 
it out, but I don't know how anybody can hold up legislation where the 
underlying legislation has brought $20 billion that would have 
otherwise been lost to fraud back to the Federal Treasury. The American 
taxpayers deserve a law that detects, prevents, and recovers money lost 
to fraud. The False Claims Act works and has recovered this $20 
billion, and that law is 20 years old. But let me say this money didn't 
start rolling in until about 6 or 7 years after that 1986 law was 
passed.

The False Claims Act Correction Act will provide necessary and 
narrowly tailored corrections to ensure that the False Claims Act works 
to protect the taxpayers into the future, as I visualized it would in 
1986 in spirit as well as in letter. I urge my colleagues to support 
this important legislation.

I have had the pleasure of having the Presiding Officer ask to be a 
cosponsor of the bill, so I ask unanimous consent that Senator 
Whitehouse be added as a cosponsor at this point.