# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `5494d5636c14c1d367ae4490cbcab633`
`Mr. DORGAN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Let me finish my thought.

He is going to ask for $150 billion above that next year with respect 
to Iraq and Afghanistan.

The point I am making is this: I understand that not just the Senator 
from Oklahoma but any number of Senators might come and say: I wish 
this had been in it, I wish that had been in it. I personally wish a 
number of items had happened that didn't happen in this continuing 
resolution. But I was involved in working on it as chairman of the 
Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee. Last year, I was ranking 
member of the Appropriations Interior Subcommittee. That bill didn't 
get to the floor of the Senate. The Energy and water bill didn't get to 
the floor of the Senate. The bill that would have carried the BRAC 
funding didn't get to the floor of the Senate. Why not? Don't blame 
that on Democrats. We didn't control this Chamber last year.


But I don't come to blame one side or the other. I only come to say 
we have tried to make the best of a bad situation. We were left with 
quite a mess. How did we make the best of this? We worked with the 
House and the Senate--bicameral; we worked with the staff of the 
Republicans and the staff of the Democrats, bipartisan--to try to see 
if we could put together something that would allow us to put the 
fiscal year 2007 appropriations bills behind us and move ahead, because 
we need to move immediately now to begin to put together the fiscal 
year 2008 appropriations bills. We need to do that now.

So I only make the point that that is why we are here. No one likes 
it. We have done the best we could to make the best out of a bad 
situation.