---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `5498526cf65c035f8dc26f6442b44675`
`Ms. COLLINS — 23 July 2009`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the 
Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act. Let me begin by 
thanking the committee's distinguished chairman, Senator Levin, and 
ranking member, Senator McCain, for their leadership in crafting this 
bill and for their strong commitment to our Nation's Armed Forces.

This legislation will provide essential training, equipment, and 
support to our troops as they engage in combat overseas and in 
exercises at home. The legislation will provide critical force 
protection to our men and women in uniform; help restore our military's 
readiness; and continue the development of technologies to counter 
existing and emerging threats. This is a critical time in our nation's 
history and the committee has, once again, demonstrated its strong 
support of our soldiers, airmen, sailors, and marines and their 
families.

It also offers an important opportunity for continued debate as to 
our Nation's strategy in Afghanistan. The legislation we are now 
debating contains an amendment that Senator Ben Nelson and I offered 
during committee markup to express the sense of Congress that the 
administration should review any previously established measures of 
progress and establish further measures of progress for both 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Our proposal was approved unanimously by the Senate Armed Services 
Committee. It represents a significant bipartisan call for the 
administration to establish clearly defined policy objectives for 
Afghanistan as our nation sends more troops and billions of additional 
dollars to the region.

Time and again, I have expressed serious reservations about sending 
more troops to Afghanistan without clear, specific benchmarks. The 
President needs to provide clear, measurable goals for Afghanistan and 
the region. I have raised my concerns with top Pentagon officials, 
including Commander of U.S. Central Command General David Petreaus and 
Commander of U.S. Forces in Afghanistan General Stanley McChrystal 
about the risks in sending additional troops to Afghanistan. I have no 
doubts at all about the courage and skill of our men and women in 
uniform. They are simply the best in the world. I have considerable 
doubts about whether the President's strategy can succeed.

The legislation before us also includes a strong commitment to 
strengthening Navy shipbuilding. A robust Navy budget is of critical 
importance. Our nation needs a strong and modern naval fleet in order 
to counter existing and emerging threats.

For several years, military leaders have documented a minimum 
national requirement for 313 ships to support our Navy and Marine 
Corps. Unfortunately, however, the Navy's fleet has declined to 283 
ships. I am deeply concerned by the decreasing size of the Navy fleet 
and have worked to increase the funding allocated to shipbuilding. This 
legislation is an important step toward reversing that troubling 
decline.

As the threats from around the world continue to grow, it is vitally 
important that the Navy have the best fleet available to counter those 
threats, keep the sealanes open, and to defend our Nation. Bath Iron 
Works and the shipyards of this country are ready to build whatever 
ships the Navy needs. It is vitally important that there not be a gap 
in shipbuilding that jeopardizes our industrial base. That is what this 
legislation works to accomplish.

The instability and inadequacy of previous naval shipbuilding budgets 
have had a troubling impact on our shipbuilding industrial base and has 
contributed to significant cost growth in the Navy's shipbuilding 
programs. The 313-ship plan, combined with more robust funding by 
Congress, will begin to reverse the decline in Navy shipbuilding.

This bill authorizes $1 billion in funding for construction of the 
third DDG-1000 and honors the agreement the Navy negotiated to build 
all three ships at Bath Iron Works, BIW. The Pentagon's preference to 
have BIW build all three of the DDG-1000s demonstrates confidence in 
BIW, should ensure stable work for the shipyard, and should also help 
to stabilize production costs for the Navy.

That same confidence was also demonstrated this May when Defense 
Secretary Robert Gates toured BIW, the first official tour of our 
shipyard by a Defense Secretary since the 1950s. Secretary Gates said 
that what impressed him most during his tour was BIW's ability to 
innovate and the pride and professionalism of its workforce. Maine has 
a long and proud history of innovation and creativity, and BIW 
represents Maine ingenuity at its best. Secretary Gates's statement 
that the men and women of BIW will have consistent work for years into 
the future was a very welcome acknowledgement of the yard's 
accomplishments.

In addition, this legislation authorizes $2.2 billion for continued 
DDG-51 procurement and nearly $150 million for the DDG-51 modernization 
program.

Our bill also includes a provision that repeals a requirement enacted 
in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 that 
would require all future surface combatants to have nuclear propulsion 
systems. The provision allows the Navy to conduct analyses of 
requirements capabilities for new ship classes without biasing the 
analyses in favor of one propulsion option or another. Continuing this 
requirement would dramatically increase the costs of large surface 
combatants, reduce the overall number of ships that could be built at a 
time when the Navy is seeking to revitalize and modernize its fleet, 
and would undermine the Chief of Naval Operations 313-ship plan.

Our Senate bill also includes funding for additional littoral combat 
ships.


While this program has suffered a number of setbacks, the Navy, with 
the help of Congress, has taken significant steps in order to better 
oversee this program. These ships are important for the Navy in order 
to counter new, asymmetric threats, and the Navy needs to get these 
ships to the fleet soon.

The Senate's fiscal 2010 Defense authorization bill also includes 
funding for other defense-related projects that benefit Maine and our 
national security.

The bill authorizes $28 million for a new aircraft hangar at the 
Bangor Air National Guard base in Bangor, ME. This new hangar is 
essential for the Maine Air National Guard and will replace the 55-
year-old building the guard now uses. With the construction of a new 
hangar, the Maine Air Guard will be able to better maintain its 
aircraft.

The bill also authorizes $7.1 million for Portsmouth Naval Shipyard 
to be used for security improvements at Gate No. 2. The money will be 
used to install new antiterrorism and protection measures at the guard 
house that will improve security.

Funding also is provided for machine guns and grenade launchers, both 
of which are manufactured by the highly skilled workers at Saco Defense 
in Saco, ME.

In addition, the legislation authorizes $10.5 million for the 
University of Maine. This funding would support continued research and 
development of light weight modular ballistic tent insert panels 
designed by the University of Maine's Army Center of Excellence in 
Orono. These panels provide crucial protection to servicemembers in 
temporary dining and housing facilities in mobile forward operating 
bases in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The funding would also support continued research and development of 
high temperature sensors for health monitoring of aerospace components. 
These sensors are capable of sensing physical properties such as 
temperature, pressure, corrosion and vibration in critical aerospace 
components.

And, the bill would also support continued research and development 
of cellulose nanocomposites panels for enhanced blast and ballistic 
protection as well as provide for woody biomass conversion to JP-8 
Fuel.

Finally, I am pleased that this bipartisan Defense bill also 
authorizes a 3.4- percent across-the-board pay increase for 
servicemembers, half a percent above the President's budget request.

This bill provides the vital resources to our troops and our nation 
and recognizes the enormous contributions made by the State of Maine to 
our national security. The bill provides the necessary funding for our 
troops, and I offer it my full support.