---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `549f806517c941b54f1960e3d193c107`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it has been more than a week since the 
junior Senator from Texas offered an amendment condemning an ad by 
MoveOn.org that appeared last Monday in the New York Times.

The ad was, by any standard--by any standard--abhorrent. It accused a 
four-star general, who has the trust and respect of 160,000 men and 
women in Iraq, of betraying that mission and those troops, of lying to 
them and to us.

Who would have ever expected anybody would go after a general in the 
field at a time of war, launch a smear campaign against a man we have 
entrusted with our mission in Iraq?

Any group that does this sort of thing ought to be condemned.

Let's take sides: General Petraeus or MoveOn.org. Which one are we 
going to believe? Which one are we going to condemn? That is the 
choice.

MoveOn says he is a traitor. If we believe that, we should condemn 
him. If we do not believe that, then we ought to be condemning them, 
not him.

Now, here is what we know about this group. I will bet you a lot of 
our Democratic colleagues do not know everything MoveOn is for. I think 
you probably know they try to come to your aid from time to time, but I 
bet you do not know everything they advocate.

In the days after the terrorist attacks of September 11, it urged--
MoveOn.org urged--a pacifist response to al-Qaida.

They rejected the idea that governments should be held responsible 
for terrorists such as al-Qaida who operate within their borders.

This is the group that called defeating the PATRIOT Act ''a success 
story,'' the group that ran an ad on its Web site equating the 
President to Adolf Hitler, the group that thinks organizations such as 
the U.N. will rid the world of al-Qaida.

That is MoveOn.org. This is what we are dealing with. I cannot 
believe those are the views of a vast majority of my friends and 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

Now, what do we know about General Petraeus? Commander of the Multi-
National Force-Iraq; been in Iraq for about 4 years; literally wrote 
the U.S. counterinsurgency manual; commanded the 101st Airborne 
Division


during the first year of Operation Iraqi Freedom; Assistant Chief of 
Staff for Operations of the NATO Stabilization Force and Deputy 
Commander of the U.S. Joint Interagency Counter-Terrorism Task Force in 
Bosnia; Assistant Division Commander for Operations of the 82nd 
Airborne Division at Fort Bragg; West Point; aide to the Chief of Staff 
of the Army; battalion, brigade, and division operations officer; 
Assistant to the Supreme Allied Commander-Europe; Distinguished Service 
Medal; Defense Superior Service Medal; Legion of Merit; Bronze Medal 
for Valor; NATO Meritorious Service Medal; one of America's 25 Best 
Leaders, according to US News & World Report; and a four-star general 
of the Army.

That is what we know about General Petraeus.

Here is what our friends on the other side of the aisle said about 
General Petraeus when they confirmed him back in January.

The junior Senator from California called him ''an amazing man.''

The chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, the senior Senator 
from Delaware, said: ''I don't know anybody better than Petraeus.''

The senior Senator from Massachusetts said he is ''an outstanding 
military officer, and our soldiers really deserve the best, and I think 
they're getting it with your service,'' referring to General Petraeus.

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the senior Senator from 
Michigan, said: ''General Petraeus is widely recognized for the depth 
and breadth of his education, training, and operational experience.''

They praised him up and down in January, confirmed him unanimously, 
funded his mission, and sent him the troops.

So now is the time to be heard. Is it right to call General Petraeus 
a traitor or not? That is what this vote is about. Is it right to call 
General Petraeus a traitor or not?

This group, MoveOn.org, is crowing all over the papers. They say they 
have my colleagues on the other side of the aisle on a leash. They brag 
about it. Their executive director has said, referring to the party on 
the other side of the aisle, they are ''Our party.'' MoveOn.org says: 
''we bought it, we own it, and we're going to take it back.'' That is 
MoveOn.org saying that about our friends on the other side of the 
aisle.

They claim to be in constant contact with people on the other side of 
the aisle. I do not believe this group is telling all these great 
Senators on the other side of the aisle what to do. I do not believe 
that. This is an opportunity to demonstrate it.

So this amendment gives our colleagues a chance to distance 
themselves from these despicable tactics, distance themselves from the 
notion that some group literally has them on a leash, akin to a puppet 
on a string.

It is time to take a stand--not to dredge up political battles of the 
past but to condemn this ad.

What about this ad should not be condemned? Is there anything about 
this ad that should not be condemned?

I urge my colleagues to stand with General Petraeus and against this 
ad.