# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `54c72b19eeeca389e5bb29ebbbc91b01`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, as we debate the supplemental, I want to 
speak about the importance of extending unemployment insurance to our 
economy and to so many of our fellow Americans.

I know if Senator Kennedy were on the Senate floor today, he would be 
leading this effort, lending his powerful voice, as he always does, 
with fervor and passion on behalf of those in this Nation who are in 
need. I certainly hope and pray that he will be with us once again 
lending his voice to this and so many other critical issues.

Mr. President, we know there are Americans in need. These are 
difficult economic times, not just for Americans on the bottom of the 
economic ladder but for Americans from all walks of life.

In the past year alone, as this chart indicates, losses in the stock 
market and in home values have totaled $2.7 trillion each--that is 
trillion with a ''t.'' Foreclosures have risen 130 percent since 2006. 
Some 20,000 families lose their homes every week. This combination of a 
credit and housing crisis isn't just affecting Wall Street or 
homeowners, but it is reaching throughout our economy and putting a 
strain on businesses, large and small, from factories to restaurants.

Under the pressure of this economic squeeze, the economy has lost 
260,000 jobs in the last 4 months alone. Beyond just the loss of the 
jobs, what is hurting those who have lost a job is the time it is 
taking to find a new job. These are not individuals who are just 
sitting back and waiting for someone to offer them a job. These are 
people who are actively engaged in the labor market and looking for 
gainful employment, looking for the dignity of a job.

This chart shows us the average length of unemployment has risen to 
almost 17 weeks--longer than at any time Congress has extended benefits 
in the past 30 years. In my State of New Jersey, each week some 3,000 
more unemployed workers are exhausting their benefits. It is not that 
they are sitting back at home. They are engaged in the market looking 
for jobs--many times even outside of their field, simply to be 
gainfully employed.

While we certainly hope some of the recent efforts we have performed 
in the Congress to stimulate our economy will be successful, there are 
still troubling signs. Long-term unemployment is higher now than before 
the last recession. Mr. President, 17.8 percent of people unemployed 
find themselves searching for a job for over 27 weeks. That is a 58-
percent increase since the year 2001. Statistics show those who are 
unemployed are going to have a very difficult time finding a job, as 
there are 7.6 million unemployed Americans competing for only 3.8 
million jobs. That is two workers for every job.

Some are struggling more than others. Veterans and minorities have 
been disproportionately burdened by our struggling labor market. Young 
male veterans who answered the call to protect our Nation after 
September 11, 2001, are now faced with an 11.2-percent unemployment 
rate--well over twice the national average. A total of 21,588 newly 
discharged veterans are now unemployed and collecting unemployment 
insurance.

It seems to me the last thing these brave men and women who risked 
their lives dodging bullets and IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan should 
have to worry about is finding a job when they come home. And when they 
cannot, it seems to me the last thing they should have to worry about 
is not having any income to sustain themselves and their families. Now 
they are standing in an unemployment line, and pretty soon they will 
not be able to do that either.

Minorities are also being hit especially hard by our current economic 
conditions. For Hispanics, unemployment has grown to 6.9 percent. For 
African Americans, unemployment has grown 8.6 percent. Both are well 
beyond the national average. We cannot ignore the fact that the 
subprime crisis has also disproportionately affected some communities 
more than others. Unfortunately, for many of these hard-working 
Americans, their hope of obtaining and continuing to keep the American 
dream has instead become a personal nightmare.

These statistics are not just numbers. The 260,000 jobs lost this 
year, the 7.6 million Americans who are unemployed, the 21,000 veterans 
collecting unemployment--this is not just economic data. Behind each 
number is a story and an American worker who is struggling.

Let's take a moment to imagine what it would be like to be one of 
these workers. All of the Members of the Senate are gainfully employed. 
But try to put yourself in the shoes of one of these American workers. 
Imagine you have two kids, you have a mortgage to pay, and you just 
lost your job. That alone is a scenario that could lead any family into 
hard times. If you are also facing foreclosure because of a bad 
subprime mortgage that has reset to a higher rate, or if losing your 
job meant losing your health care insurance that provided coverage for 
your children, imagine how powerless you would feel. Imagine the 
uncertainty of not being able to find a job, not being able to pay for 
your child's college education for the next semester, not being able to 
keep the home in which your children grew up. Imagine what that must be 
like.

Mr. President, there are hundreds of thousands of Americans facing 
these very dire circumstances, who know all too well, unfortunately, 
what it feels like. It is up to us to lend them a helping hand during 
their darkest days. That is what the extension of unemployment benefits 
in the supplemental will accomplish.

On top of that, we also know extending unemployment is one of the 
most effective ways to help the economy. For every dollar the 
Government provides in unemployment insurance, $1.64 goes right into 
our economy.

While I, along with many of my colleagues, believed this should have 
been part of the stimulus we had earlier, I am pleased we have another 
chance.

Today, as unemployment and the cost of living continue to rise, it is 
even more imperative to act now and do what is right. Mr. President, 
1.4 million workers have been actively looking for a job for more than 
6 months--half a year of their life actively looking for a job. As it 
is becoming harder to find a job, more families are running out of 
their unemployment benefits. Thirty-six percent of workers exhaust 
their benefits before finding a job, and many expect that number to 
increase. In March of this year, 45 percent of New Jerseyans receiving 
unemployment insurance exhausted their benefits before finding a new 
job.

We have a chance to fairly and reasonably address the challenges that 
long-term unemployment are creating for many fellow Americans. 
Extending unemployment insurance will help those who are hit hardest 
and give the economy a much needed shot in the arm.

We have this opportunity to act, and act now. I cannot understand 
when those who try every day, get up and go


out into the market to try to find a job--when we have twice the number 
of Americans as there are jobs competing for employment--why we are 
saying to veterans who have come back and others who are standing on an 
unemployment line that soon that will be cut off as well. It is 
unconscionable.

We have an opportunity to change that in this supplemental. I hope 
our colleagues who enjoy the benefits of gainful employment will give 
the American workers the helping hand they need and stimulate our 
economy by supporting the extension of the unemployment insurance.

I yield the floor.