# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `54dbdf0f27446c0c5f0dab5c25be7523`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I love the Senate. It is not always a 
beautiful thing, and surely it is not a picture of a well-oiled 
machine, but years ago I found a home here. As my colleagues know, I 
first came to the Senate in 1973 as an aide to a young man who had won 
a stunning and very improbable election against a respected incumbent. 
At that campaign victory party 38 years ago--I can remember it as if it 
was yesterday--I thought to myself I would never again believe that 
anything is impossible.

In the intervening 37 years I have seen a lot of campaigns. I never 
saw one that was as big an upset as Joe


Biden's. When I started working for Joe Biden that year, I told the 
DuPont Company--that is where I worked--I would take a 1-year leave of 
absence. I stayed for 22 years.

I will soon be leaving the Senate. I am grateful beyond words to have 
gone through much of Joe Biden's Senate career as his chief of staff 
and observed his career firsthand. I can say if my Senate career had 
ended then, if I had not been called on to serve as his successor, that 
experience, helping to represent Delawareans and fighting for the 
values that Joe Biden and I shared, would have been more than 
fulfilling enough. I would have been happy.

I thank our leader, Harry Reid, who is most responsible for the most 
historic, productive Congress since FDR. I thank my committee chairs. 
They have been great to me: Pat Leahy, John Kerry, Carl Levin, and Joe 
Lieberman. I especially want to thank my senior Delaware colleague, 
Senator Carper, for whom I have the greatest respect and who has helped 
me tremendously during my last 2 years in all manner of issues. I know 
I am going to alienate some of my Senators, but he is without a doubt 
the best senior Senator in the entire Senate.

After almost four decades, I think I finally got used to the 
unpredictable rhythms of the Senate. In the short time since I was 
sworn in last January, the Senate has seen heated debate over a basic 
principle under which this body functions--the filibuster. All Members 
are frustrated with the slower pace, and they are right to be 
frustrated when good bills, important bills that promise to help 
millions of Americans, are blocked for the wrong reasons.

But rule changes should be considered in the light of the fact, which 
we all know, that the Senate is not the House of Representatives. It 
serves a very different constitutional purpose, and the existence of 
the filibuster remains important to ensuring the balanced government 
the Framers envisioned.

Indeed, the history of the Senate is that of a struggle between 
compromise and intransigence. But this is the place where we protect 
political minorities. This is the place where we make sure the fast 
train of the majority doesn't overrun the minority. While I think there 
are changes, and good changes, that are being considered, I do think 
the filibuster should remain at 60 votes because during the long 
struggle in the Senate, certain traditions have been adhered to by 
Members on both sides of the aisle. Whenever anyone moves to change one 
of those traditions in a way that may diminish the comity under which 
this body must function, I believe they should do it very carefully. I 
know my colleagues will do that.

Regardless, I continue to have faith that out of the debates in the 
Senate, the fights we are having now, out of the frustrations of some 
of the intransigence of others, we will eventually find our way toward 
the next great compromises we need to solve many of our problems, 
compromises that will keep America great.

I am incredibly proud of the opportunity I have had to work on 
important issues during the brief service I have had in the Senate. I 
feel especially privileged to have served in this historic Congress, 
when there were so many great challenges facing this country. I have 
been hanging out in this place since 1973. There has not been another 
Congress like the 111th, one where we have dealt with more issues. 
During my first month in office, more than 700,000 Americans lost their 
jobs on the heels of the economic collapse in late 2008.

People are wondering why are people upset? How soon they forget. Less 
than 2 years ago, 700,000 people lost their jobs in a month, and it was 
not the first month and it was not the last month. Action by the 
Federal Government to stop further decline was critical--and we acted. 
I am proud of my vote on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. I 
believe the ARRA worked to arrest the financial free fall to jump-start 
the economy--and if I had another hour and a half, I would show my 
charts and graphs to demonstrate it.

All across Delaware I have seen the benefits of this law--the 
investments in infrastructure and education and new technologies for 
our future, and I met with the people whose jobs were saved, literally 
met with the people whose jobs were saved or who found new employment 
that flowed from these investments.

We succeeded in passing many other initiatives to foster growth and 
to bring much needed help to those who have been hit hardest by the 
recession, which was my No. 1 job in the Senate. As Senator Carper 
knows, it is all about jobs, jobs, jobs. We actually did a great many 
things that I firmly believe helped make us a stronger country.

As you know, as you grow older you realize that life is not about 
what you accomplish or about winning. It is about having tried, and I 
feel good that I tried my very best.

I was so pleased to work with Senators Leahy and Grassley on the 
Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, to chair oversight hearings in the 
Judiciary Committee on law enforcement efforts to pursue financial 
fraud associated with the financial crisis, and to sit with my friend, 
Senator Carl Levin, as he and the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations held hearings on financial fraud. I was honored to be a 
part, as were all of my colleagues, of two Supreme Court confirmation 
hearings for Justices Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

I had the distinct honor, and it is a true honor, of serving on the 
Foreign Relations Committee with Chairman John Kerry and ranked member 
Dick Lugar, as well as on the Armed Services Committee with Chairman 
Levin and Senator John McCain.

I made two trips to Israel and the Middle East, three trips to 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, and four trips to Iraq in the last 18 months. 
I know a number of things: No. 1, we must build our civilian capability 
for engaging in counterinsurgency, and in this Congress we passed 
legislation to enhance civil-military unity of effort through joint 
training at Camp Atterbury.

Along with Senator Brownback, I cofounded the Senate Caucus on Global 
Internet Freedom to promote greater access to freedom of expression and 
freedom of press online.

I also highlight the importance of U.S. public diplomacy efforts, 
especially international broadcasting. As you know, I served on the 
board for 13 years--there is nothing more important in our battle than 
international broadcasting and public diplomacy. I sought to raise the 
awareness of the limitations on press freedom in countries such as 
China and Iran through the passage of resolutions and have coauthored 
legislation funding the development of Internet censorship 
circumvention technology in Iran--getting around the jamming that Iran 
is doing to deny its citizens the right to get information on the 
Internet.

I have also had the privilege of working to promote science, 
technology, engineering, and mathematics, or STEM, education during my 
time in the Senate. As a former engineer, I know firsthand the 
importance of STEM education.

I spent much of my career in government service, and I decided early 
in my term to come to the Senate floor each week and recognize the 
contribution made to this country by our Federal employees. I honored 
100 great Federal employees from this desk, sharing their stories and 
accomplishments with my colleagues and the American people, and I am 
very pleased that Senator Warner from Virginia is going to be taking 
that on when I leave. I could not have left it to a better person.

Last but not least, I have tried my hardest to be a voice for the 
average investor and to work for financial accountability and stability 
so our economy can thrive. That is what it is about. We can't thrive if 
we don't have credibility in the markets. I offered legislation with my 
good friend, Senator Johnny Isakson, to curb abusive short selling. I 
gave a number of speeches on this floor, from this desk, calling for 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to conduct a comprehensive 
review of equity market structure and high-frequency trading and to 
advance reforms that promote clear and transparent markets--not always 
clear and transparent to everybody listening. As I said from the floor 
dozens of times, it is critical that we preserve the credibility of our 
markets, one of our Nation's crown jewels, if our grandchildren are to 
live in the most economically powerful country in the world.

Finally, I repeatedly highlighted from the Senate floor the 
importance


of the problem of too big to fail in the financial reform debate, 
working with my good friend, Senator Sherrod Brown, to offer the Brown-
Kaufman amendment. We made the good fight but, again, trying was better 
than succeeding--not better but the alternative to succeeding, and I 
thank every Senator who voted for that amendment. I am proud of that. 
While our amendment was not agreed to, I will ever be proud of the 
opportunity to work with Senator Chris Dodd and participate in Senate 
debate on financial reform.

I could not have achieved anything--and I genuinely mean anything--
during my term without the help and hard work of my excellent staff. I 
spoke early this week about the staff. They are vital to our work. I am 
going to tell you as someone who spent years delivering staff work and 
now someone who has been a consumer, I am more impressed than ever with 
my staff, and with Senate staffs and the job they do.

I want the American people to understand that one of the reasons I 
love the Senate is because it is filled with intelligent, hard-working 
people who are passionate about serving this country. This goes for 
Members and staff alike. The Senate is a magnet for those who feel 
called to public service. It is the destiny for countless improbable 
journeys. Our constitutional Framers would have been relieved to see 
this noble experiment working, to know that in the Senate today serve a 
farmer from Big Sandy, a realtor from Cobb County, a mayor from 
Lincoln, a former Army Ranger from Cranston, a social worker from 
Baltimore, and a doctor from Casper.

All of them are here for the same reason as the other Senators--
because they love this country and their communities dearly and want to 
give back. Their paths to public service may have been different in 
their first steps just like mine was, but they converged here and this 
is what continues to sustain my faith in the Senate.

Here this leg in my improbable journey comes to an end. Although I 
leave the Senate as a Member, I will not be leaving the Senate behind. 
I will continue to teach about the institution to my students and 
encourage them to pursue their own path to public service. I will 
continue to speak out on issues that I worked on here because that 
important work, as always, goes on.

I love the Senate, and I will always cherish the unlikely opportunity 
I had to serve Delaware as its Senator. With deep gratitude to those 
who worked with me and stood by me through my journey--to my staff, to 
my colleagues, to my wife Lynn, to our children, grandchildren--with 
great appreciation to former Governor Ruth Ann Minner and the people of 
Delaware for the responsibility they gave me, and with optimism and 
faith in the future of the Senate and this great Nation, for the last 
time, I yield the floor.