# RECOGNIZING THE 57TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE KOREAN WAR
## `54df79276c242616844cfe011d7e5869`
`Mr. RANGEL — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 57th 
anniversary of the Korean War, also known as the ''Forgotten War'', 
which began on June 25, 1950. In honor of this event the Embassy of 
Korea held a wreath-laying ceremony at the Korean War Veterans Memorial 
in Washington, DC, on June 25, 2007.

As a decorated Korean War veteran I am proud that this ceremony has 
taken place to honor the brave soldiers that served and gave their 
lives while fighting this war. A conflict that started as a civil war 
became a war between 21 nations that served under the United Nations 
against communist North Korea. As a result of this 3-year war the 
United States lost about 33,741 casualties. But, this anniversary is 
not only about recognizing the American solders that were lost in this 
war, it is also a time to recognize the British, Australians, South 
Africans and the brave soldiers from other nations that served in this 
war, as well as, the families of these soldiers whose loved ones made 
the ultimate sacrifice.

I commend the organizers of this event for their efforts to 
coordinate this special ceremony. Although this war is known as the 
''Forgotten War'' lets make sure that it is not forgotten. This wreath-
laying ceremony and other events commemorating the anniversary of this 
war helps to ensure that our children and their children will not 
forget those that fought to protect our freedom and peace.

I ask my colleagues to join me in paying respect to the men and women 
who honorably served our nation in Korea and I urge you to also take a 
moment to honor the fallen heroes of the Iraq War as we celebrate our 
Independence Day next week.
