# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `54e12e4d90b5fc24c94961113f40ee40`
`Mr. ROSS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Well, I thank the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) for 
his insight and for his work on the Veterans Committee, among others. 
We appreciate what he's doing there to try to help our veterans and our 
men and women in uniform.

These are examples of why it is important that we get our Nation's 
fiscal house in order. As long as we've got record debt after record 
debt and record deficit after record deficit that the Republicans have 
given us, and we can't turn this thing around overnight, but we've got 
a budget that's going to put us back in balance by 2012, perhaps 
sooner. That is important if we are going to meet America's priorities, 
improving our infrastructure, improving and making health care more 
affordable and more accessible, funding education at the level it 
deserves to ensure our children receive a world-class education, 
keeping our homeland safe, making homeland security a lot more than 
just a buzz word. Let's put our money where our mouth is and ensure 
that every American citizen in this country is safe from terrorists. 
And of course, making sure that our veterans have the health care and 
have the things they need and were promised for their service to our 
country.

A lot of talk about Iraq. If you ask a hundred different people what 
they think about this Iraq policy, you get about a hundred different 
answers. I can tell you one of the things that the Blue Dog Coalition 
is united on is demanding accountability for how your tax money, Mr. 
Speaker, is being spent in Iraq. Now, for the last 4 years, if you had 
questioned the funding in Iraq, the President would tell you you're 
unpatriotic. Well, members of the Blue Dog Coalition are now standing 
up and saying enough is enough, and we demand accountability for how 
your tax money, Mr. Speaker, is being spent in Iraq.

What are the Iraqis doing with your tax money, some $12 million an 
hour? Is enough of it going to protect our men and women in uniform? Is 
enough of it going to provide them the most advanced body armor on the 
market today? Well, we all know that waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer 
dollars has happened in the Iraq war. In fact, over the past several 
years, media and government reports have detailed examples of the abuse 
of taxpayer dollars in the government's funding of military operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. As recently as April of this year, the 
Government Accountability Office, GAO, has released reports detailing 
examples of how long-standing problems with the management of 
government contracts, yes, government contracts, continue to provide 
opportunities for fraud, waste and abuse in the funding of the war in 
Iraq. Specifically, the GAO identifies the following major factors 
contributing to the mismanagement of contracts and ultimate waste of 
taxpayer dollars.

Number one, military commanders and senior officials at the 
Department of Defense do not have visibility over contractors, which 
prevents the Department of Defense from knowing the extent to which it 
is relying on contractors for support in Iraq. Also, the Department of 
Defense lacks clear guidance and leadership for managing and overseeing 
contractors. The Department of Defense personnel lack the most basic 
ability to make sure that government contractors even provide the 
services they are being paid to provide. The report finds that the 
Department of Defense's limited visibility has unnecessarily increased 
contracting costs to the Federal Government and introduced unnecessary 
risk.


For example, one Army official estimates that about $43 million, $43 
million is lost each year on free meals provided to contractors' 
employees at deployed locations who also receive a per diem, food 
allowance. Additionally, the GAO found that the Department of Defense 
and its contractors all too often do not have a clear understanding of 
reconstruction objectives and how they translate into the terms and 
conditions of a contract. As a result, at least $1.8 billion of 
taxpayer money has been obligated on contracts without Department of 
Defense and the contractors reaching an agreement on the final scope 
and cost of the work.

The report gives one particularly shocking example of this, where the 
government allocated $84 million for an oil mission and never agreed 
upon the final terms of the task order until more than a year after the 
contractor completed the work. The GAO estimates that the United States 
has obligated about $14 billion to restore essential services such as 
oil, electricity and water, and more than $15 billion to train, equip 
and sustain Iraqi Security Forces. However, the Iraqi government 
continues to be fraught with corruption, operating ineffectively and 
inadequately resourced accountability institutions.

U.S. officials estimate that a shocking 20 to 30 percent of the Iraqi 
Ministry of Interior personnel are ''ghost employees,'' nonexistent 
staff paid salaries with your tax money, Mr. Speaker, that are 
collected by other corrupt officials in Iraq.

The GAO also highlights in its report the weaknesses in the $15.4 
billion program to support the development of Iraqi security forces. 
Consequently, poor security conditions have hindered the management of 
the more than $29 billion that has been obligated for reconstruction 
and stabilization efforts since 2003. Additional government and media 
reports have exposed equally as outrageous examples of waste, fraud and 
abuse in the funding of the war in Iraq. Is this $12 million an hour we 
are sending to the Iraqis being used to protect and equip our brave men 
and women in uniform?

One such report details an instance where U.S. administrators could 
not account for $20.5 million in development funds for Iraq grants. 
Another government report exposed a situation where $7.3 million was 
mismanaged, and $1.3 million entirely wasted during construction of a 
police academy in Iraq. The Office of the Special Inspector General for 
Iraq Reconstruction just recently released its quarterly report to 
Congress. As in previous reports, this most recent one again describes 
continued abuses in the government's funding of the war in Iraq. And we 
are going to go into more of this in just a little bit. We are going to 
provide specific examples of what was contained in that report.

But at this time I want to yield to my fellow Blue Dog, a new Member 
of Congress from Pennsylvania, a veteran of the Iraq war, a captain 
that served in Iraq, and that is the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Murphy).