# None
## `54ec57b6d7fb83b57e91e1dd60197c28`
`Mr. HAGEL — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I rise this afternoon to support the Levin-
Reed amendment. As we know, Iraq is the most important issue facing our 
country today. The core challenge in Iraq is the cycle of violence, 
despair, and retribution that is tearing Iraq apart and threatening 
wider regional instability. There is no significant progress in Iraq. 
By any measurement, the situation in Iraq is getting worse as each week 
passes. Prime Minister al-Maliki's Government is essentially paralyzed 
and dysfunctional, in part by boycotts and sectarian rivalries and an 
intense sectarian war.

The Interior Ministry in Iraq, which controls Iraq's police forces, 
is still a disaster and does not function as a national ministry. 
Horrific violence in Iraq is spreading beyond Baghdad. Yesterday, car 
bombs and attacks in Kirkuk and Diyala Province killed more than 100 
and injured almost 200 Iraqis. Kirkuk is an area of Iraq in the 
northern part, Kurdistan, that has been considered by this 
administration as one of the most secure areas of Iraq. Recent events 
in Kurdistan over the last few months have shown otherwise. 
Increasingly, regions that were previously seen as relatively stable 
and secure, such as the Kurdish area, are now being engulfed by 
violence. The southern four provinces in Iraq near Basra, which 
contains most of Iraq's oil and Iraq's only port and outlet to the sea, 
are out of control. Shiite militias control the southern four provinces 
of Iraq, including the most significant oil reserves in Iraq's one 
outlet to the sea. Shiite militias and criminal gangs control these 
provinces and today even demand tribute, and we pay it. The Iraqi 
Government pays tribute to Shia militias to use Iraq's primary port. 
The last remaining pipeline into Baghdad has been blown up, crippling 
Baghdad's access to oil, and there are no operating refineries in 
Baghdad. Hence, the product that comes to Baghdad today is trucked in 
from Kuwait. This is the nation that has the third largest oil reserves 
in the world. The green zone is being attacked daily.


Last week, 9 people were killed, including Americans, and over 30 
wounded inside the green zone. These daily attacks on the green zone by 
mortar fire, rocket fire increase.

I have listened today to some of my colleagues argue that the surge 
strategy--the surge strategy--has only just begun; why don't we give it 
a chance to work; we are at a very early stage; we must give the 
President more time.

Let me remind our colleagues it has been more than 6 months since the 
President of the United States announced to the Nation on January 10 
the decision to send tens of thousands of additional U.S. troops into 
Iraq. That was the beginning of the surge, not now. It has been more 
than 5 months since these additional U.S. troops began arriving in Iraq 
in early February. We have had months to judge the situation in Iraq. 
Only last week, the President reported to Congress that there has been 
no progress--no progress--on any of the political benchmarks in Iraq. 
The violence that is tearing Iraq apart has intensified and spread over 
the last 6 months. The current strategy is failing, and the so-called 
surge that some of my colleagues refuse to recognize that began almost 
6 months ago has cost 532 American men and women their lives since that 
began. We have lost more than 3,600 Americans who have died and over 
26,000 wounded over the last 4/1/2/ years.

We must change our policy in Iraq. Central to our new strategy must 
be diplomacy, regional engagement, and the


involvement of the international community, all of these coming 
together within the framework of a new policy, using all of the 
instruments of power to help achieve Iraqi political accommodation--
political accommodation. We are captive to a cycle of violence. We 
cannot break out of the cycle of violence. More troops will not do 
that. We have put burdens on our troops and asked them to make 
sacrifices and do things they cannot achieve in the course of finding 
an answer to break the cycle of violence. It is bigger than the 
military. General Petraeus has said so. As a matter of fact, General 
Petraeus has said there will be no military solution in Iraq. Every 
general I have met in my five trips to Iraq, every general I have met 
here in and out of uniform, has said there will not be--cannot be--a 
military solution.

I have cosponsored the Levin-Reed amendment because it requires that 
the United States move toward a comprehensive policy on Iraq--a 
comprehensive policy on Iraq--not just continuing to feed American 
troops into the middle of a civil war, which is clearly not working, 
but something in addition to our military security. That new policy 
must be centered on diplomacy and helping achieve Iraqi political 
accommodation to get to political reconciliation.

This amendment is responsible. It is comprehensive, forward-looking, 
compelling, and not all that different, incidentally, from what my 
other colleagues are offering on the floor of the Senate as options. 
Yes, it requires a phased, responsible reduction of U.S. forces from 
Iraq. I say again, a reduction--not a withdrawal--of our forces. No one 
I know is calling for any sort of precipitous withdrawal or precipitous 
action to take America out of Iraq now. We couldn't do that anyway. 
Even if we wanted to withdraw precipitously or quickly, the reality of 
the logistics would prevent it. The fact is, we are where we are. We 
have national interests in the Middle East. We have national interests 
in Iraq. We should not confuse the issue that we debate today. We are 
not advocating a cut-and-run strategy. I am not sure what cut and run 
means. It is catchy. It is good sloganeering. But I have yet to hear 
anyone come to the Senate floor and say: I am for cutting and running. 
Those who use that term or accuse others of employing that term should 
define what that means.

Of all the resolutions I am aware of that have been introduced in the 
Senate on this issue, none that I am aware of is a so-called cut-and-
run amendment.

We are talking about a transition in the mission being carried out by 
U.S. forces in Iraq. A policy, a strategy. Let's make something else 
clear. The military does not make policy. The military implements 
policy. The Congress is part of making that policy. Constitutionally we 
have a role with the President in helping frame and make policy. The 
military has input into that policy, as they must and as they should, 
but once the policy is given to the military, they can't alter the 
policy. They are captive to policy. That is constitutionally the way it 
is and the way it should be. We are talking about a new policy, a new 
strategy. We have a legitimate mission to carry out in Iraq, and those 
various missions are critical to our security, and hopefully, at some 
point, the stability of Iraq. The Levin-Reed amendment focuses solely 
on those missions and the transitions of those missions: 
Counterterrorism, targeting terrorists and other global organizations; 
training Iraqi forces, protecting U.S. and coalition personnel and 
facilities, helping maintain territorial integrity of Iraq.

As I have said, nearly all of the other significant amendments I am 
aware of that have been introduced on the floor of the Senate on Iraq, 
including the Warner-Lugar amendment, the Salazar-Alexander amendment 
focused largely on the same limited mission, as the Levin-Reed 
amendment, as does the Nelson-Collins amendment, on a limited mission. 
There is an emerging consensus on how our military mission should 
transition in Iraq as well. Our amendment includes a timeline and would 
require that this shift in our military mission be completed by April 
30 of next year.

Our amendment is not alone in establishing a timeline. Again, the 
other significant amendments on Iraq also have timelines. The Warner-
Lugar amendment recommends beginning the military transition no later 
than December 31, 2007. That is a timeline. The Salazar-Alexander 
amendment sets as the sense of the Congress that the transition be 
completed by the first quarter of 2008. Now, that is a timeline. There 
is yet another emerging consensus on establishing a timeline to 
transition our military mission in Iraq. Our amendment also respects 
that only military professionals--the generals, those who have the 
responsibility of carrying out the policy; not making the policy, but 
carrying it out--those professionals determine how many troops will be 
needed to carry out our limited military mission in Iraq.


So the talk I hear more than occasionally on the Senate floor that 
somehow the Congress is micromanaging the war is not correct; that we 
are micromanaging the army is not correct.

Once again, our amendment, the Levin-Reed amendment, sets policy of 
the military mission in Iraq. That is policy. What is the mission? What 
is the strategic, diplomatic mission of employing America's power and 
prestige in Iraq? That is the policy. But the scope of the reduction--
the reduction, not the withdrawal but the reduction--of U.S. forces in 
Iraq will be determined by, and needs to be determined by, our military 
professionals based on a troop-to-task analysis; not the Congress, not 
the committees telling the generals how to do anything.

Troop to task is a very simple concept. You connect the requirements 
of your mission with the force structure needed. We are way out of 
balance. We have been out of balance since we invaded Iraq in March of 
2003. We never had enough force structure. Some of the same people on 
the floor of the Senate who are now saying: Well, let's listen to the 
generals, where were they when the generals warned this administration 
that we didn't have enough men and women and force before we went into 
Iraq, I didn't hear many of them talking about how much faith we should 
put in our generals then.

The former Chief of Staff of the United States Army, General 
Shinseki, said it. He said it openly in the Presiding Officer's Armed 
Services Committee. When asked the question: What would it take in 
manpower to remove Saddam Hussein from power and help stabilize and 
secure Iraq, General Shinseki said: It would take hundreds of thousands 
of American troops.

This administration completely dismissed that as wildly--I believe as 
the Deputy Secretary of Defense at the time said--wildly off the mark. 
Well, he wasn't off the mark, I say to my colleagues. He was exactly 
right. He was exactly right.

So we have never had the forces to match the mission. That is not 
new. Some of us may be coming to that conclusion for the first time, 
but it is not new. We have never had the force structure to match the 
mission. That is not the fault of the generals. That is not the fault 
of the military. That is the fault of policymakers.

Our amendment also respects that only military professionals can 
determine those numbers. The scope of the reduction would stay firmly 
in the hands of the military professionals. This approach is 
responsible. Not one U.S. general today will tell you that there can 
be, there will be, there is a military solution in Iraq.

Then the next question is--and a statement being made often on the 
floor of the Senate is: Well, we need to buy the Iraqis time. We need 
to give the Maliki government time. That is true. That is why we have 
benchmarks. That is why we have some sense of where this is going? Are 
we making progress or not making progress? Is it getting better or is 
it getting worse? Now, 4/1/2/ years into this, we should have some 
measurements of giving the government time, but time for what? What is 
the end game as more Americans sacrifice their lives and a half 
trillion dollars of America's taxpayers' money has sunk into the sands 
of Iraq? We are buying time for what? For a political reconciliation 
brought about by the Iraqis themselves to be able to functionally 
govern their country with some sense of stability and security. That is 
going the other way. That hasn't gotten better; it has gotten worse by 
every measure. So we continue to buy time with American blood and 
American treasure, for what? For


what? No one wants to answer that question, by the way. We end it with 
we have to buy time, but the additional part of that equation is: Buy 
time for what? Do we buy time for another 2, 3, or 4 years?

It is also clear that the generals have said when April comes, and 
there is a timeline already that is built in--whether we ever deal with 
it or not in the Congress--there is a timeline built in, and it is 
called manpower. It is called deployment rotations.

We are pushing our young men and women now to 18-month rotation, and 
some, by the way, are longer than that because of what is known as a 
stopgap measure where the Secretary of Defense can stop anyone from 
leaving a war zone based on the speciality of his or her MOS or job. So 
we are actually having people stay there longer than 18 months. But now 
it is 18 months, even though the Secretary of Defense testified in 
January before the Senate Armed Services Committee that we need to get 
back to 12 months.

Senator Webb and I and others, a bipartisan group of Senators / last 
week had two amendments on that issue. We couldn't get the required 60 
votes to go back to a 12-month deployment. So now it is 15 months, and 
we are pushing even 18 months.

The generals have told us that when this spring comes, there is no 
more give in those deployment rotations. There is nothing left. So 
there is a timeline built in already. Whether any of us want to 
acknowledge that or introduce that, that is a reality.

Any change to policy in Iraq cannot be done in isolation, separate or 
disconnected, from the broader sense of dynamics in Iraq and the Middle 
East. That is why this amendment requires a phased reduction be 
conducted as part of a comprehensive, diplomatic, political, and 
economic strategy that includes sustained engagement to Iraq's 
neighbors and the international community.

I am very pleased to note that today the announcement came from the 
State Department that the United States is now prepared to hold new 
direct talks with Iran. That is progress, not because Iran wants to be 
our friend. Of course not. But Iran is a significant power in the 
Middle East. It is working against our interests in the Middle East. We 
must engage Iran. I have been calling for dialog with all Middle East 
nations, including Iran and Syria, or over 3 years. A constructive 
regional framework for Iraq can only be achieved through sustained 
diplomacy, not hit or miss, not ''if we have time.''

A vital element of this comprehensive diplomatic strategy must be to 
internationalize Iraq through an international mediator under the 
auspices of the U.N. to engage all of Iraq's political, religious, 
ethnic, and tribal leaders.

I first called for an international mediator in a letter to President 
Bush in May. Since then, I pressed this issue with Secretary Rice last 
week, our National Security Adviser, Steve Hadley, 2 weeks ago, and 
again today with the United Nations Secretary General. It is time to 
take the American face off Iraq's political process.

The United States is seen as the occupier in Iraq. We must have a new 
strategy that will further invest the region and the rest of the world 
to helping stabilize Iraq, reversing Iraq's slide into chaos. And it is 
chaos, Mr. President. I hear on the floor of the Senate, gee, if we 
changed our mission, if we moved in any different direction, if we 
reduced our forces, if we did anything different, Iraq would end in 
chaos. Some of my colleagues must not understand what is going on in 
Iraq. We have chaos. We have real chaos in Iraq today. That means there 
are no good options today. The optics here should be clear, and we 
should base our new policies and our new strategies on those clear 
optics that Iraq is in chaos today.

Creating an international mediator would help build some new common 
interests in the region and in the world. This amendment represents the 
core elements of a different U.S. strategy for Iraq, a strategy that 
more accurately understands the grim realities we face today, that we 
will face at the end of this year, that we will face next spring, and 
we will face next year. The question is whether the President and 
Congress will come together to present a new policy for Iraq that can 
be supported by the American people and protect and advance America's 
interests in Iraq and the Middle East.

We are coming dangerously close to the moment when the American 
people will demand that we leave Iraq and pullout of the Middle East. 
Almost 70 percent of the American people today, by every measurement, 
say enough is enough. This is not in the U.S. interest nor the world's 
to leave Iraq that way. That is why the United States needs a new 
strategy for Iraq now.

Well into our fifth year in Iraq, we are beyond nonbinding language 
of resolutions. We are beyond calling for new plans or new reports. We 
are beyond sense-of-the-Senate resolutions. We have to understand where 
we are today. We are in a very dangerous position in Iraq. Our policy 
in Iraq has been a disaster. Why are we kidding ourselves otherwise? By 
any measurement, it is a disaster. It must change now. The time for 
suggestions is over. If we do not believe our current policy is worthy 
of the sacrifices being made by our troops, then it is wrong to simply 
say we will wait until this fall to change course or let's hang on for 
2 or 3 more months to see what happens.

We know what is happening. We know what is happening today, we know 
what has been happening, and we know what is going to happen tomorrow.

I am grateful for the opportunity to express myself on this 
amendment. I also appreciate the opportunity to cosponsor this 
responsible amendment with my colleagues. I note again it is a 
bipartisan amendment, and I hope all my colleagues in the Senate will 
take a look at all the different options and amendments and spend some 
time on each because they are each worthy of time, but in the end, the 
consistency of the amendments that have been presented so far are about 
one thing, and you can paint it any way you want, but that is a change 
of mission in Iraq and a new policy in Iraq.

I yield the floor.