---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5504e47ea7210316eae0caf134f8d445`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 21 July 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I rise to speak about a hero of the 
Kentucky National Guard who gave his life in defense of freedom for our 
country. PFC Sammie E. Phillips was tragically killed on September 10, 
2007, when his vehicle overturned during patrol in Iraq. Hailing from 
Elizabethtown, KY, he was 19 years old.

For his bravery in uniform, Private First Class Phillips earned 
several awards, medals and decorations, including the Good Conduct 
Medal, the Kentucky Distinguished Service Medal and the Bronze Star.

Sammie's wife, Ashley Phillips, says of her husband, ''I want 
everyone to know how proud Sammie was and how he truly was a hero, just 
like he always wanted to be.''

In his too short life Sammie made a big impression on many people. He 
had a way of brightening any room when he walked in, and he made lots 
of friends.

''The thing I remember about Sammie the most was his smile,'' says 
Laura McGray, a former high-school teacher of his. ''His eyes stood 
out. In some people their whole souls shine through their eyes. That 
was Sammie.''

Sammie grew up in Elizabethtown and attended North Hardin High School 
in nearby Radcliff. Like a lot of young men his age, he enjoyed 
watching scary movies, and he liked Cadillac cars.

He was a big Tennessee Titans fan. He liked listening to rap music, 
and had big speakers in his car so he could do just that. Most of all, 
he enjoyed spending time with family and friends, especially Ashley, 
who he met during his junior year at North Hardin.

''He was very dedicated to his friends and relationships and would 
give a person the shirt off his back,'' says Ashley.

Sammie graduated from high school in 2006, and enlisted in the 
Kentucky National Guard. When he received his orders to deploy to Iraq, 
he asked Ashley to marry him. That was on a Wednesday. That Saturday, 
Sammie and Ashley were wed.

The happy couple had 10 days together before Sammie reported for 
training. In August of 2007, he shipped out to Iraq.

In uniform, Sammie continued to impress people just as he had in high 
school. He was assigned to Battery B, 2nd Battalion, 138th Field 
Artillery, based out of Carlisle, KY. He qualified as an expert gunner 
and became the gunner in his tank.

CAPT Robert S. Mattingly, the commander of Sammie's unit, calls 
Sammie ''an excellent soldier who had unlimited potential. I rode with 
Sammie while training in Mississippi. He was one of our best gunners, 
the absolute cream of the crop. He was always ready to go, which is one 
of the best traits a soldier could possess.''

Captain Mattingly adds:




 I never met a person that didn't like Sammie Phillips.


Donald C. Storm, the former Adjutant General of the Kentucky National 
Guard, says Sammie was ''a tremendous young soldier that just had 
tremendous potential.''

Sammie aspired to one day be an architect, a goal he told Ashley 
about when they first met. He had hoped to go to school to study 
architecture once he returned from Iraq. He saw himself as a builder, 
and he built big dreams for himself and for a future with Ashley.

Sammie's unit returned home from Iraq in May of 2008. Sadly, PFC


Sammie Phillips did not return with them. At Sammie's funeral at the 
Stithton Baptist Church in Radcliff, 3,000 people turned out to pay 
their respects to the boy with the big smile. Sammie's mother, Rachel 
Crutcher, wrote a letter to her son that said:




 I know you're in heaven saying, ''Momma, don't cry.''


Rachel says:




 He was someone special, and I knew . . . that he'd be an 


 inspiration to everyone he came in contact with.


Madam President, our prayers are for the Phillips family for their 
terrible loss. We are thinking of Sammie's wife, Ashley Phillips; his 
mother, Rachel Crutcher; his stepfather, Donny Crutcher; his father, 
Ronald Phillips; his sister, Cassandra Phillips; his brother, Logan 
Crutcher; his grandfather, Ted Stiles; and many more beloved family 
members and friends.

Madam President, Ashley tells us that her Sammie was proud of his 
service. He told his mom that if he were to die while wearing his 
country's uniform, ''everyone was going to know who he was.''

Well, this U.S. Senate knows, and we certainly will not forget PFC 
Sammie E. Phillips's service and sacrifice. We honor the life of this 
dedicated man, soldier, and patriot, and stand in awe of devotion like 
his that continues to keep our Nation safe and free.

I yield the floor.