# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `5510902b93fabd05f2dca6cd4ec36d8f`
`Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts — 12 May 2010`

---


Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. Mr. President, I thank Senator Reed from 
Rhode Island for his idea and his thoughtfulness in trying to protect 
our troops.

I want to discuss this amendment, as well. Senator Reed has a 
distinguished career in both the Army and as a Senator. He has always 
done his duty looking after the men and women not only of his State but 
also those in uniform. I thank him for the opportunity to work on this 
particular amendment with him.

As a 30-year member of the Army National Guard, I share Senator 
Reed's interest and commitment to our Nation's soldiers and their loved 
ones. As we all know, they make extreme sacrifices to keep us safe and 
keep our Nation safe.

This amendment would dedicate resources within the new Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau to serve as a watchdog for military 
personnel and their families.

As you know, our military culture of honor, courage, and commitment 
demands prompt repayment of debts. As a result, payday lenders often 
congregate outside military facilities. Unfortunately, the financial 
terms offered by these lenders are not always clear, not always offered 
up in free form, and typically lead to very expensive and bad loans. 
Other financial predators have sold military personnel bogus life 
insurance policies.

These practices take advantage of our soldiers. Our young enlisted 
soldiers are particularly vulnerable. They don't have the necessary 
tools, resources, guidance, and financial assistance to make their 
decisions. They often spend time deployed far from their support 
networks at home, have steady paychecks, and promised pension benefits. 
As a result, those financial predators see them as a way to make money.

As they risk their lives defending our Nation in places such as Iraq 
and Afghanistan, at home they also wear a big target on their back. If 
a soldier gets into financial trouble with an unscrupulous lender, how 
is that soldier going to dispute those charges while


they are deployed or getting ready to be deployed? Debts can pile up 
quickly. This dedicated office would be able to help sort out the truth 
and get them back to financial stability.

This issue, as you know--and I am about to conclude--has received a 
lot of attention. Today, there was an article in the Washington Post 
talking about how extra consumer protections are needed for our 
fighting men and women, citing the specific example of car dealerships 
employing high-pressure tactics to trap military families into 
expensive loans.

I urge colleagues to support this amendment, to put a cop on the beat 
to make sure our men and women in uniform have a chance to fight back 
against financial predators.

I yield the floor.