# None
## `5518314144d4282bf5eea06697b9a93e`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

The resolution before us today is identical to H. Con. Res. 125, 
passed by the House in the 109th Congress on July 24, 2006. I want to 
thank Congressman Holt and Congressman Brown for bringing forward this 
very, very important resolution.

Vince Lombardi said: ''The harder you work, the harder it is to 
surrender.'' Maybe that is why the men and women on the front lines 
today, who have sacrificed the most to achieve a success, remain 
dedicated to achieving victory in the face of adversity. And it is this 
determination and dedication that make our veterans such outstanding 
employees when they return to civilian life.

American veterans, especially those who serve the Nation during 
challenging times, understand the value of work. When these men and 
women return to civilian life, they only ask that the Nation, through 
her employers, recognize the value of their experience as members of 
our Armed Forces.

Today, our Nation is honored by the service of millions of volunteer 
service men and women, including hundreds of thousands who have served 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. By putting 
these veterans to work in our factories, our offices, construction 
sites, and all types of industries, we give them the opportunity to 
continue contributing to the Nation they have so honorably defended in 
uniform.

Today, diversity is a common goal of employers. I would offer that 
one facet of diversity can only be provided by a veteran, that 1 
percent of society that protects and defends the other 99 percent.

I also want to thank those businesses who are proactively working to 
hire veterans today. I am working with many Arkansas-based businesses. 
In fact, in my situation and Congresswoman Herseth's situation, we are 
working with businesses all over the country, both large and small, to 
encourage additional veterans outreach. I


urge my colleagues to take the initiative in reaching out to businesses 
in your communities as well.

To the Nation's employers, large and small, I say hire a veteran. You 
will get an employee who understands honor and commitment, who is 
skilled and drug free and loyal. You can't do any better than that.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.