---
---

# BRAC
## `5519a9e72768c1e26066b11ad7e6aecc`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Let me ask the Senator another question and give a 
little background. Not only is the air brigade in danger of losing all 
of their support facilities--they need a new runway, specifically they 
need a $17 million runway. That is in danger of being cut from this 
$3.1 billion earmark. That is what I call it--a cut in an earmark going 
to nondefense programs. I find it unacceptable to move these people and 
then inadequately support them when they return home. Fort Riley is 
also in danger of losing an $87 million division headquarters, a 
sustainment brigade headquarters, to support another group of soldiers 
who will be returning from their current deployment in Iraq. If these 
facilities are not done by the time they return, they will be required 
to live in trailers, modular buildings. That is not acceptable. These 
soldiers are already sacrificing for the Nation. I refuse to ask them 
to also sacrifice when they return home from a deployment.

Let me mention something else to the Senator. As a result of the BRAC 
process, nearly 11,000 soldiers and their families have already begun 
moving back to Fort Riley. This is unprecedented growth. I know at Fort 
Bliss the situation is somewhat similar. But Fort Riley does not have 
the support facilities to ensure these soldiers and families have full 
access to health, dental, and childcare.


Let me ask the Senator from Texas another question, if I could have 
her attention. At Fort Riley we do not have the facilities to ensure 
these 11,000 soldiers and their families full access to health, dental, 
and childcare. Is there a similar situation in Texas?