# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `55242a6dc2d363318b9a211f7e76b870`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Chairman Levin, and I share his 
gratitude in thanking our subcommittee chairmen and ranking members who 
contributed so much to writing this bill. They held numerous hearings 
on many important issues, and I thank them all for their hard work. And 
they were ably assisted by our extremely competent committee staff. 
Bringing this bill to the floor each year is a tremendous undertaking, 
and it would not be possible without the hard work of our outstanding 
professional staff who ensure that the process goes smoothly.

I also extend my special thanks to Chairman Levin, with whom I have 
worked for many years now. I commend him on his leadership, grace, and 
integrity in shepherding this bill. It is not easy managing the 
competing interests, views, and opinions of 26 Senators, but Chairman 
Levin does an outstanding job at ensuring we all feel heard and 
understood, even if we do not always agree. I continue to admire his 
steadfast dedication to the committee's long tradition of bipartisan 
cooperation.

Chairman Levin, you are a friend and great colleague, and I 
appreciate your support in both regards.

Consistent with the longstanding, bipartisan practice of the Armed 
Services Committee, this bill reflects our committee's continued strong 
support for the brave men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces. It is, 
for the most part, an excellent bill, and I believe the committee has 
made informed decisions regarding the authorization of over $680 
billion in base and overseas contingency operations funding for fiscal 
year 2010. To a great extent, it reflects the priorities laid out by 
the Secretary of Defense and the administration. It also reflects his 
decision to end troubled programs and focus our limited resources on 
today's threats and the lessons we have learned after more than 8 years 
of war.

While the provisions in the bill demonstrate our commitment to 
provide our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines the very best 
available equipment, training, and support in order to provide them 
with the best possible tools to undertake their missions, I believe we 
can and should improve the bill in certain respects, and I will offer 
amendments during our floor debate to do so.

The bill takes care of our men and women in uniform and their 
families by providing military members with a 3.4-percent pay raise. It 
expands care for wounded warriors, supports families, and improves 
military health care. It fully funds the growth of the Army and Marine 
Corps. Indeed, it authorizes further growth of the Army should that be 
necessary to sustain our combat operations and further reduce the 
strain on our forces.

The bill retains a balanced capability to deter aggression by 
increasing intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities, 
investing in tactical aircraft and ships, and accelerating the purchase 
of mine-resistant all-terrain vehicles for our troops in Afghanistan.

This bill acknowledges that the United States has a vital national 
security interest in ensuring that Afghanistan does not once again 
become a safe haven for terrorists. It supports a comprehensive 
counterinsurgency strategy that is adequately resourced and funded by 
Congress based on identified needs to date and calls on the President 
to provide our U.S. military commanders with the military forces they 
require in order to succeed.

In Iraq, the committee ensures that the Congress will support the 
President's plan to redeploy combat forces while providing our 
commanders the flexibility to hold hard-fought security gains and 
ensure the safety of our forces.

One of the toughest issues this committee has taken a leading role 
in--both in past years and in this bill--is detainee policy. Since 
2005, this committee has developed legislation on detainee matters--
sometimes in cooperation with the White House and sometimes over its 
strong objections--because it is critical to our national security and 
the preservation of our democratic principles.

This bill makes changes to the Military Commissions Act of 2006. We 
have all--Senator Levin, Senator Graham, and others--worked closely 
together to address some of these difficult issues.

We have not resolved all of the challenges military commissions and 
other aspects of detainee policy present, but I believe we have made 
substantial progress that will strengthen the military commissions 
system during appellate review, provide a careful balance between 
protection of national security and American values, and allow the 
trials to move forward with greater efficiency toward a just and fair 
result.

The committee also had a healthy debate on the future of missile 
defense and our strategic deterrence capabilities. I welcome and share 
President Obama's aspirations, hope for a nuclear-free world. However, 
I believe we must also be prudent and practical in our reductions and 
remain vigilant about the global proliferation of advance missile 
and nuclear technology. While recently much of our national defense 
posture supports combating terrorists, we cannot grow complacent to the 
danger that rogue nations such as North Korea and Iran pose to us--
whether it is missile launches within range of Hawaii or transferring 
weapons to Hezbollah or Hamas.


We must strengthen our commitment to enforcing the Non-Proliferation 
Treaty and the existing inspections regime. We must lead an 
international effort to interdict and prevent the world's most 
dangerous weapons from getting into the hands of the world's worst 
actors. I know there are varying views on the future of missile defense 
and our long-term strategic force posture, and I look forward to those 
debates.

The bipartisan nature of our committee allows for candid discussion, 
lively debate, and, at times, disagreement. In that spirit, there are 
some items in the bill I do not support and were not in the President's 
budget request, such as continuation of the F-22 aircraft production 
line, funding for the Joint Strike Fighter alternate engine, and 
earmarks totaling approximately $6.4 billion. I was disappointed that, 
in spite of a veto threat from the White House, our committee chose to 
add $1.75 billion for seven F-22 aircraft and at least $439 million for 
an alternate engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. Neither the President 
nor the Pentagon asked for F-22s or the alternate engine in the budget 
request, nor were they part of the Service's Unfunded Priority List. 
Secretary Gates has consistently opposed the need for additional F-22 
aircraft and has indicated on a number of occasions that additional F-
22 aircraft are not required to meet potential threats posed by near-
term adversaries. I strongly support Secretary Gates' decision to end 
the F-22 production line at 187 aircraft and his commitment--and the 
President's commitment--to building a fifth-generation tactical fighter 
capability by focusing on the timely delivery of the F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter to the Air Force, Navy, and Marines.

I look forward to lively debates on these and other important issues 
over the next few days.

I want to make very clear to my colleagues, the reason Senator Levin 
and I support the administration's and Secretary Gates' proposal to 
terminate at 187 the F-22 fighter aircraft is not because we believe we 
are going to leave the Nation undefended. We need the next-generation 
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Our armed services are counting on them. We 
want to increase funding for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, an aircraft 
and weapon system that in the view of many experts--including my view--
would be far more capable of meeting the emerging threats of the 
future. So I want my colleagues to understand this debate is not just 
about cutting a weapon system or bringing to an end, frankly, the line 
of a fighter aircraft; it is bringing to the end the line of one 
fighter aircraft and moving forward with another generation-- for all 
three services, a very capable weapons system, one that meets the 
threats of the 21st century.


So I think it is important that we look at the argument that will 
come forward about jobs created or jobs lost.


There will be jobs created, but the rationale for defense weapons 
systems should never be the creation of jobs. It should only be about 
the best way to defend this Nation in a very dangerous world.

So it is my understanding it is the wish of the chairman--and I join 
him--that the first amendment for debate will be the administration 
proposal to finish the F-22 aircraft production line, saving some $1.75 
billion. So I look forward to that debate. I look forward to my 
colleagues coming to the floor who would oppose that amendment. I hope 
my colleagues understand we would like to get this done this week, if 
possible.

One more comment about the F-22 and the alternate engine for the 
Joint Strike Fighter: The President of the United States, I am told, 
and the Secretary of Defense have made it very clear a veto is very 
likely if the Congress does not act to end production of the F-22 line. 
I would strongly recommend the President of the United States go ahead 
and veto this bill if the F-22 is included. At some point, with 
unemployment at 9.5 percent, with people not being able to stay in 
their jobs, with health care being less available and less affordable 
in America, we cannot afford to spend $1.7 billion additional taxpayer 
dollars for a system that can be replaced by a more capable weapons 
system and one that can defend our Nation with greater efficiency and 
less cost.

So I believe, frankly, there is more at stake than just whether we 
adopt the Levin-McCain amendment to terminate production of the F-22 as 
originally scheduled. I think this is a much larger issue, and I hope 
my colleagues understand the importance of it. I hope, if the Levin-
McCain amendment is defeated--I hope it is not because I believe 
Senator Levin and I can make a convincing argument on behalf of the 
administration and the Secretary of Defense--but if it is, that there 
be no doubt that the President of the United States would veto this 
bill.

I say that with great reluctance. I say it with almost a sense of 
deep regret because there are so many things in this bill that are 
important to the defense of our Nation, whether it be the care and pay 
raises and hospitalization and care of our wounded warriors, along with 
many other issues. But at some point this Congress and this Nation have 
to exercise the fiscal discipline the economic crisis we are in today 
demands.

I again wish to thank Senator Levin for the long and close 
relationship and work we have done together. Sometimes we have had very 
spirited but very informative discussions, and I know those will 
continue as we address this very important legislation before the 
Senate.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
material in support of my remarks.