# None
## `5529315e9ef2ea49e36abe7437de4b82`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. It is 
a delight to be here with all of my colleagues, and I might say that it 
is a pleasure to jump in and to accept the glory of the 30-something 
once in a while, particularly on this very vital and important issue.

And I want to say to the distinguished gentleman from Ohio, having 
watched the Ohio election process; if there was a State that spoke 
loudly about a decided necessity of change, it certainly was Ohio, and 
the rest of us followed. And I can't imagine that we would be facing 
this budget but for mistakes and missteps that have been made in 
foreign policy, for example the Iraq war and funding that has been 
somewhat misplaced.

But the good news is, and that is what I wanted to just focus on for 
a moment, that we now have the opportunity; Speaker Pelosi, the 
leadership, Chairman Dingell, Chairman Waxman on the health issues, we 
now have an opportunity to address the American people and to, frankly, 
make sure that we listen.

I want to start very briefly on tracking the reauthorization of the 
Ryan White bill that was authorized in the last Congress. But an 
authorization goes nowhere unless there is, if you will, the funding 
that is necessary. And so I just wanted to briefly highlight the fact 
that we have a continuing AIDS crisis in the United States which really 
requires a focused and concerted effort at funding. And I don't believe 
that with the President's budget, these enormous tax cuts, we will be 
able to address the fact that there are now over 1 million people in 
the United States living with AIDS, and that particular communities, 
African Americans and Hispanics, are disproportionately affected by 
HIV/AIDS, and they account for nearly 50 percent of the people living 
with HIV/AIDS.

That means that we need more Federal funds made available to help in 
the minority health initiatives, the AIDS initiatives, and we need more 
funds to encourage testing for as many people as possible. So I cite 
that as a challenge to this budget that is going to impact many of us 
extremely negatively.

Then I would encourage my colleagues from the various States, 50 
States, to take a litmus test or to take a thermometer and measure the 
temperature of the President's budget against the health of your State.

Let me just share with you what is going to happen to the State of 
Texas. We have a sizable young population, the State of Texas. Most of 
our population is under the age of 25; we have an extensive population 
of under 5, and we need, if you will, a refocus on the domestic agenda 
for this country.

I am looking forward to Chairman Spratt's, the Budget Committee's 
reforming of the President's budget because this is what will happen to 
Texas: Two million Texans could see


retirement benefits cut under the President's privatization proposal 
that is in his budget. And I would simply ask the question, how many 
times do we have to say that privatization of Social Security will not 
work? And it will not work.

The President's health care proposal will squeeze Texas middle class 
of more cost and less coverage. So the President's health insurance 
proposal, which is opposed by my public health system, Harris County, 
who says, ''Are you trying to close our doors?'' We will see a squeeze 
on the middle class; 5.5 million uninsured in the State of Texas will 
be impacted.

Let me give three other points. Huge Medicare cuts which we are 
seeing in the President's budget would endanger 2.5 million Texan 
Medicare beneficiaries' access to quality care and impose new taxes on 
seniors. The one thing our seniors said on the prescription benefit 
part D, no more burdens, no more doughnut holes. And that is what the 
President's budget gives us.

In addition, one of the greatest tragedies of the President's budget 
is the cut in the State grants for children's health insurance could 
add some 1.4 million children to the uninsured ranks in Texas. Now, 
they say that they are going to leave this to the States. The States 
need to find out how to handle this. This is, this is, this is comedic. 
This is joking. This is completely impossible. I am lacking for words. 
We are fighting in our State to be able to insure children who need to 
be insured, and you are telling us we will give you, the State, a 
certain amount of money, and it is how you do it. It is not how we do 
it. We can't do it without the funding. So you are going to deepen the 
hole of health disparities by suggesting that we cut off 1.4 million 
uninsured children in the State of Texas.

I would ask my colleagues to check the temperature of their State by 
taking a thermometer and measuring the President's budget against the 
needs of the American people. In Texas, 1.6 million veterans could be 
hurt by VA funding shortfalls. And I spent time with homeless veterans 
in my community at stand-down. I have homeless veterans in shelters in 
my community, as many of us do, but I see many of my homeless veterans 
under our bridges. We can't afford any more cuts in veterans health 
coverage because they are already paying the maximum amount.

Let me conclude by suggesting that we likewise have made a 
commitment, 30-something and 30-something-plus, have made a commitment 
to America's youth. We want to ensure that the doors of our 
institutions are open. And just today I heard the fact that in our own 
community in Houston, we don't enough seats in colleges to be able to 
help educate young people. This may be a phenomenon across American in 
many communities, and that means we are closing the door to higher 
education to our children. Well, the budget that the President has put 
forward, aid for Texas college students, may be whacked again; and, 
therefore, tuition increases may go up almost 100 percent, because 
under State laws that we have in the State of Texas, we give that 
latitude to our universities. Our students cannot be whacked again, and 
they can't take the burden again.

So I am hoping that, in addition to cutting the Department of 
Homeland Security, which we will obviously not tolerate because we are 
certainly not, we have not met the test of the 9/11 Commission Report, 
this budget needs fixing, it needs a fixing, and we need to rally 
around the American people's voice of health care, education, security, 
and the environment and affordable energy before we allow this budget 
to come to the floor of this House. And I hope that we will have the 
opportunity to be able to work our will, the will of the American 
people, and work our will on behalf of seniors, on behalf of those 
suffering with AIDS in minority populations and other, on behalf of the 
working middle-class families that struggle every day, that we would 
choose them over outrageous tax cuts that have been proposed by this 
President's budget.

And I thank the distinguished gentlemen for allowing me to 
participate and to acknowledge that these policies are not family-
friendly. And I look forward to a budget coming to this floor that we 
pass, the majority, Democrats, with our friends on the other side of 
the aisle, that will be family-friendly, children-friendly, those who 
are suffering from various diseases, education-friendly, environment-
friendly, and certainly a new day in energy by the budget that we put 
forward on this floor.