---
---

# TRIBUTE TO JOHN ABIJAH DAVIS
## `552b6c193db1b7cf8d724fb2f7b80521`
`Mr. HOYER — 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to mark an important milestone 
in the life of one of my fellow Marylanders--John Abijah Davis--who 
today celebrates his 100th birthday.

John Abijah Davis was born January 4, 1907 in an upstairs bedroom of 
his parent's house on North Sherman Drive in Indianapolis, Indiana--a 
home built by his Uncle, Issac Davis. Named after another Uncle, John 
Davis, and his father, Abijah Alley Davis, John A. Davis grew up in 
that home, attending St. Phillip Neri school and parish, before moving 
on to Cathedral High School in 1920, graduating in 1924 with the first 
full four-year class in school history.

John Davis graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1928 with a 
BA in English. At school, he counted among his friends Walter ''Red'' 
Smith, later a Pulitzer Prize winning sports columnist for the New York 
Times, Miller Brewing Company heir Fred Miller and Howard Phelan, who 
later in life donated the famous ''Touchdown Jesus'' mural that adorns 
the facade of the school library overlooking the football stadium.

In 1934, John A. Davis married Virginia Lyon in Notre Dame's historic 
Log Chapel in a mass presided over by his cousin, Rev. John O'Hara, 
then president of Notre Dame. In 1936, John and Virginia had a 
daughter, Mary Elizabeth Davis.

Moving from Indiana to New York, John Davis joined his brother 
Charles and opened the Browne-Davis Furniture Co. The business 
prospered and both became treasured members of the local community in 
Oswego. Selling their successful business after 40-plus years, the 
Davis brothers enjoyed a fulfilling retirement.

John briefly became a constituent of mine when he retired to Dameron, 
Maryland to live with his daughter Mary Elizabeth. Following her death 
in 2001, John moved to Cheverly, Maryland, residing with his grandson, 
John Davis Porcari, and his wife and five children. John Porcari served 
with great distinction as Maryland Secretary of Transportation under 
Governor Parris Glendening. He has recently been selected by Governor-
elect Martin O'Malley to take on this position in his administration.

John Davis heads a family consisting of four grandchildren, 15 great-
grandchildren and two great-great grandchildren. Dozens of nieces and 
nephews from four generations and scores of friends continue to look up 
to Mr. Davis, including his grand-nephew, Lt. Col. Harold VanOpdorp, 
USMC, who commands the First Battalion, 24th Marine Regiment in Anbar 
Province, Iraq.

According to his family, John Abijah Davis continues to teach life's 
most valuable lessons--humility, duty and hard work, devotion to one's 
God, family and friends. These lessons are reflected in all those he 
has touched. As he, his family and friends celebrate this milestone, 
they celebrate not the chronology of years, but the character of the 
man.

I join with his family and many friends in wishing him continued 
health and happiness on his 100th birthday.
