# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `553be901cf56ee6c0d9d7246b24db930`
`Mr. REED â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to comment on the nomination of 
George Casey to be Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army. I have had the 
occasion, as so many others have had, to visit Iraq on numerous 
occasions to talk to General Casey. I knew of him before his 
appointment to Iraq. I think you have to first begin assessing his 
tenure in Iraq by understanding the situation as he arrived. He arrived 
after the CPA--the Coalition Provisional Authority--under Mr. Bremer 
had made systematic and fundamental mistakes with respect to the 
occupation. He arrived, in fact, after our national command authority 
entered a country and attempted an occupation without a plan. That, I 
think, can be attributed to many people but not to George Casey. 
Without this plan, they were improvising constantly, both on the 
military side and on the civilian side.

The chief master of improvisation was Ambassador Jerry Bremer. He and 
his colleagues decided to disband the Iraqi Army without any 
alternative approach to retaining individuals, paying


them, or directing them into useful services. He also embarked on a 
very elaborate debaathification program.


In this time it became increasingly more obvious that our forces, 
because of the misguided and poor decisions by the President and the 
Secretary of Defense, were engaging in an occupation without sufficient 
resources. This became most obvious in Abu Ghraib, an incident that 
shocked the conscience of the world, shocked America particularly. 
Again, this all preceded George Casey.

When he arrived on the ground he had a situation of chaos, both 
administratively and also a situation in which the leadership of this 
Nation--not the officers but the civilian leadership--had grossly 
miscalculated in terms of successfully stabilizing this country.

Over the intervening months, General Casey established some degree of 
administrative routine, some degree of planning. He, along with 
colleagues such as General Petraeus, started an Iraqi training program. 
Once again, to understand what he saw when he came in, I can recall, as 
can many of my colleagues, going up and being briefed by Secretary 
Rumsfeld and others about the 200,000 Iraqi security forces. In fact, 
they usually pulled out a big pie chart which each week was designed to 
show the slice of American forces as growing smaller and smaller. That 
was a total fiction. These people could not be found. When they were 
found, they were not trained. Again, that is what George Casey 
inherited.

If people are trying to lay blame and accountability on someone, 
George Casey is somewhere in the middle or the end of the line. It 
begins at the top, with the President of the United States whose 
policies were flawed, with implementation that was incompetent. A large 
part of the burden should be shared by Secretary Rumsfeld whose 
personality, whose temperament added further to the chaos that we saw 
in Iraq. I think we could also include Secretary Wolfowitz and other 
civilians--Doug Feith, Steve Cambone all of them misguided and 
impervious to the reality of the ground in Iraq.

Yet just a few weeks ago, as Secretary Rumsfeld left, he was lauded 
by the President of the United States and the Vice President as the 
greatest Secretary of Defense we have ever had. That is really 
accountability.

This nomination is difficult in some respects because in that chaotic 
and difficult and challenging assignment, General Casey would be the 
first to admit that his performance was not without flaws. That is one 
of the appealing aspects of General Casey. He has a certain candor and 
honesty that he has generated throughout his entire career.

Today, we are debating his nomination. I will support that 
nomination. I will support it not because he succeeded in every 
endeavor but because he gave his last ounce of effort and energy to a 
very difficult and challenging role. He made progress, but that 
progress today is hampered--but hampered not by his role, certainly, 
alone--but by strategic decisions that were made by the President, by 
the Secretary of Defense, and by many others.

Interestingly enough, too, this nomination is not strictly the result 
of the President's work, but it is also that of Bob Gates who, I think, 
is an individual of competence and character who has already created a 
new tone and a good tone in the Department of Defense. Secretary Gates 
thought long and hard about this, and in some respects to suggest that 
Casey is the wrong person for this job is to question the judgment of 
Bob Gates. At this point, I am not quite ready to do that.

I will support General Casey's nomination. He has an important role 
to play in the Army, an Army that because of this administration has 
been severely strained. All of the nondeployed units in the United 
States are not combat ready. There is a huge personnel turmoil caused 
by extended deployments overseas. The ability of the Army to modernize 
is sincerely compromised by operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. He has 
to face all these problems.

There is something else he has to face, too--and, again, it goes 
right back to the top. It is the selective realism of this President 
and his Cabinet and his civilian leadership. I was amazed to look at 
the budget released yesterday, the budget that General Casey will have 
to operate with, to find out that this administration is estimating the 
cost of operations in Iraq--not in this fiscal year but the following 
one, starting October 1, 2008--at a mere $50 billion. Yes, I say a mere 
$50 billion because this year we will spend about $240 billion; yet 
next year it will remarkably be brought to $50 billion, although 
General Pace told me in my questioning that they operate with the 
assumption at the Pentagon they will spend at least $84 billion.

Where is this $200 billion, or $34 billion, disappearing? It is 
disappearing into the fiction that this administration is trying to 
project, not just about Iraq but the deficit reduction, their tax cut 
plans--all of these things. And General Casey will have to work with 
that budget.

And there are those in the Senate demanding we vote not to cut off 
funds for troops. We are not going to cut off funds. But I tell you 
what. If the President's budget is to be believed, come October 1 of 
2008 there will be a huge reduction in funds for those troops in Iraq--
but, then again, do we believe the President on this or many other 
issues?

I will vote for General Casey. I think he should be criticized for 
shortcomings that he admits readily, but he should not be condemned 
because he was carrying out a strategy and a policy that was seriously 
flawed when he arrived on the ground in Iraq. He has done his best to 
do the job he was given.

I yield the floor.