---
---

# IRAQ
## `556671918a80acf51be6da335a04a26b`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, when the roll is called tomorrow on the 
motion for cloture with regard to the resolution the House is expected 
to pass tonight on Iraq, I will vote no. I will vote against cloture. I 
will do so not because I wish to stifle debate. The fact is that debate 
has occurred, it is occurring now, and it will continue to occur on our 
policy in Iraq.

I will vote against cloture because I feel so strongly against the 
resolution. It condemns the new plan for success in Iraq. I support 
that plan. It does something that, from all of the research my staff 
and I have done, including asking the Library of Congress, we have 
found no case in American history where Congress has done what this 
resolution does, which is, in a nonbinding resolution, oppose a plan 
our military is implementing right now. Congress has expressed 
nonbinding resolutions of disapproval before a plan of military action 
has been carried out.

Congress has obviously taken much more direct steps, authorized to do 
so by the Constitution, to cut off funds for a military action or a war 
in progress. But never before has the Congress of the United States 
passed a nonbinding resolution of disapproval of a military plan that 
is already being carried out by American military personnel. I believe 
it is a bad precedent, and that is why I will do everything I can to 
oppose it. In the immediate context, that means I will vote against 
cloture.

Mr. President, more broadly, we are approaching an important moment 
in the history of this institution and of our Republic, a moment I fear 
future historians will look back to and see the beginning of a cycle 
that not only damaged the remaining possibilities for success America 
has in Iraq but, more broadly, established political precedents that 
weaken the power of the Presidency to protect the American people over 
the long term.

The nonbinding resolution before us today, we all know, is only a 
prologue. That is why the fight over it, procedural and substantive, 
over these past weeks has been so intense. It is the first skirmish in 
an escalating battle that threatens to consume our Government over many 
months ahead, a battle that will neither solve the sprawling challenges 
we face in Iraq nor strengthen our Nation to defeat the challenges to 
our security throughout the world from Islamist extremists--that is to 
say, in our war against the terrorists who attacked us.

We still have a choice not to go down this path. It is a choice that 
goes beyond the immediate resolution that will be before the Senate, a 
chance to step back from the brink and find better ways to express and 
arbitrate our differences of opinion. I hope we will seize the moment 
and take those steps.

Mr. President, as we meet in this Chamber today, the battle for 
Baghdad has already begun. One of our most decorated generals, David 
Petraeus, whom this Senate confirmed 81 to 0 a few weeks ago, has now 
taken command in Baghdad.

Thousands of American soldiers have moved out across the Iraqi 
capital putting their lives on the line as they put a new strategy into 
effect. We can now see for ourselves on the ground in Iraq, in Baghdad, 
where it matters what this new strategy looks like. And we can see why 
it is different from all that preceded it.

For the first time in Baghdad, our primary focus is no longer on 
training Iraqi forces or chasing down insurgents or providing for our 
own force protection, though those remain objectives. Our primary focus 
is on ensuring basic security for the Iraqi people working side by side 
with Iraqi security forces, exactly what classic counterinsurgency 
doctrine tells us must be our first goal now.

Where previously there were not enough troops to hold the 
neighborhoods cleared of insurgents, now more troops are either in 
place or on the way. Where previously American soldiers were based on 
the outskirts of Baghdad unable to secure the city, now they are living 
and working side by side with their Iraqi counterparts on small bases 
that are being set up right now throughout the Iraqi capital.

At least six of these new joint bases have already been established 
in the Sunni neighborhoods in west Baghdad, the same neighborhoods 
where a few weeks ago jihadists and death squads held sway. In the 
Shiite neighborhoods of east Baghdad, American troops are also moving 
in with their Iraqi counterparts, and Moqtada al-Sadr and his Mahdi 
Army are moving out.

We do not know if this new strategy for success in Iraq will work 
over the long term, and we probably will not know for some time. The 
Mahdi Army may be in retreat for the moment, but they are not defeated. 
They have gone to ground, and they are watching. Our hope, of course, 
is that our determination and that of the Iraqi Government will lead 
them now to devote themselves to politics instead of death squads, but 
only time will tell.

The fact is any realistic assessment of the situation in Iraq tells 
us we must expect there will be more attacks and there will be more 
casualties in the months ahead as the enemies of a free and independent 
Iraq see the progress we are making and adapt to try to destroy it with 
more violence.

The question they will pose to us, which is the question that is 
posed every time a fanatic suicide bomb goes off and that person 
expresses their hatred of everyone else more than love of their own 
life by ending their own life, is: Will we yield Baghdad, Iraq, the 
Middle East, our own future to those fanatical suicide bombers?

We must also recognize we are in a different place in Iraq from where 
we were a month ago because of the implementation of this new strategy. 
We are in a stronger position today to provide basic security in 
Baghdad, and with that, we are in a stronger position to marginalize 
the extremists and strengthen the moderates, a stronger position to 
foster the economic activity that will drain the insurgency and the 
militias of their public support, a stronger position to press the 
Iraqi leaders to make the political compromises that everyone 
acknowledges are necessary.

John Maynard Keynes famously said:




 When the facts change, I change my mind.


In the real world, in the past month, the facts in Iraq have changed, 
and they are changing still. I ask my colleagues to allow themselves to 
wait and consider changing their minds as further facts unfold in Iraq. 
The nonbinding resolution before us is not about stopping a 
hypothetical plan. It is about disapproving a plan that is being 
carried out now by our fellow


Americans in uniform in the field. In that sense, as I have said, it is 
unprecedented in congressional history, in American history.

This resolution is about shouting into the wind. It is about ignoring 
the realities of what is happening on the ground in Baghdad. It 
proposes nothing. It contains no plan for victory or retreat. It is a 
strategy of ''no,'' while our soldiers are saying ''yes, sir,'' to 
their commanding officers as they go forward into battle. And that is 
why I will vote against the resolution by voting against cloture.

I understand the frustration, the anger, and the exhaustion that so 
many Americans, so many Members of this Congress feel about Iraq, the 
desire to throw up one's hands and simply say ''enough.'' And I am 
painfully aware of the enormous toll of this war in human life and of 
the mistakes that have been made in the war's conduct. But let us now 
not make another mistake. In the midst of a fluid and uncertain 
situation in Iraq, we should not be so bound up in our own arguments 
and disagreements, so committed to the positions we have staked out 
that the political battle over here takes precedence over the real 
battle over there.

Whatever the passions of the moment, the point of reference for our 
decisionmaking should be military movements on the battlefields of 
Iraq, not political maneuverings in the Halls of Congress.

Even as our troops have begun to take Baghdad back step by step, 
there are many in this Congress who have, nevertheless, already reached 
a conclusion about the futility of America's cause there and declared 
their intention to put an end to this mission, not with one direct 
attempt to cut off funds but step by political step.

No matter what the rhetoric of this resolution, that is the reality 
of this moment. This nonbinding measure before us is a first step 
toward a constitutional crisis that we can and must avoid. Let me 
explain what I mean by ''a constitutional crisis.'' Let us be clear 
about the likely consequences if we go down this path beyond this 
nonbinding resolution.

Congress has been given constitutional responsibilities, but the 
micromanagement of wars is not one of them. The appropriation of funds 
for war is. I appreciate that each of us has our own ideas about the 
best way forward in Iraq. I respect those who take a different position 
than I. I understand many feel strongly that the President's strategy 
is the wrong one, but the Constitution, which has served us now for 
more than two great centuries of our history, creates not 535 
Commanders in Chief but 1, the President of the United States, who is 
authorized to lead the day-to-day conduct of war.

Whatever our preponderance of this war or its conduct, it is in no 
one's interest to stumble into a debilitating confrontation between our 
two great branches of Government over war powers. The potential for a 
constitutional crisis here and now is real, with congressional 
interventions, Presidential vetoes, and Supreme Court decisions.

If there was ever a moment for nonpartisan cooperation to agree on a 
process that will respect both our personal opinions about this war and 
our Nation's interests over the long term, this is it.

We need to step back from the brink and reason together, as Scripture 
urges us to do, about how we will proceed to express our disagreements 
about this war. We must recognize that while the decisions we are 
making today and we are about to make seem irretrievably bound up in 
the immediacy of this moment, and the particular people now holding 
positions of power in our Government, these decisions will set 
constitutional precedents that will go far beyond the moment and these 
people.

President Bush has less than 2 years left in office, and a Democrat 
may well succeed him. If we do not act thoughtfully in the weeks and 
months ahead, we will establish precedents that future Congresses, 
future Presidents, and future generations of Americans will regret.

Right now, as the battle for Baghdad begins, this institution is 
obviously deeply divided. However, we should not allow our divisions to 
lead us to a constitutional crisis in which no one wins and our 
national security is greatly damaged.

We are engaged, as all my colleagues know, in a larger war against a 
totalitarian enemy, Islamist extremism, and terrorism that seeks to 
vanquish all the democratic values that is our national purpose to 
protect and defend.

Whatever our differences in this Chamber about this war, let us never 
forget those great values of freedom and democracy that unite us and 
for which our troops have given, and today give, the last full measure 
of their devotion.

Yes, we should vigorously debate and deliberate. That is not only our 
right, it is our responsibility. But at this difficult junction, at 
this moment when a real battle, a critical battle is being waged in 
Baghdad, as we face a brutal enemy who attacked us on 9/11 and wants to 
do it again, let us not shout at one another but let us reach out to 
one another to find that measure of unity that can look beyond today's 
disagreements and secure the Nation's future and the future of all who 
will follow us as Americans.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.