# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `55674f0b7c34348c57a60b896df94e0e`
`Mr. INOUYE — 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, in 1898, when the United States defeated 
Spain in the Spanish-American War, we found ourselves suddenly becoming 
a colonial power. In opposition was the Philippines. Until the end of 
the war, World War II, we exercised jurisdiction over the Philippines 
like a colonial power.

However, in July of 1941, when we noted the presence of war clouds 
over the Pacific and Asia, we called upon the Filipinos to consider 
volunteering to serve the United States under American command. 
Thirteen days after December 7, we issued a command order inviting 
Filipinos to volunteer--it was a crucial time--and 470,000 Filipinos 
volunteered. From that number, we developed the Commonwealth Army of 
the Philippines--200,000. We set aside 200,000 of them to serve as 
guerrilla fighters and about 50,000 to serve as guards and patrols on 
the shore and along the borders.

History now shows us the Japanese attack, and as a result we had two 
tragic battles, Corregidor and Bataan. Before these battles were 
determined and ended, General MacArthur, the commander, was ordered to 
leave the Philippines, and he left with his staff and arrived in 
Australia. The Filipinos were left to do their part without proper 
armament, proper medicine, and with inadequate food. But they fought.

I think all of us remember the Bataan Death March when 75,000 were 
ordered to march 65 miles without food, medicine, or water. Along that 
trip, only 54,000 survived--the rest died. I think all of us recall the 
heroic movies that were filmed as a result of that march. The Bataan 
Death March became part of the vocabulary of the United States.

We saw Americans being bayoneted, hit, and killed. But the facts show 
that of the over 75,000 who had to undergo and suffer the Bataan Death 
March, 15,000 were Americans and 60,000 were Filipinos. They are the 
ones who got bayoneted. They are the ones who were slaughtered and 
killed.

Well, these Filipinos were willing to fight for the United States, to 
stand in harm's way on our behalf. They fought throughout the war as 
guerilla fighters. They suffered thousands of casualties. Those who 
were fighting for America's cause and fighting under the command of 
American officers, strangely, could not receive American medals.

Now, if one should go to Baghdad, if he is wounded, he gets a Purple 
Heart. If he does something heroic, he gets a Bronze Star or Silver 
Star or DSC. Once in a while, someone gets a Medal of Honor. Well, in 
this case, these matters were not recognized.

The war ended on September 2, 1945, when the Japanese signed the 
surrender on the deck of the USS Missouri. At that moment, we did not 
have an ambassador nor an embassy, but we had a high commissioner who 
was not authorized to accept applications for citizenship. Remember, 
one of the promises was citizenship.

So about December, Washington sent an official of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service to receive applications from Filipinos. Well, he 
had no staff; he had to do it all on his own. But within a month, 
Washington decided to recall him. So here we had line upon line of 
Filipinos waiting to submit their application but no one to receive it.

Then, in early February of 1946, the Congress of the United States 
passed a measure signed by the President repealing and rescinding the 
act that we passed in July of 1941, and the Executive order that was 
issued right after December 7, in which we promised Filipinos if they 
fought for us, shed their blood, risked their lives and limbs, if they 
wished they could become citizens of the United States and get all of 
the veterans' benefits.

Keep in mind Manila was the most devastated city in World War II, so 
there were no veterans hospitals. That came later.

Well, this veterans bill has a provision in it--a provision of 
honor--in which, finally, after over 65 years, we will restore our 
honor and tell the Filipinos: It is late, but please forgive us. There 
are few remaining of the hundreds of thousands of Filipinos who 
volunteered and risked their lives. At this moment, I think there are 
about 18,000 left. As I speak, I am certain some are on their deathbed 
and dying.

This provision has some rather insulting provisions, but the 
Filipinos are willing to take it. Some of my colleagues have suggested 
that the cost of living in the Philippines is less than the cost of 
living here, so their pension should be one-third of an American GI's, 
who did the same thing, with the same injury--but one-third. That is 
all right. But to suggest only those who were in combat, I don't know 
what that means.

For example, in Iraq, whether you are out on the street or on the 
boulevard in a truck or in the so-called Green Zone, you are on the 
front line. Bombs can hit you anywhere. It is the same thing with a 
guerrilla fighter. Where is the front line for a guerrilla fighter? Is 
it the jungle? Is it the city? Is it his home?

My colleagues, I hope we will take this opportunity today to restore 
the honor of the United States and undo the broken promise and make it 
good. There are a few Filipino World War II veterans left. At least we 
can face them and say: Yes, it took us a little while, but we are going 
to carry out our promise. Let's do that.

I yield the floor.