---
---

# None
## `557c2c50e4929436c49c69c22dd9a6a3`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. The overwhelming majority of the American people heard 
their President say weapons of mass destruction, ruthless and 
bloodthirsty dictator, and said: Yes, maybe we should invade. But it 
didn't add up. It didn't add up in terms of the threat or in terms of 
whether we were prepared to accept the reality that it is far easier to 
get into a war than it is to get out of one. Here we are in the fifth 
year of a war that has lasted longer than World War II, a war with no 
end in sight. This President's response: Send more American soldiers 
into harm's way in Iraq.

That is unacceptable. It is time for the Iraqis to stand and defend 
their own nation. They will not do that until American soldiers start 
coming home. That is what the Levin-Reed amendment is about.

I am sorry the Republican side has initiated this filibuster to block 
a vote on this important amendment. I am sorry they are insisting on a 
60-vote margin which was rarely, if ever, used on a Defense 
authorization bill over the last 7 years. Those are the facts. They 
have done it because their ranks are starting to change. Three 
Republican Senators have now stepped out and said they will join us in 
this effort to change the policy of the war. Many more back home have 
said they have decided we need a new policy in Iraq. We want to give 
them a chance for a vote that is significant.

Will the President veto it if we pass it? Probably. But does that 
mean we shouldn't try? Don't we owe it to these soldiers and their 
families and to our Nation to change this failed policy before it 
claims more American lives, sends more American warriors back wounded 
from battle and costs Americans the treasure we have gathered in the 
taxes of our citizens?

I say to my friend from Arizona, we see this war differently, but I 
think it is clear who is holding up this bill: the Republican minority 
with their filibuster. Why this bill? Because if you didn't debate a 
war on a Defense authorization bill, where would you debate it? Should 
we wait until September? The cost is too high.

I yield the floor.