---
---

# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `557ead9a2438420e57c2d87f1d7c506f`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to 
illustrate to the American people exactly what we are talking about 
when accountability and oversight fail. There are ramifications. Some 
may go unnoticed; others are absolutely horrific.

In the past several weeks, we have seen one of those examples. And 
the sad part is most people were not surprised. Most people have looked 
at this issue.

I want to talk about accountability and oversight. This Congress and 
our leadership are making sure we get our job done here. They are 
working us 5 days a week most weeks. My constituents back home, they 
don't have a lot of sympathy when they hear we are working Monday 
through Friday in the Capitol. That is what we were elected to do. That 
is what we were hired to do in their name.

I hear my friends on the other side of the aisle talk about, what do 
we have to do the whole time we are here? We are not voting the whole 
time, and the answer is, do our job providing oversight and 
accountability. Keep in mind, the entire last Congress had 30 oversight 
hearings. In the first 8 weeks, we have had 100.

Getting the job done for the American people means acting as a 
coequal branch in the responsibility of being fiscally responsible with 
their money, putting policy forward that benefits everyone, and making 
sure that the follow through is done on that.

I want to mention something as it pertains to our veterans and let 
people understand where this starts exactly. Make no mistake about 
budgets, budgets are far more than accounting. We hear our friends on 
the other side of the aisle talk about accounting and putting money in 
Americans' pockets. They talk about they have never met anyone who did 
their own taxes.

Well, I came to this Congress straight from the public school 
classroom, never having run for elected office before. I was teaching 
high school geography a few months ago. I can tell them on a high 
school teacher's salary, I was doing my own taxes.

And when they talk about a budget in terms of only being what is left 
in the pocket, they forget that budgets are moral documents. They are a 
reflection of our national values. How we prioritize those values is an 
absolute reflection of what we believe is most important in this 
Nation.

Now, I also come to you not just as a teacher but as a 24-year 
veteran of our armed services and our Army National Guard. I think the 
highest distinction that I could ever claim--at this time, I am the 
highest ranking enlisted soldier or servicemember that has ever served 
in this exalted body; it is something that I am very proud of.

Those people who know something about the military, I retired as a 
command sergeant major. The command sergeant major has one 
responsibility: Take care of the troops. Nothing else. That means feed 
them, clothe them, pay them, make sure their health is taken care of, 
and train them to complete their mission. That's what you need to do.

Well, I am now a member of the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on 
Oversight and Investigation, and what has happened at Walter Reed and 
what is going to happen again is not an anomaly. It was a decision. It 
was a decision that resulted from a failure in leadership and a bigger 
failure in accountability and oversight. And the saddest part about 
this is, the saddest, most tragic part about this was, it was totally 
avoidable.

Our veterans' service organizations, from the DAV to the Paralyzed 
American Veterans, to the Blind Veterans of America, to the Legion, all 
of these organizations understood what was coming.



I would like to just talk a little bit about, and illustrate, how the 
budget impacted what happened and how the lack of leadership and the 
lack of accountability led to that.

The chart I have up here is showing this is the VA treating many more 
Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. Every soldier who serves in these 
wars will, one day, be a veteran. Now, it does not come as a surprise 
to most Americans, since 2003, when the war started in Iraq, we have 
seen a steady increase in the number of soldiers that are going to be 
treated. Seems pretty logical. Most people anticipated that was going 
to come.

The number of VA health care patients in general continued to rise. 
We have an aging generation from our World War II veterans to our 
Korean War veterans to our Vietnam veterans. They are continuing to 
rise at a steady rate. Every single veteran service organization 
predicted this. Every single person involved with this predicted this.

Now, we are finding out we have not had enough money. We have not 
correctly planned ahead to take care of the warrior after the war. When 
you choose to fight a war, and make no mistake about it, Iraq was a 
choice, you understand you accept full responsibility for those 
warriors, not for the time that they are there, not for the time they 
are treated in a facility like Walter Reed, but for the rest of their 
life.

In falling short on this, here is how we are going to make up for it. 
If you will look at our copy here, enrollment fees, pharmacy copayments 
and third party copayments. This says up here, the President's budget 
increases fees on veterans. Make no mistake about the language. This is 
the President's tax on warriors, period.

So we saw a situation, increasing number of veterans coming back, 
budgets that were grossly underestimating the number, that we would 
need to try and spend the money elsewhere or


maybe put the money back in somebody's pocket. When I go to my 
district, and I ask them the question, do you want a few more dollars 
in your pocket or do you want to make sure that warrior has a room that 
shows the dignity that this Nation should provide, and every single one 
of them will go with the veteran.

We must have an open debate in this Congress about accountability, 
where is this money going to go, where is this money going to come 
from, and I want Members who agree with this, that this is the way we 
should do it, to stand in front of the mother from Saginaw, Michigan, 
who was at the VA hospital in Minneapolis, treating her son with a 
traumatic brain injury, and tell her she better get the checkbook out 
and write it out and pay for this because that is exactly what has 
happened here.

When this Congress chose to not hold hearings, to not hold oversight, 
and to not ask the hard questions, they created the situation at Walter 
Reed. They created the coming situation on our VA system, and this new 
Congress has accepted the responsibility and I, as a command sergeant 
major, retired, stand here and say my responsibility was to take care 
of those soldiers in my unit. My responsibility now is to take care of 
all of them.

I have absolute confidence in my colleagues that they will provide 
exactly that. That is what accountability means. That is what oversight 
means. It is not a gimmick to get reelected. It is not cute words, and 
for those that say it is hogwash and pay-as-you-go does not matter, I 
tell them this is what matters. Decide how we take care of our veterans 
and let us do it the way this Nation knows it should.

I know we have a few more things to go over, but this illustration is 
one that impassions all of us. It is one that did not need to happen, 
but it is one that I am optimistic holds the silver lining of uniting 
this Nation over an issue we all care about and getting real results.