# None
## `5580593c2f29d096feabe5ed3138d60a`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 28 June 2010`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. Speaker, as the ranking member on the Subcommittee 
on Water Resources, I rise today to thank Colonel Ed Jackson, Commander 
of the Little Rock District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, for 
his service, especially his last 3 years in Little Rock.

Colonel Jackson has provided forward-thinking and visionary 
leadership for an organization with a complex mission. This mission 
includes the planning and management of civil works projects ranging 
from navigation, flood control, and hydroelectric power to recreation, 
water supply, environmental protection, and fish and wildlife 
mitigation.

Most importantly, during Colonel Jackson's time at Little Rock, his 
team members have provided vital support to our warfighters deployed on 
the front lines in Afghanistan and Iraq. Colonel Jackson has firsthand 
experience with the dangers confronted by our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines, because he commanded the 54th Engineer Battalion 
during a year-long deployment in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Colonel Jackson's time at Little Rock has included several serious 
challenges. The district has worked to reduce flood damage and repair 
public infrastructure affected by serious natural disasters and the 
effects of age. The district has strengthened its partnership with the 
Tulsa District in the management and improvement of the Arkansas River 
Navigation System, a vital transportation corridor of national economic 
significance.

Finally, the district is carrying out an aggressive plan to ensure 
that numerous projects to provide jobs and encourage economic 
development are carried out as quickly as possible in partnership with 
State and local sponsors. All of this is thanks to the steadfast and 
reliable leadership of Colonel Jackson.

The colonel has also made improved communication with the public a 
high priority, reflecting his understanding that we must be helpful and 
available to citizens as well as elected leaders, including State and 
local officials. Following floods in early 2008, the colonel recognized 
that the district needed to improve communication and coordination with 
local first responders, and the colonel implemented regularly scheduled 
meetings to ensure disaster preparedness will be a higher priority 
moving forward.

As Colonel Jackson leaves the Little Rock District, he leaves behind 
a united civilian leadership team, high morale among the district team 
leaders, a legacy focusing on and responding to the concerns of 
citizens and stakeholders alike. For the many successes which his team 
have accomplished, they can be very, very proud.

As Colonel Jackson moves on to his next assignment, I am confident 
that he will continue to render honorable and exemplary service to our 
country.
