# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `5587488e894589830bf564ac2bbca1ba`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, a little over 100 days ago, President 
Obama took the mantle of Commander in Chief and assumed responsibility 
for the tragic war in Iraq and the under-resourced conflict in 
Afghanistan. True to his promise, and my pledge to Oregonians, this 
Supplemental Appropriations bill starts the process of bringing the war 
in Iraq to a close. We are on track to end the combat mission in Iraq 
by mid-2010 and remove all U.S. military forces by the end of 2011.

I have routinely opposed Supplemental Appropriations bills for the 
wars in the past as open-ended funding for a tragic conflict. For too 
long this type of emergency funding has been used to support misguided 
policies: avoiding responsible budgeting and thoughtful adjustments in 
the direction of our foreign and military policies. That's why I'm 
pleased that the Obama administration has also committed to 
transparency in war funding, both in this final Supplemental for Iraq 
and Afghanistan, and for including future costs in the baseline budget.

There is much that is good and important in this bill, including 
substantial investments in humanitarian assistance overseas and in 
preparing for the next pandemic, which we fear swine flu may become in 
the future.

Nevertheless, it was difficult to cast a vote in support of this 
Supplemental. I am troubled by some of the funding, including an 
increase in defense acquisitions and military assistance for some 
countries that haven't earned it, like Egypt. My greatest unease is 
perhaps the direction that has been taken in Afghanistan. I am not 
comfortable with the escalation there; my discomfort was heightened 
when I said goodbye on May 2 to the largest contingent of Oregon 
National Guard members sent overseas since World War II.

I will give the new administration the benefit of the doubt because 
there is much in this bill to support and because they have inherited 
dire circumstances not of their making. But from this point forward, 
these conflicts are in the hands of the Obama administration and I will 
hold them to the same standard of accountability.