---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `558ad00ab9d1d80a3553da9c823d261e`
`Mrs. BOXER — 4 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. As soon as I finish my statement, I will be happy to 
yield.

We have to ask this President: Why are we in Iraq? The answer depends 
on when he was asked. Once upon a time, we were told it was about 
weapons of mass destruction. Remember? We had to go find them. Our 
military found there were none. Then we were told it was Saddam's ties 
to al-Qaida. Well, there was no connection to al-Qaida. Then we were 
told we had to get Saddam's family and show their pictures to the world 
so the world knew America meant business. And we did that, and the 
fighting went on. Then we were told they need to have an election, and 
how proud we were when the Iraqi people went and as a free people 
elected their leaders.

All that happened. The President said: Mission accomplished. But it 
goes on and on because it is a changing mission every day, no vision of 
how to get out of this situation, and we have colleagues on the other 
side talking about us being there 50 years, 100 years, who knows, maybe 
1,000 years. This is not at no cost or little cost. It is costing us an 
absolute fortune, and it is tied to this deficit because it is tying 
our hands.

The President says our commitment to Iraq is not open ended, and yet 
he will not tell the leaders over there: Get your act together because 
we have trained 500,000 of you and now it is your turn to stand up and 
fight for your freedom and fight for your democracy, frankly, the way 
we did and other countries do.

There is a point in time when you have given so much blood and 
treasure that you have to say: We want to help you, we will be there, 
but we will not be in the forefront of this fight.

We have never been leveled with. How many more brave men and women 
will die? Oh, we don't know. How many more will be wounded? We don't 
know. But what we do know is some of the wounded are coming home to my 
State and they are suffering, suffering, suffering. Yet in the 
President's stimulus package, there is no help for disabled veterans. 
No, oh, no, we couldn't do that. For a day of the cost of Iraq we can 
help them. That is why we want the debate and we want the debate to 
start.

The President says the surge will lead us to victory. We hope so, but 
the President says he knows it. How long will the surge last? It was 
supposed to provide a quiet time for the leaders to resolve their 
problems. It hasn't happened.

Our brave men and women in uniform have performed remarkably. They 
have done every single thing we have asked of them and more. But you 
know what, there has to be an end to this. As our military leaders tell 
us every day, there is no military solution to the situation in Iraq.

I said before we trained 500,000 Iraqis. I want to correct that 
figure. It is 440,000. That is how many Iraqis we have trained. Our 
taxpayers have laid the money out to train.

I think we ought to look at what the British did. The British were 
very clear. They said their presence in Iraq was fueling the violence, 
fueling al-Qaida, and it would be far better if they played a 
supportive role. And most of them will be gone. As a matter of fact, 
the coalition of the willing has been massively depleted.

There is a beginning, a middle, and an end to a mission. But you 
cannot change the mission every few months. It is not fair to our 
troops. It is sending a mixed message to the Iraqis.

Why do I bring this all up in the context of the stimulus? Because 
the outflow of money is hurting us. We cannot take care of America. I 
think we need to make a choice, and this stimulus package is the time 
for us to connect all the dots. This economic recession needs our 
attention. We need to put the resources to it so it doesn't become a 
deep and darker recession. We have to ask ourselves in the context of 
this debate: Is it time for America, for our families, for our soldiers 
coming home, for our children, or is it the time to continue an open-
ended commitment to a war without an end, a price tag without an end, a 
war that is tying our hands as this recession becomes more real day 
after day?

Clearly, it is no surprise that I say it is time for America and it 
is time for change. I do believe the people out there, whether they are 
Democrats, Republicans or Independents, are crying out for that change.

I will also say, they may not all agree on one particular path, but 
one thing they want us to do is our job. They don't want stall tactics, 
they don't want delays, they don't want brilliant Senators coming to 
the floor and saying: Gee, there has been a change in this bill, and we 
need 30 hours to figure it out. Stay up until 10 or 11; you can read 
that part of the bill. It isn't complicated, and it isn't time to 
continue an open-ended commitment to a war without end.

As we try to soften the blow of this recession on the American 
people, let us understand that if we don't change when it comes to this 
war and start bringing our troops home and start giving the Iraqi 
leaders a signal that they need to take charge of their own country, I 
will tell you, I can't be part of


that kind of a value system because our people are suffering.


Again, my State is in a recession. I have sitting councilmen coming 
to me--by the way, not always in my party, believe me--saying to me: 
Senator, you have to help us. We are in a spiral. Help us. When I 
called and said help is on the way, we are going to raise those loan 
limits for Fannie, Freddie, and FHA, we are going to give the 
homebuilders some kind of a tax break, we are going to give a tax break 
to the alternative energy industry so they can start hiring people, 
they smiled, there is hope. But if they heard tonight the back and 
forth between the Democratic leader and the Republican leader and they 
heard the Republican leader say: We are really sorry we are going to 
hold things up because I have to read this bill when, in fact, the 
changes that were made are so minuscule we could read it in 10 minutes, 
they don't know what is going on, and they throw up their hands.

I am here tonight to tell them: Don't give up hope because we are 
motivated. We are motivated to get this package through. We are telling 
our seniors to let their Senators know, Democratic and Republican 
Senators, they need to be included, the disabled veterans, the 
homebuilders, the people who are struggling with their mortgages. We 
are on your side. If your voice is heard, even in this Senate, it will 
have an impact.

I yield the floor.