---
---

# None
## `55928724a8870e64b388bbc73f2558e5`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 24 February 2010`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Well, I would say if the gentleman is saying it's an 
arrogant power grab, he certainly is accurate, and that's apparently 
the model that he wants to have. The gentleman may also have quotes 
from Senator Joe Biden, who denounced using this nuclear option, as 
well as Harry Reid.

When they were in the minority, I think they were right. When we were 
in the majority, I think we were wrong. I don't think you should do 
that. I think that it is a desperation thing. And if you can't get the 
requisite number of votes, maybe you need to start all over on the 
legislation. But you do have very strong, unequivocal statements by 
Senator Obama, candidate Obama, Senator Reid, Senator Biden and yet 
total hypocrisy, that's what it is, is hypocrisy at this point.

The gentleman was talking about needing Republican votes. They do not 
need a Republican vote to stop anything or to pass anything. It's not 
just with this $950 billion health care bill; they could pass a jobs 
bill without a Republican vote.

They could pass the tax-and-trade bill without it. They could get out 
of Iraq or Afghanistan without a single Republican vote. They could 
have energy independence without a Republican vote. They could pass 
that card check, that special interest bill for unions, without a 
Republican vote.

Why aren't they doing it? I just think that they had no idea that 
America was not asleep at the wheel. They found out in Massachusetts, 
and they're scared to death, hey, this


might not be an isolated election. So we are seeing a lot of 
backpedaling right now. It's hilarious when you see some of these 
people, like the Senator from Nebraska who had the special interest 
deal on the health care bill. Now, he is all over this jobs bill. Oh, 
too much spending. You've got a $950 billion health care bill which he 
supports and a $15 billion jobs bill that he is against because of the 
spending.

Only in this town.