# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `559ca5398918dc8dbf6ef47312f18363`
`Mr. BECERRA — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. BECERRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2206, the revised 
Iraq Accountability Act.

This legislation fully funds the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
provides health care to our active duty soldiers and veterans, holds 
the Iraqi Government accountable, and continues to pressure President 
George W. Bush to change the course and responsibly end our military 
involvement in Iraq.

The American people have spoken clearly time and again that the 
United States must find an end to its commitment in Iraq. Last month, 
Congress responded to the American people by sending President Bush a 
bill that required him to be accountable in his execution of the Iraq 
war. He responded to that legislation by vetoing it and asking for a 
blank check for his Iraqi misadventure. How symbolic that the President 
vetoes the Iraq Accountability Act on May 1, 2007, the 4-year 
anniversary of his ''Mission Accomplished'' speech.

In an attempt to compromise with President Bush, the House of 
Representatives has revised its legislation. H.R. 2206 provides over 
$42 billion immediately to fund the operations and equipment needs of 
our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

To ensure real accountability over execution of the war, the bill 
requires the President to submit a report to Congress by July 13 
regarding the success of the Iraqi Government in meeting security and 
political benchmarks. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and 
President Bush proposed these very benchmarks in January 2007. These 
benchmarks include provisions such as eliminating militia control of 
local security, disarming the militias, and enacting a bill to 
equitably share oil revenue among all Iraqis.

After the submission of this report, both houses of Congress would 
vote on whether to release an additional $52.8 billion for military 
operations and equipment in Iraq. Before such a vote, H.R. 2206 would 
require an important vote on an amendment to use these funds only to 
plan and execute a redeployment of troops from Iraq in 180 days. This 
is the crucial vote: will we finally change course in Iraq and 
represent the aspirations and the best interests of the American 
people?

This legislation requires the President to confront the realities of 
the Iraq War and take account of the facts on the ground. Since 
President Bush has shown a tin ear by failing to listen to the American 
public's discontent concerning the Iraq War, it is the responsibility 
of Congress to lead America out of this war. By sending this strong 
piece of legislation to the president, we are one step closer to 
reaching that goal.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation to bring 
accountability in Iraq and provide the necessary help to our troops and 
veterans at home.