# HONORING THE LIFE OF MARINE SERGEANT MICHAEL WAYNE HEEDE, JR.
## `559cf48c31835802534c5e4ebab86dab`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
the life of Marine Sergeant Michael Wayne Heede, Jr. who died honorably 
serving his country in Afghanistan as a part of Operation Enduring 
Freedom.

Sergeant Heede enlisted in the Marine Corps in September of 2005, 
shortly after his high school graduation. A veteran of the Iraq war and 
on his third tour of duty, he served as a Combat Engineer. Sergeant 
Heede was assigned under the 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force at Marine Corps Base Camp 
Pendleton, California.

In July of 2009 at the age of 22, Sergeant Heede was killed in action 
while supporting combat operations in the Helmand province of southern 
Afghanistan. During his military career, Sergeant Heede was awarded the 
Combat Action Ribbon, Navy Unit Commendation Medal, National Defense 
Service Medal, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, among 
others.

I commend Sergeant Heede for the dedication and devotion to 
preserving the freedom of our nation. His commitment and bravery gives 
his mother, Mrs. Gloria Crothers of Edgewood, Maryland and his widow, 
Mrs. Brittney Heede of Southport, North Carolina great pride.

Madam Speaker, I ask that you join with me today to honor the life of 
Marine Sergeant Michael Wayne Heede, Jr. The distinguished service 
Sergeant Heede has shown to our country will forever reverberate in our 
memories. It gives me great pride to honor one of our nation's fallen 
heroes.
