---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3963, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE  PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `55a4f7ed627523b34ba8a1c56833f20b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 25 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished 
chairwoman for her leadership, along with Chairman Dingell and Chairman 
Rangel.

You know, as I listen on the floor, it is so curious to hear us 
quarreling over helping children, falling down on incorrect facts, 
details, while our country is facing tragedy. Our friends in California 
are suffering because of a natural disaster, and here we are on the 
floor trying to help our children, many of them who live in a suffering 
State because they have no health insurance.

Today I will vote in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to 
support this bill, and I will again hope the President will sign it. 
But I will join my bipartisan colleagues, 72 percent of the American 
public who support it, two-thirds of the Senate, the majority of the 
House. We will stand for the children.

And in particular, as I come from the State of Texas, this is a bill 
that we need. This bill will provide and is capped at 300 percent of 
poverty. This bill is standard law. We will cover legal immigrants, and 
the law already indicates that those who are undocumented will not be 
covered.

In my own particular community of Harris County, we started in 
September of 2006 being able to do 56,000. This is a county of 4 
million people, and now in the metroplex we are up to 62,000. Do you 
think that is enough? Absolutely not. In our own State, the Center for 
Public Policy Priorities Associate Director says Texas will need 
additional Federal funds in coming years if the State wants to cover 
the 300,000 children eligible. We are a State that is 20 million plus, 
but not enrolled in the program today is a mere 300,000. The State is 
20 million plus, but we have 300,000 that can't get health insurance, 
as well as pregnant women. We need this bill. The Texas version of 
SCHIP covers children and families with incomes at or below 200 percent 
of the Federal poverty level.

Our State representative, Representative Coleman, has said this veto 
handcuffs Texas' ability to continue to reduce the number of uninsured 
children in our State.

You can bet your bottom dollar I'm going to stand with the majority 
of this Congress in a bipartisan way, not quarrelling over serving our 
children.

Vote for the SCHIP bill. This is the best way to save our children 
here in America.

Mr. Speaker, as the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I 
rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote in support of


H.R. 3963, the ''Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) 
Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' I rise in strong support of this 
legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the 
American people. Last November 2006, Americans went to polls by the 
millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a 
new direction and a change in the Bush Administration's disastrous 
neglect of the real needs of the American people, particularly children 
who lack health insurance through no fault of their own. The new 
Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 976, 
''State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act 
of 2007.'' The President vetoed the bill, basing his decision on the 
absurd and laughable claim that the program was thinly-disguised 
''socialized medicine'' and that it was too costly to provide health 
insurance for America's needy children.

The President's senseless veto of the SCHIP bill suggests that this 
Administration is operating under the misimpression that it is entitled 
to a continuation of the ancient regime under which the Republican-led 
Congress look askance and gave the President a blank check to mismanage 
the affairs of our nation.

Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President 
issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to 
escalate and continue the war in Iraq or to ignore the pressing 
domestic needs of the American people. It is long past time for change 
in Iraq and in the direction of the United States. Just as the people 
and government of Iraq must responsibility for their own country, the 
people's representatives in Congress must take the lead in addressing 
the real problems of real Americans living in the real world.

H.R. 3963 is a necessary step in the right direction because it 
provides dependable and stable funding for children's health insurance 
under titles XXI and XIX of the Social Security Act in order to enroll 
all six million uninsured children who are eligible for coverage today, 
but not enrolled. That is why I strongly support this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, next to the Iraq War, there is no more important issue 
facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the 
availability of affordable health care for all Americans, especially 
children.

By vetoing the bipartisan SCHIP Authorization Act, the President 
vetoed the will of the American people. By vetoing that legislation, 
the President turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the loud message 
sent by the American people last November.

I voted to override the President's veto because I can think of few 
goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to 
health coverage. I voted to override the President's veto because I put 
the needs of America's children first.
















 Texas Children


I am extremely pleased to know that the children in the State of 
Texas stand to benefit tremendously from the SCHIP Reauthorization Act. 
Texas has the highest rate of uninsured children in the nation, and 
Harris County the highest in the state. The bill goes a long way to 
provide coverage for the 585,500 children enrolled in Texas's CHIP 
program; and to reach the 998,000 children in families with incomes 
under the 200% Federal Poverty Level (FPL) who remain uninsured.

Mr. Speaker, this important legislation commits $50 billion to 
reauthorize and improve the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) 
and cover the six million children who meet its eligibility criteria.

Mr. Speaker, SCHIP was created in 1997, with broad bipartisan 
support, to address the critical issue of the large numbers of children 
in our country without access to healthcare. It serves the children of 
working families who earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but 
who either are not able to afford health insurance or whose parents 
hold jobs without healthcare benefits.

Children without health insurance often forgo crucial preventative 
treatment. They cannot go to the doctor for annual checkups or to 
receive treatment for relatively minor illnesses, allowing easily 
treatable ailments to become serious medical emergencies. They must 
instead rely on costly emergency care. This has serious health 
implications for these children, and it creates additional financial 
burdens on their families, communities, and the entire nation.

This year alone, 6 million children are receiving healthcare as a 
result of CHIP. However, stopgap funding for this visionary program 
expires November 16. Congress must act now to ensure that these 
millions of children can continue to receive quality, affordable health 
insurance.

As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I can think of few 
goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to 
health coverage. It costs us less than $3.50 a day to cover a child 
through CHIP. For this small sum, we can ensure that a child from a 
working family can receive crucial preventative care, allowing them to 
be more successful in school and in life. Without this program, 
millions of children will lose health coverage, further straining our 
already tenuous healthcare safety net.

Additionally, through this legislation, we have an opportunity to 
make health care even more available to America's children. The 
majority of uninsured children are currently eligible for coverage, 
either through CHIP or through Medicaid. We must demonstrate our 
commitment to identifying and enrolling these children, through both 
increased funding and a campaign of concerted outreach. This 
legislation provides States with the tools and incentives they need to 
reach these unenrolled children without expanding the program to make 
more children eligible.

In my home state of Texas, as of June 2006, SCHIP was benefiting 
293,000 children. This is a decline of over 33,000 children from the 
previous year. We must continue to work to ensure that all eligible 
children can participate in this important program. To this end, Texas 
Governor Rick Perry signed legislation in June which, among other 
things, creates a community outreach campaign for SCHIP.

In addition to reauthorizing and improving the SCHIP program, this 
legislation also protects and improves Medicare. Due to a broken 
payment formula, access to medical services for senior citizens and 
people with disabilities is currently in jeopardy. Physicians who 
provide healthcare to Medicare beneficiaries face a 10 percent cut in 
their reimbursement rates next year, with the prospect of further 
reductions in years to come looming on the horizon. The budget proposed 
by the Bush administration does not help these doctors, or the patients 
that they serve.

This is extremely important legislation providing for the health 
coverage of six million low-income children, as well as protecting the 
health services available to senior citizens and persons with 
disabilities. President Bush was wrong to veto this legislation. I 
stand strong with the children of America in voting to reauthorize this 
program. I urge all members to join so that we pass the bill with a 
veto-proof majority.

Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back the balance of my time.

According to Center for Public Policy Priorities Associate Director 
Anne Dunkelberg, Texas will need additional federal funds in coming 
years if the state wants to cover the 300,000 children eligible but not 
enrolled in the program, as well as pregnant women. Texas' version of 
SCHIP covers children in families with incomes at or below 200% of the 
federal poverty level.
