---
---

# HONORING TIMOTHY WILLIAMS
## `55a570739a9eede149a001de1f04ca28`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 19 March 2007`

---

 Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Timothy 
Williams for his 35 years of service at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs. This month, he is retiring as director of the VA Puget Sound 
Healthcare System. I want to thank him for his many years of hard work 
and leadership.

Our country makes a solemn promise to our servicemembers and their 
families, and every day dedicated VA employees help keep that promise. 
Director Williams faced many challenges in providing care in the Puget 
Sound, from increasing caseloads to difficult budgets. Through it all, 
he approached those challenges with unparalleled respect, 
understanding, and compassion for our veterans.

Throughout the country, the VA is recognized as providing some of the 
best health care in the Nation. The VA has led the way in pioneering 
electronic medical records and critical health research, much of which 
has been done in Seattle and Tacoma under the direction of Director 
Williams. On behalf of the constituents I represent, I want to thank 
Director Williams and all of the dedicated VA employees who have worked 
so hard to reach those milestones.

Director Williams has been a tireless champion for veterans. Working 
closely with Veterans Service Organizations, individual veterans, and 
the congressional delegation, he was always willing to work with 
people, to listen to their needs, and to sit down and discuss what is 
possible.

From hosting the VA's Wheelchair Games in 1995, to establishing one 
of the Nation's best spinal cord injury centers, to renovating the 
cancer clinic and bringing a Fisher House to the Seattle campus of the 
VA Puget Sound, Director Williams leaves behind a great legacy of 
championing the needs of veterans.

Circumstances were never easy for the VA's Puget Sound health care 
system. Tight budgets forced Tim and his entire staff to do more and 
more with less and less. As demand for care increased, Director 
Williams expanded the ability for the VA to treat more veterans. In 
fact, he oversaw the doubling of the patient care area to meet the 
demands.

Tim and his staff worked to expand the VA's efforts to treat veterans 
from Iraq and Afghanistan through the Deployment Health Clinic. The 
clinic focuses on the care of veterans who are experiencing health 
concerns related to a specific deployment. At the clinic, veterans 
receive a comprehensive evaluation, benefits counseling, and assistance 
with compensation and pension claims. Deployment Health Clinic staff 
will continue to provide veterans with their primary medical care as 
well as their mental health follow-up.

Today, the VA is facing tremendous challenges. A whole new generation 
of veterans is entering the system, and many will need care and support 
for a lifetime. As the VA takes on these new challenges, I know 
Director Williams will be missed. I hope his legacy lives on throughout 
the VA's Puget Sound health care system and throughout the VA.



I have said many times that VA staff members are truly our unsung 
heroes. Director Williams is one of those heroes. Whether attending 
veterans' gatherings in Port Angeles about efforts to expand VA care on 
the Peninsula, or working with the difficult issues facing the Walla 
Walla VA Medical Center, Tim approached his job with integrity, honesty 
and a dedication to America's veterans.

Director Williams, I wish you all the best in the future, and thank 
you for your distinguished service.
