---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `55b68b931dbcf43be5a3d31ba74b88e6`
`Mr. AKAKA — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I introduce legislation that would 
enhance and improve services for homeless veterans administered by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. This bill addresses a number of areas 
related to care and benefits for homeless veterans. It would modify the 
funding mechanism for community-based services to homeless veterans, 
expand capacity of services for women veterans, and improve outreach to 
servicemembers who are at risk of becoming homeless.

First, this legislation would lift a number of restrictions on VA's 
grant and per diem program. This program compensates community shelters 
for the services they provide to homeless veterans. VA currently pays 
$27 per day to community shelters for each veteran served. However, $27 
is barely sufficient to cover existing costs, and rising energy prices 
are stretching resources even more.

To meet the needs of their clients, many shelters seek additional 
sources of funding, but their per diem payments from VA are in turn 
offset by the amount of this additional funding. By eliminating this 
offset, the bill would enable providers to expand their services to 
veterans, and to receive funding from other sources to accomplish these 
expansions.

This legislation would also address the gap in domiciliary care for 
homeless women veterans. Women veterans are a growing proportion of the 
active duty force and overall veteran population. Homelessness among 
female veterans is a serious problem, and many facilities do not yet 
have the capacity to meet this demand. Domiciliary care is an essential 
component of treatment and rehabilitation, especially for mental health 
and substance abuse conditions which afflict many homeless veterans.

This bill would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to ensure 
that domiciliary programs have the capacity to accommodate women 
veterans, and that their specific safety and security concerns are 
addressed. As women become a larger proportion of the homeless veteran 
population, VA must have the capacity to meet their needs.

Finally, this legislation would increase efforts to identify and 
assist servicemembers who are at risk of becoming homeless. It would 
make permanent an already established and successful program to aid 
incarcerated veterans in their transition back to civilian life. The 
program identifies at risk individuals and refers them to counseling 
and services, including health care, job training and placement, and 
housing.

Building on the success of that program, the bill would also create a 
similar program to identify and support at risk individuals in their 
transition from military to civilian life. It has been proven through 
smaller scale efforts that this process can reduce the incidence of 
homelessness and other problems among new veterans who are being 
separated from military service.

Over 1 million servicemembers have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and as they transition from military service to civilian life some will 
be at risk of homelessness. Any effort VA can make to assist these 
servicemembers will improve lives and reduce the demand for VA homeless 
services in the years to come. We have all heard the sad and shocking 
statistic that one out of every three homeless persons on the street at 
any given time is a veteran. This bill is another step in attempting to 
address and solve this shameful problem.

I believe that this bill adjusts existing programs to take full 
advantage of existing resources and effective initiatives. I urge all 
of my colleagues to support this legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.