---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `55b8db542f7236f616c299e5779e5f3f`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, first I would like to thank 
Chairman Skelton and Chairman Lantos for allowing me to be part of this 
resolution, H. Con. Res. 63.

Also I want to thank the 10 Republicans who came to the floor to join 
me today to support this resolution. In closing, I want to again say 
this resolution is simple and to the point. The most important point is 
to say, Thank you, men and women in uniform; you are great, you are 
magnificent, we are behind you 100 percent.

The second part deals with the surge. Two very quick stories. Six 
months ago Gene Taylor and I went to Walter Reed. We went into a room 
that we were carried into and saw a mother with tears in her eyes, a 
father, and we shook their hands.

Then the Army colonel took us to the bed to speak to the Army 
sergeant who had been wounded in Iraq. We thanked him. We told him he 
was a hero. And he was just great. His fiancee was sitting at the end, 
at the foot of the bed. We met her. Then he said, I don't know if my 
opinion matters to you gentlemen. And we assured him it did matter. It 
mattered greatly.

He said, well, let me share this with you. I have been to Iraq three 
times. He said, I don't care if you are there 5 years or 10 years, you 
cannot change the people. If you look at the history, he is probably 
right. But then after he said that you cannot change the people, Mr. 
Speaker, he pulled the sheets down from his waist and we saw that above 
his knees his two legs were gone. In his third tour in Iraq he lost his 
legs.

I close by sharing this in this debate. I quoted five generals that 
have said in the last 6 months this surge will not work, it is not the 
right policy answer. I don't think anyone can say it any better than 
retired Army General Jay Garner, the first U.S. official in charge of 
postwar Baghdad. January 7, 2007. This is his quote. ''I don't know 
that the Iraqi Government has ever demonstrated an ability to lead the 
country, and we should not be surprised. You will never find in my 
lifetime one man that all of the Iraqis would coalesce around. Iraqis 
are too divided among sectarian, ethnic and tribal loyalties'' he said, 
''and their loyalties are regional, not national.''

Mr. Speaker, as I close, and this is my close, let's pass this 
resolution. Let's work with the President to find an end point to the 
strategy, and let's not put our men and women in the middle of a civil 
war to make them referees.

God bless America, and God bless our men and women in uniform. 
Please, God, continue to bless this country.