---
---

# None
## `55bdf47fc209654d71b50c3552df0bdb`
`Mr. TANNER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the Screaming Eagles 
of the 101st Airborne Division of the United States Army, based at Fort 
Campbell, a portion of which I am honored to represent in this chamber. 
This week marks the biennial celebration known as ''The Week of the 
Eagles,'' when we acknowledge the immeasurable contributions to our 
country from the current, veteran and fallen members of the 101st 
Airborne Division and their families, all of whom have made great 
personal sacrifices in service to our Nation.

The inspiration for the book and television mini-series ''The Band of 
Brothers,'' the Screaming Eagles have historically played prominent 
roles in World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam and Desert Storm. 
They were instrumental in successes in Operation Anaconda, a tough 
early front in the War on Terrorism in Afghanistan. They have also 
answered the call of duty repeatedly to serve in Iraq, and many of 
these courageous men and women will deploy to Iraq again later this 
year.

The tradition of ''The Week of the Eagles'' began in 1973 when the 
Screaming Eagles returned home from the Vietnam War and held a 
community festival to showcase the division's combat readiness. The 
celebration was resurrected in 1996 by 101st Airborne Division 
Commander Major General William Kernan to remember those service 
members who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to the United States 
Army. We now celebrate ''The Week of the Eagles'' biennially to both 
honor the fallen troops and their families and showcase the readiness 
of the 101st Airborne's mighty combat units.

I trust that, even if there is healthy difference of opinion among 
some of our colleagues and the international community about the 
civilian leadership of the United States Armed Forces, every member of 
this body supports those families who are bravely serving our country 
and is proud of the families of the 101st Airborne Division, whose 
efforts throughout the division's long and storied history have served 
our country well.

Madam Speaker, I join you and our colleagues in the House of 
Representatives in honoring the 101st Airborne Division, thanking the 
Screaming Eagles and their families for their dedication and 
patriotism, remembering those 101st Airborne members who have given 
their lives in service to our country, and recognizing ''The Week of 
the Eagles.''
