---
---

# IN MEMORY OF SERGEANT EDUVIGES WOLF
## `55c63fe4348f2d40a89705580701ffd3`
`Ms. WATERS — 19 November 2009`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker and Members, I have come to the floor to 
speak about two extraordinary individuals today. I rise first to honor 
the memory of Sergeant Eduviges Preciado Wolf of Hawthorne, California. 
Sergeant Eduviges was an Army sergeant assigned to the 704th Brigade 
Support Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, out 
of Fort Carson, Colorado. Sergeant Wolf was a hero who gave her life in 
service to her country.

Sergeant Wolf, also know as ''Duvi,'' dreamed of serving in the U.S. 
military as a child who emigrated to the United States from Mexico with 
her family. As soon as Duvi was able, she joined the United States 
military so that she could fulfill her lifelong dream to serve and 
protect her country. She met her husband Josh at Fort Bragg. Together, 
they had two daughters: 3-year-old Isabel and 1-year-old Valerie. Both 
Duvi and Josh were deployed to Afghanistan, where they served in 
separate units. Tragically, Duvi recently died in an insurgent attack 
while in Afghanistan. She was only 24 years old.

Earlier this month, on Veterans Day, I had the honor and privilege of 
participating in events with veterans and their families in my 
congressional district in Hawthorne and Inglewood, California. I was 
deeply moved by the families of our servicemembers. Not only do 
servicemembers make major sacrifices, but so do their families. They 
live with the harsh realities of war and its implications on them. 
Spouses must sacrifice long-term career planning, and children are 
oftentimes forced to transfer to different schools throughout the 
country. Tragically, as is the reality of combat theatre, some of our 
troops do not make it home.

Today, I salute and thank Sergeant Wolf, along with all of our 
Nation's past and present heroes who sacrifice a great deal in service 
to this country. I expressed my condolences to Duvi's sister Cecilia in 
Hawthorne on Veterans Day, and I know that her friends and family are 
still mourning. It is my hope that they will find comfort and peace in 
the loving memories and the distinguished legacy of service that Duvi 
leaves behind.













In Memory of Tommy Jacquette
