---
---

# TAX ON BONUSES RECEIVED FROM CERTAIN TARP RECIPIENTS
## `55d258765a302e1635faf884b2956ad5`
`Mr. DORGAN — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. We are on the FAA reauthorization bill. I want to comment 
on the discussion of my colleague from Arkansas, but I will do that 
briefly.

I did want to say before that, however, that we really threaten to 
lose this bill. We have been on the floor now 5 days. We have a number 
of amendments. We are going to vote at 2 o'clock today on a couple of 
amendments that are properly filed, but they have nothing to do with 
the underlying bill. We have some other amendments still waiting that 
have nothing to do with the underlying bill. And then we have this 
issue of slot rules and perimeter rules with National Airport, which is 
unbelievably complicated. I think we have eight amendments, and my hope 
is that we can convince people not to offer those amendments. We will 
try to deal with them in conference because the House has a couple of 
provisions. But if we do not complete this bill today, after 5 days, 
then I worry we will never get back to it and once again the issues of 
aviation safety and airport improvement funds and all of those issues 
will be left at the starting gate.

We have extended this 11 times. Rather than reauthorizing the FAA 
bill, we have extended it 11 times.

Now we finally have legislation that deals with aviation safety, 
which is so unbelievably important, a passengers' Bill of Rights, AIP 
improvement funds. Let's get this done today. I urge colleagues, if 
they have amendments to offer, offer them.

As to the vote at 2 o'clock, Senator Pryor has offered an amendment 
that one of my colleagues described as a cover amendment, not very 
serious. That is unfair to Senator Pryor. His amendment is not only 
serious, it is so much better than an amendment described as a baby 
step. It is OK to take baby steps, but we don't exactly face baby 
challenges. We have unbelievable fiscal policy challenges. It should 
not surprise anybody that we face these unbelievable challenges. Ten 
years ago, we had a budget surplus. President George Bush said: I want 
very large tax cuts, the bulk of which will go to the wealthiest 
Americans. Some of us said no. I said no. Katy bar the door, it 
happened. It accounts for about 50 percent of the current deficit, as a 
matter of fact, going forward.

Then we had a recession. Then we had a 9/11 attack. We had a war 
against terrorism, a war in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and now back in 
Afghanistan. None of that was paid for. All paid for with emergency 
money stuck on top of the Federal debt. This is unsustainable. There is 
no question how serious it is. But when we do address it, let's address 
it in a way that tends to grab this problem and begins to fix it. My 
colleague seemed to suggest, let's clean house, and we will only do the 
smallest room. That doesn't make any sense to me. Senator Pryor has 
offered an amendment that says: Let's look at all areas. I know why it 
is the smallest room. Because the minute you talk about taxes, some 
people here have an apoplectic seizure. What about asking people who 
aren't paying their fair share to do so. What about asking those 
earning the highest incomes in the land and paying a 15-percent tax 
rate to begin paying what the rest of the American people pay? How 
about that? Is that a tax increase? I suppose for somebody who makes 
$3.6 billion in a year, which is $300 million a month or $10 million a 
day, and that person, who incidentally was the highest income earner 
running a hedge fund in 2008, that person not only got $10 million a 
day in income but, because of the generosity of this Chamber and 
others, gets to pay a 15-percent rate, one of the lowest income tax 
rates.

Warren Buffett wrote an op-ed piece some while ago. I like Warren 
Buffett. I have known him for some years, one of the world's richest 
men. They did a little survey in his office in Omaha. Of the people who 
work in that office, if you take a look at the taxes paid, income taxes 
and payroll, the lowest tax rate paid was by one of the world's richest 
people. A higher tax rate is paid by his receptionist than by him. 
Think of that. Warren Buffett is the first to say that is not fair. It 
is not right. You need to straighten that out. Under what we are going 
to vote on proposed by the Sessions-McCaskill amendment, you couldn't 
do that. They want to keep that over here because that would be trouble 
if you decided to ask those folks to pay their fair share.

It is not a tax increase to ask others to pay what most Americans 
pay. If you want all the benefits America has to offer, how about 
meeting the responsibilities to your country?

That is a lengthy way of saying, Senator Pryor has offered an 
amendment that says: Let's look at everything. Let's ask those who are 
not paying their share to pay. Let's look at discretionary spending but 
not only that. Look at all of it: Defense, entitlements, do it all, and 
do it in a serious way with the seriousness of purpose that says to the 
people looking to the future, we are going to get this under control. 
We are going to seize this deficit and debt problem and tame it. We 
don't have a choice. If we don't reestablish some confidence in the 
future among the American people, this economy will not recover.

I briefly taught economics in college. I used to teach that this is 
all about confidence. If people are confident, they do things that are 
expansive to the economy--buy a suit, a car, a home, take a trip. They 
do things that expand the economy. When they are not confident about 
their families, about the future, they do exactly the opposite. They 
delay the purchase. That contracts the economy. We need to do some 
things that will give the American people some confidence that we are 
not going to stay on this path. This path is unsustainable. It requires 
us to look at every aspect of fiscal policy and domestic policy and 
find a way to tame these deficits.

I strongly support the amendment offered by the Senator from 
Arkansas. I don't agree it deserves to be called a cover amendment. It 
has a much greater seriousness of purpose than the Sessions-McCaskill 
amendment. I hope the Senate will see fit to support the amendment 
offered by Senator Pryor.

I yield the floor.