# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `55d356d9deae23c9fc6dbcbbb371368b`
`Mr. ENZI — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to express my concern and deep regret 
over the conference report to H.R. 2206, the U.S. Troop Readiness, 
Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Appropriations Act of 2007.

I am extremely disappointed our troops have to continue to pay the 
price for our political posturing on this legislation and the inclusion 
of funding for pet programs in a must-pass military funding bill.

I want to make very clear my strong support for the members of our 
Armed Forces and the vital work they are doing around the world every 
day. I have the greatest admiration for all of them, for their 
commitment to preserving our freedoms and maintaining our national 
security. They are all true heroes, and they are the ones who are doing 
the heavy lifting and making the great sacrifices in our country's name 
so we might continue to be the land of the free and the home of the 
brave.

We are faced with a vote on a bill that our troops need, but the 
troops are not the focus of this legislation. This supplemental is yet 
another example of a Congress whose fiscal house is not in order. It 
contains more than $17 billion in unrequested items--$17 billion in 
funding that has nothing to do with the war on terror.

The intent of this legislation is to fund our troops and to provide 
them with the resources they need to win the war on terror. Emergency 
supplementals are not intended to be a Christmas tree that includes 
presents in the form of every Member's favorite pet programs. 
Unfortunately, the bill we will be voting on is just that.

This legislation includes funding for a number of programs I would 
support on their own merits. It includes agricultural disaster 
assistance for our Nation's ranchers who have suffered through years of 
drought. Many of those are in Wyoming. It includes funding for the 
Secure Rural Schools program. These are both important priorities for 
people in Wyoming, and although I support the programs on their merits, 
I do not support their inclusion in this emergency war supplemental.

This legislation is not intended to deal with drought relief. It is 
not intended to deal with SCHIP. It is not intended to deal with 
wildland fire management. It is intended to fund our troops. Instead of 
attaching these unrelated programs to a must-pass troop funding bill, a 
fiscally responsible Congress would examine each of these programs on 
their own merits through our regular appropriations process--or else we 
ought to call ourselves irresponsible.

The American people have made clear that we need to be fiscally 
responsible. They have made clear they do not support spending billions 
of taxpayers' dollars with little or no debate. Unfortunately, if this 
legislation passes, that is exactly what we are going to do.

The war supplemental also touches on various issues before the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, including minimum 
wage and pensions. Unfortunately, our committee was not consulted on 
this language nor made any part of the discussions on this 
supplemental.

The supplemental contains a provision that will boost the Federal 
minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour. I have always believed any 
increase in the minimum wage must be accompanied by appropriate relief 
for those small business employers who have to absorb those costs. It 
is a mandate. Small businesses are the proven engine for our economy, 
and they are the greatest source of employment opportunity for U.S. 
workers. A raise in the minimum wage is of no value to a worker without 
a job or a job seeker without prospects.


It was for these very reasons the minimum wage package which passed 
the Senate, with overwhelming bipartisan support--overwhelming 
bipartisan support; I think there were two votes in opposition--
contained a series of provisions designed to provide relief for small 
businesses. That is how we got it. That was bipartisan.

The Senate-passed versions of the minimum wage legislation contained 
significant tax relief that was targeted to small businesses and 
industries most likely to employ minimum wage workers. Unfortunately, 
much of this tax relief has been stripped from the current version of 
the supplemental. While some tax relief remains, the lion's share of 
that relief is contained in the Work Opportunity Tax Credit provisions, 
which, as a practical matter, are not utilized by small businesses.

While the bill does continue to contain important regulatory relief 
provisions, such as compliance assistance for small businesses, and a 
small business childcare grant authorization, the tax relief this body 
overwhelmingly determined was necessary to help small businesses offset 
the cost of a new Federal minimum wage is no longer contained in the 
legislative package, nor were any of us consulted. I cannot support 
legislation that dramatically raises the Federal minimum wage and fails 
to acknowledge and adequately offset the impact of such an increase on 
our small businesses.

With respect to pensions, last year the Senate Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions worked with other committees in landmark 
legislation to author the most extensive overhaul of pension funding 
rules in a generation. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 was signed 
into law in August 2006, following extensive--extensive--bipartisan, 
bicameral negotiations. Conferees were intent on ensuring that 
retirement plans are properly funded and that Americans' retirement 
savings would be there when they need it.

One of the fundamental reasons for pension funding reform was to 
ensure--to ensure--the solvency of the Pension Benefit Guaranty 
Corporation and its ability to guarantee benefits in plans that are 
underfunded. I am very concerned that there are provisions in the war 
supplemental that the House leadership claims are technical corrections 
to the Pension Protection Act. Any changes to the Pension Protection 
Act must be considered by the committees that have jurisdiction, the 
ones that know about all the intricacies and interrelationships of the 
parts that are in there, instead of legislating on an appropriations 
bill.


Chairman Kennedy and I sent a letter to Senate leadership on Tuesday 
night citing our concerns with the House approach. I ask unanimous 
consent to have printed in the Record a copy of that letter.