---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `55da95fd033b14c9872d4afb7b00d961`
`Ms. DeGETTE — 24 May 2007`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment to be 
voted on today which will provide supplemental funds for the war in 
Iraq.

As I have said before on the floor of the House, it is time we ended 
our military involvement in Iraq. We are not making progress, despite 
losing thousands of lives, expending years of effort, and spending 
hundreds of billions of dollars. This is a viewpoint shared by the vast 
majority of the American people.

I strongly support our troops and understand we must provide 
resources for them in the field. However, today's amendment continues 
the President's failed policy in Iraq by not holding him accountable to 
his own benchmarks for success and failing to set a timetable for the 
redeployment of our troops. Although the amendment ties non-military 
aid to the Iraqi Government's progress in meeting certain benchmarks, 
the President can waive the requirement.

Spending billions on the war in Iraq without providing a prescription 
for withdrawal or benchmarks with meaningful consequences for the Iraqi 
Government, as the amendment before us would do, does our troops and 
our entire Nation a disservice. It suggests that we will continue this 
war without end or without putting meaningful pressure on the Iraqi 
Government to do its fair share.

Unfortunately, President Bush and most Republicans in Congress 
believe that this is exactly what we should do. President Bush vetoed 
H.R. 1591, which imposed benchmarks with real consequences on the Iraqi 
Government and mandated that our military forces would have left Iraq 
by August 2008. So far he has refused to accept any major changes in 
his Iraq policy,

If President Bush continues to be intransigent, Congress has the 
responsibility to use its spending power to truly make a meaningful 
change in the direction of the war in Iraq. The amendment under 
consideration does not do that and I ask my colleagues to vote against 
it.