---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `55e0ff48d73eb15008edfe36e287de0b`
`Mr. LEAHY — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am sorry I even have to be on the floor, 
but I know the Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. Coburn, offered an amendment 
to strike a $2 million provision in the supplemental designated for the 
James M. Jeffords Institute. That is something, incidentally, that is 
already 100 percent paid for. It is not like the $1 trillion the 
Senator from Oklahoma supports for a needless war in Iraq.

The money, the $2 million identified to fund this center, is not 
designated as emergency or new. It is funded through a rescission to 
already existing dollars for the current fiscal year. It was going to 
be appropriated last year, but we never finished our appropriations 
bills and had to go to a continuing resolution.

These funds were included because Senator Jeffords championed policy 
initiatives and investments that focused on the long-term well-being 
and educational needs of all Americans. It was put in in a bipartisan 
way by Senators from both parties reflecting that.

Along with the leadership of the Appropriations Committee and the 
Senate, on both sides of the aisle, I felt this would be a fitting way 
to honor Senator Jeffords' service to our country while there is still 
time. Clearly, Senator Coburn does not feel that way. Sadly, that is 
not going to happen today. I think it is a disgrace.

Mr. President, as I said, I am disheartened that I need to come to 
the Senate floor to debate an amendment this afternoon that would 
strike a $2 million provision in the supplemental designated for the 
James M. Jeffords Institute that is 100 percent paid for already.

The U.S. Senate has many important issues to deal with right now. And 
this is just not one of them.

The Senator from Oklahoma has every right to offer this amendment. It 
is interesting, however, that he does not find it a priority to 
question the $1 trillion that our country has spent to fight the war in 
Iraq.

I can comfortably conclude, and this will be no surprise to the 
Senator from Oklahoma, that we share a different view about what the 
U.S. Senate should take time to debate on the floor.

The fiscal year 2007 supplemental appropriations bill includes $2 
million to further the establishment of the James M. Jeffords 
Institute, a center for educational excellence at the University of 
Vermont. This is an effort to acknowledge the long and distinguished 
service to Vermont and our Nation of our former colleague and friend, 
Senator Jim Jeffords, in promoting educational and policy excellence in 
the fields of education, environment, health, and agriculture.

As a tribute to Senator Jeffords for his 32 years of service in both 
the House and Senate, $3 million was included in the fiscal year 2007 
Labor-HHS Appropriations bill to support the UVM Education in 
Excellence program. However, because the fiscal year 2007 
appropriations bills were left uncompleted by the last Congress, and


due to the need to wrap up the process with a continuing resolution, 
this program, which had been the work of Senator Jeffords, was not 
funded.

Senator Jeffords did not seek reelection last fall so he could spend 
more time with his family and to address ongoing health issues. I am 
sad to note that these health issues continue.

In light of these developments with his health, I have worked with 
the chairmen of the Appropriations Committee and Labor-HHS Subcommittee 
and Senate leadership to include funding for the Jeffords Institute in 
the bill we now consider.

I will note that the $2 million identified to fund the center is not 
designated emergency or new. The project is funded through a rescission 
to already existing dollars for the current fiscal year and therefore 
does not increase the overall spending level of this bill or existing 
fiscal year 2007 spending levels.

Throughout his life in public service, Senator Jeffords championed 
policy initiatives and investments that focus on and enhance the 
overall well-being and educational success of individuals from early 
childhood through later years.

He championed legislation to strengthen our Nation's education system 
and increase the opportunities for individuals with disabilities. In 
1975, he entered the House of Representatives as a new Member wearing a 
neck brace--as Jim was fond of saying, he was the walking wounded from 
a tough election--and went on to coauthor what would later be known as 
the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, IDEA. That landmark 
legislation has provided equal access to education for millions of 
students with disabilities, students who otherwise would have been 
shunted aside and this country would not have had the value of their 
achievements. As chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and 
Pension Committee, he continued to work tirelessly on education, job 
training, and disability legislation.

The Jeffords Institute continues those efforts by identifying and 
developing research and best practices that inform educational and 
social policies on early childhood, literacy, and youth development. A 
major focus of the institute will include collaboration with and 
preparation of teachers, administrators, and policymakers in the 
development and implementation of programs, policies, and practices 
that lead to positive, demonstrable outcomes in education and policy 
practices. Beyond the initial focus, which Senator Jeffords has been 
instrumental in shaping, the institute will expand its efforts to 
address policy and practice in the fields of environmental, health, and 
agriculture and their interrelationship with one another, with 
education being the overarching mission.

Senator Coburn's amendment to strike this provision from the 
supplemental appropriations bill is ill-considered. I think my 
colleagues will agree that Senator Jim Jeffords served Vermont well 
and, just as importantly, he served the House, Senate, and our Nation 
well. Were circumstances different, I would say that we could wait and 
find regular appropriations vehicles through which to fund this 
project.

I, along with the leadership of the Appropriations Committee and the 
Senate, believe this would be a fitting way to honor Senator Jeffords' 
service to our country while there is still time. Clearly, Senator 
Coburn does not feel that way. Sadly, that will not happen today. But I 
expect that the Senate will in due time give proper recognition to 
Senator Jeffords who we are so proud of in Vermont.