---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `55e0e0703d0c3f9246cd1ca76f222641`
`Mr. CONYERS — 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of S. 1963, the 
''Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009.'' As a 
Korean War veteran, I understand the various challenges that veterans 
face when returning home. This bill takes a significant step forward in 
terms of improving the overall access to quality, affordable health 
care for our nation's veterans and provides much needed assistance to 
the devoted families across this nation that provide housing, food, and 
full-time care for wounded veterans.

Under S. 1963, veterans who are catastrophically disabled would no 
longer be required to pay copayments for their medical


care. As we all know, in America, the sicker you are, the more you must 
pay in out-of-pocket costs. Passage of this bill means veterans and 
their caretakers will be able to live with less financial stress.

This bill also increases funding to expand VA clinics in rural areas 
where VA programs currently do not exist. Veterans living in rural 
areas must often travel hundreds of miles in order to receive care at a 
Veterans hospital--a crushing burden for veterans who need frequent 
health care services, and must pay for expensive travel due to 
increasing transportation costs.

The bill will also help address the many hardships and sacrifices 
associated with the lengthy recovery and rehabilitation associated with 
severe injuries. In particular, the bill improves access to counseling 
and mental health services. S. 1963 also provides health care and a 
stipend for caregivers living with severely wounded veterans of the 
wars Iraq and Afghanistan. This stipend should help reduce the enormous 
financial pressures on caregivers who are providing food, clothing, 
transportation, and housing to their wounded loved ones during one of 
the worst economic downturns since the Great Depression.

Again, I thank the Democratic leadership for introducing this 
important bill, which will go a long way in improving the lives of 
scores of veterans and their caregivers for years to come. I encourage 
my colleagues to support the bill.