---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `55e1fff035b87e0cc379218079aa3301`
`Ms. CLARKE — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my support for key 
provisions and amendment to H.R. 4899, the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act of 2010. The bill provides a myriad of critical emergency funding 
for disaster relief in Haiti, the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, as 
well as fully paid for investments to meet domestic needs, such as 
education jobs and Pell Grants. Unfortunately, this bill also includes 
funding for the war in Afghanistan, the longest war in our nation's 
history.

While I am grateful to the men and women who serve valiantly in our 
Armed Forces, both at home and abroad, I strongly oppose any additional 
funding for the war in Afghanistan. This war has gone on long enough 
without a clear and sufficient exit strategy. My constituents and I can 
no longer bear to see more Americans die or remain in harm's way, for 
this fruitless war. The time is now to bring our troops home, stop the 
unnecessary spending and stabilize our economy. That is why I support 
the amendments offered by CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee and James 
McGovern, David Obey and Walter Jones.

I commend Chairwoman Lee for working diligently to bring her 
important amendment for a vote. I agree we must begin to end the war by 
limiting funds to the safe, timely withdrawal of US troops and military 
contractors from Afghanistan. The people in my district demand it, I 
morally oppose it, and time is of the essence.

I also want to commend the Chairman David Obey and the Members of the 
Committee on Appropriations for their hard work on the House Amendment 
to the Senate bill. In particular, I want to thank the Committee for 
including funding for school districts, like those in New York City, 
that are poised to receive high concentrations of Haitian child 
refugees. These children are more likely to settle in already 
overburdened school districts. Therefore, schools receiving these 
children will undoubtedly need extra resources to accommodate this new 
population. In April, I joined my colleagues on a letter to Chairman 
Obey, expressing this very concern. I am grateful that this language 
was adopted.

Additionally the Obey amendment provides major benefits to education 
for all Americans. It includes $10 billion in aid to local school 
districts avert massive teacher layoffs and $5 billion to help close 
the current shortfall in Pell Grants for college students--the absence 
of which would seriously imperil education funding for fiscal year 
2011. This will affect thousands of teachers and students in my 
district and in the Greater New York area.

I strongly believe that H.R. 4899 is a key tool for Haiti's 
redevelopment. As the Representative of the second largest Haitian 
population of first and second generation Haitians Americans, I am 
greatly pleased that the bill includes $2.93 billion dollars for the 
U.S. participation in the Haiti disaster relief, $130 million above the 
President's request. The people of Haiti, its government, USAID and the 
Department of State cannot move forward in their recovery and 
reconstruction plans without the pledged financial support from our 
government.

Mr. Speaker, I support our troops, veterans, and military families, 
and in honor of them I voted to reunite our service members in 
Afghanistan with their families here at home. My heart also goes out to 
the people of Haiti and will continue to support our reconstruction 
efforts there. Lastly, I am proud that the advocacy efforts of the New 
York congressional delegation in pushing to save education jobs in New 
York City have paid off.