# None
## `55f7ef16b3bc64eb5eb49fe22508c5ee`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 27 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 2929, offered by my colleague Ms. Lee of California, of which I 
am proud to be a cosponsor.

This important legislation declares that it is U.S. policy not to 
establish any military installation for providing for the permanent 
stationing of U.S. forces in Iraq. It is also not U.S. policy to 
exercise U.S. control over Iraqi oil resources. This legislation 
prohibits any funds appropriated by Congress from being used toward 
either of these ends.

Mr. Speaker, we have already expended 3,500 American lives and $400 
billion in taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We have occupied the


country for over 4 years. And our President continues to push a 
strategy devoid of clear direction and visible targets, while rejecting 
congressional calls to solidify an exit strategy.

President Bush's ''New Way Forward'' strategy, announced in January, 
calls for the deployment of an additional 21,500 U.S. combat forces, to 
be used to stabilize Baghdad and the Anbar Province. This comes at a 
time when, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal Poll, 59 
percent of Americans believe we should be reducing the number of troops 
in Iraq.

Last November, the American people clearly stated that they did not 
want to see an endless conflict in Iraq; they went to the polls and 
elected a new, Democratic Congress to lead our nation out of Iraq. I am 
proud to be a member of the Congressional class that listens and 
adheres to the will of the American people, as we did when both houses 
of Congress approved Iraq Supplemental bills that instituted a 
timetable for U.S. withdrawal. We need a new direction, because we owe 
our brave, fighting men and women so much more. Washington made a 
mistake in going to war. It is time for politicians to admit that 
mistake and fix it before any more lives are lost.

Though much of Iraq's infrastructure now lies in ruins, the country 
still has an immense abundance of energy resources. In proven oil 
reserves, Iraq ranks behind only Saudi Arabia and Canada, though the 
exact extent of its reserves remains controversial. Most estimates are 
in the range of 115 billion barrels, with approximately 65 percent 
located in the southern fields, particularly the Rumalia fields.

Iraq's energy sector is vital to the nation's political and economic 
future, with oil exports funding virtually all imports of basic goods, 
including food and medicine. Oil exports currently provide about 95 
percent of Iraq's foreign exchange earnings.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Congresswoman Lee for introducing 
this important legislation, and I strongly urge my colleagues to join 
me in supporting it.
