---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `55f7d8115a9110285ae98a3b58514e12`
`Mr. SERRANO — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. This is, indeed, a very solemn occasion; and anyone 
watching this debate, either on television or in the gallery, should 
understand that we take very seriously what we say here today. We may 
disagree on what the final outcome should be, but we do take it very 
seriously.

And I take it seriously as I recall a funeral I attended, it seems a 
long time ago, for a member of the Armed Forces, Luis Moreno, who was 
killed in Iraq. I remember that rainy morning, leaving the church on 
the way to the cemetery, the pain and the sadness that took place in 
the whole community, the pain and the sadness that engulfed a family 
and everyone who was there.

We took seriously the loss of that life, and we honor every day the 
fact that he was sent to that battlefield and he gave his life for that 
particular cause, which we discuss today.

We are here in his honor to say that we have to make sure that we no 
longer continue to escalate this war which was presented to us, it 
seems again, a long time ago based on, at the minimum, false 
information, and at most, sadly, lies presented to this Congress.



We have to make sure that no further loss of life takes place. So 
much has been said today about supporting our troops. Well, I know of 
no greater support than to bring them home tomorrow morning.

I know a lot of people will say, if you bring them home, Iraq will 
become a mess. Well, has anyone noticed that Iraq is a mess?

Well, if you bring them home now, Iraq will become a country in a 
civil war. Has anyone noticed that Iraq is involved in a civil war?

The question is, will we wait for more Americans to lose their lives 
and more to be wounded?

When I say that we were given bad information or possibly lied to, we 
were told at that time, I remember, how the weapons of mass destruction 
were stored in Iraq and that we had to get them before they got us, and 
how there was a link between al Qaeda and September 11 and Saddam 
Hussein. And now, even the administration and its ardent supporters 
agree that there was no link between Saddam Hussein and September 11, 
there was no link between al Qaeda, there was no link between any of 
that that we were told; and we still haven't found the weapons of mass 
destruction. It was simply a desire to take us to where we shouldn't 
be. And in the process, we really blew it.

I was in New York City on September 11; I was not with my colleagues 
here. It was election day in New York, primary day, and I was there in 
New York on that day for some local elections. I lived through that 
moment, and I know how painful that was. But beginning with September 
12, the world was with us. Every country was supportive of what we were 
going through. It always amazed me that countries that live with 
terrorism on a daily basis thought that, for some reason, the attack on 
us was in many ways even bigger than the attacks on their own country, 
and they supported us. We could have taken that goodwill and used it 
for positive things throughout the world. What did we do? We totally 
lost the goodwill by going and invading a country that had nothing to 
do with September 11. And so now, the same people who supported us no 
longer support us.

What we are doing here today is exerting a constitutional right. This 
is not a political exercise, this is not a legislative exercise, this 
is Members of Congress saying that it is our right to oversee the 
President and to stop him whenever we can when we know that any 
President, any administration is making a mistake.

Now, how has this administration been able to keep us supportive in 
some ways up to now? By doing something which is really sad, by 
questioning our patriotism. And so tonight and tomorrow and for the 
next couple of days more will question our patriotism. But I ask you, 
isn't a true patriot he or she who is not holding back to question the 
actions of his country even during wartime? Isn't that the true patriot 
who is willing to say, even during wartime, stop it now, stop the 
madness before it goes any further and before we lose more of our young 
people?

And so we gather here after 3,109 losses, after 23,000 wounded 
soldiers saying we have to stop it now, and we have to vote for this 
resolution.