---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5603652a216f45011f4c0720045daf85`
`Mr. BOUSTANY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in vigorous opposition to this 
resolution. With all due respect to my colleagues across the aisle, 
this resolution does not outline a new strategy for how we move forward 
in Iraq and it will have absolutely no impact on the current strategy. 
Furthermore, it is the wrong signal to send to our allies in the region 
and the wrong signal to send to our troops, those brave, courageous men 
and women in uniform who have performed magnificently and done 
everything that we have asked them to do.

This nonbinding resolution addresses a tactic, not an overall 
strategy; a tactic that the President of the United States as Commander 
in Chief has full constitutional authority to move with.

Now, I respect my colleagues across the aisle, and I know we all want 
to see a disengagement of our troops from harm's way in Iraq. But I 
would submit that disengagement must be done under favorable 
circumstances in the interests of our national security. There is no 
other alternative.

Let's look at what would happen with a failed policy in Iraq. Iraq is 
on the verge of anarchic fragmentation. There are 27 ethnic groups in 
Iraq. It is not as simple as a Sunni versus Shiia conflict. There are 
other splinter groups using violence for their own designs.

Precipitous withdrawal from Iraq will lead to unprecedented violence, 
spilling over into neighboring countries such as Jordan, Kuwait and 
Saudi Arabia, and we will see Shiia uprisings in Lebanon and Bahrain, 
which have significant Shiia populations. Jordan is already facing 
massive numbers of refugees coming across the border, putting strain. 
And Iranian influence is growing. The regime is intent on gaining 
hegemony in the region, exerting its influence widely throughout the 
Middle East and controlling oil and gas reserves to use the money to 
further fuel terrorism. Al Qaeda will consolidate a base to work from 
in western Iraq to perpetrate further transnational terrorism, and 
Turkey will be compelled to cross borders to deal with separatist 
groups.

America, dear America, will lose support of its vital allies in the 
region and our reputation will suffer immensely for a very long period 
of time, much longer than what we saw after the Vietnam conflict.

It is clear to me that security and political reconciliation in Iraq 
run parallel, and without halting the spiral of violence, 
reconciliation within Iraq will not occur. Without halting the spiral 
of violence, our allies in the Persian Gulf and the broader Middle East 
will be forced to deal with their own political disruption, rather than 
starting multilateral dialogue that is so essential for a longer 
standing peace throughout this entire region, whether we are talking 
about the Palestinian issues, Lebanon, Iraq or Iran. Our allies in the 
region, particularly, need political cover. I have heard this from 
numerous Arab Ambassadors whom I have had many conversations with.

The ground must be laid for multilateral diplomacy. It will not occur 
during a spiral of violence. Our allies in the region have given 
commitment that they will help with Iraqi military training, police 
training, as well as rebuilding of Iraq and further resources, once the 
stage is set with security and a move toward reconciliation.

So, if we are going to be responsible in this body, there are 
questions we really need to ask if we are going to formulate a strategy 
and work with this administration for a winning strategy in Iraq. The 
questions that need to be asked are these: What are the benchmarks for 
its Iraqi military? What are the benchmarks for the Iraqi Government, 
for reconciliation and for internal reform in Iraq? What are the rules 
of engagement for our troops who will be going over there to assist in 
this Baghdad security operation? What resources are available? What 
manpower and personnel are available to our State Department and USAID 
to help and assist in the reform and reconciliation process so that we 
can create the groundwork for diplomatic resolution? And as we look at 
a clear holding bill, who is going to do the holding? Who is going to 
do the building? These are questions that a responsible Congress should 
be asking, not whether or not to support this surge.

The American people voted for change. This resolution offers nothing 
to shape a new strategy on how to move forward successfully in Iraq. 
The American people deserve more from Congress, and, by God, our troops 
deserve more from this Congress.