---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT--HOUSE MESSAGE ON H.R. 2642
## `5604c158bc33250d08515e2d6e1a45f1`
`Mr. REID — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that following any 
leader time on Thursday, May 22, the Senate then resume consideration 
of the House message on H.R. 2642, and there be 2 hours of debate 
equally divided and controlled between the leaders or their designees; 
that upon the use or yielding back of time, the cloture motion with 
respect to the Reid motion to concur in House amendment No. 2 with an 
amendment be withdrawn, and the Reid second-degree amendment be 
withdrawn; that the Senate then proceed to vote on adoption of the 
motion to concur in House amendment No. 2 with an amendment; that the 
motion to concur be subject to an affirmative 60-vote threshold, that 
if the motion achieves that threshold, it be agreed to, and the motion 
to reconsider be laid upon the table; that if the motion to concur 
fails to achieve 60 votes, it be withdrawn, and Senator Reid be 
recognized to move to concur in House amendment No. 2 with an amendment 
which is the Webb GI bill; that the motion be subject to an affirmative 
60-vote threshold; and that if it achieves that threshold, the motion 
to concur be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the 
table: that if it fails to achieve 60 affirmative votes, it be 
withdrawn, and the Senate disagree to House amendment No. 2; that upon 
disposition of House amendment No. 2, Senator Reid be recognized to 
move to concur in House amendment No. 1 with an amendment which is the 
text of the committee-reported amendments Nos. 2 and 3 on funding and 
Iraq policy; that Senator Sanders then be recognized to make a rule XVI 
point of order against section 11312 of the Reid motion; that if the 
point of order is sustained, Senator Reid be recognized to move to 
concur in House amendment No. 1 with an amendment which is the text of 
committee amendments Nos. 2 and 3 minus section 11312; that it be 
subject to a 60 affirmative vote threshold, and that if it achieves 
that threshold, it be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid 
upon the table; that if it fails to achieve the 60-vote threshold, it 
be withdrawn, and Senator Reid be recognized to move to concur in House 
amendment No. 1 with an amendment which is the text of the committee 
amendment No. 2 minus section 11312; that the motion be subject to an 
affirmative 60-vote threshold; and that if the motion achieves that 
threshold, it be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon 
the table; if it fails to achieve that threshold, then it be withdrawn, 
and the Senate disagree to House amendment No. 1; that no further 
points of order be in order, with no intervening action or debate.