---
---

# None
## `5617e06967fd185ab61af8dde880dc4e`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to talk to you for a second 
about Specialist Sean Walsh. Sean served for two tours of duty in Iraq 
in the 933rd Military Police Company in the 16th Airborne Brigade of 
the United States Army. He protected main supply routes. He and his 
unit were inundated with sniper fire and IEDs.

Today, Sean Walsh is a plumber in the City of Chicago. He wants to go 
to college. Sean cannot afford to go to college. His dream is to become 
an engineer.

This GI Bill, this GI Bill is for Sean Walsh and his unit, so Sean 
Walsh can do for Sean Walsh what Sean Walsh did for Iraq. He gave them 
a chance. He gave them a chance to build a better country. That is what 
we said when we sent Sean there. And now it is time America invests in 
Sean Walsh. We have spent $50 billion of U.S. taxpayer money rebuilding 
roads and bridges and streets and schools in Iraq, and this is about 
$50 billion to rebuild Sean Walsh and his unit.

The American people are the most generous people in the world, but 
they will not continue to be generous if you foreclose their future. I 
think this is what we owe Sean Walsh, because we asked him to do 
something, not once, but twice.

Sean wants to be an engineer, and I am for Sean being an engineer. I 
want to make sure Sean can get to college, and this is going to invest 
in his future. He earned it the old-fashioned way; he gave something 
for his country. And when America was asked to help rebuild Iraq, we 
did it. It is time we do that for Sean.

In addition, one of the things I am most proud about in this 
legislation is that from now on, in all the rebuilding of Iraq, the 
Iraqis must put in 50 percent of the dollars.