---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `561c9d774b218c578fad19bfb603ca1b`
`Mr. INHOFE — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, first of all, I thank my friend from 
Virginia and also the chairman of the committee. They have done a great 
job in getting this bill up, and I was concerned that we weren't going 
to get to it today. That wouldn't have been a good message to send.

I think we have a good authorization bill, although I think there are 
some shortfalls. I am encouraged by the funding levels we are 
authorizing for the F-22, the F-35, the KC-X, and the Future Combat 
System--although with the Future Combat System we did take a cut of 
about $205 million. That is something I hope we will be able to get 
restored next time. It is interesting that a lot of people don't 
realize how important the Future Combat System is. We have not had a 
major renovation in transformation on the ground in decades. I do 
believe that cut needs to be restored, and I think we can work on that 
in the future.

I am further encouraged that the bill authorizes a 3.5-percent 
across-the-board pay raise. I believe that is very important at this 
time, as is the authorization of funding for Afghanistan and Iraq. I 
will be going there again in about 3 weeks. Every time I go, I see the 
great successes they are having, and I get very excited. However, while 
we have authorized something that is adequate in this case, the 
appropriations aren't there yet. I think it is vital that we get this 
done immediately.

There are other areas I want to concentrate on next time. I think the 
Train and Equip Program is one of the best things we have, the program 
expanding the IMET Program, where we would be able to train a lot of 
the military officers of other countries, primarily countries that are 
found in Africa and others. There was a time when we thought that in 
our IMET Program we were doing them a favor by allowing them to come 
and be trained by us. But now I think we understand that if we don't do 
it, other countries will. There is no better way to ensure the 
allegiance of countries than to train them. I think that needs to be 
improved.

I hope we will get to the point where we recognize that if we in the 
United States want to have the best of everything--I am talking about 
the best lift programs, strike programs, ground programs--we are going 
to have to really do a better job at the top line. We went through 100 
years in this country of spending 5.7 percent of our GDP on military, 
and it went down, at the end of the nineties, to about 2.7 percent. It 
is now hanging at about 3.6. I think the expectations of the American 
people are that we should have the best of everything to do that. We 
are going to have to increase the top line. I believe we will be able 
to address that in the next session.

I am glad the bill is here today. I look forward to getting this 
passed and sending the message to our very courageous fighting men and 
women that help is on the way.

I yield the floor.