---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE EXCEPTIONAL SACRIFICE OF THE 69TH INFANTRY REGIMENT,  KNOWN AS THE FIGHTING 69TH
## `561de05905c5b2b2ebb240ce1e4d55e1`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 991, which 
recognizes the continuing service of the 69th Infantry Regiment, New 
York National Guard, whose citizen soldiers have faithfully answered 
America's call to arms since the regiment's formation back in 1851.

Today, the 69th Infantry Regiment is again deploying to Afghanistan 
to continue America's fight in the global war on terror.

In this most recent of American wars, the 69th has borne already a 
distinguished part. It was one of the first units to assist, as was 
mentioned, in the recovery effort at the World Trade Center in New York 
following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. It subsequently 
deployed to Iraq as Task Force Wolfhound where it fought to defend the 
City of al Taji against al Qaeda terrorists, protected Iraq's free 
elections, first free elections, and secured the infamous Route Irish, 
the most dangerous road in Baghdad. During that service in Iraq, 19 
members of the Fighting 69th were killed in action and 78 were wounded.

In its history, the regiment has served the Nation, and as was 
mentioned also, in five wars and 20 campaigns and six of its members 
have been awarded the Medal of Honor. It is fitting that this 
resolution recognizes not only the historic contributions of the 69th 
Infantry Regiment, but also the depth America owes the soldiers of the 
unit for their exceptional service, patriotism and fidelity in fighting 
in all fronts of the global war on terror since the attack on September 
11, 2001.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.