---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `5621d1579870eeca609bd2822f5fcdc4`
`Mr. BUYER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 5 minutes.

I rise in favor of this bill, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act. For 
over 15 years, whether it was on the House Armed Services Committee or 
chairman of the personnel responsible for the military health delivery 
system or now at the VA, issues on seamless transition have been 
around. It appears that we can only measure success incrementally. For 
that, it is also unfortunate, because we deal with bureaucracies with 
both of these very large Departments and their subagencies.

Mr. Skelton had some challenges in front of him because his 
leadership rushed him to get this bill to the floor. He also then 
convinced Chairman Filner to waive the jurisdiction of the VA Committee 
so that this bill could get here.



I want to thank Chairman Filner for complementing the amendment that 
I had offered in the Armed Services Committee, and I also want to thank 
Chairman Skelton. I want to thank Duncan Hunter. I want to thank Dr. 
Vic Snyder and John McHugh for working with me on the amendment that 
was offered at the Armed Services Committee that profoundly enhances 
the seamless transition.

In its original form, the bill required a year-long pilot position on 
transition. Pilot programs can be useful in exploring new ground. But 
when it comes to seamless transition, and especially during a war, this 
is not new ground, and we need to proceed.

Back in 1982, is when Congress directed VA and DOD to work 
collaboratively together on health care. That was 25 years ago. I 
believe this collaboration is still being stymied by bureaucrats 
protecting their respective rice bowls. My amendment replaced the pilot 
project with system changes. It required a written transition plan for 
wounded servicemembers.

The bill would require an interoperable electronic exchange of 
critical medical information between the Departments and the use of the 
electronic DD Form 214, which DOD would provide to the VA. That allows 
VA real-time access to veterans' medical history.

There are countless examples of veterans seeking care at a VA 
facility, only to discover that their paper and military health records 
are not available. The lack of prior DOD health services is especially 
critical for badly wounded warriors returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The ability to transmit data between DOD and VA will speed 
the recovery of these warriors by avoiding duplication of unnecessary 
treatment or, more importantly, failing to provide lifesaving 
procedures.

Electronic exchange of critical medical information might also 
prevent bureaucratic intransigence on the part of VA. For example, I 
recently heard from a former Indiana National Guard member who was 
wounded in the neck and shoulder by an improvised explosive device. 
When he eventually filed a disability claim, the VA said the 
documentation in his military medical record was not sufficient to 
prove the injury was service connected.

Hopefully this rapid exchange of information will put an end to such 
bureaucratic injustices. Further, H.R. 1538, as amended, would require 
the use of a uniformed separation and evaluation of physical by DOD and 
the VA, but the VA could use more disability ratings. This cornerstone 
seamless transition eliminates the frustrating requirement for a 
servicemember to have two physicals, one at the military and one at VA.

I associate my comments with Mr. Filner. Too often, recently 
discharged veterans filing VA disability claims must undergo a VA 
physical because their discharge physical failed to address issues 
affecting the veteran's claim for benefits.

Corporal Murphy, for example, in a hypothetical, gets his discharge 
physical from Fort Hood, Texas, on June 3. A week later he files a 
disability claim to the VA for his bad knee. Meanwhile, 90 days later, 
his physical records at the National Records Center in St. Louis 
arrive. During that period of time, his medical records are not 
available to process his claim, and our corporal has already lost 3 
months. This is foolishness.

The result is not only costly but also delays the processing of a 
veteran's claim and possibly entry into life-changing programs, like 
the VA's vocational rehab program. Finally, the amended wounded 
warriors bill would collocate VA benefit teams at military treatment 
facilities and other agreed upon sites to facilitate the transition of 
recovering servicemembers. Why should a wounded warrior undergo a 
lengthy period of convalescence and be required to seek out VA benefits 
counselors at VA offices that are usually far away from the MTF where 
the veteran is living.

Instead of making Airman Mendez, for example, go to the VA, it is 
time to mandate the VA to be present where the airman is undergoing 
treatment. This will give him timely access to VA counselors and 
benefits that process needed benefits.

These teams would provide preseparation counseling for recovering 
servicemembers, and records would be transmitted electronically from 
DOD to VA before the date of separation or retirement, thereby reducing 
delays, which now bedevil the system. Access to these teams would 
enable most veterans to leave the treatment facility with their VA 
benefit in hand.

My own personal experience over the past decade validates the 
importance of these reforms.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.