---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `564f41b8be1aa38c0bd17ad4b9827c9b`
`Mr. LYNCH — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LYNCH. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 63, 
which opposes the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. I do so 
because I am in total agreement with Generals Casey and Abizaid, who 
have said that what is needed in Iraq is a political solution and not a 
military one, and that additional troops are not recommended.

I have had a chance to travel to Iraq five times now, and based on my 
own observations in places like Fallujah and Tikrit and Al Qaim out on 
the Syrian border, I firmly believe that it is the Iraqi people who 
must ultimately decide whether they are committed to building a better 
life for their children through democracy, or whether they are more 
committed to an all-or-nothing sectarian conflict between Sunni and 
Shia.

Madam Speaker, I believe that packing more troops into the narrow 
streets of Baghdad would be a disaster. As our daily briefings 
indicate, the dominant conflict now on the ground in Iraq is no longer 
Coalition forces against al Qaeda and supporters of the Baathist 
regime. As the daily body counts of tortured and executed Iraqis 
indicate, the prevailing conflict on the ground in Iraq now is a brutal 
civil war between the Sunni and Shia militias, with our troops in the 
middle.

In fact, in a recent hearing here in Washington, it was entitled, 
''Iraq: What Will it Take to Achieve National Reconciliation?''

Basically, as this hearing pointed out, the key mission that we have 
given to our troops is to somehow now reconcile the differences between 
Sunni and Shia in Iraq. Just to be clear on this, Madam Speaker, the 
Sunni and Shia have been in frequent conflict since the year 632 A.D., 
following the death of the prophet Mohammed. That is what we have asked 
our troops to do, in essence, to convince the Iraqis now to stop 
killing each other and to embrace democracy instead.

The President has now asked our brave sons and daughters to take up a 
police action or essentially a civil affairs action, going door to door 
in Baghdad. The mission in Iraq has changed.

I have to wonder, how many votes would the President and Vice 
President have gotten initially if they had been honest and said, We 
want to send our sons and/or daughters to Iraq in order to reconcile 
the differences between the Sunni and the Shia who have been fighting 
for almost 1,400 years. Not many, I think. But that is where we now 
find ourselves and our troops. While the mission in Iraq has changed, 
the President is staying the course. What's more, he has decided to 
push even harder in the wrong direction.

Now is the time that the American people have fairly asked, What will 
Congress do? Many of my colleagues believe that this resolution doesn't 
go far enough; and in honesty, I tend to agree with that assessment. 
But I do believe that this resolution presents a solid and meaningful 
step in the right direction.

There will be a further debate in coming weeks on the funding on how 
to best protect our troops while transitioning to Iraqi control in 
Iraq, and we will have more opportunity to do that.

Lastly, I would like to address the argument that the continuing war 
in Iraq is necessary for fighting the global war on terrorism. As I 
have said before, I have been to Iraq five times now. One of the 
questions that I have repeatedly asked our people on the ground is, How 
much of this fight in Iraq is part of the global war on terror? How 
much of it is involving foreign fighters in al Qaeda? Unanimously, they 
have recommended that it is about 10 percent of the fight in Iraq.

So 90 percent of our cost, 90 percent of our sacrifice, is in a 
matter that has nothing to do with the global war on terror. In fact, 
the Defense Department now says that the Mahdi Army, the main Shia 
militia, has replaced al Qaeda as the most dangerous force in the 
increasing violence there.

If we are truly committed to the global war on terror, I might point 
out we have a situation in southeast Afghanistan and in Waziristan, 
where the


Taliban, who actually did support al Qaeda and who actually did involve 
themselves in the attacks on September 11, are building support.

While we spend $350 billion in Iraq, Pakistan has meanwhile allowed a 
safe haven to be established for the Taliban. If we are indeed 
committed to protecting America and the global war on terror, I would 
suggest that there are smarter and better ways to do that.

Yes, the American people are waiting for this Congress to take a 
stand. It is time to step up. I ask my colleagues to support this 
resolution. It is the first step in eventually bringing the troops home 
safely










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
