---
---

# NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND ACT OF 2007
## `5655afe1a599e618b31a8a472cdade33`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, I regret to say that my 
colleague from Alabama does not appear to be familiar with the bills. I 
will say, this argument that, oh, how can we do this and create a 
housing trust fund at the moment that we have a subprime crisis has no 
validity, it's purely tactical, because exactly the same arguments were 
being made before the subprime crisis. There's an ideological objection 
to getting the Federal Government in the business of helping build 
affordable housing.

The gentleman finally named some of the programs: Building 
intermediate nursing home facilities, housing for people with AIDS.

My question to him, repeated and ultimately unanswered was, where are 
the programs that help build affordable family housing? It is not an 
annual section 8 voucher program which doesn't help build housing. It's 
not intermediate nursing home facilities. It's not help for people with 
AIDS. It's none of those programs. HOPE VI, yes. It exchanges some kind 
of housing for others. HOPE VI has not resulted in any net addition to 
housing. We're trying to prevent it from being a net diminution.

He then says, well, you're taking money from the FHA and they won't 
help low-income people. Totally and completely false, portraying a 
total misunderstanding of the bill. In fact, it is the bill that we 
passed, unlike the bill that passed under the Republicans, that 
prohibits the FHA from raising mortgage insurance premiums on people 
and give that money to the Treasury. That was the Republican approach. 
We capped those fees.

Here's where the FHA money comes from. We take the limit that the 
Republicans allowed to stand for years on the number of home equity 
mortgages the FHA can insure. We also, unlike the Republicans, limit 
the amount that the elderly can be charged for the first time under 
those by the servicers, and we are told by CBO that as we increase the 
volume of FHA home equity mortgages at a lower price for the elderly 
than existed under the Republican rule, we will generate money.

Now, if we didn't pass this bill, this administration would take that 
money and put it into the Treasury so it could go help fund the war in 
Iraq; it could go help fund highway projects, agricultural subsidies.

That's the choice. Do we, having created an additional revenue stream 
for the FHA, while limiting fees, let it go to the Treasury for 
agricultural subsidies and the war in Iraq, or do we put it into 
affordable housing?

With the GSEs, until we talked about helping build affordable low-
income housing, my Republican friends were very critical of the GSEs on 
the whole. The stockholders were getting too much money and too much 
return for too little.

Nothing in this bill will increase the amount that people have to pay 
on the mortgages any iota. What it says is that out of the profits of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we're going to make them divert some of 
this for these public purposes. So in direct contradiction to what the 
gentleman says, there are not 34 programs that help build affordable 
housing. There is one, now there will be two, and I hope the bill 
passes.