---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `566bd3475de629282d890ed4f2986a3b`
`Ms. HARMAN — 2 April 2009`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Madam Chair, one of the most momentous votes I have cast 
as a Member of Congress occurred in my first year of service. It was a 
vote for President Clinton's budget, which made some difficult 
choices--among them, cutting spending and raising taxes to balance the 
federal budget. While controversial, I knew the Clinton budget charted 
the best course for the U.S. economy over the long run.

It came as no surprise, but my support for the Clinton budget became 
the primary issue in my first reelection campaign, which I won by only 
a whisker. Many of my colleagues were not so fortunate.

Today, the country is again in a perilous economic position--much 
more so than in 1993. And a new President is again outlining an 
ambitious economic agenda that could transform American society.

As in 1993, I intend to support the budget. President Obama inherited 
an economy and federal balance sheet in total disarray. He has made the 
difficult decision to prioritize long-delayed investments in health 
care reform, clean energy, and education, and to pay for them with 
responsible reversals of Bush Tax cuts for the most fortunate among us. 
I believe he has done so in an honest manner by, among other things, 
putting the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan on budget for the 
first time.

The budget isn't perfect--no budget is. I would prefer more deficit 
reduction in its out years. But the President has his priorities right, 
and is making the investments that this nation has put off for too 
long. This Congress should support him and pass this budget.