# CONGRESSIONAL RECOGNITION FOR SUPPORT OUR TROOPS OF TUCSON, ARIZONA
## `567640cf9128e2fd062d2c3e0febc9af`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 28 September 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend Support Our 
Troops, a non-profit organization in my hometown of Tucson, Arizona, 
that over the past four years has sent more than eight tons of care 
items to our troops serving around the world.

Support Our Troops was the brainchild of veteran Jonathan Rice, who 
served in the U.S. Army from 1966 until 1970 and in the U.S. Army 
Reserve from 1981 until 1985. Mr. Rice is a resident of Atria Bell 
Court Gardens, an independent senior community in Tucson. He formed 
Support Our Troops as a non-profit organization to let troops from 
Arizona know that their fellow Arizonans support them and appreciate 
their efforts.

Support Our Troops has sent more than 1,600 packages that have 
benefitted nearly 12,000 Arizonans serving in the Army, Air Force, Navy 
and Marines. Two years ago, I had the honor of visiting Mr. Rice and 
the other residents of Atria Bell Court Gardens for the completion of 
their 1,000th package for our troops. The packages contain snack and 
hygiene items for our men and women in uniform as well as small gifts 
for children in the areas where the troops are deployed.

The packages have been delivered to Iraq, Afghanistan, Serbia, 
Kosovo, Qatar, Kuwait and other nations where our troops have been 
deployed. Since the packages have been sent, a number of troops have 
returned to Tucson and visited Atria Bell Court Gardens to say how much 
they appreciated these generous gifts of love and support.

Residents of Atria Bell Court Gardens shop for the contents of the 
packages each week and pay for the items out of their own pockets. The 
boxes are packed each Saturday and owners of Atria Bell Court Gardens 
pay for all postage costs. The residents and owners of this community 
have spent tens of thousands of dollars to send these gifts of 
appreciation to our Armed Forces.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to recognize Jonathan Rice, his fellow 
residents of Atria Bell Court Gardens as well as owners of the 
retirement community on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of their 
Support Our Troops program, which has delivered an untold amount of 
good will and support to the men and women who defend our country.
