---
---

# None
## `5677f0705a64ac37cec9a0492d20fac5`
`Mr. KERRY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I agree with all but the last judgment that 
was made by the Senator. Any appropriate apolitical reading--and I am 
going over to read the full NIE, but I have read the public accounts of 
it and I have talked to some people about it. I would agree that, of 
course, we have done some hard work. Of course, it is more difficult to 
penetrate our country. Absolutely, one would hope. My God, after all 
the money we have spent, after the reorganization of Homeland Security, 
after what we have done at airports alone, let alone some of the 
efforts of the FBI and others with respect to foreign cooperation, of 
course, we have hardened. I don't question that.

Have we done even as much as I and others want to do? The answer is 
no. We have a lot of undone work with respect to chemical plants and 
nuclear facilities and ports and communities. Frankly, I would have had 
every bit of our baggage x-rayed and inspected. We put passengers 
through this incredible rigmarole, but you can put a piece of baggage 
on an airplane that hasn't gone through it. That is absurd. Not to 
mention our ports and the question of port security. We had a vote here 
not so long ago to guarantee that we upgrade our port security even 
more so that the containers that come in by the millions are more 
secure. There is a lot we can do still.

But, yes, we have hardened. I agree with that. Are we a tougher 
target today vis-a-vis al-Qaida than we were on September 11? Yes, we 
are a tougher target than we were on September 11. But that doesn't 
refute at all what has happened with respect to al-Qaida.

Al-Qaida was on the run. We had 1,000 al-Qaida in the mountains of 
Tora Bora within months after invading Afghanistan, which I voted for 
and supported and completely believed was the right thing to do--go in 
and take them down. But I will tell you, I have heard from four star 
generals that we ran a risk-averse policy with respect to the effort to 
go after al-Qaida in Afghanistan. When we had them surrounded in the 
mountains of Tora Bora, we didn't pull the trigger on the 10th Mountain 
Division or the 1st Marines or on the 101st Airborne, all of which were 
in the locality. We didn't use them. We outsourced the job going after 
the biggest criminal in American history. We outsourced the job to 
Afghan warlords who 1 week earlier had been on the other side fighting 
against us.

What happened, we all know. Al-Qaida escaped, went into the northwest


Pakistan territories where they have been reorganizing now for 4 years. 
What that intelligence report does tell us is that they are 
reconstituted, and they are exporting their lessons learned in Iraq to 
Afghanistan now, which has become far more fragile, far more of a 
challenge, and they are exporting it to Europe. If you talk to the 
authorities in Europe--Germany, in particular, but some other 
countries--there is an increase. That is where the center of al-Qaida 
is today, according to many people in the intelligence community. It is 
growing. That threat is a threat not just to the United States but a 
threat globally.

I continue to say--and I think the NIE is saying this to us--that al-
Qaida as an entity is as strong today as it was on September 11. After 
almost $600 billion and over 4,000 lives and all of the turmoil we have 
created in Iraq because we are supposedly fighting them over there so 
we don't have to fight them here, there is no way to escape the fact, 
the reality that al-Qaida is in a better position to do whatever it 
wants to do, wherever it may be, including trying to attack us, 
notwithstanding our hardening.

It is a lot tougher to get into the United States today. It depends 
on where you come from. There are a lot fewer people from Middle 
Eastern and other Islamic connected countries who are getting visas to 
come into the United States. It is a lot tougher today. It should be; 
we understand that. The reality is that al-Qaida is a threat.

But let's come back to Iraq, which is the key. Al-Qaida wasn't in 
Iraq. The focus of this war was in Afghanistan and in other places. We 
shifted it to Iraq. We have put far more resources and far more 
personnel into Iraq, and Afghanistan is getting worse. I have talked to 
people who spend every day of their lives focused on defense and 
security issues who are unbelievably concerned about what is happening 
in Afghanistan as opposed to concern about what is happening to Iraq in 
terms of the threat to the United States.


I come back to the point I was making a moment ago, and that is that 
this remains open-ended fundamentally with respect to the demands on 
the Iraqis to live up to their obligations, whether they are the 
provincial elections or the constitutional challenges or the 
reconciliation process.

I met with Prime Minister Maliki earlier in the year. We talked about 
the reconciliation process. He sat there and said: Yes, we are going to 
meet tomorrow and the next day, and we are very confident about what is 
going to happen with the reconciliation. We are working at it.

I think the meeting was postponed. I think they held it a little 
later. They got together. Nothing happened. There has been no 
reconciliation. Everybody understands that we haven't been going 
forward with that.

The question before the Senate, the real question is, Are we going to 
be able to vote on something that is as critical as this without the 
parliamentary intercession? Let's let the chips fall where they may. 
That is the way we have approached the Defense authorization bill 
historically.

The other question behind that is the question of how do we best 
protect American interests in Iraq. There is a difference of opinion 
there. Many of us have come to believe that it is by setting a date for 
legitimate transformation of responsibility, that people's behavior 
will change. I have seen that historically. Essentially, to whatever 
degree one was able to try to give the Vietnamese an opportunity to be 
able to survive, it was because we transferred authority and 
responsibility. I remember that as long as the Americans were carrying 
the full weight out there doing whatever, nobody else felt they had to 
do any lifting.

These politicians in Iraq are not going to make fully sort of 
preservational choices until they are faced with the reality that they 
have to. As long as the U.S. security blanket is there, it protects 
them from actually having to come to grips with those choices. It 
empowers them to be able to play out whatever power struggle is going 
on with respect to one sect versus another, one region against another. 
So they can sit there and say: Well, within the next months, these guys 
are going to get wiped out, and my interests will be different than 
they are today. We believe that you have to change those perceptions of 
interest and you have to change them now.

In addition, there is nothing in this amendment that deprives the 
President or the Congress or the country of the ability to protect our 
interests in the region. Those interests, incidentally, we believe very 
deeply are being injured by the current policy. We are creating more 
terrorists. The CIA has told us that. We have even had reports that al-
Qaida--the Osama bin Laden-al Zawahiri al-Qaida based in northwest 
Pakistan and Afghanistan--is using what is happening in Iraq as a 
recruitment tool, as a fundraising tool. It has become a magnet for 
jihadists. The way you deal with that is to be smarter than we are 
being today, which is diffuse the American presence, have surrogates 
legitimately doing what we are in the same interest. We ought to be 
demanding more of the surrounding communities but, frankly, they have 
lost confidence both in Maliki and this administration. The ability to 
do that is now much harder than it was.

We in this amendment do not withdraw all the troops from Iraq. Some 
people don't like this amendment because of that. There are some in the 
country who think it should just be done tomorrow. That is not what 
happens here. There is nothing precipitous about it at all. It begins a 
process that most people in the Senate know is probably going to begin 
in September, but it begins it with a clarity that begins to change the 
dynamics on the ground so you begin to best leverage the political 
transformation that needs to take place.

It does so in a way that leaves the President the discretion to be 
able to have troops necessary to complete the training of Iraqis. It 
leaves the President the discretion to have troops necessary to 
continue to prosecute al-Qaida. And it leaves the President the 
discretion to be able to have the troops necessary to protect American 
facilities and forces.

Five years--going into the sixth year--of this war, that is a recipe 
for transforming America's presence there, for transforming Iraqi 
responsibility, and for achieving the political settlement that is 
absolutely unachievable as long as there is simply the kind of military 
commitment that has been on the table to now. To date, the 
administration has not shown anybody what their route is, what their 
path is, for the kind of political settlement that seems to escape them 
every time they make the promise.

The fact is that the way the troops--I feel this as strongly as I 
feel anything. I remember personally, when I thought a policy was not 
working very well, how we wished that people were responding to the 
realities of what was going on on the ground, and that we wanted people 
in Washington to be more thoughtful and knowledgeable about what the 
dynamics were on the ground.

I think the same is true of our troops over there, who are committed 
to achieving what they can, but who also--and I have talked to many of 
them--feel as though they are trying to put a square peg in a round 
hole, that they do not have the right tools and the right dynamic to be 
able to accomplish what needs to be done.

So I say to my colleagues if you know what you are doing is not 
working, if you know what you are doing is counterproductive, if you 
know what you are doing is, in fact, working against your ability to 
most effectively prosecute the war on terror, if you know what you are 
doing is creating casualties out of missions that do not accomplish 
your ultimate goal--which is providing the security that allows the 
transformation of the politics; and there is no indication the politics 
are about to follow--if you know, in fact, you have strengthened one of 
the primary entities you are concerned about in the region--Iran--if 
you know you have lost ground with respect to Hamas and Hezbollah--
because you have been focused elsewhere and not leveraging what needs 
to be done there--if you know so many interests of your country are 
being set back, you ought to change your policy.

You do not just change it on the military front. In the face of the 
advice of our own generals that there is no military solution, you have 
to change it on the political and diplomatic front. This amendment has 
a very significant,


leveraged, diplomatic approach, where it requires a very significant 
effort, where it has been lacking. And believe me, I have gone over 
there enough and talked to enough people to understand the degree to 
which it is lacking. It is critical we leverage that kind of behavior.

So I hope we are going to--in the debate, we ought to have a real 
debate. I have heard colleagues on the other side talk about a recipe 
for defeat. If we continue down the road we are going now, we are 
setting ourselves up to empower al-Qaida even more. If we continue down 
the road we are going now--without the political resolution, without 
legitimate leverage in the region that is more reasonable, and without 
the transfer of legitimate responsibility and accountability to the 
Iraqis--then we are going to have more American soldier casualties, we 
are going to stay in the same position we are in today, and a month 
from now, 2 months from now, 6 months from now, the judgments we are 
going to be called on to make will be exactly the same as they are 
today, only worse, because more time will have been spent, because 
opportunities will have been wasted, and because the opposition will 
have been empowered even further.

That is what the choice is for all of us here. I hope we are going to 
have sort of a real debate. It is legitimate you might differ over 
whether a particular move is going to accomplish what you set out to 
do, but please do not debate something that is not on the floor.

This is not a precipitous withdrawal. It does not abandon our 
interests. It addresses our interests in a different way. It redeploys 
our troops. It keeps a significant presence, not just there but in the 
region.

We have troops in Bahrain. We have troops in the gulf. We have troops 
in other parts of that region, in Kuwait. The fact is, America has the 
ability to protect its interests vis-a-vis Iran. None of us wants to 
see chaos in the long term, but there is chaos that is growing on a 
daily basis, worse and worse, as a consequence of our presence. If we 
have not learned that lesson by now, then we have learned precious 
little at all.

I hope we will have the real debate we deserve as we go forward.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.