---
---

# None
## `5692178e99c6a2a65daaa3fe7b6f6394`
`Mr. FOSTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. FOSTER. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Chairman, combatting the threat of nuclear terrorism on 
American soil is a critical security challenge. At a time when 
inadequately secured nuclear material can fall into the hands of the 
world's most extreme groups, we must find ways to strengthen our 
deterrent against acts of nuclear terrorism.

Today, I rise to offer this amendment to improve our Nation's nuclear 
forensics capability to help deter and respond to terrorism. I am 
pleased to offer it with my colleague, Representative Schiff, whose 
leadership on nuclear security issues has been exemplary.

When combined with law enforcement and intelligence data, nuclear 
forensics allows us to trace a nuclear device to its source through 
technical analysis of its nuclear material or residue following a 
nuclear detonation. As such, it represents one of the strongest 
deterrents that we have against rogue nuclear nations who might 
consider releasing nuclear materials to terrorist groups.

This amendment has its roots in a report issued by the American 
Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. The American scientific community found that our Nation's 
nuclear forensics capabilities are dangerously insufficient and 
endangered by impending retirements, and made specific recommendations 
for its improvement.

This amendment expands the nuclear forensics workforce by supporting 
fellowships in nuclear chemistry, and calls for further research and 
development in the field. Perhaps most important, this amendment also 
sets up a joint Nuclear Forensic Advisory Panel of recognized experts 
to confirm the findings of forensic analysis.

Given the intelligence failures in the run-up to the Iraq war, the 
results of any nuclear forensics analysis may well be met by 
international skepticism. This amendment enhances our Nation's 
credibility on one of the gravest security challenges that we face and 
represents a significant improvement in our nuclear and national 
security.

I urge my colleagues to support it.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.