---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `56aa1f66eb5bb41f0a8aa2e0fd773be8`
`Mr. McCAIN — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. So my point here is--by the way, one of the areas I agree 
with both Senator Gregg and Senator Conrad is, we have to have a 
commission that meets and makes tough decisions on entitlements. We 
know entitlements cannot be sustained at their present level. And, of 
course, the first area we ought to look at is the $60 billion the 
inspector general has said is wasted in Medicare and Medicaid every 
year. But tough decisions have to be made.

This is a tough budget proposal here. This is tough. It caps 
discretionary spending, except for defense and veterans. It increases 
defense spending. We are in two wars. We are in two wars, and I wish to 
give a little straight talk. In Afghanistan it is going to get worse 
before it gets better, and it is going to cost more of American blood 
and treasure.

It reduces the deficit and debt more than the proposals offered by 
the Senate Budget Committee or the President, and I would point out 
that 10 years is what we have to plan for rather than 5. It addresses 
the critical problem of Social Security and Medicare solvency by the 
establishment--according to the proposal both by the chairman and 
ranking member--of BRAC-like commissions that would provide 
recommendations to reduce mandatory spending by at least 4 percent over 
the next 5 years.

It addresses our critical energy goals, and it also extends the tax 
cuts. This is the wrong time to increase anyone's taxes. History shows 
us if we raise people's taxes in tough economic times, it exacerbates 
the economic problems.

I do not pretend this is easy. I do not pretend this does not affect 
many Americans and their lives. But if we lay these multitrillion-
dollar debts on future generations of Americans, we have contradicted 
and betrayed the commitment this Nation has kept throughout our 
history; that is, that the next generation of Americans inherit a 
better Nation than the one we did.

Madam President, I urge a vote for this amendment and this alternate 
budget proposal.

I yield the floor.