---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `56af0c79fc77a2c6447691d5cb629d7a`
`Mrs. BOXER — 21 April 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, today I rise to pay tribute to 11 young 
Americans who have been killed in Iraq since November 19. This brings 
to 870 the number of servicemembers either from California or based in 
California that have been killed while serving our country in Iraq. 
This represents 20 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

GySgt Marcelo R. Velasco, 40, of Miami, FL, died November 19 from 
injuries sustained in a non-hostile incident in Anbar province, Iraq. 
Gunnery Sergeant Velasco was assigned to I Marine Expeditionary Force 
Headquarters Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

LCpl Robert L. Johnson, 21, of Central Point, OR, died December 20 as 
a result of a nonhostile incident in Anbar province, Iraq. Lance 
Corporal Johnson was assigned to the 5th Combat Logistics Battalion, 
1st Combat Logistics Regiment, 1st Marine Logistics Group, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

SPC Tony J. Gonzales, 20, of Newman, CA, died December 28 in Sadr 
City, Iraq, when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Specialist Gonzales was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 6th 
Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade, 1st Armored Division, Baumholder, 
Germany.

PFC Benjamin B. Tollefson, 22, of Concord, CA, died December 31 in 
Balad, Iraq, of wounds suffered when insurgents attacked his unit with 
indirect fire in Ghazaliya. Private First Class Tollefson was assigned 
to the Special Troops Battalion, 2nd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
Infantry Division, Fort Riley, KS.

PFC Grant A. Cotting, 19, of Corona, CA, died January 24 in Kut, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained from a noncombat related incident. Private 
First Class Cotting was assigned to the 515th Sapper Company, 5th 
Engineer Battalion, 4th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade, Fort Leonard 
Wood, MO.

SSG Sean D. Diamond, 41, of Dublin, CA, died February 15 in As Salam, 
Iraq, when an improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. 
Staff Sergeant Diamond was assigned to the 610th Engineer Support 
Company, 14th Engineer Battalion, 555th Engineer Brigade, Fort Lewis, 
WA.

1LT Daniel B. Hyde, 24, of Modesto, CA, died March 7 in Samarra, 
Iraq, of wounds sustained in Tikrit when an explosive device struck his 
unit vehicle. First Lieutenant Hyde was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 
35th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry 
Division, Schofield Barracks, HI.

PFC Bryce E. Gautier, 22, of Cypress, CA, died April 10 when his 
military vehicle was struck by a suicide vehicle-borne improvised 
explosive device in Mosul, Iraq. Private First Class Gautier was 
assigned to the 1st Battalion, 67th Armor Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat 
Team, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO.



SFC Bryan E. Hall, 32, of Elk Grove, CA, died April 10 when his 
military vehicle was struck by a suicide vehicle-borne improvised 
explosive device in Mosul, Iraq. Sergeant First Class Hall was assigned 
to the 1st Battalion, 67th Armor Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 4th 
Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO.

SGT Raul Moncada, 29, of Madera, CA, died April 13 near Baghdad, 
Iraq, of wounds sustained when an explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Sergeant Moncada was assigned to the 563rd Military Police 
Company, 91st Military Police Battalion, 10th Sustainment Brigade, 10th 
Mountain Division, Light Infantry, Fort Drum, NY.

LCpl Ray A. Spencer II, 20, of Ridgecrest, CA, died April 16 as a 
result of a non-hostile incident in Anbar province, Iraq. Lance 
Corporal Spencer was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 3rd Marine Regiment, 
3rd Marine Division, Kaneohe Bay, HI.

I would also like to pay tribute to the four soldiers from CA who 
have died while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom since 
November 19.

SSG Joshua R. Townsend, 30, of Solvang, CA, died January 16 in Tarin 
Kowt, Afghanistan, of injuries sustained in a noncombat related 
incident. Staff Sergeant Townsend was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 
7th Special Forces Group, Airborne, Fort Bragg, NC.

SSgt Daniel L. Hansen, 24, of Tracy, CA, died February 14 while 
supporting combat operations in Farah province, Afghanistan. Staff 
Sergeant Hansen was assigned to Marine Wing Support Squadron 171, 
Marine Wing Support Group 17, 1st Marine Air Wing, III Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Iwakuni, Japan.

LT Florence B. Choe, 35, of El Cajon, CA, died March 27 when an 
insurgent posing as an Afghan National Army soldier opened fire on 
personnel assigned to Combined Security Transition Command--Afghanistan 
at Camp Shaheen, Mazar-E-Sharif, Afghanistan.

A1C Jacob I. Ramsey, 20, of Hesperia, CA, died April 10 of injuries 
sustained from a noncombat related incident in Kabul, Afghanistan. 
Airman First Class Ramsey was assigned to the 712th Air Support 
Operations Squadron, Fort Hood, TX.
