# HONORING EDWARD E. MUNGER
## `56b947116212a8eb0721190ca58aa526`
`Mr. RADANOVICH â€” 15 February 2008`

---


Mr. RADANOVICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of BG 
Edward E. Munger for his dedication and service to his country and his 
community. General Munger passed away at the age of 68 on February 12, 
2008, at his home in Fresno, California. A service honoring his life 
will be held on Friday, February 15, 2008, in Fresno.

General Munger was born in Fresno on February 15, 1939. As a senior 
at Fresno High School, he decided to enlist as a private in the 
California Army National Guard and was selected to attend the 
California Military Academy Officer Candidate Program. In 1959 he 
received his commission as a second lieutenant in the United States 
Army. Twenty years later, General Munger was selected to attend the 
National War College. At the War College his major focus was on the 
Middle East. He was able to travel throughout the region to meet with 
leaders including President Anwar Sadat of Egypt, King Faud and Crown 
Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, the Emir and leaders of the ruling Al-
Khalifa family in Bahrain, and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel. 
Upon completing his studies at the War College he was promoted to full 
colonel and accepted a 4-year tour of active duty service as the 
Executive Staff Director and Chief of Staff of the Reserve Forces 
Policy Board in the Office of the Secretary of Defense at the Pentagon. 
After serving for 32 years, General Munger retired from the military as 
a brigadier general in 1990. With his departure he was awarded the 
Legion of Merit and the Defense Superior Service Medal.

Outside of the military General Munger was a businessman who also 
gave a great amount of time and effort to the community. General Munger 
owned Engineered Sound, an electronics engineering and installation 
company. He served as a Fresno County deputy sheriff. He and his 
brother were co-owners of the Granada Capital Company. He was very 
involved with the Boy Scouts of America. He earned the prestigious 
Silver Beaver Award and the Sequoia Council Distinguished Scout Award. 
He was the president of I.R.O. Soararsis, a support organization for 
Kings Canyon National Park. He was a member of the Valley Children's 
Hospital Board of Trustees and also created the Fairy Godfather fund. 
This fund assists the hospital financially and also provides a toy or 
stuffed animal for sick and terminally ill children whose families 
cannot afford it. General Munger was a member of the Rotary Club of 
Fresno's board of directors and a member of the Fresno County Planning 
Commission.

In 2004 General Munger returned to the Middle East with a civilian 
group called Brotherhood of the Badge. They delivered law enforcement 
equipment, two way radios, and protection vests to the new Iraqi Police 
in Baqubah. Since the first visit, more than 12,000 vests and other 
equipment have been delivered to the Iraqi Police through the U.S. 
military. General Munger was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2005, 
shortly after returning from the Middle East.

General Munger will be remembered for all that he has sacrificed and 
for all that he has achieved. He is preceded in death by his parents 
and his brother Maynard. He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Tamsen 
Munger, and their adult children, Edward and Eleanor.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to posthumously honor Brigadier General 
Edward E. Munger for his dedication to his family, his country and his 
community. I invite my colleagues to join me in honoring his life and 
wishing the best for his family.
