---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `56bbee9703382591762a46a51d4b962c`
`Mr. DREIER — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. DREIER. First, let me express my appreciation to my very good 
friend from Golden, a hardworking and thoughtful member of the Rules 
Committee, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased that today we will be considering 
legislation that represents a true bipartisan effort on a critically 
important issue. The underlying bill, an emergency supplemental funding 
bill for our troops, was largely developed through bipartisan 
consensus, and we as Republicans are very happy to have had the 
opportunity to work with President Obama on this issue.

The President has repeatedly said that he would like to work with 
Republicans to develop real solutions for the challenges that we face 
as a country. So far, unfortunately, the Democratic leadership has done 
a less than perfect job in dealing with the request for bipartisanship, 
shutting out Republicans and injecting a greater and greater amount of 
partisanship into the legislative process.

But today we have before us our first real opportunity to come 
together and work in a bipartisan way. This occasion is all the more 
significant because the issue at hand is the funding of our troops.

I'm very proud that we're able to demonstrate to the men and women 
who voluntarily, voluntarily put their lives on the line for our 
country, that the support for them in Congress is unified and 
unequivocal. We owe a great debt to them and to their families, and it 
is very fitting that we should be joining together in this show of 
support just before Memorial Day.

Our troops in Afghanistan are facing rapidly increasing threats. Our 
troops in Iraq are working to fully turn responsibility for security 
over to the Iraqis. Thousands of others are deployed in dangerous 
places, as we all know, around the world.

We must ensure that they have the resources, protection, and support 
they need to do their jobs effectively and, as my friend from Golden 
said in his statement, to come home safely. The underlying 
appropriations bill will help to ensure just that.

But this is not, by any means, Mr. Speaker, a perfect bill. There are 
some key improvements that I believe need to be made. Unfortunately, 
the rule that we are considering today prevents any amendments from 
being considered. Even amidst this great bipartisan effort, the 
Democratic leadership has chosen to tarnish the outcome by refusing to 
allow debate on a number of key issues. Allowing amendments to be 
debated and considered would enable us to take this important bill and 
make it even more effective.

One such amendment which my friend and colleague Mr. Rogers, the 
gentleman from Kentucky, has offered, would have redirected some 
funding to very important border security efforts. This is a critical 
national security issue. Violent drug wars have been escalating, as we 
all know, on our border for months, and we need to ensure that we have 
adequate homeland security resources. Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, this 
rule does not allow us to ensure the needed additional funding to deal 
with border security.

Another key issue that must be addressed, as we all know because it 
has been the center of a great deal of controversy, is the question of 
how the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay will be shut down.

The President has made it clear that he intends to close this 
facility, and his administration has already begun to move forward on 
this. Yet Congress has been presented with no clear plan as to how the 
facility will be closed and, most important, what will be done with the 
detainees. Will they be moved to American soil? Tried in jail or--God 
forbid--released here in the United States?

The Guantanamo detainees include Khalid Sheik Muhammad, mastermind of 
the 9/11 attacks; Hambali, al Qaeda's operation chief for Southeast 
Asia who planned the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 200 people; Ahmed 
Khalfan Ghailani, one of the FBI's most wanted terrorists, who helped 
plan the 1998 bombings of our embassies at Dar es Salaam and Nairobi.



These are Guantanamo detainees, and we have received no plan for 
where they will be moved if the facility is shut down. We have received 
no commitment, no commitment at all, for congressional oversight. This 
bill should explicitly require planning and consultation with Congress 
so we can ensure that unacceptable security risks will not be borne by 
our communities and our constituents.

Republicans have repeatedly raised this issue, Mr. Speaker. 
Unfortunately, the Democratic leadership, apparently feeling the 
pressure to address this issue, would like to self-execute an amendment 
in this rule to the bill that will place restrictions on the process 
for closing the detention facility at Guantanamo.

But there are two key problems with their approach here, Mr. Speaker. 
First, the substance of their amendment does not adequately address the 
risks that we must guard against. It does not guarantee that governors 
and State legislators will have the final say on whether terrorists can 
be housed in their States.

Under the Democratic plan, States can be forced to allow the world's 
most


dangerous terrorists to be held in their communities.

Second, by self-executing this flawed and inadequate amendment, they 
are circumventing the debate and scrutiny that an issue of this 
magnitude demands. The issue of bringing committed terrorists onto 
American soil--not people who perpetrated crimes who are American 
citizens, but foreign-born terrorists--on American soil should not be 
dealt with haphazardly, nor cloaked in secrecy. It must be considered 
extremely carefully, thoroughly, and openly. This rule denies us that 
opportunity and fails to ensure the protection of Americans.

There are other issues that should be dealt with, Mr. Speaker. The 
large increase of foreign assistance funding, while important to long-
term efforts to combat the roots of terrorism, should not be considered 
emergency funding. This funding should be included in the regular 
budget subject to regular budgetary considerations. Designating them as 
emergency funds just skirts the tough choices that responsible 
budgeting demands.

All of these issues should be addressed in an open debate with an 
amendment process, which is standard operating procedure for 
appropriations. As I said in the Rules Committee yesterday, 
appropriations bills are considered privileged resolutions. They come 
straight to the floor. We don't even need to go to the Rules Committee 
for consideration of appropriations bills. It is done traditionally to 
simply protect the bill and the work product of the Appropriations 
Committee, and then allow for an open amendment process.

Fixing these problems, Mr. Speaker, would make a good and important 
bill all that much more effective. It would allow the legislative 
process for this bill, which has developed in such a bipartisan way, to 
finish in the same cooperative spirit in which it began.

During my tenure as chairman of the Rules Committee for 8 years, 
every single wartime supplemental was considered under an open rule. 
Not even one has been open over the last 3 years since the new 
Democratic majority has been in charge. It is very unfortunate that the 
Democratic leadership once again is trying to thwart the best efforts 
of President Obama and congressional Republicans to work together and 
build consensus.

But despite their disdain for bipartisanship and open debate, we as 
Republicans will join with the President in support of this troop 
funding bill, and we welcome this opportunity to work with him on this 
issue.

We sincerely hope that we can continue to come together on other very 
pressing issues that we will want to address effectively and 
responsibly in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the 
previous question, and I will be explaining throughout this debate time 
what it is that we hope to do if we are able to defeat the previous 
question as it relates to Guantanamo. If by chance we are not 
successful in defeating the previous question, I urge my colleagues to 
vote ''no'' on the underlying rule so we can, in fact, continue with 
the spirit of bipartisanship to make this important bill even better.

I reserve the balance of my time.