---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `56bc9b4fac4b53edf1fde3341c441dd0`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, since I consider 
the gentleman from Missouri such a stalwart Member of this House, and a 
friend, I rise not in anger but in sorrow as I oppose his amendment. I 
have profound disagreements with the specifics of this particular bill.

I came to Congress, returned to Congress after 9/11 precisely because 
of 9/11, because I thought we needed, as a country, to respond to the 
threat of Islamofascism in an effective way and that we needed to 
recognize that our war against Islamofascism was a multi-fronted war. 
And one of the fronts of that war is Iraq. You can argue whether it's 
the number one front or not, but it is important. And I think everyone 
would agree. And what we do there is important. And how we act there is 
important. And when we withdraw, even though we call it a redeployment, 
that is important. It is a message that goes beyond Iraq. It goes to 
all of those who would do us ill in this world.

And I can't understand, when we had General Petraeus look us in the 
eye just a couple of weeks ago and say to Members, I believe in my 
mission; I've told my men and my women that I believe in the mission; 
and if I didn't believe in it, I would tell you immediately because I'm 
not going to sacrifice men and women in vain. And he said, give me the 
time to do it. And we said, yes, sir, you have the time. And now we 
say, when he's over there with his men and women, we're not going to 
give you the time. We're going to second guess.

I don't understand how you prosecute a war. One Member got up and 
said, let's end this war by passing this resolution. You end a war 
usually in America by winning, by defeating the enemy.

We have this bill up now. We're going to have a bill up in another 
couple of weeks that's going to tell us we have to change the habeas 
corpus issue, we have to grant habeas corpus to unlawful enemy 
combatants, for the first time in the history of our Nation, putting us 
at a position that we never would have had in World War II. It would 
have crippled us during World War II.

And then we're going to hear, close down Guantanamo. Let's look at 
this bill as just a piece of the approach that the other side is 
taking.