# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `56c374d11ed9362cc372d7abebff0767`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I certainly will do that.

It is interesting, we are spending $16 billion a month, $4 billion a 
week to replenish the accounts for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
other issues. There are plenty of places for us to decide it is time to 
fix things here at home.

But I wish to talk about a couple of issues. First of all, there are 
waiting lines. There is rationing. The Senator from Oklahoma is 
absolutely correct. Dr. Grim, by the way, came to the Committee in 
support always of the President's request, saying that was enough 
because he had a responsibility and a requirement to support the 
President's budget. But get him off the dais at the hearing and ask him 
the question, and he would admit there is rationing. About 40 percent 
of the health care that is needed by American Indians is not available. 
That is health care rationing. That would be scandalous if it were 
happening in other parts of the country. It ought to be front page 
headlines, but you will not hear and you will not read many stories 
about it, regrettably.

But the fact is, we have a circumstance that brings tears to my eyes. 
I disagree with the Senator from Oklahoma that this is not a worthy 
bill. This is a step forward in the right direction. It is not the 
reform we need, but this is a two-step process. If you cannot get this 
kind of thing done for 10 years, how on Earth are you going to decide 
to do something much bolder?

Now, we just faced a budget that came up last week that says not only 
do we not have enough money for Indian health care, let's cut it. The 
President says, let's cut what we do have, at a time when we have 40 
percent rationing. So we are fighting a battle just to keep the money 
we have. We need much more if we are going to do what we promised we 
were going to do.

But let me show the Senator a photograph, if I might. Let me show him 
a photograph of Ta'shon Rain Littlelight because he says the system 
does not work. I showed the photograph before because her family has 
given me permission. This beautiful young 5-year-old girl is dead. She 
is dead, in my judgment, because of a system that does not work.

They took her again and again and again and again to the clinic. It 
was on the Crow Reservation in Montana, where I held a hearing and her 
grandmother stood up with this photograph. She told about little 
Ta'shon Rain Littlelight. You can see she loved to dance.

Ta'shon Rain Littlelight got sick, and they took her to the health 
clinic. They treated her for depression. Again and again, they treated 
her for depression. Even her grandparents said: Well, the way her 
fingers look, with the swelling of the fingertips, and so on, there 
must be something else wrong.

Well, one day, of course, they had to fly her to Billings, MT, and 
then immediately fly her to Denver, CO, where they discovered she had 
terminal cancer and about 3 months to live.

She asked if she could go see Cinderella's Castle, so Make-A-Wish 
gave her the opportunity, with her mother, to go to Orlando, FL, to see 
Cinderella's Castle. This little girl with terminal cancer, the night 
before she was to see Cinderella's Castle, in the motel room in 
Orlando, FL, told her mother, ''I am so sorry. I am going to try to be 
better, Mommy. I won't be sick anymore.'' And she died in her mother's 
arms that night. This little 5-year-old died because the system did not 
work.

I have shown a picture of Avis Littlewind. She was 14 years of age, 
lying in a fetal position in a bed for 90 days and then finally took 
her own life because there was no mental health treatment available on 
that reservation--no mental health treatment available to try to help 
that little girl who felt hopeless and helpless.

This is a photograph, by the way, of Avis Littlewind on the Spirit 
Lake Nation Reservation. Avis was 14, and she took her life. Her sister 
took her life. Avis took her life.

This is a photograph of Ardel Hale Baker. Ardel Hale Baker was having 
a heart attack, diagnosed as having a heart attack on an Indian 
reservation. They wanted to send her to a hospital an hour and a half 
away. She did not want to go in the ambulance because she knew if it 
did not get paid somehow, she would have to pay it, and she did not 
have any money. They put her in an ambulance anyway and took her to the 
hospital. As Ardel Hale Baker was being taken off the gurney in the 
emergency room in the hospital, to be put on a hospital gurney, here is 
what was taped to her thigh--a piece of paper taped to the thigh of 
this Indian woman; and it was to the hospital from the Department of 
Health and Human Services--it was saying, by the way, ''If you admit 
this woman, understand there is no money in contract health care to pay 
for her,'' warning the hospital: ''Admit this woman and it is very 
likely you will not be paid.'' This woman is having a heart attack, and 
shows up with a piece of paper taped to her leg, saying: ''There is no 
money for you to be paid, if you admit this woman to your hospital,'' 
or the woman who goes to the Indian Health Service with a knee that is 
so painful she cannot walk. It is bone on bone; an unbelievable problem 
with her knee that you or I or our family would get fixed by having a 
new knee joint put in. She goes to the Indian Health Service, and the 
Indian Health Service doctor says: ''Wrap it in cabbage leaves for 4 
days.'' That is Indian health care. That is unbelievable, just 
unbelievable to me.

My colleague from Oklahoma says, well, he does not support this bill 
because it is not bold. I have been on the floor of the Senate. I have 
offered amendments to add $1 billion to Indian health care, and it gets 
defeated. I have seen the budget that came last week from this 
administration that says they want less money for Indian health care.

Let me put up something Chief Joseph said years and years ago. We 
took all this Indian land, took all those millions and millions of 
acres--hundreds of millions of acres--from the Indians, but we said to 
them: Trust us. We will make you a promise. We will sign treaties. We 
will tell you that we will provide for your health care. We believe we 
have a trust responsibility. You can trust us.

Well, regrettably, that responsibility has not been met. Those 
promises have not been kept. Here is Chief Joseph. He said:




 Good words don't last long unless they amount to something. 


 Words don't pay for my dead people. . . .Good words cannot 


 give me back my children. Good words will not give my people 


 good health and stop them from dying.


I care a lot about this issue. In my State, we have four Indian 
reservations. I have spent a lot of time with them. The fact is, we 
have people living in the shadows. We have people living in abject, 
desperate poverty.

I sat with a young girl once at a table with her grandfather. This 
was a young girl who was put in a foster home at age 3. The woman who 
put her in a foster home was working 150 cases--150 cases. She did not 
have time to go check out the home, so she put a 3-year-old girl in a 
foster home. And on a Saturday night, in a drunken party brawl, a young 
3-year-old girl got her arm broken, her nose broken, and her hair 
pulled out by the roots. That young girl will live forever with those 
scars.

One hundred and fifty cases a social worker is dealing with? There is 
such unbelievable difficulty because the resources do not exist. We 
have people living in Third World conditions.

We had a tribal leader, a chairman of a tribe, say: ''My two 
daughters live in used trailer houses that we moved from Michigan to 
the reservation in South Dakota. They don't have indoor plumbing. They 
have an outdoor rest room, outdoor toilet. One of them has a wood stove 
in the living room of the trailer house vented out through the 
window.'' I have seen all of these things. I have experienced all of 
this. My colleague has seen the same in Alaska. We have people living 
in Third World conditions in this country. There is a full-scale, bona 
fide crisis in health care, housing, and education. This bill deals 
with the question of health care. We have a special responsibility, 
unlike other responsibilities, because this country has


promised. We have signed treaties. The Supreme Court says we have a 
trust responsibility. We have not kept our promise, and we have not met 
our responsibility. I am just flat tired of it.

My colleague says: Let's be bold. Nobody wants to be bolder than I 
want to be, but we haven't been able to get a bill through here in 10 
years, for God's sake. If you can't pass a bill in a decade, how on 
Earth are you going to be bold? Let's at least take a step in the right 
direction. I am going to follow that with step 2 on the Indian Affairs 
Committee, and that is bold, dramatic reform, because this system is 
not nearly as good as it can be.

He talks about: Why would you add new services? Well, services 
dealing with diabetes, with cancer screening, with mental health--let's 
add those services because they are needed, and then let's decide, when 
the appropriations bill comes around, to add the funding. My colleague 
knows this is an authorization bill, not a funding bill. We will have a 
chance to be bold. Let's see who is going to be bold. Let's add the 
funding to keep our promises, for a change.

My colleague talked a lot about Dr. Grim. I like Dr. Grim. He 
retired--resigned, I should say--from the Indian Health Service. Dr. 
Grim came every year, supporting the President's budget. He knew it was 
not adequate. We know we are rationing health care. The fact is, we all 
know it. We need to stop it. Are we rationing health care with 
incarcerated prisoners in Federal prisons? No, we are not, because we 
have a responsibility for them. We arrest them, we convict them, we 
send them to prison, and then it is our responsibility to provide for 
their health care in Federal prisons, and we do it. We spend twice as 
much per person for them as we do for American Indians. Yet we have the 
same responsibility for American Indians because we made the promise, 
signed the treaties, and told them we would provide for these needs. 
What gives us the right to continue to break our promises? We have done 
it for decades and decades over almost 200 years. What gives us the 
right to continue to do that in the face of little children who are 
dying and in the face of elders who can't get health care? What gives 
us that right?

I say to my colleague, if you want to be bold, we are going to have a 
chance to be bold together, because this country ought to stare truth 
in the face and look at what is happening on Indian reservations.

The other night, I was on an Indian reservation, having a listening 
session with Indians. There were two sisters sitting in the front row. 
One sister stood up to speak, and the other sister sobbed 
uncontrollably--cried and sobbed. It was an unbelievable story about 
the sister who desperately needed health care and couldn't get it and 
couldn't find it. She finally had her heart surgery, and of course it 
was charged back to her, because there was no contract health care. It 
has completely ruined her credit rating because she doesn't have 
anything to pay for it, and the Indian Health Service did not serve her 
needs. She was also treated for depression. She had a heart valve 
problem that needed surgery, and she was treated for depression. When 
she finally found a way to get the surgery, it could not be paid for by 
Indian contract health because they were out of funds. ''Don't get sick 
after June.'' We had one reservation tell us, don't get sick after 
January, because they didn't have the money. This poor woman sat there 
in the chair sobbing as her sister recounted the details of her 
desperate attempt to deal with a health care problem that was very 
acute.

So, yes, I am a little bit emotional about these issues. When we have 
people say, well, let's do much more, I say: Absolutely. Let's do much 
more than we are now doing. Let's do that in appropriations. That is an 
awfully good start.

This is an authorization bill which does a lot more than the current 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act. It does a lot more in areas we know 
are in urgent need.

We have teen suicide clusters on Indian reservations. In the northern 
Great Plains, there is a 10 times greater rate of suicide among 
teenagers--not double, triple, or quadruple, but 10 times the rate of 
suicide. I went and sat and talked with kids on that reservation, the 
one where we had a cluster recently. It was just me with some high 
school kids, talking about what is going on, what is their life like. 
It is unbelievable.

We need to address these things. That is what we try to do in this 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act. It is not perfect, but it is 
certainly a step in the right direction.

I have other things to say, and my colleague may wish to weigh in, as 
well. My hope will be at the end of the day today that we will be able 
to get the amendments up and get them voted on. Some of the amendments 
my colleague described, I likely will support, because I think we can 
improve this piece of legislation. I think at the end of the day, all 
of us will hope we will have done something we are proud of, to say to 
those who don't now have adequate health care or whom we promised 
health care that we have made a step forward in trying to meet those 
needs.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.