# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `56c38d4a6ccb320b24d13a6abaf68104`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. Speaker, it was interesting over Memorial Day 
weekend, I was back home and went to a Memorial Day service in Rolling 
Prairie, Indiana, which is in LaPorte County, a beautiful county right 
next door to where I live, and some of the World War II veterans said 
to me, ''You know, Joe, when we went to war, everyone sacrificed. We 
were all in this together.''

Then I was fortunate enough a few days later to read a book called 
''The Price of Liberty'' by Robert Hormats. This book explained a 
simple factor, that in this war we have been asked to go shopping, 
while the military sacrifices every day and their families sacrifice 
every day.

Mr. Speaker, what was pointed out in the book is that this is the 
first war in history where at a time we were going to war, we also 
decided to cut taxes and increase other spending, and this formula has 
resulted in explosive deficits.

My good friend from Arkansas, next to him is a poster detailing the 
cost of Operation Iraqi Freedom, close to $400 million, heading to $500 
billion. When this was first discussed, the Office of Management and 
Budget some years ago said the top cost we would have was $50 billion 
to $60 billion. We were told, my dear friend from Arkansas,


that the oil revenues would cover all the costs.

Look where we are some years later. There has been an air of 
unreality from the start in facing up to the fact that, in the past, 
all Americans sacrificed together. And instead of sacrificing, we 
borrowed the money from the Chinese, we borrowed the money from the 
Mexican government, we borrowed the money from the Japanese government.

My good friends throughout my district, the veterans in Cass County 
and in Carroll County, would roll their eyes if they knew that we were 
funding our war by borrowing money from the Chinese. They would say, 
''Joe, how crazy is this? How does this make any sense at all?'' And 
the answer is, it doesn't.

Instead of looking each other square in the eye and saying we have 
obligations, we have responsibilities, we have a sense of shared 
sacrifice, this administration has told us we can take a pass. Well, my 
good friend, we cannot take a pass, and the policy of cutting taxes and 
increasing spending on other government programs while funding this war 
continues on, the hole gets bigger, and the burden we are passing on to 
our children grows every day.

So I yield back to my good friend from Arkansas, with the hope that 
at some point we will understand that we are all in this together and 
that not all the burden should be placed on our military families.