# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `56c5c48f7f548f49a934fab53b8dc6c4`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I would like to take a minute to 
recognize an enduring legacy of John F. Kennedy--the Peace Corps--in 
recognition of its 47th anniversary this year. It is an honor to serve 
with the likes of my colleague and friend Chris Shays and others in 
this body and the others who serves our country in the enhancement of 
citizen diplomacy. I hope all Americans will join us in supporting and 
expanding this enduring commitment to convey our values as a Nation.

As Fareed Zakaria wrote: ''We must begin to think about life after 
Bush--a cheering prospect for his foes, a dismaying one for his fans 
(however few there may be at the moment). In 11 months he will be a 
private citizen, giving speeches to insurance executives. America, 
however, will have to move on and restore its place in the world. To do 
this we must first tackle the consequences of our foreign policy of 
fear. Having spooked ourselves into believing that we have no option 
but to act fast, alone, unilaterally and pre-emptively, we have managed 
in six years to destroy decades of international good will, alienate 
allies, embolden enemies and yet solve few of the major international 
problems we face.''

The London Financial Times last December reported that the U.S. has 
suffered a significant loss of power and prestige around the world in 
the years since the beginning of this century, limiting our ability to 
influence international crises, according to an annual survey from a 
well regarded British security think-tank. The 2007 Strategic Survey of 
the non-partisan International Institute for Strategic Studies' picked 
the decline of U.S. authority as one of the most important security 
developments of the past year--but suggested the fading of American 
prestige began earlier, largely due to its failings in Iraq.

One of our most special and effective citizen agencies of public 
diplomacy is the Peace Corps. Think of this--more than 187,000 
volunteers have served this venerable legacy of former President 
Kennedy, serving in 139 countries--where they bring our values to other 
peoples, and bring understanding and appreciation of other cultures 
back home.

The greatest gift of the Peace Corps and other civilian programs is 
not just that ordinary Americans share their values and our culture 
with other peoples, but also that when volunteers return, they bring 
greater understanding and appreciation of other cultures.

Foreign policy is not just what we do, but also who we are. America 
as a place has often been the great antidote to U.S. foreign policy--
and it should be again. Mr. Zakaria writes that ''When American actions 
across the world have seemed harsh, misguided or unfair, America itself 
has always been open, welcoming and tolerant. . .''

At the end of the day, our openness is our greatest foreign policy. 
We have succeeded not because of the ingenuity of our government, but 
rather because of efforts like this unique program to keep ourselves 
open to the world--to sending our people out across the countries of 
the world to share our unique culture, our goods and services, our 
ideas and inventions, our people and cultures. This openness, this 
civilian diplomacy, has allowed us to make friends across boundaries. 
It will be central to our place as a nation in the future.


This week, as we celebrate National Peace Corps Week, we honor the 
more than 190,000 volunteers who have served in 139 developing 
countries since President Kennedy's call to service in 1961--and I 
honor 44 of my constituents currently serving our country in places as 
diverse as China, Mali, Azerbaijan, Macedonia, El Salvador, and 
Namibia. This can be lonely and demanding service, but service that can 
create enduring friendships and values that transcend boundaries and 
cultures.

Today, more than 8,000 Peace Corps volunteers around the world are 
currently providing training and education in 74 countries. These 
volunteers each donate their time and skills for over 2 years, in order 
to make a difference in the world and to promote understanding between 
cultures. By offering their valuable skills and showing a passion for 
helping others, they show the world that Americans value learning and 
cross-cultural exchange.

Volunteers work in areas of education, health and HIV/AIDS, business 
development, environment, agriculture and youth, and must often be 
creative and flexible when living and working in new cultures and 
learning new languages. The resulting experience is rewarding for all 
involved, and it highlights the importance of cooperation and 
involvement between cultures around the globe.

When volunteers return home and share their overseas experiences with 
their communities, the Peace Corps helps Americans as much as the 
people in developing countries. From recent college graduates to 
doctors with decades of experience, volunteers choose to use their 
valuable skills and education to help people all over the world, but 
their work affects their lives long after returning home.

This week we remember the dedication and passion of Peace Corps 
volunteers, young and old, current and returned. We thank them for 
their service, and encourage more Americans to volunteer with the Peace 
Corps.








Sworn-in Volunteers In the District of VA-08

 Volunteer Name, Country of Service, Start of SVC Date, Projected COS 

















Date




 Adriance, Joel E, ECUADOR, 31-Aug-2005, 30-Sep-2008.



 Armitage, Emily M, BULGARIA, 19-Oct-2006, 10-Oct-2008.



 Arnaoudova, Ina M, AZERBAIJAN, 13-Sep-2006, 12-Sep-2008.



 Ballenger, Charles J, EL SALVADOR, 30-Nov-2006, 28-Nov-


 2008.



 Banks, Cecilia M, ECUADOR, 31-Aug-2005, 30-Sep-2008.



 Bergin, Sarah M, SURINAME, 03-Aug-2006, 03-Aug-2008.



 Braslavsky, Gelena, BULGARIA, 29-Jun-2007, 30-Jun-2009.



 Cabrera, Luis J, NICARAGUA, 20-Jul-2007, 17-Jul-2009.



 Calnan, Shannon M, ROMANIA, 27-Jul-2007, 26-Jul-2009.



 Chadbourn Iv, Charles C, COSTA RICA, 14-Sep-2006, 19-Sep-


 2008.



 Cohen, Matthew B, GHANA, 21-Aug-2007, 20-Aug-2009.



 Davies, Meghan E, HONDURAS, 20-Apr-2006, 14-Mar-2008.



 Doherty, Jennifer J, JAMAICA, 25-Aug-2006, 25-Aug-2008.



 Ferrara, Erin J, FIJI, 03-Aug-2006, 03-Aug-2008.



 Ficke, Melanie K, HONDURAS, 07-Sep-2006, 06-Sep-2008.



 GarciaLahiguera, Andres J, ROMANIA, 27-Jul-2007, 26-Jul-


 2009.



 Geurtsen, Christopher P, VANUATU, 21-Jun-2007, 19-Jun-2009.



 Glock, Porter O, FIJI, 03-Aug-2006, 03-Aug-2008.



 Guachamin, Marcela A, COSTA RICA, 18-May-2007, 15-May-2009.



 Gustafson, Kevin L, GUYANA, 26-Jul-2007, 25-Jul-2009.



 Houk, Kathryn G, BOLIVIA, 28-Jul-2006, 01-Aug-2008.



 Huckstep, Melanie L, CHINA, 07-Sep-2007, 08-Sep-2009.



 Hurley, Emelia M, BOLIVIA, 13-Apr-2006, 11-Apr-2008.



 Infantino, Ann Marie C, HONDURAS, 27-Sep-2007, 25-Sep-2009.





 Johnston, Elizabeth A, PARAGUAY, 21-Apr-2006, 18-Apr-2008.



 Landrigan, Gregory J, PANAMA, 28-Jul-2005, 04-Sep-2008.



 Luckett, Christina C, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, 26-May-2006, 05-


 May-2008.



 Mandt, Kehl R, CHINA, 09-Jun-2005, 16-Aug-2009.



 Milanowski, Elissa N, NAMIBIA, 06-Jan-2006, 30-Mar-2008.



 Morris, Katherine M, ALBANIA, 13-Jun-2007, 13-Jun-2009.



 Morrow, Katherine J, CHINA, 07-Sep-2007, 08-Sep-2009.



 Neidorf, Katherine A, MACEDONIA, 15-Dec-2006, 14-Dec-2008.



 Norko, Sara M, PHILIPPINES, 03-Aug-2007, 03-Aug-2009.



 Papernick, Rachel J, HONDURAS, 27-Sep-2007, 25-Sep-2009.



 Pasley, Virginia B, UKRAINE, 21-Dec-2006, 18-Dec-2008.



 Rooney, Kieran E, MOLDOVA, 16-Aug-2007, 14-Aug-2009.



 Schiller, Malaika L, BENIN, 22-Sep-2006, 22-Sep-2008.



 Shah, Rekha, PHILIPPINES, 03-Aug-2007, 03-Aug-2009.



 Shanahan, Kara A, EL SALVADOR, 16-Aug-2007, 13-Aug-2009.



 Slotnick, Jennifer A, GUATEMALA, 27-Jul-2006, 26-Jul-2008.



 Soto, Jocelyn D, UKRAINE, 21-Dec-2006, 18-Dec-2008.



 Vance, Jessica H. EL SALVADOR, 19-Apr-2007, 24-Apr-2009.



 Wagner, Ariel E, MALI, 25-Nov-2005, 25-May-2008.



 Zehner, Amanda L, GAMBIA, 13-Apr-2007, 15-Apr-2009.


Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Generations Invigorating 
Volunteerism and Education Act, the GIVE Act, H.R. 2857. I congratulate 
Chairman Miller and Chairwoman McCarthy and Ranking Members McKeon and 
Platts on their work toward this day and moving us closer to finally 
reauthorizing the Corportation for National and Community Service.

There are many noteworthy programs in the GIVE Act, including Senior 
Corps and AmeriCorps, which give countless Americans the opportunity to 
volunteer. Today, I would like to bring attention to a new and very 
promising program that I have worked to include in the GIVE Act. This 
new part of the law will provide grants to non-profit organizations to 
encourage increased volunteer, community, workforce, and educational 
participation in older adults.

Recent research shows that Americans in the second half of life--
regardless of income, educational level, or race--want to explore 
options for the next stage of life, including service opportunities, 
obtaining new training, retooling existing skills, pursuing educational 
interests, and exploring flexible work.

This initiative is a timely and necessary way to help the large U.S. 
'boomer' generation make the transition to a new productive life phase 
by providing support and community connections for ongoing learning, 
development, and contribution to society. Similar programs currently 
function as an initiative of Civic Ventures and are a proven success.

I am hopeful that we will be able to bring a program to my district 
to assist those that are in a transition period, whether they have lost 
a job, are looking for a career change, or would like to move into a 
volunteer role in the community.

Mr. Chairman, again I thank the leadership of the Education and Labor 
Committee and its excellent staff for assisting in securing this 
program authorization and in moving the GIVE Act forward.