---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `56c50f63d290700bf40a2d21f09d800c`
`Mr. McKEON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the motion being 
considered. Yet again, I find myself standing in defense of our 
military leaders and our honorable men and women in uniform. Today's 
ill-conceived resolution is another example of partisan maneuvering by 
the Democrats. I think it is important to remind my colleagues exactly 
what is being sought by this resolution and the negative effect it will 
have. While our troops are fighting in Iraq, Democratic leadership is 
attempting to draw attention from any signs of progress and ignore the 
sound strategy that we laid out earlier this year. What happened to the 
promise of a New Way Forward in Iraq?

General Petraeus has honorably taken on this leadership role in this 
war with the support of Democrats in the other body, and yet, here 
today the Democrats seek to publicly undermine him. It is shameful. He 
was given a job to do--to execute the Baghdad Security Plan--and he is 
doing it alongside our troops. The plan is still underway and today's 
interim report indicates a reduction in violent attacks in Baghdad. We 
should be standing with him, with our plan, and allowing for its full 
implementation. Instead, however, we see today the real Democratic 
agenda in this resolution: the truth is the Democrats aren't interested 
in whether or not the security plan will work.

Mr. Speaker, I question whether this resolution would do more harm 
than good. A precipitous withdrawal of troops would seriously endanger 
our soldiers and would signal defeat to our enemies around the world.

Mr. Speaker this House speaks loudest when it speaks with purpose, 
and voting to remove troops before receiving the report in September, 
that we asked for, is contradictory and bad policy. This bill does not 
honor the sacrifice and dedication of our troops who have fought to 
implement the plan we approved.

We should never miss the opportunity in this House to act in the best 
interest of our foreign


policy and our men and women in harm's way. We should--at every 
opportunity--reject undermining the faith and dedicated work of our 
brave men and women in uniform.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this 
dangerous resolution. It is the duty of this House and of this Congress 
and of this Nation to give our men and women the support they need to 
see this conflict through. We have allocated a timeframe for our new 
General, and now we must allow our military leaders the opportunity to 
prevail.