# None
## `56cbef5d289ac785ab73ebd32c852d6c`
`Mr. BYRD — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, it has been a challenging year for the 
Senate Appropriations Committee. When the 110th Congress convened in 
January 2007, only two of the annual appropriations bills had been 
enacted. Working with the chairman of the House Appropriations 
Committee, Mr. David Obey, Senator Cochran, and Representative Lewis, 
we immediately began work on a joint funding resolution to fund the 
Federal Government.

We focused on funding a short list of priorities, such as adding $3.6 
billion for VA medical care; $1.6 billion for State and local law 
enforcement; $620 million for the National Institutes of Health; and 
$1.4 billion to fight AIDS and malaria in the developing world. That 
joint funding resolution was passed by the House and the Senate and 
signed into law by the President on February 15, 2007.

Almost immediately, the committee was called back into action to 
tackle a bill to make emergency appropriations for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The committee produced a prudent and responsible bill that 
required a new course for the war in Iraq. The bill set a goal for 
having most of our troops out of Iraq by January 1, 2008. Had the 
President signed that bill, most of our troops would already be home 
preparing to celebrate the new year.

Unfortunately, the President found that the bill did not support his 
''stay the course'' policies and vetoed that bill on May 1, 2007. The 
Appropriations Committee produced another bill, totaling $120 billion, 
unfortunately this time stripped of the important guidance on the 
future of the war. That bill was again passed by the House and Senate, 
and this time the President signed it into law on May 25, 2007.

The committee then began its annual work of producing the regular 
appropriations bills. I am proud to say that the committee reported 12 
individual appropriations bills, many of which were reported by 
unanimous, bipartisan votes. The bills that were considered on the 
floor of the Senate received broad, bipartisan support, and each 
received the affirmative vote of more than 75 Senators. And finally, 
the, committee--working on a bipartisan, bicameral basis--produced the 
complex legislation, which is now before the Senate.

My reason for detailing the work of the Appropriations Committee this 
year is simple: I wish to convey my personal appreciation for all of 
the work and cooperation of the committee's ranking member, Senator 
Cochran, who has time and again used his skill and experience to bring 
credit upon himself, the committee, and the Senate as a whole.

I also wish to commend the chairmen and ranking members of each of 
the 12 subcommittees. It is through their knowledge and leadership that 
the committee is able to craft the individual appropriations bills. It 
is to their great credit that the committee was able to rise to the 
many challenges presented this year.

I wish to express my gratitude to the staff of the Appropriations 
Committee. They are dedicated public servants: professional, expert, 
and diligent. The committee is extremely fortunate to have their 
services, and I thank them for all the many hours they have devoted to 
performing their duties.

And finally, I send to my colleague, Senator Cochran, each member of 
the Appropriations Committee, and all of the staff, my warmest wishes 
for a safe and joyous Christmas in the spirit of the old-Time 
Christmases and a very happy New Year.