---
---

# None
## `56d55e66a24904c0460c6585db9de0cf`
`Mr. DREIER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, here we go again. It has actually been 
several weeks now since we have had a meaningless vote on the issue of 
Iraq, and so I suppose we are overdue for another one. This Democratic 
leadership, Mr. Speaker, as we all know very well, still bereft of any 
real ideas, has been forced once again to resort to demagoguery, 
bringing up a bill that they know, they know full well, will not be 
enacted into law. And knowing that their proposal cannot withstand any 
critical scrutiny, they have once again shut down the process and 
brought this to us under a completely closed rule, not allowing any of 
the very thoughtful proposed alternatives to be considered whatsoever.

Mr. Speaker, yesterday in the Rules Committee, I offered an amendment 
that would have allowed us to have the opportunity to substitute their 
policy with the very thoughtful and responsible recommendations that 
were included in this bipartisan Iraq Study Group package of 
recommendations proposed by Mr. Baker and Mr. Hamilton, a group of 
Democrats and Republicans, very respected, authorized by this Congress. 
And they refused to allow us to have any opportunity whatsoever to even 
debate, much less vote, on the issue of the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations.

Now, just yesterday morning in an interview on National Public Radio, 
our former colleague Mr. Hamilton, who, as I said, was the co-Chairman 
of the Iraq Study Group, had a very eloquent and thoughtful interview 
on the need for us to implement the Iraq Study Group recommendations. 
Unfortunately, the Democratic leadership, I guess fearful that 
responsible policy would prevail and that this institution might, in 
fact, pass the measure calling for implementation of the Iraq Study 
Group, prevented us from having the chance to debate or vote on the 
Iraq Study Group recommendations.

The last time we went through this charade, they at least had the 
luxury of making dire predictions of failure for the new strategy in 
Iraq led by General Petraeus, and the distinguished Chair of the 
Committee on Rules once again basically talked about failure and said 
that we haven't met any benchmarks. Even then, Mr. Speaker, the 
strategy was actually showing early signs of success. But this time, 
this time, the counterinsurgency offensive is well under way and making 
clear and irrefutable progress.

I will say once again, Mr. Speaker, that we are seeing clear and 
irrefutable progress taking place. As one major newspaper recently 
editorialized, ''Demands for withdrawal are no longer demands to pull 
out of a deteriorating situation with little hope. They are now demands 
to end a new approach to this conflict that shows every sign of 
succeeding.''

Mr. Speaker, U.S. forces, working side by side with Iraqi Army and 
police forces, have penetrated enemy strongholds in the belt 
surrounding Baghdad and are driving them out. They have cut off al 
Qaeda's supply lines and transport routes. They are destroying car bomb 
factories. Sectarian deaths have plummeted. Al Qaeda operatives are 
finding themselves increasingly isolated, their safe havens destroyed, 
and their ability to move freely between neighborhoods severely 
diminished.

Mr. Speaker, our efforts have been significantly bolstered by former 
Sunni insurgents who have joined the fight against al Qaeda. I am going 
to say that again. Former Sunni insurgents have now joined our effort 
in the fight against al Qaeda. Nowhere has this process been more 
critical than in the al-Anbar province.



Last year, a leaked Marine intelligence report conceded this province 
as completely lost. That was the report that came out. Today, Mr. 
Speaker, al-Anbar is our best success story, and a template for U.S. 
Forces working together with both Sunni police and Shia army forces to 
combat al Qaeda.

General David Petraeus, the man who has received bipartisan praise 
and was confirmed unanimously by a vote of 82-0 in the United States 
Senate as he began his work, he said to the New York Post, ''We are 
beginning to see a revolt of the middle against both extremes.''

Now, Mr. Speaker, it is our commanders on the ground who have 
repeatedly pointed out that the tipping point didn't come until the 
tribal leaders sought a prolonged offensive by U.S. and Iraqi forces.

Now, let's think back to what life was like in Iraq under Saddam 
Hussein. After a quarter-century reign of terror by Saddam Hussein, 
Iraqis clearly would not immediately rise up against any force until 
that force has been driven into retreat. We had to demonstrate our 
strength and our commitment before we earned the trust of the tribal 
leaders and their support in the fight against al Qaeda. That is 
exactly what we're doing today in Baghdad and the surrounding areas.

The New York Times recently reported on the Anbar success and how we 
are currently applying it to the fight to secure Baghdad. According to 
a July 8 report, former insurgents in Sunni neighborhoods of Baghdad 
are now taking up arms against al Qaeda. Now, that is July 8th, a 
report that came out just 4 days ago. Now, it quotes Petraeus as 
saying, ''Local security is helped incalculably by local support and 
local involvement.''

Now, Mr. Speaker, this success is so critical because it gets to the 
heart, it gets to the very heart of our twin goals in Iraq. First, that 
Iraqis will be able to provide their own security, that we have an 
increased ISF, the Iraqi Security Forces, and that they are trained 
adequately; and second, that this security will provide the environment 
that makes a political solution possible.

The quicker that Iraqis achieve security and a peaceful, stable 
democracy, the quicker our troops will come home. And as we listen to 
the speeches that will come following mine about the quest for our 
troops to come home, make no bones about it, I share the goal and the 
vision that is put forth by our friends, Mr. McGovern and Ms. 
Slaughter, and others, who will argue to bring our troops home. We all 
want to make sure that that happens.

Our new strategy, Mr. Speaker, has clearly brought us closer to that 
goal. And if our fight against extremism was not urgent enough, the 
Associated Press report that came out just late yesterday afternoon 
that al Qaeda's global network is again on the rise and has regained 
much of the strength that it had in September of 2001 is an important 
thing for us to recognize.

Mr. Speaker, as the terror network rebuilds and regroups, it seems 
absolutely preposterous that we would abandon not only a key front in 
the global war on terror, but a place where we have al Qaeda on the 
defensive and where we are diminishing their capabilities, especially 
in light of that report that came out just last night about their 
renewed strength. Yet, the Democratic leadership inexplicably wants to 
pull the rug out from under our military commanders. Well, Mr. Speaker, 
perhaps not so inexplicable if we consider that their planned 
withdrawal would be complete just in time for the 2008 elections.

But let's pretend that there is no election looming on the horizon 
here. Regardless of this bill's impact on American electoral politics, 
what would be the effects on Iraq? Now, Mr. Speaker, even the New York 
Times editorial board, which apparently doesn't often read its own news 
reports and is calling for an immediate withdrawal, acknowledges the 
inevitable dire consequences of its recommended course of action. In 
the very editorial calling for surrender, it outlines the overwhelming 
refugee and humanitarian crisis that would immediately ensue, how the 
fight would spill out all across the region. And Mr. Speaker, in the 
most callous way, it acknowledges the terror that would be inflicted 
upon


those Iraqis who worked with us because they believed our promises. How 
cold and cynical. How callous can we be to stand here and debate the 
notion of abandoning the Iraqi people, not only to genocide, but to the 
targeting of the very individuals who have bravely worked with us.

The Democratic leadership wants to wave a magic wand and make this 
war go away. I wouldn't mind a magic wand myself, and certainly the 
American people would appreciate a quick and tidy solution. But I'm 
afraid that this solution attempts to salvage nothing but party 
politics. The Iraqi people, Mr. Speaker, would not be quite so lucky.

Furthermore, NPR recently reported that the quick withdrawal time 
frame that the Democratic leadership dreamed up has no basis in 
reality. It would take a year or more to safely withdraw all U.S. 
troops from Iraq, and it would take significant combat forces to 
protect the withdrawal. We would have to fight our way out all the way 
to the Kuwaiti border. There simply is no magic wand in this war, Mr. 
Speaker.

Perhaps the greatest irony of this bill is that it calls for detailed 
reports for a strategy in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, we have a strategy, and 
while it was only fully operational less than 1 month ago, it is 
already succeeding. The Democratic leadership, in their absurdist 
logic, want our military to abandon their strategy, go home and write a 
report about what they would have wanted to accomplish if they had 
stayed. And if that weren't cruel enough, Mr. Speaker, they would have 
to watch terror and genocide unfold as they retreated. Now, I cannot 
fathom a more disastrous policy for our security or the Iraqis'.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this rule and the 
underlying bill itself.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.