---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `56d5858974e9c8e107d536fca197499e`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

The mission here is to develop a country that can govern, sustain and 
defend itself, govern, sustain and defend. So under that, under govern, 
you have political. Under sustain, you have economic. And under defend, 
you have security.

So as I listened to my colleagues come to the floor and say it only 
requires a political solution, really? These are not inextricable. I 
also appeal for consistency. I just heard the last speaker talk about 
the necessity for national interests, so he said it is not in our 
national interests to be in Iraq.

Let's stop and think about that for a second. Let's be consistent. In 
the 1990s, Republicans operated under what was called the Weinberg 
Doctrine, that only commit U.S. ground troops if there is a national 
vital security interest. And that is how we kind of were guiding 
ourselves based off the Weinberg Doctrine. Then what happens? We have 
got Bosnia. We said oh, that is a European problem. Then the U.N. came 
in, the U.N. was ineffective.

President Clinton made a judgment, and he upset Republicans. He made 
a judgment that because of the atrocities in Bosnia, the ethnic 
cleansing that was occurring, that it took U.S. ground troops, a 
presence of them. Republicans at the time said there are not vital 
national interests at stake. Democrats then said, oh, that doesn't 
matter, this is a humanitarian cause.

Democrats said, it is okay to take U.S. troops, put them on the 
ground to stop the fighting for a humanitarian purpose. That is what 
Democrats said in the 1990s. Republicans were curious about all of this 
because it was against the Weinberg Doctrine. As a matter of fact, 
there were 315 votes. I brought a resolution to the floor, 315 
Republicans; Democrats then said, oh, no, no, no, no. Don't put U.S. 
ground troops on the floor, and that was in the middle of the Dayton 
Peace Accords.

Bill Clinton was very upset with me. So the President brings me down 
to the White House and says, hey, work with me. So I said, I will, and 
we drafted benchmarks for the success of the civil implementation of 
the Dayton Accords. I worked with President Clinton.

Where do I hear you working for a solution in Iraq? Don't just be the 
critic. I ask of my colleagues, where is your consistency and your 
policies? If you are as consistent as you were for a Democratic 
President, it was a humanitarian cause in Bosnia, I don't hear you 
talking at all about the atrocities that occurred under Saddam Hussein.



The murders, the ethnic cleansing, a humanitarian cause, the effect 
it has not only upon the neighbors, the stability of the Middle East, 
but what about Israel? Do you want to turn your back on Israel?










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
