# None
## `56e4e41759ebd96a0871f3e9c14007c9`
`Mr. OBEY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, let me simply say in response to the previous 
speaker on that side of the aisle, he claims that efforts on our part 
to withdraw our troops or redeploy our troops out of a combat situation 
represents a slow-bleed policy. I would suggest that the existing 
policy is a bleed-forever policy, and it needs to be changed.

The second question the gentleman asked referred to agriculture. He 
said, ''Gee, these agriculture disasters occurred last year; why 
weren't they handled then?'' That is a very good question. We weren't 
in charge last year. The other side was.

In fact, we have had agriculture disaster legislation pending for 2 
years. The President declared 70 percent of the counties in this 
country to be disaster areas, and yet the last Congress couldn't put 
together a two-car funeral when it came to addressing that problem. So 
we are simply cleaning up in a separate bill; mind you, we are cleaning 
up last year's agriculture disaster problem. It is just another one of 
the leftover items from the previous Congress that we are now charged 
with the responsibility to finish.

Now let me get to what the real issue is in this bill.

The Washington Post carries a story this morning describing the 
efforts of the administration to use Iraqi government officials to try 
to get the Democratic lawmakers to ease the pressure on the White House 
to have a timetable for the withdrawal of troops. Mr. al-Rubaie is 
quoted as saying the following: ''Now, nobody is talking about sliding 
into a civil war, as we've been able to avoid it.''

He added, ''Portraying the scene there as Shiite killing Sunni and 
Sunnis killing Shiites is totally untrue.''

What are they smoking? What do we see on television every day, 
despite the effort of the administration to shut down as much access on 
the part of the public to the carnage as is possible?

I strongly support this rule today for one simple reason: The 
President has asked the Congress to give him $100 billion in additional 
funding to fight this war, no strings attached. The Congress passed a 
proposal and put it on the President's desk suggesting that there ought 
to be certain limitations on the President's conduct in return for 
getting the money. He vetoed that. He believes he is ''the decider.''

Well, under the Constitution, we are all supposed to be deciders. So 
now we have before us, in response to the President's action, a 
proposal to do three things: First of all, it would provide an 
opportunity to have an up-or-down vote on the issue of whether or not 
troops ought to be redeployed over the next year. I think that is what 
a democratic institution is supposed to do, to make choices like that.

Secondly, what we are proposing under this rule today will allow the 
Congress to require the President to report to the Congress on three 
things: First of all, since the President has said that, as Iraqi 
military units stand up, we should stand down, we have a sense of the 
Congress provision in this legislation which says that, as the 
President certifies that battalions have achieved full combat 
capability, that a certain number of corresponding U.S. units ought to 
stand down. It is not mandatory. It is a sense of the Congress that 
that ought to happen.

Secondly, we ask the President to report to the Congress on the 
progress that Iraq is making on the benchmarks that the President 
himself set out last fall as being the criteria by which we should 
judge Iraqi progress.

And then thirdly, so that it isn't a softball report, we are also 
asking that the President report to the Congress spelling out which of 
those benchmarks have actually been achieved. Has the Iraqi parliament 
actually passed an adequate oil revenue-sharing law which shares that 
oil equitably with Sunni, Shiites and Kurds alike, because if they 
don't do that, the Sunnis will never stop fighting?

And then, lastly, what we do is to set up a separate bill that deals 
with some of the domestic emergencies that we face that the President 
described as ''pork.'' Among those is the agriculture disaster bill. 
And so we are considering that as a separate bill to demonstrate to the 
White House and to demonstrate to our critics that they are wrong when 
they say that we are afraid to let these programs stand on their own. 
So we are going to vote on them alone, and I happen to think they are 
in a stronger position when we vote on them alone.



It is going to be very interesting to see how many of our Republican 
friends from agricultural districts are actually going to support us in 
trying to provide that assistance.



After all, we did not declare those counties disaster areas. A fellow 
by the name of Bush did, and he's the guy that lives in that big white 
house, and when he makes a declaration like that, there ought to be 
certain consequences that flow from it, and we're simply meeting those 
obligations. So that's basically what we are trying to do.

As the gentleman from Washington said earlier, we simply happen to 
believe, those of us who are going to be supporting this proposition, 
we simply happen to believe that it would be nice if we were fighting 
the right war in the right place rather than the wrong war in the wrong 
place, and the right place to be taking al Qaeda on is in Afghanistan.

Now, we also provide in our proposition, we say that 60 days after or 
60 days from now roughly, by July 13, by the time this bill is passed, 
by July 13, we guarantee the administration that the Congress will have 
an up-or-down vote on its own request for all the money. I don't know 
what more we can do.

What we are simply doing is we are letting the President report, 
letting him give his judgments to us. We then give the Congress about 
10 days to absorb what the President has said, and then we vote, up or 
down, on two issues: number one, whether the President should get all 
the remaining money; and, number two, there's another amendment that 
would simply have us instead use that money to redeploy our troops out 
of combat.

It's a fair, square deal. The administration gets a straight shot at 
what it wants and war critics get a straight shot at what they want. 
That, to me, is eminently fair.