---
---

# KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT
## `56e50e2e1e0f522136a6e8e8f1f78ee4`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California — 9 June 2008`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.



Mr. Speaker, S. 2516, the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistant 
Act, pays tribute to the memory of 21-year-old Army Reserve Specialist 
Kendell K. Frederick who was killed in Iraq while attempting to become 
an American citizen.

Specialist Frederick was born in Trinidad and immigrated to the 
United States when he was 15 years old to join his mother, stepfather, 
and two sisters. He attended Randallstown Senior High in Baltimore 
County, Maryland, where he joined the school's ROTC program. Specialist 
Frederick enlisted in the Army Reserve in his senior year and was 
deployed to Iraq in December of 2004.

As he was serving our country, Specialist Frederick sought to apply 
for U.S. citizenship, yet one bureaucratic hurdle after another delayed 
his application.

First, the USCIS failed to route his application to the unit that 
processes naturalization applications for members of the military. The 
gentleman then rejected his application for failure to pay an 
application fee even though active military personnel applying for U.S. 
citizenship are not required to pay that fee.

Next, the agency directed Specialist Frederick to get his 
fingerprints taken in Maryland despite the obvious fact that he was 
deployed in Iraq at the time. Besides, he had recently had his 
fingerprints taken as part of his background check when he enlisted in 
the Army Reserve.

But when his mother called the agency's help line, she was told that 
nothing could be done.

Finally, after trying for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen 
and having his application rejected and delayed as a result of various 
bureaucratic failings by his own government, Specialist Frederick was 
forced to travel on a convoy to a base where he could get his 
fingerprints taken again for his naturalization application.

Tragically, he was killed en route by a roadside bomb. Specialist 
Frederick was posthumously granted U.S. citizenship a week after his 
death.

S. 2516 would remove unnecessary procedural hurdles like the ones 
Specialist Frederick faced for naturalization applications currently or 
recently serving in the military. Most importantly, it directs Homeland 
Security to accept fingerprints taken at the time of enlistment as long 
as they are otherwise acceptable.

The House has already passed legislation similar to S. 2516. It was 
introduced by Representative Elijah Cummings. It was H.R. 2884, the 
Kendell Frederick Citizenship Act, and passed the House by voice vote 
on November 6 of last year. There are a few minor differences between 
the House-passed bill and the Senate bill, but both accomplish the goal 
of removing these bureaucratic hurdles to our soldiers becoming U.S. 
citizens.

Therefore, I ask that my colleagues support the passage of this bill 
so that we can get the bill to the President and signed into law as 
quickly as possible.

Approximately 45,000 lawful permanent residents are currently serving 
in our Armed Forces. More than 35,000 noncitizen members of the 
military have applied for U.S. citizenship since 2002.

This bill is an excellent measure that will help ensure that from now 
on American soldiers do not face some unnecessary, unreasonable hurdles 
to American citizenship that cost Specialist Frederick his life. Much 
more needs to be done to assist America's soldiers with their hassles 
with our immigration system. But this bill is a good first step, and I 
urge my colleagues to support it.

I reserve the balance of my time.