---
---

# None
## `56f0db656be712543a09cc19282a9f27`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, from 1997 to 2000, I served as ranking 
member of the Senate Budget Committee alongside Chairman Domenici, and 
I am proud to say that by the end of my tenure, the Federal Government 
had a budget surplus of $236.4 billion.

Today we face a starkly different picture. Our country is more in 
debt than ever, owing an astounding $9.3 trillion.


Under President Bush's watch, the national debt will have almost 
doubled, and he has sacrificed the stability of our economy in the 
process. He has effectively taken our Nation from one of economic 
stability and prosperity to a nation on the brink of recession, and our 
children and grandchildren will be stuck with the bill for generations 
to come.

Each year, the President has a chance to do the right thing and 
propose to Congress a responsible budget which addresses the needs of 
our country and is fair to all Americans. I have been extremely 
disappointed these last 8 years as President Bush has continually 
presented us with budget proposals that have resulted in four of the 
five highest deficits in our country's history, leaving us with a 
staggering budget deficit of hundreds of billions of dollars. At the 
same time, his proposals have rewarded the wealthiest members of our 
society at the expense of the middle class and Americans struggling to 
earn a living.

I am proud to have helped ensure that Congress rejected these Bush 
proposals. Once again this year, we find ourselves in the same process.

In rejecting President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, we in 
the Senate Budget Committee under the leadership of Chairman Conrad 
have brought forward a budget that is not only fiscally responsible but 
also morally responsible. As a member of this committee, I was pleased 
to be able to help shape this budget.

This budget focuses on the real problems that Americans face. It 
includes tax relief for the middle class, makes much needed investments 
in our economy and our future, and keeps America safe by responsibly 
funding our homeland security needs.

One of the most pressing concerns to New Jerseyans, and all 
Americans, is tax relief for the middle class.

New Jerseyans in particular need relief from the unfair and 
unintended consequences of the alternative minimum tax, AMT. This tax 
was first imposed on the richest 155 families to ensure they did not 
abuse loopholes to avoid paying any taxes at all. But it has grown to 
ensnare far too many people, even members of the middle class, and has 
become an unfair and unintended tax. That is why it is so important 
that our budget includes AMT relief for over 1.4 million New Jerseyans 
who would otherwise be forced to pay this tax. That is a significant 
tax cut for the middle class.

I am pleased our budget includes this AMT relief, and I will continue 
to work diligently to help create a lasting solution to provide 
sufficient tax relief--from the AMT and other Federal taxes--for those 
who need it in New Jersey and nationwide.

I am also proud to be a cosponsor of the Baucus amendment to the 
budget, which the Senate passed today, to provide further tax relief 
for America's working families.

Our amendment permanently extends a lowered tax rate that benefits 
every single wage-earning American by keeping the tax rate on the first 
$7,000 of income earned to only 10 percent. This provision will save 
taxpayers an average of $498.

Our amendment also provides for the permanent extension of marriage 
penalty relief. According to the latest estimates, this extension will 
benefit 29.5 million Americans with an average savings of $686 per 
year. In addition, our amendment extends the refundable child tax 
credit which will provide an average of $1,025 in tax relief to some 
31.3 million families.

Important especially to New Jerseyans, this amendment provides new 
relief from high property taxes. We pay among the highest property 
taxes in the country, and many in our State need help.

While two-thirds of all Americans are homeowners, only one-third of 
homeowners itemize property tax deductions on their tax returns. That 
leaves 28.3 million Americans without a property tax deduction benefit, 
over 451,000 of whom live in New Jersey.

Our amendment provides tax relief to those who don't itemize by 
creating a standard property tax deduction. For single filers, this 
amendment will provide $500 in property tax relief and for joint filers 
that number increases to $1000 in property tax relief.

Aside from providing middle-class tax relief, our budget prepares for 
our economy's future by making the necessary investments in critical 
priorities, such as infrastructure, energy, and education.

To keep America moving, we must invest in our transportation 
infrastructure.

Last year, we saw the I-35W bridge collapse in Minneapolis, MN. Some 
25 percent of our bridges are still structurally deficient or 
functionally obsolete. Much of our surface infrastructure is in 
disrepair, and it will cost billions to improve it.

 But less than 1 year after the collapse in Minneapolis, President 
Bush wants to cut funding for high and bridge repair by almost $2 
billion.

 He also wants to fund transit programs at $200 million below the 
level that Congress authorized. These cuts hurt States like New Jersey 
that need transit funding the most, and working families who depend on 
this transportation.

 All of these programs are vital to commuters and travelers in New 
Jersey. After all, New Jersey is the most densely populated State in 
the country and is even more densely populated than the countries of 
India and Japan.

 Traffic congestion on our roads costs our country nearly $80 billion 
a year--twice the Federal budget for highways. Commuters cannot afford 
to sit in traffic when gas prices are well over $3 a gallon, and our 
environment cannot afford the greenhouse gas emissions from these 
idling cars.

 Our budget restores billions of dollars President Bush proposed in 
cuts to transportation and provides even more money to rebuild the 
backbone of our economy--our bridges, highways, skyways, seaports, 
airports, and transit systems. Our budget is expected to create 475,000 
new transportation jobs, 7,900 in New Jersey alone. I was proud to 
sponsor an amendment to this budget to ensure that infrastructure 
projects involving rail transportation, including high-speed rail, 
airports, and seaports are eligible for this new funding.

 Airline travelers fared no better under President Bush's budget 
proposal. The Bush administration's failures on aviation have led to 
one of the worst years ever for flight delays. More than one in four 
flights was late. Our air traffic control system remains dangerously 
understaffed, and air traffic controllers are overworked and fatigued. 
And there is a lack of leadership in preventing runway incidents.

 One billion airline passengers will be flying each year by 2015. Now 
is no time to be cutting funding for our Nation's airports and runways 
by $765 million, as President Bush proposes. Our budget restores these 
cuts to aviation infrastructure to keep passengers moving.

 President Bush is also trying once again to bankrupt Amtrak.

 In a time of record high gas prices and record airport delays, we 
should not be taking away this popular, energy-efficient, and 
convenient travel option, which people are using in record numbers.

 Last October, the Senate passed my legislation with former Senator 
Trent Lott to provide $11.4 billion for Amtrak to expand passenger rail 
in the United States, and I am working with my House colleagues to get 
it taken up and passed into law this year. It is time that America had 
a world-class passenger rail system.

 I want to thank Chairman Conrad working with me to ensure Amtrak's 
operations and capital needs are fully funded in this budget--a total 
of $1.8 billion, plus an additional $250 million for State passenger 
rail grants.

 Another key feature of our budget is tackling the extremely 
important energy and environmental problems we are facing. Our budget 
shows real commitment to tackling these challenges.

 The proposal by President Bush would cut funding for the Low-Income 
Home Energy Assistance Program, which provides much needed assistance 
for many contending with expensive bills to heat their homes in the 
winter.

 President Bush also proposed major cuts to programs that reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions and help us combat global warming--the most 
serious environmental threat we face. At a time when the science of 
global warming is certain, President Bush attempted to cut the budget 
for renewable energy by almost 30 percent. This is not a strategy to 
fight the climate


crisis; this is simply the same old, ineffective energy policy.

 Our budget not only restores these cuts but goes even further and 
calls for new programs that will reduce our dependency on foreign oil 
and help us fight global climate change.

 When it comes to education, our budget addresses the real problems 
American families face with rising tuition costs. While New Jerseyans 
and the rest of the Nation have seen average tuition costs go up 52 
percent since 2000, President Bush has continued to propose massive 
cuts in education programs. That is no way to ensure the future of 
Nation.

 Not only does our budget reject these proposed cuts but it increases 
education funding by an additional $5 billion. That is a serious 
commitment to education.

 Our budget puts in place policies that will help our children get 
the education they need to compete in a global society. It increases 
money for Pell grants and student loan programs so that our students 
can afford to go to college and achieve their dreams. Our budget also 
provides increased funding for early education like Head Start and puts 
additional resources into our public schools.

 Another issue of importance to all Americans is ever-rising health 
care costs. Since President Bush took office, health care premiums have 
risen 40 percent in New Jersey. Our budget restores proposed cuts to 
Medicare, Medicaid, and other important programs to ensure all members 
of our society get the health care they need.

 In addition, no responsible budget would be complete without dealing 
with the continuing threat of terrorism here in the United States.

 While spending over $3 billion a week on the war in Iraq, President 
Bush has badly underfunded our homeland security needs, leaving our 
Nation at greater risk.

 This risk is very real in New Jersey. The FBI has called the 2-mile 
stretch between Newark Liberty International Airport and Port 
Elizabeth, NJ, ''the most dangerous two miles in the country'' for 
terrorism.

 Yet President Bush proposed cutting funding for State homeland 
security grant programs by almost 80 percent.

 We all know that homeland security begins with hometown security. 
President Bush inherited a country where crime was going down thanks to 
successful, proven programs like COPS and Byrne Justice Assistance 
Grants, Byrne JAG.

 But after declining for years, violent crime has gone up in each of 
the past 2 years. And now President Bush wants to eliminate critical 
funding for local law enforcement under COPS and Byrne JAG.

 Thankfully, our budget restores funding for these programs and 
reaffirms our commitment to keeping our communities safe.

 When it comes to taking care of the men and women of our military, I 
am very pleased that we have recognized the sacrifices our career 
military retirees make by rejecting President Bush's proposal for 
TRICARE enrollment fees and deductibles. This is something I have been 
working to fix permanently.

 I also strongly support the 3.4-percent pay raise for military 
personnel that our Senate budget resolution proposes. I believe our 
service men and women deserve the best benefits that a grateful nation 
can provide.

 Lastly, and perhaps most prudently, this budget provides relief to 
those being hit hardest by the current downturn of our economy.

 It is clear that our economy is struggling. In response to that, 
this budget provides an additional $35 billion for a future stimulus 
bill to help families and businesses boost the economy.

 I am hopeful that this stimulus bill will include funding for our 
States, including increased Medicaid funding and even more 
infrastructure dollars.

 I commend Chairman Conrad for his leadership on this budget 
resolution, and I am proud to be a coauthor. It is a much needed step 
in the right direction.