---
---

# IRAQ ASSESSMENT
## `56f6968aacdb5cab1e753c9c3fa279c2`
`Mr. BURGESS — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee for 
yielding to me.

It is kind of ironic. We were here on the floor of this House last 
night. The House was full, Members on both sides. We heard the 
President deliver his final State of the Union address, and of course, 
as is typical for a State of the Union address, he touched on subjects 
near and far, went through the domestic agenda, went through the 
foreign agenda.

When he got to talking about the conditions on the ground in Iraq, I 
don't know about the gentlelady from Tennessee, but I was just 
absolutely struck by the scene in this House when he commended the 
troops for the activities and the success that they had achieved on the 
ground. One-half of the House stood up and applauded; the other half 
sat on their hands.

And Mr. Speaker, I don't know if there's been another time in 
American history when America goes to war, sends their sons and 
daughters to war, America is winning the war, and it's become something 
we don't want to talk about. There's other things that command our 
attention now, and we'll go on to other things.

The gentlelady was right, it was a year ago that we stood on the 
floor of this House and debated for hour after hour after hour on the 
efficacy of sending additional troops to Iraq. We were told by the 
majority leader over in the Senate, the Democratic majority leader, 
that the war was lost; there was no need to send additional men because 
we had already made the decision in the Senate, or the other body in 
the Capitol of the United States, that the war was over and the war was 
indeed lost.

The gentlelady's right, you can pick data points to prove whatever 
you want to prove in Iraq. They're all over the map, but if you look at 
trend lines over time, you begin to see a story taking shape, and that 
is the story that began to take shape in April of last year, perhaps a 
little reinforced in June of last year, July of last year.

My most recent trip to Iraq, my sixth trip, I wasn't sure what I was 
going to find because when you picked up the papers, the data points 
were scattered all over the place, but little by little, the story came 
out. And about a week after I was there in July, the New York Times 
finally broke the story, hey, there's a war we just might win going on 
in the country of Iraq, written by two individuals who, quite frankly, 
aren't always on the side of the President of the United States, so it 
seems, in their writings in the New York Times. The New York Times 
itself is not always on the same page as the President in a lot of 
foreign policy issues, but there it was in black and white for all to 
see.


Now, I went to Iraq in July of 2007. I very much wanted to go because 
I knew that the surge had started. I knew that General Petraeus had 
committed to come back and present data to Congress in September of 
2007 to talk about the success, or lack thereof, of the additional 
reinforcements that were sent into the country of Iraq. And I knew that 
this House, I knew myself as a Member of this House, was going to have 
to come to some decisions or some conclusions, if it's working it or 
it's not working; if it's not working, we will have to rethink the 
strategy.

So it was an important trip for me to take because I knew on every 
other trip that I had taken to Iraq what I saw on the ground bore no 
resemblance to what I was seeing on my television screens on CNN and 
CBS and the evening news and the morning shows. You have to go and look 
at it for yourselves to be able to understand what is happening.

You know it's not an easy job. It was a brief war, but it's been a 
long hard slog to get to where we are today, and history will have to 
decide whether the investment in time, the investment in lives, the 
investment in families who are deprived of their loved ones during 
these long deployments, history will decide the accuracy of the words 
that we speak tonight.

But I will tell you from the strength of that last trip in July and 
what I have seen reported since that time, I have to believe that this 
country going forward is going to be in far better shape in 10 years', 
20 years', 30 years' time because we have an Iraq that has an 
opportunity now to be a stable partner in a quest for peace in the 
Middle East, as opposed to a haven and an outpost for continued 
terrorism in that part of the world.

In July of 2006, I took a trip to Iraq. Peter Chiarelli on that trip 
said, you know, it's funny, I don't know want to make of it, but in a 
part of the country of Iraq that is very, very dangerous, al


Anbar province, a city called Ramadi, we don't know what to make of it 
but some insurgents that were in the hospital yesterday turned over all 
of their arms to our soldiers, and we'll just have to wait and see what 
develops. In fact, he asked me not to talk about it when I got back in 
July of 2006 because, again, he was not sure what that meant.

July of 2007, fast forward to that time. We got off the C-130 in 
Baghdad International Airport, get on the helicopters and are 
immediately taken to Ramadi. Ramadi, that was too dangerous a place to 
travel to a year before, was our first stop. We met General Gaston of 
the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force there on the ground in Ramadi. 
Ramadi is a city about the size of Ft. Worth. Ft. Worth, Texas, is the 
largest city in my district back home. It was the provincial capital of 
the resurgent caliphate as established by al Qaeda in western Iraq.

The reality, though, was that things had changed enormously over that 
past year and in ways that, quite honestly, had not been reported in 
the press back here at home. Again, I didn't know what I was going to 
find when I went there, but I have to tell you the job that was done by 
the Marines in the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force, the job that was 
done by the troops on the ground on these long deployments that they 
were undertaking, the job was truly phenomenal.

A year before I would not have been able to travel to the city of 
Ramadi. Now, not only could I travel to the city of Ramadi, after the 
briefing, after the endless Power Point that the military always gives 
you when you go over there, we got in vehicles and drove to downtown 
Ramadi.



I've got to tell you, I was a little concerned; General Gaston, are 
you sure that it's okay for us to go to downtown Ramadi? Last year, 
General Chiarelli said it's kind of dangerous out there. He said, 
''Let's go.''

We drove downtown. It was a Saturday morning, early on a Saturday 
morning. We drove to the market. It looked like a market any other 
place in the Middle East. There was a lot of activity. In fact, there 
were the typical sights and sounds of a city that has, perhaps, seen 
better days. They were working on some sewer pipes. There was, in fact, 
a little bit of construction going on.

But this photograph was taken last July 17th in the city of Ramadi. 
This shows the shops. I don't know where all this stuff came from. If 
this was an American market, I would assume all this stuff came from 
China. I'm not sure where it was made. But all of these wares were for 
sale, and there was shop after shop after shop lined up and down either 
side of the street.

You can see the faces of the young men there; a little bit of 
curiosity, all of these Americans showing up and walking through their 
streets. I'm sure for them it was a sight that they had not seen too 
often. But again, you see on the faces of these young men, these are 
not faces that are suspicious, these are not faces that are fearful, 
these are faces that are smiling. They were, in fact, glad to see us. 
And I found out a few minutes later why they were glad to see us; they 
were hoping that we had a pen or a quarter. They had apparently been 
well coached by our marines. Their school was going to start in a few 
weeks, and because they would be attending their classes, they were 
anxious to know if we had a writing instrument that we might part with 
that they could have.