---
---

# None
## `5707b8ac806b84712967eb29e9f5f9d5`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 21 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. You know, you are absolutely right. And in 
addition to the oversight and accountability and new direction that the 
supplemental on Iraq seeks to provide for the direction that the actual 
conduct of the war is taking, it is really imperative that we focus on 
the portion of the bill that relates to what it does for our veterans 
because, clearly, this administration, and the former Republican 
leadership of this Congress, did a disservice to them. They spent, in 
the 2 years that I was here prior to your arrival, the careless 
disregard that I noticed for veterans coming from the former Republican 
leadership was just really unbelievable because so often, Mr. Speaker, 
I heard our colleagues and friends on the other side of the aisle stand 
on the floor and profess undying devotion to our Nation's veterans and 
how it was imperative that we support them.

Well, words are nice. But that is all they were because every 
opportunity that our colleagues had, in the time that I was here, when 
I first got here as a freshman, to help our Nation's veterans, the 
Republicans said no. No.

In January of 2003, which is actually prior to my getting here, the 
Bush administration actually cut off veterans health care for 164,000 
veterans. Don't believe me? You have only to look at the Federal 
Register to see the documentation of that.

March 2003, the Republican budget cut $14 billion from veterans 
health care that was passed by Congress, with 199 Democrats voting no. 
That was H. Con. Res. 95, vote Number 82 on March 21, 2003.

Then we moved to a year later, March 2004. One would think that the 
Republicans had a year to think about it and would have finally 
realized that it was time to stand up for our Nation's veterans. They 
certainly said it a lot. When it came to doing it, they fell short.

The Republican budget shortchanged veterans health care then by $1.5 
billion. That was passed by Congress with 201 Democrats voting against 
it.

In March of 2005, another year later, President Bush's budget 
shortchanged veterans health care by more than $2 billion for 2005, and 
cut veterans health care by $14 billion over 5 years, and passed with 
201 Democrats again voting against it.

Now, let's go to the summer of 2005. And I was here by then. I could 
not believe that this happened, because for months and months the Bush 
administration denied that there was a shortfall, said that there was 
no problem, stalled and pushed back. And finally, in summer of 2005, 
Mr. Murphy, after democratic pressure, the Bush administration finally 
had to acknowledge in Fiscal Year 2006 that there was a short fall in 
veterans health care that was their error of $2.7 billion. And we had 
to fight all summer to get it fixed and have an emergency supplemental 
bill just to address the shortfall. It took pressure and cajoling and 
shame to finally bring them to the table and get them to do that.



And then in March of 2006, President Bush's budget cut veterans 
funding by $6 billion, Mr. Speaker, over 5 years. That was passed by 
the then Republican controlled Congress.

Fast forward to January 31st of 2007. The new direction Democrats 
increased the VA health care budget by $3.6 billion in the joint 
funding resolution.

And now, I can tell you that in our supplemental that passed out of 
the House Appropriations Committee last Thursday, on which I sit, with 
none of the Republicans, zero voting for it, $1.7 billion to the 
request for veterans health care, including $550 million, Mr. Speaker, 
to address the backlog at the VA health care facilities so we can 
prevent similar situations like what happened at Walter Reed because 
certainly, if we didn't know what was going on in Walter Reed, we have 
to make sure we address the needs of our veterans in health care 
facilities across this country that are run by this administration's VA 
agency.

$250 million for medical administration so that we can insure we have 
sufficient personnel to address the rising number of veterans that are 
coming back from Iraq, and that we have to make sure we maintain a high 
level of services.

$229 million for treating the growing number of veterans. $100 
million to allow the VA to contract with private mental health care 
providers to provide veterans, including Guard and Reserve members who 
so often are neglected, Mr. Murphy, with quality and timely care; and 
$62 million so that we can speed claims processing for returning 
veterans.

When I went to Walter Reed, and when I have gone home and talked to 
my veterans, and I know that you have experienced this too, the 
bureaucracy and the red tape that our veterans have to go through to 
get care. It is like they put roadblocks, it is like the VA and this 
administration puts roadblocks in front of our veterans on purpose.



It is like they delight in stalling them. I mean, it is not their 
money. I don't get it.