---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `57077529c0af4db0c995adfed878be64`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I rise on behalf of this 
bill and the effort by this Congress to bring accountability to the war 
in Iraq.

This war is in desperate need of a new direction. For nearly 5 years, 
our brave men and women have valiantly toed the line for this 
administration, and I'm proud to say that they have had great successes 
in their mission. We have seen a terrible dictator overthrown, tried 
and put to death, and in his place the people of Iraq carried out free 
and open elections. For all of this, we owe our soldiers and their 
families a debt of thanks.

But today's debate is not about the purpose of this war. We are here 
to make a decision on how best to bring accountability to this 
engagement. Today's legislation will keep soldiers on the ground to 
oversee diplomatic missions, protect U.S. citizens, equip and train 
Iraqis to stand on their own and continue to engage in targeted attacks 
on terrorists as we seek them out. This is a responsible strategy that 
worked for Eisenhower in South Korea when troops remained to oversee 
the DMZ after major operations had ended, and it can work for America 
today in Iraq.

However, I have long felt that it is time to remove our men and women 
from the kill zones of Iraq. Our soldiers are trained to do the job of 
the United States military, not the job of police-on-the-beat for the 
nation of Iraq. We need to redeploy our troops so they can continue to 
carry out the work of defending America from terrorist threats around 
the globe. It is time for the Iraqis to occupy their own country with 
their own military and police force.

This bill begins the redeployment of our combat troops, while 
continuing to fund initiatives for our men and women that protect them 
from IEDs, traumatic brain injury and more. But the days of a blank 
check from this Congress must come to an end. The American people 
deserve a new direction in Iraq, and this legislation is an important 
step.

I would like to add that I bristle when I hear the other side talk of 
''cut and run'' Democrats. The legacy of the Democratic Party is one of 
great wartime leaders. Andrew Jackson may have done the cutting at the 
Battle of New Orleans, but it was Colonel Packingham who did the 
running. It was President Wilson who convinced the American people to 
take on the oppressors in the First World War. It was President 
Roosevelt who said ''we have nothing to fear but fear itself'' before 
leading the charge into the battlefields of Asia and Nazi Germany. And 
it was President Truman who ended that war by dropping a nuclear 
weapon.

I am a member of a Democratic Party that has never cut and run, but 
has been responsible with our men and women in regard to their safety 
and families, as well as our national security. We need a change in 
Iraq and a change in course. This must happen.