# TRIBUTE TO AMBASSADOR BATU KUTELIA
## `570c841e069e2e67b793daec9f5dd011`
`Mr. KERRY — 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise today to mention a distinguished 
Ambassador who is leaving Washington after a regrettably short tenure. 
Batu Kutelia, Ambassador of Georgia to the United States, is returning 
to his country to assume an important post in his government as Deputy 
National Security Adviser.

Although Ambassador Kutelia was only in Washington as Ambassador for 
less than 2 years, he and his wife Sofia and their young family will be 
missed by the many friends they leave behind. He will also be 
remembered for reinforcing and advancing his country's relations with 
the United States.

Ambassador Kutelia represented Georgia in Washington in challenging 
times. Following the 2008 war with Russia, in which he served as First 
Deputy Minister of Defense, the Ambassador helped facilitate the 
economic and political assistance necessary to rebuild and continue 
Georgia's economic development. He also ensured that Georgia's agenda 
within the U.S.-Georgia Charter on Strategic Partnership was ambitious 
and serious. Ambassador Kutelia's work with our government on the 
training of Georgian forces participating in the NATO International 
Security Assistance Force mission expedited their successful deployment 
to Afghanistan.

Ambassador Kutelia possesses a sophisticated understanding of 
Congress and its responsibilities within our democratic system. He was 
extremely accessible, maintaining strong working relationships and 
friendships with many Members and staffers. During the Ambassador's 
tenure, it is a fact that Georgia had a persuasive and effective 
representative whose passion for his nation never flagged and whose 
engagement with Congress far exceeded that of bigger countries with 
much larger embassies. Rarely did a Georgian official pass through 
Washington without at least one interaction with Congress, an admirable 
record which did a great deal to stimulate interest and engagement 
between the United States and the country of Georgia.

Many of us on Capitol Hill have come to know and respect Georgia and 
its people. Georgia's future will be written by young leaders such as 
Batu Kutelia. I cannot help but believe that the country's future will 
be bright if it continues to produce leaders of his caliber. I wish him 
the best at his coming service in Tbilisi.
