# None
## `571e93eef4febef90a7ea96150da668c`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, earlier this year, the President made an 
announcement concerning troop buildup, the proposed plan where 
Afghanistan is concerned and the plan to increase the presence of 
American soldiers there. He made the announcement in Eisenhower Hall at 
West Point. I was privileged, along with Mr. Hall and a few other 
Members of Congress, to attend that. I was really struck by the fact 
that the Commander in Chief, our President, was talking to thousands of 
young men and women, some of whom, for sure, will wind up being 
injured, protecting our country in Afghanistan.

I am wearing my infantry tie today. I have my CIB on. I had the 
privilege of having a couple years of service back during the Vietnam 
War. And I say it's a privilege, and I view it that way. People will 
often say to me, Thank you for your service. And sometimes I will 
respond, You don't really need to thank me. I got more out of this than 
I gave.

I encourage all young Americans to think about attending one of our 
academies. West Point has received its recognition as the best college 
in the United States, but all of the academies give wonderful 
educations, and they give you a wonderful opportunity to serve. It 
almost certainly will wind up being the most extraordinary thing that 
you do during your lifetime should you choose to go through one of the 
academies and then serve in our military. That's certainly the case 
where I am concerned, and I have done a lot of things in my life.

The most extraordinary time in my life was when I was in service, 
particularly when I was in combat. So I thank the country for having 
given me that opportunity. And if you're a kid and you are thinking 
about college, you ought to think about our service academies. You not 
only get a great education, but you have an opportunity to serve in a 
way that you will not be able to serve in any other capacity in this 
country, and you will really feel good about it if you do it well.

So I thank Mr. Jones. He is a great member of the Armed Services 
Committee, a great Member of this Congress, and a real supporter of the 
military.

I yield back the balance of my time.