# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `5722d35a88cfe1817399513c96507881`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 8 May 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with Senators 
Kennedy, Levin, Menendez, Mikulski, Clinton, Durbin, Boxer and 
Lautenberg in introducing the Long-Range Sniper Rifle Safety Act of 
2007, which would regulate a single type of firearm, 50 BMG caliber 
sniper rifles.

Mr. President, 50 BMG caliber sniper rifles are among the most 
dangerous firearms in the world. These sniper rifles are capable of 
bringing down airplanes and helicopters that are taking off or landing, 
and they can pierce light armored personnel vehicles. They have 
extraordinary range, up to a mile with accuracy, with a maximum 
distance of up to 4 miles. Under President Clinton, the State 
Department suspended all export of these weapons for civilian use in 
foreign countries. The Bush administration initially changed this rule 
to allow such sales, but after 9/11 it decided to reinstate this ban.

Yet here in the United States, our laws continue to classify these 
weapons as ''long guns'', subject to the least government regulation of 
any firearms. Current Federal law makes no distinction between a .22 
caliber target rifle, a .30-06 caliber hunting weapon, and this large-
caliber .50 BMG combat weapon. In some States, youngsters who are 14 
years old can get .50 BMG caliber sniper rifles, with no limitation on 
second-


hand sales. In fact, anyone who can own a rifle can buy a .50 BMG 
caliber sniper rifle. No permits. No licenses. No wait.

That is why I am introducing this legislation today, just as I have 
introduced similar legislation in the last 3 sessions of Congress. The 
bill would:

Add these uniquely powerful sniper rifles to the list of firearms 
classified as ''destructive devices'', which would mean they must be 
registered when purchased or sold;

require the same registration for any ''copycat'' sniper rifles that 
might be developed in the future with destructive power that is 
equivalent to the .50 BMG caliber sniper rifle; and

allow people who already possess .50 BMG caliber sniper weapons up to 
7 years to register their existing firearms, by implementing a 
registration process similar to what was used when ''street sweeper'' 
and other firearms were reclassified as ''destructive devices'' in 
1994.

This bill would not ban any firearms, including .50 BMG caliber 
sniper rifles. Instead, it would change the law by treating .50 BMG 
caliber sniper rifles in the same way we now treat ''street sweeper'' 
shotguns, silencers, and any rifle with a dimension larger than .50 
caliber. It would regulate these weapons, making it harder for 
terrorists and others to buy these combat weapons for illegitimate use.

This is not your classic hunting rifle. These weapons weigh up to 28 
pounds, and have a price tag of between $2,200 and $6,750. And they 
fire the most powerful commonly available cartridges, the massive BMG, 
Browning Machine Gun, bullet, which has a diameter of /1/2/ inch and a 
length of 3-6 inches.

These rounds are almost as big as my hand. The Congressional Research 
Service says that a .50 BMG caliber cartridge weighs four and a half 
times more, and has five times more propellant, than the cartridges 
used in similar midsize rifles, like the .308 Winchester.

This is a weapon designed to kill people efficiently, and destroy 
machinery, at a great distance. And the distances are frankly 
astonishing. In fact, this weapon was able to kill a person from a 
greater distance than any other sniper rifle with a world-record 
confirmed distance of 2,430 meters, a mile and a half away.

These weapons are ''accurate'' up to 2,000 yards, a distance that 
means it will strike a standard target within this range more than a 
mile away. To illustrate what this means, a shooter standing on 
Alcatraz Island off of San Francisco could sight and kill a person at 
Pier 39.

And the gun has a maximum range of up to 7,500 yards, meaning that 
while accuracy cannot be guaranteed, the round can strike a target at 
this distance. Imagine 75 football fields lined up end to end, a 
distance of over 4 miles. This means a shooter at the Sausalito marina 
could send bullets crashing into the San Francisco marina.

In short, these are military combat-style weapons. The .50 BMG 
cartridge has been used by our forces in machine guns since World War 
I, and our military has utilized .50 BMG caliber sniper rifles in the 
gulf war, and now in Afghanistan and Iraq. They can shoot through 
almost anything, a bunker, bulletproof glass, a 3/1/2/ inch thick 
manhole cover, a 600-pound safe.

But as the GAO noted in 1999, many of these guns also wind up in the 
hands of domestic and international terrorists, religious cults, 
international and domestic drug traffickers, and violent criminals.

In 1998, Federal law enforcement apprehended three men belonging to a 
radical Michigan militia group. The three were charged with plotting to 
bomb Federal office buildings, destroy highways and utilities. They 
were also charged with plotting to assassinate a Governor, and other 
high-ranking political and judicial officers. A .50-caliber sniper 
rifle was found in their possession along with a cache of weapons that 
included three illegal machine guns.

One doomsday cult headquartered in Montana purchased 10 of these guns 
and stockpiled them in an underground bunker, along with thousands of 
rounds of ammunition and other guns.

At least one .50-caliber gun was recovered by Mexican authorities 
after a shoot-out with an international drug cartel in that country. 
The gun was originally purchased in Wyoming.

Since the GAO report, it was also revealed in a federal trial in 
Manhattan that al-Qaida received .50-caliber sniper rifles, rifles 
manufactured right here in the United States. Essam al Ridi, an al-
Qaida associate, testified that he acquired 25 Barrett .50-caliber 
sniper rifles and shipped them to al-Qaida members in Afghanistan.

What sort of damage could these weapons do in the wrong hands? The 
U.S. Air Force conducted a study, and determined that planes parked on 
a fully protected U.S. airbase would be as vulnerable as ''ducks on a 
pond'' against a sniper with a .50-caliber weapon, because the weapons 
can shoot from beyond most airbase perimeters.

The RAND Corporation confirmed this, releasing a report which 
identified 11 potential terrorist scenarios at Los Angeles 
International Airport. In one scenario, ''a sniper, using a .50 caliber 
rifle, fires at parked and taxiing aircraft.'' The report concludes: 
''we were unable to identify any truly satisfactory solutions'' for 
such an attack.

One need not even search for reports, the weapon's manufacturers 
admit it. One Barrett .50 caliber brochure says:




 [A] round of ammunition purchased for less than ten U.S. 


 dollars can be used to destroy or disable a modern jet 


 aircraft. The compressor sections of jet engines or the 


 transmissions of helicopters are likely targets for the 


 weapon, making it capable of destroying multimillion dollar 


 aircraft with a single hit delivered to a vital area.


And it is not just aircraft. A terrorist using this rifle could punch 
holes in pressurized chemical tanks, igniting combustible materials or 
leaking hazardous gases. Or penetrate armored vehicles used by law 
enforcement, or protective limousines, like those used here in 
Washington.

No wonder a broad coalition of law enforcement officers and groups, 
detailing the threat that these weapons pose to our first responders, 
said:




 The fact that these weapons have a range of more than four 


 miles and can take down commercial airliners is reason enough 


 to keep these weapons off our streets. It is of special 


 concern to the law enforcement community that these weapons 


 of war are capable of penetrating our special operations 


 vehicles, tactical equipment and helicopters.


This gun is so powerful that one dealer told undercover Government 
Accountability Office investigators:




 You'd better buy one soon. It's only a matter of time 


 before someone lets go a round on a range that travels so 


 far, it hits a school bus full of kids. The government will 


 definitely ban .50-calibers. This gun is just too powerful.


In fact, many ranges used for target practice do not even have enough 
safety features to accommodate these guns.

Special ammunition for these guns is also readily available in stores 
and on the Internet. This is perfectly legal. Moreover, ''armor-
piercing incendiary'' ammunition, which explodes on impact, can be 
purchased online, as demonstrated in a ''60 Minutes'' news report. 
Several ammunition dealers were willing to sell armor-piercing 
ammunition to an undercover GAO investigator, even after the 
investigator said he wanted the ammunition to pierce an armored 
limousine or maybe to shoot down a helicopter.

The bottom line is that the .50 BMG caliber sniper rifle is a 
national security threat requiring action by Congress. It makes no 
sense for us to spend billions of dollars on homeland security while we 
allow terrorists and criminals to get weapons that can serve as tools 
for terrorism.

The legislation that I am introducing has been carefully tailored, 
and refines my earlier bills. In fact, it is narrower than my earlier 
bills, in that it regulates only .50 ''BMG'' caliber sniper rifles, not 
all .50 caliber rifles.

There is no doubt that the .50 BMG caliber is the most powerful 
commonly available cartridge not considered a destructive device under 
the National Firearms Act. It is in a class by itself. And that's why 
this bill puts .50 BMG caliber sniper rifles into the class of firearms 
called destructive devices. Because that is where they belong.

Congress would not be alone in treating the .50 BMG caliber sniper 
rifle as the unique weapon of destruction that it is. My home State of 
California has regulated .50 BMG caliber sniper rifles since 2004, in a 
law signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. The bill I introduce 
would adopt a similar registration system nationwide.



In fact, Congress itself has previously recognized the unique 
destructive properties of this weapon. Ever since 2000, our DOD 
Appropriations bills have contained a special restriction on the 
Department of Defense's ability to sell surplus armor-piercing 
ammunition for .50 caliber weapons to civilians through its 
demilitarization program.

This is a weapon that should not be openly available to terrorists 
and criminals, but should be responsibly controlled through carefully 
crafted regulation. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.