# MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `57315e844dd5059d4c741cff7c653d94`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, we have had I think a very eventful 
week here this week and accomplished a significant amount and had some 
intense debates here on the floor of this Congress. In my time here and 
in anybody's memory here, I don't think anyone remembers a time that 
there have been three motions to recommit that have actually succeeded 
and attached that new policy on to the bill that was prepared for final 
passage here on the floor. That makes it an eventful week.

Madam Speaker, I reflect here that at the beginning of the 110th 
Congress there were a lot of objections to a scoreboard vote board that 
was kept open when Republicans were in charge for the sake of being 
able to allow people to change their votes until everyone was 
satisfied. There were strong and loud and vociferous complaints to 
keeping that board open when it was the Republicans in charge.

I am not here to make a loud, vociferous objection to the Democrats 
keeping the board open, but I am here to point out that the shoe is on 
the other foot today, and today this motion to recommit went up on the 
board, and it had 147 Democrats that voted ''no'' on the motion to 
recommit.

The motion to recommit, what it did was said that no individual who 
has been issued a transportation worker identification card may board a 
maritime vessel if the individual has been convicted of or found not 
guilty by reason of insanity in a civilian or military jurisdiction of 
any of the following felonies. In other words, nobody is going to be 
boarding a maritime vessel if they are guilty of these crimes: 
espionage or conspiracy, sedition or conspiracy to commit sedition, 
treason,


and a number of other crimes along through the list one can imagine, 
distribution, manufacture, purchase receipt, dealing with explosives. 
In other words, terrorists, people who have been identified as 
terrorists, convicted as terrorists. The motion to recommit said no one 
will be boarding a maritime vessel that has those things on their 
record.

Upon the first vote that was up there, the peak came out to be 247 
Democrats voting against a motion that would block those who have 
committed those violent crimes, those crimes against this country. Then 
the board was left open, and as minutes went by, and I didn't watch my 
watch, but I am going to suspect it was 20 to 25 minutes, I watched 
Democrats vote their convictions and then began to adjust to their 
convictions, and 111 Members changed their vote here, getting down from 
147 that voted ''no'' to 56 that voted ''no,'' and final passage became 
359 to 56 on the passage of the motion to recommit.

So I point out that sometimes that criticism that comes when you are 
in the minority doesn't seem like when the shoe is on the other foot 
that the rules you claim should apply are the ones that actually apply 
when you find yourself in a position of making the rules.

I would point also out that the circumstance before the Rules 
Committee, since that word came out of my mouth, Madam Speaker, and in 
the Rules Committee, we brought rules before, there were rules that 
were brought before this full Congress and approved for the 110th 
Congress. This was going to be a 110th Congress with a new majority and 
a new Speaker and there was going to be sunshine on everything we did. 
There was going to be a level of integrity in the process that was 
here. There were great objections to the process we had, and there was 
going to be a change, a new era in government, which means more 
openness, more honesty, more reporting.

But written into the rule was an exemption for the Rules Committee, 
so they are not required to report the recorded votes within the Rules 
Committee.

Now, how is it that here we are a more open government, but we are 
writing in provisions that allow for more secrecy? And that is the 
fact, Madam Speaker. That is the fact that came before this Congress. 
That is the fact that many of us voted against on the rules package. 
That is the amendment that I brought before the Rules Committee a 
couple of days ago.

What is ironic about that is that I have to go and appeal to the same 
people that want the secrecy and ask them if they will let me have a 
vote here on the floor about taking away the secrecy they have assigned 
themselves. Of course, the people that sat in judgment, that assigned 
themselves the secrecy, said, no, we won't allow a debate on it; we 
won't allow a vote on it. We are going to maintain the secrecy. And, by 
the way, it was offensive to them to have anyone raise the issue that 
they should be required to report the votes of the Rules Committee when 
there is a recorded vote.

So that amendment was denied. The American people were denied a 
debate. They were denied a vote and denied an opportunity to even judge 
whether this is a more open process or whether it has become a more 
closed process.

But I think these two instances that I brought up just this week, 
Madam Speaker, illustrate that the process is not more open, it is not 
cleaner, it is not with more sunshine on it, and it is not more 
reflective of the representation here in this Congress. There are other 
instances as well as I could go on, but I think that suffices to make 
my point.

Madam Speaker, I came here to talk about another issue that has been 
rolled out in the media yesterday and today, this issue of the 
supplemental appropriations bill that the President has asked for in 
order to fund our troops in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

The President has made a request so that we can provide adequate 
materials, supplies, training and equipment and munitions to our 
military that are on the front lines who put their lives on the line 
for our freedom. I am pledged to uphold that support for them. But what 
I see come out, at least with the report of the news with regard to the 
supplemental, has so many strings attached. This is an unprecedented 
attempt on the part of Congress to micromanage a shooting war.

Our Founding Fathers understood this, and they declared in the 
Constitution that the President is the Commander in Chief. They didn't 
write in the Constitution that the President will be presiding over a 
committee of 435 Members of Congress on the House side and 100 Senators 
on the Senate side and they shall be a committee that will micromanage 
the nuances of a war.

The Founding Fathers knew that you could not fight a war on 
consensus, that you can't fight it on majority vote. You have to have a 
Commander in Chief who is in charge. That was a clear understanding of 
history and human nature. It was reflected by our Founding Fathers into 
our Constitution, Madam Speaker. And yet to this day, I don't know how 
many Members of this Congress even understand how the Constitution 
controls the things that they do, even though every single one of us 
takes an oath to this Constitution at the beginning of every Congress.

Every 2 years we stand up and we say: ''I pledge to uphold the 
Constitution of the United States.'' I do so here on the floor. I make 
that oath on a Bible.



Most don't because it is hard to remember to bring the Bible with you 
on that day, but most do go over and have their picture taken 
ceremonially with their hand on the Bible. Well, I do both if I've got 
the time, but the one I don't miss is I bring the Bible to the floor 
and I take that oath, ''so help me God,'' to uphold this Constitution.

And if it is inconvenient to have a provision in the Constitution, we 
have to live with it until it becomes so inconvenient that we are 
willing to amend it. But we do not have the authority here in this 
Congress to amend the Constitution, neither does the Supreme Court and 
neither does the commander in chief. The people of America have to 
ratify an amendment to the Constitution. And that is how the Founders 
saw it because they understood they were not creating a democracy, 
Madam Speaker. And if anybody is teaching out there in the classes of 
civics and government that go on all over America in nearly every 
school in America that we are blessed to be born and live in a 
democracy, I have to say, Madam Speaker, that is an erroneous lesson to 
be teaching our young people and to be perpetuating through the adults. 
And, in fact, a lot of the people in this Congress still believe this 
is a democracy.

Well, when Benjamin Franklin stepped out of the Constitutional 
Congress he was asked by a lady on the streets, ''What have you 
produced?'' And his answer was, ''A republic, Madam, if you can keep 
it.'' And that is what we have. We have a constitutional republic 
because our Founders understood that if you went to the pure democracy 
form, and they studied the democracies of the city-states in Greece; in 
fact, I have been there to see the displays at the National Archives of 
the pottery that the Greeks had and their method of voting demagogues 
out of the city and banishing them for 7 years. And some of that system 
is still within our Greek system on our universities today.

The Greeks identified a demagogue as someone who was so skilled with 
their rhetoric, so moving and passionate in their delivery of their 
oratorical speeches, that they could move the masses by emotion rather 
than rationale. So they banished the demagogues from their city-states 
because it sent them down the path of emotion rather than deductive 
reasoning.

So the Founders understood that we didn't need to have the masses 
moving by emotion; they understood that the definition of a democracy 
was two wolves and a sheep taking a vote on what's for dinner. Majority 
rules; guess who's for dinner?

They wrote rights into our Constitution and into the Bill of Rights 
because they understood human nature, and they knew there had to be 
protections in place higher than a majority vote, higher than being in 
the majority. There had to be guaranteed constitutional rights for all 
citizens in this country on equal standing, drafted in, plugged into 
the Bill of Rights and ratified by the several States, and now


ratified by all of the States, the 50 States in the Union. Those 
guarantees must be in place.

This Constitution, Madam Speaker, means something. And the language 
in this Constitution means what it says. The text of this language 
means what it meant, means what it was understood to be when it was 
ratified. And if it is inconvenient or if we disagree with the 
fundamentals, we should amend it. We shouldn't ignore it.

This Constitution grants Congress, this body in particular I am 
speaking to, but also the Senate as well, only two authorities when it 
comes to war; number one is, first, I will state it again, the 
President is the commander in chief of all Armed Services. We didn't 
have an Air Force then, but that is implied. So that is the standard, 
Madam Speaker.

And then the Constitution grants Congress two different authorities 
when it comes to war: Number one, the authority to declare war. That 
has happened several times in our history, but the last time it 
happened was in the beginning of World War II.

The second constitutional authority Congress has is to fund the war. 
But what we are seeing come out of the Democrat side of this is to 
micromanage the war in such a way that they can squeeze down and 
constrict the commander in chief's authority and responsibility to 
conduct war. And that can only end in disaster for our troops and 
disaster for the destiny of our country.

But we do not have that authority to micromanage. We can appropriate 
to the Department of Defense. We can appropriate to the Department of 
Homeland Security and some other lesser departments within the fringes. 
But we don't have the authority to micromanage.

I am going to go further, Madam Speaker, and take this position, that 
if this Congress should decide that building a bunch of ICBM missiles 
and placing them in places, say, across the polar ice cap are a high 
priority and they appropriated the money for that and we found out that 
we were in a shooting war that flared up maybe in six different places 
in the world and we needed to spend that money for armored Humvees and 
bullet-proof vests and more M-4 machine guns or more surveillance 
equipment, whatever it might be; if this Congress refused to change 
that appropriation, I am taking the position that the President has the 
authority, because he is commander in chief at a time of war, to do an 
interdepartmental transfer and prioritize those dollars within the 
Department of Defense in the place that he sees fit because he is the 
commander in chief. Anything less than that, Madam Speaker, is 
something that ties the hands of the commander in chief and the feet 
and puts our military at risk. That is the effort that is coming from 
the other side of the aisle here. And it is one that will eventually 
debilitate this country. This debate has encouraged our enemies and has 
diminished our ability to succeed.

And so if we look back at history, I don't believe there has been any 
time in history that this constitutional principle that I have laid out 
here has been challenged and been taken to court. And even then, I 
wonder how the Supreme Court would come down on this. But there were 
times back in 1973, 1974 and 1975, at least 2 of those 3 years, if not 
3 of those 3 years, when Congress put strings on Department of Defense 
appropriations. And those strings said this, that none of these funds 
and any funds heretofore having been appropriated, meaning any money 
that is out there in the pipeline now, none of these funds can be spent 
in either North Vietnam, South Vietnam, Laos or Cambodia. And it shall 
not be used in the skies over those four countries or offshore from 
those four countries. So none of our appropriations money could be used 
there by the restrictions that were put on by this Congress, the 
micromanagement of this Congress.

But the fact was that we pulled our troops out of Vietnam at that 
point. It wasn't the President's intent to go back into Vietnam, but it 
was his intent to provide air cover. So when that message went, North 
Vietnam probably didn't have C-SPAN then, but they watch what goes on 
in this Congress, just like our enemies do in Iraq and the Middle East 
today; they understood that Congress had lost its will to conduct war 
in Vietnam. And they began to marshal their forces and provide the 
munitions and the armament necessary to mount the invasion, which they 
did in the spring of 1975. And in the aftermath of Congress 
micromanaging a nonshooting war, 3 million people died in the South 
China Sea, in South Vietnam and in the countries of Laos and Cambodia, 
3 million people, because Congress injected themselves into a decision 
that was made by the commander in chief.


But the commander in chief didn't challenge that. The commander in 
chief at the time, the initial one was President Nixon, who was very 
weak politically. And then, of course, the appointed, not elected, 
President Ford, whom I revere, neither challenged that restriction put 
on by Congress.

So I don't believe we have a constitutional challenge that has taken 
place because President Ford and President Nixon did not challenge the 
Congress when they began to tie the strings in Vietnam.

This Congress is preparing to tie the strings. And I am saying to the 
public, Madam Speaker, and to the President, my position is I am going 
to uphold this Constitution. I'm going to defend the President's right 
to do interdepartmental transfers of funds if they think they are going 
to tie strings to this. I think the President can ignore any conditions 
that this House puts on him if the money is appropriated at DOD because 
that is his responsibility as commander in chief, not the 
responsibility of this Congress, not the Pelosi Congress, not the 
Murtha Congress, but the President of the United States is the 
commander in chief.

In fact, I believe the last gentleman I mentioned would like to be 
the commander in chief. And given some of the legislation that he has 
drafted and introduced in this Congress, I think he would probably 
squeal had he been the commander in chief and someone tried to put the 
strings on him that he has tried to put on the White House.

And I would add that, in the Department of Defense appropriations 
bill last year, the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha) was able 
to slip language into that appropriations bill that would prohibit any 
basing agreements from being negotiated in Iraq. He stated that it was 
for permanent bases, but the language said any bases. And there was 
misinformation that was brought to this floor. And my amendment that 
tried to strip that out of the appropriations bill failed here on this 
floor, which compelled me to go to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff and ask for a letter to support my amendment, which we put to the 
conference committee. And that letter then was enough to get that 
stripped out of the language.

That is the kind of thing that is going on; that would have us 
already moving out of Iraq if General Pace hadn't agreed with me and 
made that request of the conference committee. And so the conference 
report came without that language, and we were able to keep our 
operations going in Iraq. It was that close in a Republican majority. 
And now you see what's coming, Madam Speaker, under this new majority.

And here are some of the bullet points that come up on this subject 
that would come from the majority side of the aisle. This new 
appropriations, the strings that would be tied, the strings that I 
contend are unconstitutional, one would be, the legislation prohibits 
the deployment of troops who are not fully mission capable. Now, who 
would decide that? A definition apparently that is identified by the 
majority here in this Congress.

There are a list of other conditions in this, but I also recognize 
that the gentleman from Arizona, who has a heart full of appreciation 
for our troops and the Constitution, is on the floor. I would be very 
happy to yield so much time as he may consume, Mr. Shadegg.