# None
## `5734921be359ad3a8f6c3aff356599ba`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, we have all worked very hard this 
week to see the positive outcome of the legislation today.

As I started, I would like to close in my comments today by saying 
that I am glad that the Members voted in the affirmative for this 
legislation that passed. I think the American people will reflect on 
this day, and historians will reflect on this day that this has been 
the first day by the House of Representatives since the start of the 
war in Iraq that there were true accountability measures in there. 
There is reporting back to the Congress that the troops were protected 
by the language that the Department of Defense used as relates to its 
own policy of deploying troops, of sending troops back into theater on 
another rotation of what they have to have. I think men and women in 
uniform and their families will be forever appreciative of our action 
here today.

It is like when you are working at a work site, not at headquarters, 
you are working in a subsidiary, and you know there are certain 
policies management is supposed to meet, but because nobody is 
watching, they decide to waive the policy manual and have you work 
overtime without being paid overtime, or have you working in conditions 
that you should not be working in just to keep their numbers up so they 
don't get in trouble with their bosses.

Well, with the emergency supplemental that we passed here today, we 
have the backs of those workers. In this case, we have the backs of the 
men and women who wear the uniform.

Furthermore, I think it is important for those who have served in a 
battle zone that we have started down the track of making sure that we 
provide the kind of funding so when they get back, they will be able to 
get the counseling that they deserve. There is money in here to prevent 
abuse as it relates to children and families when they get back to 
military bases, and there is money to make sure that veterans don't 
have to wait months to be able to see a specialist. I think it is very, 
very important because there is a back end to this war, and there is a 
reality to this war, and it is our responsibility to ensure there is 
assistance to those who need it when they come back.

Mr. Speaker, I want to commend the American people for the role that 
they have played during this whole war. This week here at the Capitol 
we had people that were supporting the war, and against war but saying 
we have to support our troops. And I commend both of them for 
exercising their rights as Americans to be able to speak to their 
government about their feelings. I am glad that we live in a country 
that you can do that.

I am glad that Members did come to the floor. Some of them voted 
their conscience, some voted partisanship, and some voted because it 
was the right thing to do on behalf of this legislation.

As we move on with this process of bringing accountability to the war 
in Iraq and bringing an end to the war in Iraq with troops on the 
ground, that Members continue to pay attention to what our democracy is 
all about. I commend the Speaker for standing in the wind, getting bugs 
in her teeth on this issue and being tough on this issue even when we 
were in the minority. Now we are in the majority, and I think the 
American people are going to be very appreciative.

I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for hosting this hour today. It 
is always an honor to come to the floor and talk about the actions of 
today and look forward to tomorrow.