# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `573789cedda01ec5f28d554d3db672de`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 27 September 2008`

---

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to offer my sincere 
congratulations to Chairman Levin, Senator Warner, the members of our 
committee, and our House colleagues for their work on the fiscal year 
2009 National Defense Authorization Act. With provisions that authorize 
a considerable pay raise for all military personnel, increase Army and 
Marine end-strength, improve the system that serves wounded veterans, 
and help prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in defense contracting and 
procurement, this bill contains many important provisions that will 
help support our national defense and, in particular, our servicemen 
and women. However, this bill also contains other provisions that are 
very problematic.

Before explaining my concerns with this bill, let me take a moment to 
express my sincere gratitude to Senator Warner for his many years of 
service to this Nation, not the least of which are 30 well-spent years 
in the Senate where he has been a consistent and steadfast champion of 
our men and women in uniform. Senator Warner has been instrumental in 
providing needed oversight of the Department of Defense, and in 
ensuring that our soldiers are well trained, well equipped, and that 
they and their families are well provided for. I am particularly 
grateful for his contributions during this Congress when he so 
frequently stepped in on my behalf. Let me be clear that my concerns 
with this year's bill reflect in no way on Senator Warner outstanding 
efforts: He deserves much credit for the many exemplary provisions 
contained in this bill.

Nonetheless, in this year's bill, and the accompanying report, there 
are $5 billion in earmarks. Of that total amount, $2.1 billion arises 
from a single provision that authorizes the procurement of six C-17 
Globemaster aircraft that the Defense Department states we neither need 
nor can afford. In my view, the massive pork spending in this bill 
renders it a frontal assault on this body's purported commitment to 
ethics and earmark reform and, in my view, results in a failure in our 
obligation to the taxpayer.

Among the most egregious items in this bill are:

The Defense bill provides more than $2.1 billion for 6 C-17 cargo 
aircraft. The Secretary of Defense wants to end production of C-17 
aircraft for the U.S. Air Force. These aircraft are neither requested 
nor required by the Department of Defense. In the fiscal year 2008 
Defense supplemental appropriations, the Congress added another 15 C-17 
aircraft that also were not requested nor required by DOD. Congress has 
earmarked 31 C-17s above the mount that is necessary in various 
Pentagon requirements studies over the last 2 years. C-17 aircraft cost 
more than $300 million per plane. With this bill, the total number of 
C-17s procured will rise to 211 total aircraft. This is a thinly veiled 
effort to keep the C-17 production line open using taxpayer's dollars 
to fund what is essentially a more than $2.1 billion corporate earmark 
for the Boeing Corporation.

The Defense bill provides $140 million in advance procurement for 
additional F-22s. The Air Force and contractors say that prohibiting 
spending in this bill would cause second tier suppliers to shut down 
and make it more expensive to restart the line if the next 
administration wants to continue production, even though the Secretary 
of Defense's position is that 183 F-22s is the full military 
requirement. Advanced procurement funding for additional F-22 aircraft 
is neither requested nor required. This earmark is being pursued by 
Lockheed Martin and its supporters.

The Defense bill includes funding of $88 million for a VIP aircraft 
to fly Air Force general officers. Scott AFB has served as headquarters 
for numerous Air Force commands. Today, two 4-star Air Force generals 
from the Air Mobility Command and the U.S. Transportation Command call 
Scott AFB, home. Just as senior leadership in-transit comfort capsules, 
SLICCs, created a stir several months ago when it was learned from Air 
Force documents that Air Force Generals were trying to use GWOT money 
to purchase ''first class'' seats and beds in ''flying pods'' so that 
generals could travel in luxury when they fly overseas, it is egregious 
to think that while the military--mostly privates, sergeants, and petty 
officers--is engaged in the global war on terrorism in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we would be spending scarce defense dollars on VIP 
aircraft for generals.

The Defense bill continues to fund the Presidential helicopter 
program for


next year at $1.1 billion. The VH-71A program is intended to provide 
the replacement helicopter for the transportation of the President and 
Vice President. The current program which would build 23 aircraft has 
had excessive delays and cost overruns of more than 70 percent. This 
level is well in excess of the percentages--in fact five times as 
much--that would trigger a breach of the Nunn-McCurdy limits for major 
acquisition programs. Several program managers have been dismissed or 
reassigned in an effort to restructure this ailing program. This 
program should be cancelled. In the meantime the $1.1 billion to 
continue next year's development of the Presidential helicopter should 
be halted and the money withheld until the Navy and the contractor 
demonstrate more transparency and accountability on this failing 
program.

The Defense bill includes a provision directing the Secretary of the 
Navy to sell the ''yard floating drydock'', AFDL-23, to Gulf Copper 
Ship Repair in Aransas Pass, TX. This provision would authorize the 
Secretary of the Navy to sell the drydock; however, the provision 
restricts the Secretary from recouping the full costs, approximately 
$120-$190 million, because the Secretary is directed to consider the 
amounts paid by, or due and owing from, the lessee--Gulf Copper Ship 
Repair. This would essentially allow the rent paid by Gulf Copper Ship 
Repair to be deducted from the total price of the drydock.

The Navy does not support this provision. The Navy is in the process 
of determining whether the dock is excess to future Navy needs and, if 
so, whether it would be required by other U.S. Government agencies or 
activities when the current lease to Gulf Copper expires. Subsequent to 
a determination that there are no additional U.S. Government needs, the 
vessel would be struck from the Naval Vessel Register and designated 
for disposal. This provision is an end-run of the normal process for 
disposal or sale of government equipment and is not in the best 
interest of the taxpayer.

The Defense bill includes a provision which is highly objectionable 
and is strongly opposed by the administration which purports to 
incorporate by reference into the bill most of the earmarks included in 
the accompanying report--totaling more than $5 billion. The provision 
is meant to thwart President Bush's Executive Order 13457 ''Protecting 
American Taxpayers from Government Spending on Wasteful Earmarks.''

I had advocated a better approach of putting all the spending tables 
into the actual bill language. By hiding/shielding the tables in the 
report, the taxpayer does not have full transparency of Congress' 
actions in adding corporate and Member earmarks which are not requested 
or needed by the military services.

Again, while there is much in this year's Defense authorization bill 
that is very worthwhile and helpful to providing for the national 
defense, the provisions contained within it that move in the wrong 
direction are too numerous, too large, and too costly for this Member 
to ignore.