---
---

# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `573bc39de6d096a359a8c598f17c3b6f`
`Mr. SERRANO — 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, it is amazing. If folks on the other side keep saying 
tax increase, they are actually going to believe that there is a tax 
increase.

What I notice is that they very rarely mention deficit because when 
they do, they leave themselves open for discussion on the deficit. Yes, 
there is a deficit and the American people are quickly finding that 
out. The deficit was not created in the last less than 6 months that 
Democrats have had control of this House. The deficit was created by 
taking us into a war that we shouldn't have been involved in where 
close to $600 billion has been spent, not to mention the loss of life, 
not to mention the fact that when our troops come home over the next 
10, 15, 20 years, we will be paying in deficit spending to make up for 
medical care and all the needs that I certainly will be supporting for 
them.



Now, it's interesting, Mr. Chairman, how the other side mentions that 
this bill spends money. Well, in a way that's redundant because that's 
what the Constitution says the Appropriations Committee is supposed to 
do. It is supposed to come to the Congress every year and spend 
dollars. How much we spend, that's a discussion.

But if there was ever a place where you can justify a modest 
increase, it would be when you deal with the energy issues in our 
country. There are dollars here, no one is mentioning, for research. 
There are dollars here to deal with the energy issue.

Now, every American knows that probably at the center of issues in 
this country is the high cost of fuel in this country, whether for 
driving or heating our homes. So when you take some of those tax 
dollars and you spend them, a very modest amount, on research to see if 
there is a way that in the future we can cut out our dependency on 
foreign oil, that is a great investment. That is no different than 
investing in a college or education for the children. It is the same 
kind. But again, we are not going to hear that. What we are going to 
hear is this repetition about how money is being spent, and that there 
is a tax increase.

I don't remember a tax increase in the 6 months that we have been 
here as Democrats. What I do remember that caused a deficit was, one, 
the war; and two, that we did have a tax decrease in this country, a 
tax cut, we did. But it wasn't for anybody that we know, certainly no 
one I know. It was for millionaires and zillionaires, including some of 
them who told us that they didn't even want a tax cut. Those are the 
people.

So if indeed those tax cuts reach their sunset and die, I guess you 
could play with words and say that taxes will go up. Yeah, for somebody 
who has $100 million, he or she might pay more taxes later on. But the 
working class, the people who are getting help for their education, the 
folks that are getting a better deal on energy propositions in the 
future, those are the facts, the people that we are looking for. Now, 
you want to cut the deficit down? You want to create a situation where 
we will spend less money in this country? Stop the war now. Stop 
spending another dollar on the war in Iraq.

But it has been forgotten. It's all about tax-and-spend Democrats. My 
God, when you hear this, Mr. Chairman, you would think we were in 
control for the last 14 years. No, it's 12, 14 years against less than 
6 months. And in those 6 months we have spoken to parents about their 
kids' education. In those 6 months we've made attempts to bring down 
the cost of gasoline. In those 6 months, yes, we gave a minimum wage 
increase to the lowest earners in this country. That's what we've done. 
And we will be proud of that. You want to cut the deficit that you 
created over 12 years? Stop the war now. That's the best way to do it.