---
---

# None
## `576832402fd3e305ad83a38d0661dd83`
`Mrs. CAPPS — 19 April 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend the sentiments 
expressed in the following article by M.J. Rosenberg, the Director of 
Israel Policy Forum's Washington Policy Center, and a tireless advocate 
for peace in the Middle East. In the column, entitled ''Blessed are the 
Peacemakers,'' he skillfully highlights the need to engage in 
aggressive diplomacy if we are to achieve peaceful results in the 
region. I applaud Mr. Rosenberg for his bold stance for peace and would 
encourage my colleagues to inform themselves of his valuable insights.












Blessed Are the Peacemakers




 You know what they say: no good deed goes unpunished.



 That is certainly the case with Speaker of the House Nancy 


 Pelosi and her visit to Syria.



 At a time (the Easter-Passover recess) when dozens of House 


 members and Senators are visiting foreign capitals and 


 discussing policy with foreign leaders, Pelosi is being 


 skewered for, in the words of the Washington Post's editors, 


 ''substituting her own foreign policy for that of a sitting 


 Republican President.''



 The Post accuses Pelosi of ''try[ing] to introduce a new 


 U.S. diplomatic initiative in the Middle East.''



 Heaven forefend! Things are going so swimmingly in the 


 Middle East that the last thing anyone needs is for the 3rd 


 highest official in the United States trying to resuscitate 


 diplomacy.



 The specific objection is to her meeting with the Syrian 


 leader, Bashar Assad. Of course, few could object to what she 


 told Assad--that he should stop trouble making in Iraq and 


 Lebanon, that the Israeli government is ready for 


 negotiations, that Israel has no bellicose intentions toward 


 Syria and that Syria should use its influence to free Israeli 


 prisoners.



 In fact, David Hobson, a Republican from Ohio who 


 accompanied Pelosi, said that the Speaker did not stray very 


 far from Bush administration policy. Hobson said Pelosi ''did 


 not engage in any Bush bashing she did not . . . bash [Bush] 


 policies as they relate to Syria.''



 Instead, Hobson said, Pelosi urged Assad to curb the number 


 of suicide bombers who cross the Syrian border into Iraq to 


 ''murder our troops and the Iraqi people.''



 Republican House leader, John Boehner, admitted that there 


 was nothing wrong with legislators in general visiting Syria. 


 ''It's one thing for other members to go,'' Boehner said, 


 ''but you have to ask yourself, 'Why is Pelosi going?''



 The answer isn't that hard. She went for the same reasons 


 as Tom Lantos (D-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on 


 Foreign Affairs, as Henry Waxman (D-CA), the most senior 


 Jewish Member of the House, as Keith Ellison (D-MN), the 


 first Muslim-American in Congress, as Louise M. Slaughter (D-


 NY), Rules Committee Chair, as Nick J. Rahall II (D-WV), the 


 senior Arab-American in Congress, and Senior Defense 


 Appropriator David Hobson (R-OH). She went to advance US 


 interests in the Middle East, believing that we can perhaps 


 get more out of Syria by engaging it than by shunning it.



 The critics are feigning outrage because they don't like 


 Pelosi (CNN, in particular, seems to have a problem with a 


 female Speaker) and because, by visiting Syria, Pelosi has 


 revived one of the Baker-Hamilton Report's prescriptions for 


 ending the Iraq war: engaging Iran and Syria.



 Baker-Hamilton recognizes that Syria and Iran can do more 


 to impede the extrication of our soldiers and marines from 


 Iraq than any other countries on the planet (with the 


 exception of Iraq itself).



 On the other hand, if they choose to, they can ease our way 


 out of Iraq and help prevent that country's further descent 


 into chaos and civil war.



 The Israeli government added to the Pelosi controversy by 


 saying that Pelosi did not carry any private messages from 


 Jerusalem to Damascus. But the Israelis have been using 


 intermediaries to convey information to the Syrians for a 


 long time. It is inconceivable that the highest ranking 


 American in memory to visit Damascus would visit Israel, en 


 route to Syria, and not be asked to convey a message to 


 President Assad from Prime Minister Olmert.



 One can only hope that she was carrying messages from 


 Israel. Why wouldn't the Israelis seize that opportunity?



 Pelosi's visit strengthened America's position in the 


 region, and likely helped Israel on prisoners, on Hezbollah, 


 and in its effort to avoid another war like last summer's. It 


 was a gutsy move by the new Speaker and one that deserves 


 commendation, not criticism from those who are committed to 


 the whole litany of failed policies of recent years. One 


 would think that some of these pundits would look at the 


 sheer carnage they delivered in Iraq--the 3200 American dead 


 and the hundreds of thousands of dead Iraqi civilians--and be 


 shamed into shutting up. But no such luck.



 In this context, and on this Good Friday, it is worth 


 recalling Jesus' words in Matthew 5:9, ''Blessed are the 


 peacemakers for they will be called the children of God.''



 That is not exactly what the critics are calling Pelosi. 


 But, the New Testament notwithstanding, peacemakers are 


 rarely praised in their own time while the cheerleaders for 


 unnecessary wars are never, held accountable for them.



 Pelosi is too smart to expect plaudits for trying to deter 


 war rather than simply standing firm behind a status quo that 


 will inevitably produce the next one.



 Readers of this column know that I like to hearken back to 


 the great missed opportunity of 1971. That was when Prime 


 Minister Golda Meir rebuffed Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's 


 call on Israel to pull back from the Suez Canal. Sadat said 


 that in exchange for a pullback of just a few miles--which 


 would enable Egypt to re-open the canal--he would begin 


 negotiating a peace agreement with Israel.



 This week Yediot Achronot revealed new information about 


 the missed opportunity. Zeev Tzahor reports that then-


 American Secretary of State, William Rogers, was so disturbed 


 by Golda's rejection that he enlisted Israel's first Prime 


 Minister, David Ben Gurion, to try to persuade her to, at 


 least, seriously consider the offer.



 Let the Yediot columnist, Zeev Tzahor, tell the rest of the 


 story:



 ''The 85-year-old Ben-Gurion was retired . . . His 


 relations with Golda were poor, and he was not particularly 


 eager to speak with her. Rogers implored him. The Egyptian 


 initiative is a one-time opportunity, he said, but Golda has 


 taken a dismissive, supercilious view of it. She admires you, 


 maybe she'll heed your advice. Ben-Gurion acquiesced, and 


 asked his aides to put him in touch with Golda in Jerusalem.



 ''The brief conversation between them was acerbic. The 


 people present in the room heard Ben-Gurion repeat why she 


 ought to begin negotiations with Egypt . . . While the people 


 present in the room could not hear what Golda was saying on 


 the other side of the line, it was clear to them that she was 


 not interested in promoting the Egyptian initiative.



 ''Ben-Gurion lost his patience, lambasted Golda and said 


 she was leading Israel to catastrophe, and terminated the 


 conversation. For some reason, he placed the receiver down on 


 the table and not in its cradle. The people present in the 


 room heard Golda calling, ''Ben-Gurion, Ben-Gurion,'' but he 


 refused to pick up the telephone again. He just kept 


 repeating, ''war is going to break out soon, war is coming.''



 It did. Israel lost nearly 3,000 men. Ben Gurion died a few 


 weeks later. Israel ended up relinquishing not just the west 


 bank of the Suez Canal, as Sadat had demanded but every last 


 inch of the Sinai peninsula.



 Until this week, I had never heard that Secretary of State 


 William Rogers tried so hard to help Israel avert 


 catastrophe. All I recalled about him was that the pro-Israel 


 community despised him because he was thought to have applied 


 pressure on Israel.



 Little did I know that the pressure was in the form of the 


 wise counsel of David Ben-Gurion, the founder of the Jewish 


 state.



 I hope Pelosi is not daunted by the criticism emanating 


 from all the usual suspects. Her delegation's visit to the 


 Middle East advanced America's interests and Israel's too. As 


 they like to say in that region: the dogs bark but the 


 caravan moves on.
