---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `57698f9efe0028d8f1759e74bfd73bc7`
`Mr. MARKEY — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4156, 
the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. This 
bill will begin the long-overdue withdrawal of American troops from 
Iraq.

Yesterday, the President vetoed the Labor and Heath and Human 
Services-Education appropriations bill, which is the bill that provides 
funding for the National Institutes of Health, the Center for Disease 
Control, Low Income Home Energy Assistance, the Education Department, 
Pell Grants, and educational programs for the disadvantaged. He vetoed 
this bill because it contained a 2 percent increase over his request--
an increase of $10 billion in a Labor HHS bill of roughly $600 billion. 
The President opposes even a 2 percent increase in the funding for 
these programs.

Meanwhile, the President has requested almost $200 billion more for 
his failed war in Iraq. That would make the total cost of the war in 
Iraq so far to over $600 billion and climbing, with no end in sight. 
President Bush's refusal to change course in Iraq is shocking, his 
failure to allow adequate rest for our soldiers between tours of duty 
is outrageous, and his demand for another $200 billion blank check for 
his war in Iraq while vetoing LIHEAP for the poor, education for 
disadvantaged children, Pell Grants for college students, and research 
into cures for life threatening disease is simply unacceptable to this 
House. What a misplaced set of priorities.

Instead of the blank check for an endless war, this bill requires 
President Bush to begin withdrawing American troops from Iraq within 30 
days. Instead of unfairly sending inadequately equipped soldiers on 
multiple tours of duty, this bill prohibits the deployment of any 
troops who are not fully equipped and trained. And at the same time, 
this bill provides the necessary funds, in full, to our troops who are 
still in harm's way.

Our Republican colleagues must make a choice: will they stand with 
President Bush's attempt to throw more money and more young men and 
women into the mess in Iraq, or will they join with Democrats seeking a 
bipartisan agreement on redeploying American troops out of Iraq?

 Mr. Speaker, I would like to specifically note a provision of this 
bill, which I wrote, to bar any funds in this bill from being used for 
the gruesome and indefensible practice of extraordinary rendition. I 
would like to commend and thank Chairman Obey and Chairman Murtha for 
again including this language, as they have in every defense 
appropriations and supplemental appropriations bill this year. Through 
the use of extraordinary rendition, as well as abusive interrogation 
techniques and extrajudicial incarceration of so-called ''enemy 
combatants,'' President Bush has largely forfeited the mantel of human 
rights champion which the United States has carried for so long. We 
must reclaim the international moral high-ground if we are to cure the 
root causes of terrorism around the world, and we can start by banning 
extraordinary rendition.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman Obey for this strong and responsible 
bill, and urge all my colleagues to vote aye.