# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `576bcd918fdfcc18d66b9bff8206b669`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, the Ros-Lehtinen substitute is not just a 
step back in policy; it's a step back in time. It attempts to reinstate 
the failed Bush-Cheney-Rumsfeld model for managing the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Under this Congress, it gives the President a massive 
blank check and then walks away from its responsibility as a co-equal 
branch of government.

The Ros-Lehtinen substitute strips out all policy from the bill and 
has no provisions to encourage Pakistan to change its behavior; it has 
no provisions to ensure U.S. dollars are being effectively accounted 
for; it has no provisions for keeping Congress involved in the process; 
and it has no guidance whatsoever for the President about how taxpayer 
dollars ought to be spent. This is not legislation; this is abdication.

Is Pakistan cooperating with the U.S. to dismantle nuclear supplier 
networks? Apparently it doesn't matter in the Republican substitute. Is 
Pakistan ending its support to extremist groups and closing terrorist 
camps in the Fatah? Judging by the Republican substitute, who cares? Is 
Pakistan working to prevent cross-border attacks on its neighbors and 
strengthening its counterterrorism laws? If the Republican substitute 
is any guide, in the words of Jackie Mason, ''This is not my 
business.''

We have tried the minority approach. It is completely devoid of 
policy. It encourages abuse. It doesn't work. But it does have one 
advantage: it allows Members of Congress to avoid any responsibility 
for the war in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, it's too late to go back to ''strategery.''