---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 21, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5770bddddcc403cfe41647b70c772d5d`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I support this conference report 
because it will begin the process of changing our budgetary course. 
While it is not identical to the version passed by the House earlier 
this year, like that resolution it is clearly preferable to budgets 
adopted by the House in previous years.

For the 6 years before the convening of this 110th Congress, the 
administration and the Republican leadership insisted on speeding ahead 
with misguided fiscal and economic policies. Ignoring all warning 
lights, they plowed ahead, taking us from projections of surpluses to 
the reality budgets deep in deficit and heaping higher the mountain of 
debt that our children will have to repay.

Many of us said it was urgent to stop persisting in that error and 
voted for alternatives, including those proposed by the Blue Dog 
Caucus.

But year after year our Republican colleagues insisted on taking 
their marching orders from the White House, moving in lockstep to 
endorse the Bush administration's insistence that its economic and 
fiscal policies must continue without change.

I admired their discipline, but I could not support their insistence 
on driving us deeper into the swamp of fiscal irresponsibility that has 
left a debt burden of more than $30,000 for a typical middle-income 
family of four in Colorado.

But that was then--and now, in this new Congress under new 
management, by passing this conference report we can begin to undo the 
damage they have done. The conference report is better in its fiscal 
responsibility and in its priorities.

It follows the tough ''pay as you go'' budget rules to begin to 
reverse the budget deficits and to put us onto the path to a balanced 
budget. And under this plan, by 2012, domestic discretionary funding 
would fall to the lowest level, as a share of the economy, in at least 
a half century while spending as a percentage of GDP will be lower in 
2012 than it has been in any budget adopted under President Bush--1 
percent lower than it will be this year and lower than it has been in 
any year since 2001.

Despite assertion by its critics, the conference report does not 
include any tax increases. To the contrary, it supports tax relief that 
would benefit the middle class--including extension of the child tax 
credit, 10 percent bracket, and marriage penalty relief--and provides 
for estate tax reform.

And it provides for immediate Alternative Minimum Tax relief, 
preventing more than 20 million middle-class taxpayers from being hit 
by the tax. This is important because while in 2004 only 32,000 
Colorado families were subject to the AMT, if nothing is done, this 
year that number will rise to 234,000 families in Colorado and hundreds 
of thousands more in other States.

At the same time, it takes steps to crack down on wasteful or 
fraudulent spending in Social Security, Medicare, and Unemployment 
Insurance programs and it supports actions to collect unpaid taxes as 
well as providing additional resources to reduce claims backlogs in the 
Veterans Administration, Social Security Administration, and other 
agencies.

Further, it directs House committees to identify wasteful and lower 
priority spending that can be cut. As a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, I am particularly glad to note that the conference report is 
also realistic and responsible about the need to maintain our national 
defense and honor our promises to our troops and veterans.

In addition to meeting the needs of the active-duty force, it allows 
for increasing funding for veterans' health care and services by $6.7 
billion above the 2007 enacted level, and $3.6 billion above the 
President's budget.

This is a priority for me, because it will help ensure that the 
427,957 veterans in Colorado receive care worthy of their sacrifice. It 
is also critical for the 17,419 Coloradans, who have served their 
country in Afghanistan and Iraq since September 2001, many of whom will 
need VA health care services.

It also provides more funding for urgent homeland security needs and 
to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations. In doing so, it 
rejects cuts to vital first responder and terrorism prevention programs 
that would happen if we adopted the President's budget for fiscal 2008.

Like the House-passed version, it recognizes the importance of 
research, development, and education in keeping our economy strong and 
our country secure. As a member of the Science and Technology Committee 
and chairman of its Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, I am 
particularly supportive of it for that reason--and as one of the Chairs 
of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, I welcome its 
support for research and development of renewable and alternative 
energy technologies.

As for education, the conference report allows for substantially more 
funding for helping Colorado's public elementary, middle and high 
schools educate the 768,600 children now enrolled, with more resources 
to implement the No Child Left Behind Act, special education and Head 
Start. By contrast, if we followed the President's budget, 31,296 
Colorado children would not receive promised help in reading and math 
and the Head Start program--which serves 9,820 Colorado children--would 
be cut by 1.5 percent below the 2007 level.

These investments to a growing economy for America's families are 
needed because, according to the Census Bureau, family income in 
Colorado has dropped by $4,041 since 2000, while health care and energy 
prices are climbing. But still more is needed.

So, I am glad that the conference report provides for increasing 
funding for State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)--to help 
cover the 176,230 of Colorado's children who do not have health 
insurance. And because it is so important for Colorado's ranchers, 
farmers, and rural communities, I strongly support the part of the 
conference report that supports policies to strengthen the farm bill's 
economic benefits.

Mr. Speaker, I can understand why the Bush Administration does not 
like this conference report. After all, it rejects the Administration's 
misguided priorities. But it's disappointing that so many of our 
Republican colleagues still are so willing to unquestioningly follow 
the President's lead. And, while I suppose it's to be expected, it's 
particularly unfortunate that they have decided to attack this 
conference report by resorting to recycling the old, tired and false 
claim that it is ''the largest tax increase in history.''

But the facts are otherwise. The conference report does not affect 
the top-heavy tax cuts


the Bush administration and the Republican leadership pushed through 
since 2001--they remain in place as they stand, which means they will 
not expire for 4 years.

I did not vote for all of those tax cuts, but I did support some that 
are most important for middle-income Coloradans. So, I am glad that the 
conference report provides for extensions of those in 2011, including 
an extension of the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and the 
ten percent individual income tax bracket. And when the rest of the tax 
cuts come up for reconsideration, Congress can and should consider 
whether to extend them, as they are now or in modified form.

I support that approach, which is quite different from the 
alternative approach that would have been taken by the Republican 
alternative that the House rightly rejected earlier this year. It would 
have insisted on locking in all of the Bush tax cuts--the ones I did 
not support as well as those I did--and would have put top priority on 
making them all permanent.

I did like some things in the Republican alternative--including a 
constitutionally-sound line-item veto similar to my Stimulating 
Leadership in Cutting Expenditures (''SLICE'') legislation--but overall 
I thought it was not a responsible approach and I could not support it, 
just as I could not support the other alternatives debated in the 
House.

Regarding one of those alternatives, in reviewing the formal record 
of rollcall 209, the vote on the Kilpatrick substitute, I found I am 
recorded as having voted ''yes.'' However, I had intended to vote 
''no,'' and my recollection is that I did vote ''no.''

Unlike all those alternatives, and like the resolution passed by the 
House, this conference report is well balanced in its combination of 
fiscal responsibility and refocusing priorities. I will support it and 
I urge its approval by the House.