---
---

# None
## `578233f642223f2ce4e19a81baa93980`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Hodes. The 
three of us are new Members. We came here on that tidal wave of 
increasing popular angst against this war. And this place shouldn't be 
dictated just by what happens in elections, but elections have to mean 
something. When the people get a chance to go out there every 2 years 
and weigh in on the direction of their Federal Government, they have to 
feel, at some level, like what they say matters.



And, Mr. Hodes, I mean you are right. When they pick up the paper 
whatever day it is going to be when he actually vetoes this, the 
feeling inside, that voter who thought they went out and cast a 
courageous vote for Mr. Altmire or Mr. Hodes or Mr. Murphy who decided 
to make a change when it doesn't happen very often that you have a 
change like this, maybe once every decade or every two decades, well, 
they are going to lose just a little bit of faith in this process. And 
every day that we continue to have an administration that refuses to 
honor where the American people want the course of this war to go, 
which, as we have said over and over again, it is not just the American 
people but it is the American people being backed up by generals, being 
backed up by the foreign policy community, the Iraq Study Group, there 
is a little piece of democracy that dies every day that that happens.

Let me just bring up an additional topic here. When I got out into 
Baghdad on the day that we were in Baghdad, what we saw was the 
escalation in progress. What the escalation essentially is, is it is 
asking these soldiers who are on their second or third tour of duty 
over there, who would normally do 12-hour shifts patrolling these 
incredibly dangerous streets, trying to dodge sniper fire, trying to 
keep clear of the increasing number of IEDs, roadside bombs, now those 
troops, after the 12-hour shift, aren't going back to safe barracks; 
they are lodging themselves in the neighborhoods, in some of the most 
dangerous, war-torn neighborhoods of Baghdad. They are living in 
bombed-out buildings with little or no electricity or running water, in 
squalid conditions. That is what the escalation is.

Now, if this was a fresh round of troops, if this was a group of 
young men and women who were there for the first time, maybe you could 
understand putting them in that position. But that is not what this is. 
Twenty-three percent of all the troops who are being deployed right now 
are National Guard and Reserve troops. Eighty-eight percent of those 
National Guard and Reserve troops are so poorly equipped that they are 
rated not ready right now. That is from the Washington Post, about a 
month back.

We know that the number of Active Duty and Reserve brigades in the 
United States that are considered combat-ready, zero. None of them. We 
have maxed out our military. We have asked, Mr. Hodes, as you said, our 
men and women to do everything we have asked them to do, and we have 
got to start asking ourselves the question, have we asked them to do 
too much?

One day they are in the middle of a firefight. The next day they are 
sitting down and trying to mediate a dispute between two rival 
neighborhood groups. The day after that they are overseeing the 
construction of a water filtration plant. They are, within a 3-day 
period, being asked to be fighters, diplomats, and civil engineers.

Having gotten to spend a couple days on the ground with these folks, 
they are by all measure the best people that we could send over there, 
the bravest, the most capable. If there is anyone in this world that 
could do this job, I know it is them. I knew it intuitively from back 
here in the United States. Having spent a few days on the ground, you 
know it from the moment you talk to them. But we have maxed them out.

And why I try to get here as often as I can to hear Mr. Murtha speak 
here on the floor is because there is no better in talking about this 
subject than Mr. Murtha. He said it here tonight: There is no one more 
in touch with the troops than he is. And our danger is not just in 
asking them something they may not be able to do, but permanently 
damaging the capability of this military going forward.