# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `578da05f4f71057304e6b0c4d3431d62`
`Mr. BYRD — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, last week the Senate Appropriations 
Committee met for 3/1/2/ hours and reported responsible legislation 
that supports the troops, sets a goal for reducing the scope of the 
mission in Iraq, honors our veterans, and helps Americans to cope with 
a sagging economy.

The bill includes $10 billion of domestic funding not requested by 
the President, less than what the President spends in Iraq in 1 month. 
Yet the President has threatened to veto the bill if it is one thin 
dime--one thin dime--over his, the President's--your President, my 
President, our President--request. He wants this Congress to approve 
another $5.6 billion--that is $5.60 for every minute since Jesus Christ 
was born--to rebuild Iraq. Yes, he wants this Congress to approve 
another $5.6 billion to rebuild Iraq, despite the fact that Iraq has 
huge--I mean huge--surpluses from excess oil revenues. He wants funding 
for Mexico. He wants funding for Central America. But the President 
says he will veto the bill if we add funding for bridges in Birmingham 
or for help with the high cost of energy bills in Maine or to fight 
crime in U.S. towns and cities or to aid Katrina victims.

Just yesterday the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
repeated the silly assertion that by taking care of America, we hold 
funding for the troops hostage. This is pure--I am sorry to say, 
something like horse manure--nonsense. Our legislation includes funds 
that the President did not request for health care for our troops, for 
Guard and Reserve equipment, for building and repairing barracks, and 
for training the Afghans to fight for their own security.

In the amendment on which we are about to vote, we honor those who 
have served America by increasing educational benefits for our 
veterans. We extend unemployment benefits by another 13 weeks. We honor 
promises made to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. We roll back 
Medicaid regulations that our Nation's Governors believe disrupt health 
coverage for our most vulnerable citizens. We respond to dramatic 
increases in food prices by increasing funding for the Global Food Aid 
Program. We also provide humanitarian relief to disaster victims in 
China, Bangladesh, and in Burma.

This amendment includes provisions that have broad bipartisan 
support, such as funding for Byrne grants and the Rural Schools 
Program, which runs out of money on June 30, 2008. In the last 18 
months, the President has designated 62 disaster grants for floods in 
32 States. Yet the President has not requested funding to repair 
levees, leaving our citizens in Arkansas, Missouri, Louisiana, and 
other States vulnerable to more flooding. We fund those repairs.

This is responsible legislation that supports our troops, honors our 
veterans, and helps our citizens to cope with a troubled economy. I 
urge adoption of the pending amendment.