---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008
## `57932df048f433548293fb806e4c1e01`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, on Memorial Day in 1884, Justice Oliver 
Wendell Holmes said:




 It is now the moment when by common consent we pause to 


 become conscious of our national life and to rejoice in it, 


 to recall what our country has done for each of us, and to 


 ask ourselves what we can do for our country in return.


I am pleased that today, on the eve of the Memorial Day weekend, the 
Senate has been able to recall what our service men and women have done 
for each of us. I am pleased that we can do something for them in 
return. And I am pleased that we have been able to pass the Heroes 
Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008.

Nearly 1.5 million American service men and women have served in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, or both. Nearly 30,000


troops have been wounded in action there.

It is time that Congress showed its gratitude to these brave men and 
women. They have devoted their lives to the pursuit of American 
freedom.

Today, we are doing just that. We have passed a bill that offers tax 
relief to these men and women who serve our country so valiantly.

During a trip to Iraq last year, I saw the amazing job that our 
troops are doing. I met many Montanans from small towns such as Roundup 
and Townsend.

I saw firsthand what a heavy burden our troops bear for all of us. 
They face hardships and danger. But they keep at it every day.

This bill makes permanent the special tax rules that make sense for 
our military. Many of these rules expired at the end of 2007.

For example, most troops doing the heavy lifting in combat situations 
are lower ranking soldiers in the lower income brackets. Some of them 
are earning combat pay at levels that would qualify for the earned 
income tax credit. But under current law, combat pay does not count 
toward computing the EITC.

Congress fixed that temporarily. But the provision that fixed the 
problem expired at the end of 2007.

The EITC is a beneficial tax provision for working Americans. It 
makes no sense to deny it to our troops.

Today, we have made combat duty income count for EITC purposes, and 
we have made that change a permanent part of the Tax Code.

This military tax package also eliminates obstacles in the current 
tax laws that create problems for some veterans and service members.

For example, family members of fallen soldiers killed in the line of 
duty receive a death gratuity benefit of $100,000. But the tax law does 
not allow the survivors to put this benefit into a Roth IRA. This bill 
will guarantee that the family members of fallen soldiers may take 
advantage of these tax-favored accounts.

Another problem for our disabled veterans is the time limit for 
filing to get a tax refund. Most VA disability claims filed by veterans 
are quickly resolved. But many disability awards are delayed because of 
lost paperwork or the appeals of rejected claims. Once a disabled vet 
finally gets a favorable award, the disability award is tax-free.

In many cases, however, these disabled veterans paid taxes on the 
payments in the past. The veterans cannot get the taxes paid back 
because the law bars them from filing a claim for a tax refund that 
goes back far enough.

We take care of this problem by giving disabled veterans an extra 
year to claim their tax refunds.

This bill is paid for by requiring that companies that do business 
with the Federal Government pay their employment taxes. The bill makes 
sure that foreign subsidiaries of U.S. parent companies that have 
contracts with the Federal Government pay employment taxes for their 
employees.

Another offset in the bill is a provision that makes certain that 
individuals who relinquish their American citizenship or long-term 
residency pay their fair share of Federal taxes. This provision ensures 
that these folks pay the same tax for appreciation of assets, such as 
stocks or bonds, as they would pay if they sold them as U.S. citizens 
or residents.

We owe the men and women fighting in our armed forces an enormous 
debt of gratitude. They leave their families and put their lives on the 
line to fight for our freedoms.

And so today, the Senate pauses to recall what our service men and 
women have done for each of us. Today, the Senate pauses to ask 
ourselves what we can do for them in return. And today, the Senate 
pauses to say thank you.