---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `579574534aa5c5b8e2661f92b616c610`
`Mr. DREIER — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I do so to say that just this week we all saw a great deal of 
attention focused on an op-ed piece written in the New York Times by 
two of the harshest critics of the war in Iraq. I am referring, of 
course, to the Brookings Institution Fellows Michael O'Hanlon and 
Kenneth Pollack. And I saw Ken Pollack with Wolf Blitzer on CNN the 
other day saying he did not write the headline in the New York Times 
which talked about this is a war we might win. He did stand by every 
word in that piece that was written, and I am going to ask to include 
that piece in the Congressional Record.









[From the New York Times, July 30, 2007]













A War We Just Might Win







(By Michael E. O'Hanlon and Kenneth M. Pollack)




 Washington.--Viewed from Iraq, where we just spent eight 


 days meeting with American and Iraqi military and civilian 


 personnel, the political debate in Washington is surreal. The 


 Bush administration has over four years lost essentially all 


 credibility. Yet now the administration's critics, in part as 


 a result, seem unaware of the significant changes taking 


 place.



 Here is the most important thing Americans need to 


 understand: We are finally getting somewhere in Iraq, at 


 least in military terms. As two analysts who have harshly 


 criticized the Bush administration's miserable handling of 


 Iraq, we were surprised by the gains we saw and the potential 


 to produce not necessarily ''victory'' but a sustainable 


 stability that both we and the Iraqis could live with.



 After the furnace-like heat, the first thing you notice 


 when you land in Baghdad is the morale of our troops. In 


 previous trips to Iraq we often found American troops angry 


 and frustrated--many sensed they had the wrong strategy, were 


 using the wrong tactics and were risking their lives in 


 pursuit of an approach that could not work.



 Today, morale is high. The soldiers and marines told us 


 they feel that they now have a superb commander in Gen. David 


 Petraeus; they are confident in his strategy, they see real 


 results, and they feel now they have the numbers needed to 


 make a real difference.



 Everywhere, Army and Marine units were focused on securing 


 the Iraqi population, working with Iraqi security units, 


 creating new political and economic arrangements at the local 


 level and providing basic services--electricity, fuel, clean 


 water and sanitation--to the people. Yet in each place, 


 operations had been appropriately tailored to the specific 


 needs of the community. As a result, civilian fatality rates 


 are down roughly a third since the surge began--though they 


 remain very high, underscoring how much more still needs to 


 be done.



 In Ramadi, for example, we talked with an outstanding 


 Marine captain whose company was living in harmony in a 


 complex with a (largely Sunni) Iraqi police company and a 


 (largely Shiite) Iraqi Army unit. He and his men had built an 


 Arab-style living room, where he met with the local Sunni 


 sheiks--all formerly allies of Al Qaeda and other jihadist 


 groups--who were now competing to secure his friendship.



 In Baghdad's Ghazaliya neighborhood, which has seen some of 


 the worst sectarian combat, we walked a street slowly coming 


 back to life with stores and shoppers. The Sunni residents 


 were unhappy with the nearby police checkpoint, where Shiite 


 officers reportedly abused them, but they seemed genuinely 


 happy with the American soldiers and a mostly Kurdish Iraqi 


 Army company patrolling the street. The local Sunni 


 militia even had agreed to confine itself to its compound 


 once the Americans and Iraqi units arrived.



 We traveled to the northern cities of Tal Afar and Mosul. 


 This is an ethnically rich area, with large numbers of Sunni 


 Arabs, Kurds and Turkmens. American troop levels in both 


 cities now number only in the hundreds because the Iraqis 


 have stepped up to the plate. Reliable police officers man 


 the checkpoints in the cities, while Iraqi Army troops cover 


 the countryside. A local mayor told us his greatest fear was 


 an overly rapid American departure from Iraq. All across the 


 country, the dependability of Iraqi security forces over the 


 long term remains a major question mark.



 But for now, things look much better than before. American 


 advisers told us that many of the corrupt and sectarian Iraqi 


 commanders who once infested the force have been removed. The 


 American high command assesses that more than three-quarters 


 of the Iraqi Army battalion commanders in




 Baghdad are now reliable partners (at least for as long as 


 American forces remain in Iraq).



 In addition, far more Iraqi units are well integrated in 


 terms of ethnicity and religion. The Iraqi Army's highly 


 effective Third Infantry Division started out as 


 overwhelmingly Kurdish in 2005. Today, it is 45 percent 


 Shiite, 28 percent Kurdish, and 27 percent Sunni Arab.



 In the past, few Iraqi units could do more than provide a 


 few ''jundis'' (soldiers) to put a thin Iraqi face on largely 


 American operations. Today, in only a few sectors did we find 


 American commanders complaining that their Iraqi formations 


 were useless--something that was the rule, not the exception, 


 on a previous trip to Iraq in late 2005.



 The additional American military formations brought in as 


 part of the surge, General Petraeus's determination to hold 


 areas until they are truly secure before redeploying units, 


 and the increasing competence of the Iraqis has had another 


 critical effect: no more whack-a-mole, with insurgents 


 popping back up after the Americans leave.



 In war, sometimes it's important to pick the right 


 adversary, and in Iraq we seem to have done so. A major 


 factor in the sudden change in American fortunes has been the 


 outpouring of popular animus against Al Qaeda and other 


 Salafist groups, as well as (to a lesser extent) against 


 Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army.



 These groups have tried to impose Shariah law, brutalized 


 average Iraqis to keep them in line, killed important local 


 leaders and seized young women to marry off to their 


 loyalists. The result has been that in the last six months 


 Iraqis have begun to turn on the extremists and turn to the 


 Americans for security and help. The most important and best-


 known example of this is in Anbar Province, which in less 


 than six months has gone from the worst part of Iraq to the 


 best (outside the Kurdish areas). Today the Sunni sheiks 


 there are close to crippling Al Qaeda and its Salafist 


 allies. Just a few months ago, American marines were fighting 


 for every yard of Ramadi; last week we strolled down its 


 streets without body armor.



 Another surprise was how well the coalition's new Embedded 


 Provincial Reconstruction Teams are working. Wherever we 


 found a fully staffed team, we also found local Iraqi leaders 


 and businessmen cooperating with it to revive the local 


 economy and build new political structures. Although much 


 more needs to be done to create jobs, a new emphasis on 


 microloans and small-scale projects was having some success 


 where the previous aid programs often built white elephants.



 In some places where we have failed to provide the civilian 


 manpower to fill out the reconstruction teams, the surge has 


 still allowed the military to fashion its own advisory groups 


 from battalion, brigade and division staffs. We talked to 


 dozens of military officers who before the war had known 


 little about governance or business but were now ably 


 immersing themselves in projects to provide the average Iraqi 


 with a decent life.



 Outside Baghdad, one of the biggest factors in the progress 


 so far has been the efforts to decentralize power to the 


 provinces and local governments. But more must be done. For 


 example, the Iraqi National Police, which are controlled by 


 the Interior Ministry, remain mostly a disaster. In response, 


 many towns and neighborhoods are standing up local police 


 forces, which generally prove more effective, less corrupt 


 and less sectarian. The coalition has to force the warlords 


 in Baghdad to allow the creation of neutral security forces 


 beyond their control.



 In the end, the situation in Iraq remains grave. In 


 particular, we still face huge hurdles on the political 


 front. Iraqi politicians of all stripes continue to dawdle 


 and maneuver for position against one another when major 


 steps towards reconciliation--or at least accommodation--are 


 needed. This cannot continue indefinitely. Otherwise, once we 


 begin to downsize, important communities may not feel 


 committed to the status quo, and Iraqi security forces may 


 splinter along ethnic and religious lines.



 How much longer should American troops keep fighting and 


 dying to build a new Iraq while Iraqi leaders fail to do 


 their part? And how much longer can we wear down our forces 


 in this mission? These haunting questions underscore the 


 reality that the surge cannot go on forever. But there is 


 enough good happening on the battlefields of Iraq today that 


 Congress should plan on sustaining the effort at least into 


 2008.


I will say that as one reads the O'Hanlon-Pollack article, it is 
clear that there are many very important challenges that lie ahead in 
Iraq. But the fact that we have seen a quelling of the violence in the 
al-Anbar Province, as we look at the difficulty that we face, but the 
fact that we've seen Sunni leaders unite with us in fighting al Qaeda, 
we, I believe, are making progress.

War is a very, very ugly thing, and this war is no exception. No one 
can say exactly what the outcome will be, but I do know that the cause 
of freedom is worth fighting for, and I do know that these constant 
attempts to prevent this House from looking at, working on, and 
considering the work of the Iraq Study Group, the bipartisan work 
product of the Iraq Study Group, is just plain wrong, so I am going to 
continue to strongly oppose this rule and these continued efforts to 
politicize our quest for victory and bringing our troops home.

I reserve the balance of my time.