---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `579827ff1ecd02b903078da12e37a458`
`Mr. POMEROY — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. POMEROY. I thank my friend, the chairman, for yielding.

I rise in support of amendment No. 23, which reauthorizes the Joint 
Family Support Assistance Program. This program has been providing 
critical support to the unsung heroes of the global war on terror, the 
families left behind of deploying Guard and Reserve soldiers.

As the Department of Defense stated in its report to Congress on the 
implementation of this program: ''The Guard and Reserve are 
experiencing significantly increased mobilizations as a result of the 
global war on terrorism, and families who have previously had limited 
exposure to the demands resulting from separations due to military 
deployments must now deal with the likelihood of longer and often 
multiple deployments to the servicemember.''

Issues like single parenting, keeping a house running through all 
kinds of weather conditions, traumatized children missing a parent, all 
of these issues have been dealt with through the scopes of these joint 
family support systems programs. They work by compiling a Military 
OneSource program, one location coordinating the many resources 
available within our local community in support of these families, a 
one-stop shop able to make certain there is coordination for military, 
Federal, State and local resources.

For families on military bases who are deployed, it's very clear the 
support systems are there and what they are. For families of Guard and 
Reserve soldiers, especially spread across rural areas like North 
Dakota, it's less clear sometimes where the support can come from.

I am so proud of the North Dakota National Guard and Reserve families 
that have stood in support of their deploying soldiers, and we've had a 
bunch of them--3,500 soldiers, 1,800 airmen on multiple deployments. We 
need to support their families, and I urge permanent authorization of 
this program.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of the Pomeroy Amendment to 
permanently reauthorize the Joint Family Support Assistance Program, 
JFSAP.

This program has been providing critical support to the unsung heroes 
of Global War on Terror families of deployed soldiers.

Since its inception three years ago, the JFSAP program has been 
providing critical support to Guard and Reserve families, especially 
those families who do not live near military installations. Since the 
beginning of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan the Guard and Reserve 
have seen a significant increase in deployments. Many of these service 
members and their families do not live near military installations and 
therefore do not have access to many of the family support functions 
available on those bases.

As the Department of Defense stated in its initial report to Congress 
on the implementation of this program, ''The Guard and Reserve are 
experiencing significantly increased mobilization as a result of the 
Global War on Terrorism, and families who have previously had limited 
exposure to the demands resulting from separations due to military 
deployments, must now deal with the likelihood of longer and often 
multiple deployments of the service member.'' These families are now 
coping with the stress of separation from a loved one for up to a year, 
which can lead to many difficult issues. A spouse may now be faced with 
single parenting for the first time, children being separated from one 
or both of their parents may have a difficult time coping with that 
separation and when the service member returns home they sometimes have 
a difficult time readjusting to civilian life. Families located on or 
near a military installation have access to a wide range of programs to 
deal with these issues, which may not necessarily be the case for Guard 
and Reserve families spread across the country, especially in rural 
States like North Dakota.

The Joint Family Support Assistance Program, JFSAP program works by 
compiling Military One Source programs into one location and 
coordinating those programs with resources that maybe available in the 
local community. By having a one stop shop that is able to help 
coordinate military, Federal, State, and local resources this program 
is able to provide families with comprehensive support for many of the 
issues that regularly arise due to the deployment of a loved one. 
Without a coordinated program families are faced with the requirement 
to seek this assistance out through a patchwork of entities increasing 
the possibility that they do not receive aid when they need it most.

Once fully implemented the JFSAP in North Dakota will offer a 
Military OneSource Specialist to coordinate programs, a Financial 
Military Life Consultant, MFLC, to help families with financial issues, 
a Youth MFLC to help coordinate services for children, an Adult MFLC to 
assist with the needs of service members, spouses and other family 
members and an Operation Military Kids consultant to help set up 
programs and activities for the children of service members. The North 
Dakota National Guard has seen significant deployments since September 
11, 2001 deploying more than 3,500 soldiers and over 1,800 Airmen, many 
of those individuals have been deployed multiple times. This program's 
continuation is vital to providing the services and support that those 
families deserve.

The N.D. Nat'l Guard Families know there will be more deployments on 
the future which means the work of this program has that begun.

This critical program was originally authorized in the 2007 National 
Defense Authorization Act for three years and it must now be 
reauthorized. My amendment would make this program permanent so that it 
can be allowed to continue to provide critical support for Guard and 
Reserve families. I believe that this amendment will have broad 
bipartisan support and I urge its passage.