---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `5799423fd4f3fd3f0ac1a7db83291eec`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chairman, this amendment 
proposes text changes to section 107 of the bill, the section that 
deals with improved training for health care professionals, medical 
care case managers and servicemember advocates on particular conditions 
of recovering servicemembers.

As of March 1 of this year, over 24,000 servicemembers have been 
wounded in action since the onset of Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom, according to the Department of Defense. The 
Government Accountability Office has found that servicemembers injured 
in combat face an array of medical and financial challenges as they 
begin their recovery process in the health care systems of the 
Department of Defense and the Department of Veteran Affairs. A GAO 
report was recently released on March 5 and entitled ''DoD and Va 
Health Care, Challenges Encountered By Injured Service Members During 
Their Recovery Process.''

According to the report, Mr. Chairman, the Department of Defense 
screens servicemembers for post-traumatic stress disorder, but it does 
not ensure that further mental health evaluations occur.

DoD health care providers review questionnaires, interview 
servicemembers, and use clinical judgment in determining the need for 
further mental health evaluation. Sadly, DoD found that only 22 percent 
of the service members who may have been at risk for developing post-
traumatic stress syndrome were actually referred by the Defense 
Department health care providers for further evaluation. In addition, 
the Defense Department never identified the factors as health care 
actually used to determine which servicemembers needed the referrals.

Although our wounded warriors may obtain mental health evaluations 
for treatment for post-traumatic stress through the VA, and the VA may 
face a challenge in meeting the demand for these services, VA officials 
estimated that follow-ups for veterans to get treatment for this stress 
syndrome may be delayed up to 90 days.

Now, Mr. Chairman, I spent my professional career as a psychiatric 
nurse with the Veterans Administration. I can tell you that we could 
save time and money if we had the proper people in place to diagnose 
early, or at least get a referral. We miss a lot of early symptoms that 
later causes long-term unemployment, long-term financial stress and 
long-term hospitalization simply because we have not put the well-
trained people in place, professional social workers, professional 
nurses that would diagnose and know that something needs to be done to 
prevent further deterioration, and that is my reason for bringing this.

My 15 years of hands-on inpatient program care were specialized in 
mental health. And I have my credentials to show that. And my amendment 
strengthens this section because I feel that more emphasis needs to be 
made on adequate training by health care professionals to recognize 
these signs, including suicidal tendencies, so that the early 
intervention can come, and it will shorten the recovery period.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.