# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2010
## `57998c845317702284a2b4f187772a2b`
`Mr. AKAKA — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today, as chairman of the Senate Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs, I urge all of my colleagues to support S. 3107/
H.R. 4667, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 
2010. This measure would direct the Secretary of Veterans


Affairs to increase, effective December 1, 2010, the rates of veterans' 
compensation to keep pace with the rising cost of living in this 
country. The rate adjustment is equal to that provided on an annual 
basis to Social Security recipients and is based on the Consumer Price 
Index.

Congress regularly enacts legislation that would provide for a cost-
of-living adjustment for veterans' compensation in order to ensure that 
inflation does not erode the purchasing power of the veterans and their 
families who depend upon this income to meet their daily needs. The 
2011 COLA has not yet been determined.

The COLA affects, among other benefits, veterans' disability 
compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving 
spouses and children. Many of the recipients of those benefits depend 
upon these tax-free payments not only to provide for their own basic 
needs, but those of their spouses and children as well. Without a COLA 
increase, these veterans and their families would see the value of 
their hard-earned benefits slowly diminish if there was an increase in 
inflation. If there is an increase in inflation, we in Congress would 
be neglecting our duty to ensure that those who sacrificed so much for 
this country receive the benefits and services to which they are 
entitled.

It is important that we view veterans' compensation, including the 
COLA, and indeed all benefits earned by veterans, as a continuing cost 
of war. It is clear that the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan 
will continue to result in injuries and disabilities that will yield an 
increase in claims for compensation. Currently, there are more than 3.1 
million veterans in receipt of VA disability compensation.

Disbursement of disability compensation to our Nation's veterans 
constitutes one of the central missions of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs. It is a necessary measure of appreciation afforded to those 
veterans whose lives were forever altered by their service to this 
country.

I urge our colleagues to support passage of this COLA bill. I also 
ask our colleagues for their continued support for our Nation's 
veterans.