---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `579cbc431f3181c1f40fa592d0f3093f`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution and in 
support of a new policy in Iraq. Up until this point, the Bush 
administration's Iraq policy over the last 3/1/2/ years appears to be 
one of America's worst foreign policy blunders. More than 3,100 of our 
brave men and women in uniform have been killed and more than 24,000 
have been wounded, many very seriously, and hundreds of billions of 
dollars have been spent and in some cases wasted. This has resulted 
from the tactical mistakes, errors in judgment and other major missteps 
by the Bush administration.

It is painfully clear that a change in strategy in Iraq is needed 
now. We need a plan for bringing stability to Iraq and bringing our 
troops home. Unfortunately, the President's plan to add over 20,000 
additional troops does not provide this, and, therefore, I must support 
this resolution.

I see three main flaws in the President's plan.

First, the administration has not provided convincing evidence that 
this surge will succeed after many similar plans have failed. After 
almost 4 years in Iraq, the American people are asking, why should we 
have faith in this plan and place more troops in harm's way?

Second, by failing to provide clear benchmarks for success or a time 
frame by which we can expect the surge to yield positive results, the 
President's plan appears to commit our country to a ''stay the course'' 
strategy with no clear end in sight. Aid should be tied to a deadline 
for progress by the Iraqi Government.

Third, and most importantly, the President continues to place too 
much emphasis on a military solution, when it is clear that force alone 
will not solve this crisis. Solutions must support broad international 
engagement to promote stability and reconstruction in Iraq and must 
address political, economic and religious issues.

Because of the need for such a plan, earlier this year I laid out a 
set of recommendations, and this week I introduced H.Res. 152 based on 
these. My proposal consists of three core recommendations.

First, encourage achievement of important goals and national 
reconciliation, security and governance by arranging a peace conference 
for Iraq's ethnic and religious factions, similar to the conference 
that led to the Dayton Accords. One venue for this would be El 
Salvador, which has shown a strong commitment to stabilizing and 
rebuilding Iraq and has gone through its own recent history of a bloody 
civil war and ensuing reconciliation.

But wherever and however it is done, the political, economic and 
religious issues must be addressed if peace and security are to be 
established in Iraq. And it is essential that more pressure be put on 
the Iraqi Government and all interested parties in Iraq to find and 
accept real solutions so the American forces can begin withdrawal.

The second recommendation is to seek international cooperation to 
develop solutions for Iraq. This should include calling an 
international conference that will work on putting together a 
peacekeeping force and setting up an international reconstruction 
program.

Iraq's strategic position in the volatile Middle East, its potential 
to become a terrorist safe haven, its large supply of oil and the great 
potential for a humanitarian catastrophe make security in Iraq a 
critical international issue. It is time for America to engage the 
nations of the world to encourage them to address this international 
crisis.

The final recommendation is to require the administration to give 
Congress detailed reports on the situation in Iraq so that we can make 
informed decisions regarding funding for reconstruction and deciding 
when American forces can be redeployed. This new Congress has been 
vigorously conducting oversight after 3/1/2/ years of congressional 
neglect, but we must have the full cooperation of the administration.

If the recommendations laid out in my resolution are followed, I 
believe American troops can begin redeployment in 2007, leaving a 
secure, stable Iraq.

As the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops stated, ''The search for 
genuine justice and peace in Iraq requires moral urgency, substantive 
dialogue and new direction.'' Unfortunately, the President does not 
give us this. That is why his plan is discouraging to many Americans 
who are weary of this war.

But no one is wearier than our troops and their families. This past 
weekend I spoke to a soldier who spent 13 months in Iraq and will 
likely be returning. He told me that it is important to make sure that 
we let our troops know that they have our complete support. We cannot 
let anything in this debate be construed otherwise. If this surge 
occurs even after we pass this resolution, we must continue to support 
our troops and pray for them every day, so that by God's grace they can 
succeed in their mission.