---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `57c30e2adc721b7b4f6431c335592c06`
`Mr. REID — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the distinguished minority manager of this 
bill is easy to get along with. I want the record spread with the fact 
that he is a gentleman. I wish every Member in this Senate was as easy 
to work with as the Senator from Wyoming.

However, I do have some regard for how we have conducted ourselves on 
this bill in the majority. I have a memory. I know how things have 
happened in the past. No amendments, few amendments, or, if cloture was 
invoked on a bill, those amendments that were germane postcloture did 
not get a vote.

That is not how we are doing things. They may not have gotten all the 
votes they wanted, but it is interesting to note that the Members 
offering the amendments are not going to vote for the bill anyway.

We have a procedure. There are amendments germane postcloture, and we 
will vote on as many of those as we can. I prefer a straight minimum 
wage bill. The people of America deserve this raise after 10 years. 
However, the Republicans have said they want these $8 billion in tax 
cuts for business. If that is the only way we can get this bill out of 
here, I am willing to do that for the 13 million Americans who depend 
on minimum wage.

How could someone in the minority vote against what they asked for? 
We gave them what they asked for. They got all the business tax 
deductions, tax cuts, and then they are going to vote against cloture? 
I don't understand.

Raise the minimum wage to $7.25 for 13 million Americans--why can't 
we do that--and 5.5 million will have wages raised directly, and the 
other 7.5 million who make near the minimum wage will benefit when the 
lowest wages are lifted.

As Business Week magazine said a month ago, raising the minimum wage 
lifts the boat for everybody. I don't think Business Week magazine is 
seen as a bastion of liberality.

Of the 13 million Americans who stand to get a raise, more than 60 
percent are women. For the majority of those women, that is the only 
money they get for them and their families. Almost 40 percent of the 
people who draw minimum wage are people of color. Eighty percent of the 
people who draw minimum wage are adults, many of them senior citizens. 
They are not all kids at McDonald's flipping hamburgers.

Mr. President, $7.25 may not seem like a lot of money in Washington, 
but it would mean almost $4,500 a year for the Nation's poorest people, 
the poorest working people in America. Do we want to drive those poor 
working people into welfare? The answer is, no.

Mr. President, $4,500 is a lot of money: 15 months of groceries for a 
family of three; 19 months of utilities; 8 months of rent. It helps 
with childcare and additional things they simply do not have the money 
to splurge on now.

After 10 years, it is time to stop talking about this issue and give 
the working poor of this country a raise after 10 years. I also advise 
my friends the majority believes this raise in the minimum wage is way 
overdue.

Everyone should understand, if cloture is not invoked, we are through 
with minimum wage. We are going to go to other matters. The first thing 
we go to is Iraq. We have to start debating Iraq this afternoon. 
Everyone should understand we are not going to come back in a day or 
two or 2 or 3 weeks. We have a lot of things to do. We have to allow 
Medicare to negotiate for lower priced drugs for the people who are 
Medicare recipients. We want to do something about stem cell. We want 
to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations. We want to pass 
appropriations bills. And we want to pass immigration reform this year. 
Minimum wage is dead this year because of the minority. If they do not 
vote for cloture, it is over with.

I yield the floor.