# HONORING BLUE STAR MOTHERS OF AMERICA
## `57c4e670dbc28d232507526a8e60f028`
`Mr. SESTAK — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Madam Speaker, since assuming office in January 2007, I 
have had the privilege of working with the Blue Star Mothers of Greater 
Philadelphia. That group has been in the forefront of countless efforts 
to support our troops engaged in two protracted conflicts. Though the 
''all volunteer force'' has provided our nation with the most capable 
and powerful military in our history, it has also shifted the burden of 
waging those conflicts to a decreasing percentage of our overall 
population. As a result, the vast majority of Americans benefit from 
the security wrought by the sacrifice of relatively few families. In 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, we are blessed by the work of Marian 
Moran of Media, PA who leads the Philadelphia Chapter, Laurie Menges of 
Hanover who leads the South Central Pennsylvania Chapter, Laura 
Zazworsky of Camp Hill, President of the Central Pennsylvania Chapter, 
and Sue Donaldson of Easton PA, President of the Lehigh Valley Chapter.

For our families with serving members of the military, it has always 
been the case that the greatest emotional toll of sending our sons and 
daughters to war is borne by our nation's mothers. Since 1943, the Blue 
Star Mothers of America (BSMA) have stepped forward to offer support, 
counsel and advocacy on behalf of their children and one another. In 
addition to the thousands of phone calls, letters, and emails of 
support that flow daily between BSMA members, they are actively engaged 
in policy making at the highest level. Their support for H.R. 2647, 
''National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010'', which 
directs states to provide both electronic and mail absentee ballots in 
a timely fashion, is helping to right a long-standing wrong in the 
provision of absentee ballots for serving members of our military. For 
years, our men and women in uniform have been denied their vote by 
inefficient and often indifferent bureaucracies at the local, state, 
and federal levels. The BSMA is also a tireless morale builder for our 
troops, providing 'care packages' from home, that not only nourish them 
but offer essential items to mitigate the extremely harsh climates in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Most noteworthy is how Blue Star Mothers rally to 
the side of their sister Gold Star Mothers. When a Blue Star turns to 
Gold our entire nation mourns. But for the Blue Star Mothers that 
tragedy is their call to arms. An old Spanish proverb holds that ''An 
ounce of mother is worth a pound of clergy.'' Certainly it is a fellow 
mother who is best qualified to offer comfort when a child has been 
lost in service to our nation. For over sixty seven years, the Blue 
Star Mothers have been there for their children, one another, their 
Gold Star sisters, and our nation.

As the Blue Star Mothers of America gather in Grand Junction, 
Colorado for their National Convention under the leadership of 
President Wendy Hoffman, I request that all Americans


acknowledge the maternal love, patriotism, and courage that distinguish 
that remarkable organization. Our entire nation has reason to be 
grateful for their service.
