# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `57d3229dbd8d5336ca31315c4c382022`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 16 May 2007`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. Madam Speaker, the Democrat leadership has 
blocked several important amendments on this bill, and I will oppose 
this rule. But there is one that they block that makes absolutely no 
sense, and it really calls into question the priorities of the majority 
on the Rules Committee.

There are 2 million women in this country's history who have served 
in uniform. All of them have been volunteers, and I was one of them. I 
am the only woman veteran serving in the United States Congress.

One in seven Americans serving in Iraq or Afghanistan are women, and 
the challenges that they face when they come home are often different 
than their male counterparts, particularly when accessing health care 
from both DOD facilities and VA facilities. Many women veterans don't 
even call themselves veterans and don't know that they are eligible for 
care, and care is not always available that is appropriate for women in 
the VA system.

I offered an amendment that was noncontroversial, and it wasn't even 
particularly aggressive. All it said was that we should have a 
bipartisan commission to make some recommendations to us to get a group 
of people together, including women veterans, to make recommendations 
to this House on how we can make this system better for women veterans 
so they can get the health care that they need, and all of us have seen 
the problems that women veterans are facing.

The amendment wasn't made in order.

Now, I know, like everyone else, that time on the floor is limited, 
and we can't do everything. But I would note that an amendment was made 
in order for a study in Ms. Slaughter's district, the chairwoman of the 
Rules Committee, for a plan for Niagara Air Reserve Base in her 
district. So we have got time on the floor to have an amendment for a 
study for Ms. Slaughter, but 2 million women veterans don't count as 
much.

So I would ask my colleague here from Florida, who is here defending 
the decision of the Rules Committee, why did you, in your committee, 
think it was more important to allow an amendment for a study of 
Niagara Air Reserve Base in Ms. Slaughter's district and to turn your 
back on 2 million women veterans?

I yield 30 seconds to get an answer from the Rules Committee. Why is 
the Niagara Air Reserve Base study more important than helping 2 
million women veterans get their health care? You didn't rule my 
amendment in order. What's your excuse?