# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `57e7cd472325037e3ed5aec434439aef`
`Mr. CARDIN — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, the spending bill we consider today 
contains many provisions that address urgent needs facing our Nation's 
economy, our Nation's families, and our Nation's troops.

Among the most important, this legislation extends unemployment 
insurance benefits at a time where too many Americans are struggling to 
find jobs, it postpones six Medicaid regulations that would have 
impeded access to health care for those who need it most, and it 
provides veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with a new level 
of educational benefits that will cover the full costs of an education 
at a State institution.

We have an obligation to respond to the growing economic crisis and 
the needs it has created for American families. People are losing their 
homes and their jobs, and along with those jobs, their health care. 
Since March 2007, the number of unemployed has increased by 1.1 million 
workers. We learned a few weeks ago that the unemployment rate in our 
country shot up by a half a point, from approximately 5 to 5.5 percent. 
The Baltimore Sun reported last week that the Goodwill Industries of 
the Chesapeake's Baltimore center has seen an estimated 50 percent 
increase in clients seeking job placement assistance.

This bill includes provisions that respond to these growing needs. It 
extends unemployment benefits by 13 weeks for all the Nation's workers. 
Extending unemployment insurance this way helps families. That is 
critically important. But it will also help our economy. Economists 
estimate that every dollar spent on benefits leads to $1.64 in economic 
growth. With this extension, we will provide critical stimulus to our 
slowing economy.

The bill also extends a freeze on six Medicaid rules issued by the 
administration that would have put a tremendous burden on State and 
local budgets already under pressure and affected access to services 
for many Marylanders and Americans all around the country.



I want to talk about the impact of just two of those rules: one that 
would eliminate Medicaid coverage of transportation services required 
by students with special needs and the second that would change 
benefits for case management services that help some of our most 
vulnerable individuals access needed medical, social, and educational 
services. In addition to impeding access to care, these two rules alone 
would have cost Maryland $67 million in their first year. I was a proud 
cosponsor of S. 2819 that would have prohibited the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services from implementing these rules and am glad to see 
that a moratorium on these rules will become law.

I am especially pleased to support provisions that provide veterans 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with a new level of educational 
benefits that will cover the full costs of an education at a State 
institution. Some of my colleagues have argued that the benefit is too 
generous. But this country provided our troops a similar opportunity 
after World War II. That investment created a generation of great 
leaders and an economic boom that transformed our country.

A new GI bill allows a new generation of brave men and women to 
fulfill their dreams and adjust to civilian life. Just today a young 
man came into my office, a Maryland National Guardsman, who had served 
two tours of duty in Iraq. While overseas on his second tour, he missed 
the birth of his first child. Now that he is home, he wants to pursue 
an education. Although interested in a program at my State's flagship 
institution, the University of Maryland at College Park, the tuition 
was beyond his means and he enrolled in a community college instead 
where he will shortly complete his associate's degree program. He came 
into my office to explain his situation and ask whether there was any 
way we could help him continue his education at a 4-year institution.

That is an opportunity we owe the service men and women, including 
activated reservists and National Guard, who this administration has 
asked to serve extended and repeated combat tours. I am so proud that 
we will live up to that obligation today. But a new GI bill is also a 
wise investment; it allows our economy to fully benefit from these 
veterans' talent, leadership, and experience.

There are other critical provisions in this bill. It provides funding 
to address the devastating Midwest flooding and other natural 
disasters. It addresses critical quality of life and medical care 
issues for our troops including funding to improve barracks, build VA 
hospitals and polytrauma centers, and create new military child care 
centers. It provides the funding we need to implement the 2005 BRAC 
recommendations.

The bill makes critical investments to improve our competitiveness by 
funding research and other programs at the National Institutes of 
Health, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, and the Department of Energy. At a time we are 
all avoiding tomatoes, this bill makes a major investment in food 
safety by providing additional resources to the Food and Drug 
Administration.

I want to commend my colleagues who refused to give up on these 
priorities even in the face of initial opposition and a veto threat 
from our President. I am encouraged that we may have a chance in the 
near future to act on other domestic priorities including increased 
energy assistance to low-income Americans facing skyrocketing fuel 
prices and commercial fishery disaster assistance that could help 
Maryland's watermen.

Former President John F. Kennedy said, ''To govern is to choose.'' In 
this bill, this Congress is choosing to prioritize those issues that 
affect Americans' lives every day, our access to jobs, to health care, 
to education, to safe food. I am proud to offer this bill my support.











national synchrotron light source II
