---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `57efd05ce11aad563f52f9b46b3f72ee`
`Mr. BARROW — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. BARROW. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, since taking a seat in this body over 2 years ago, I 
have supported our President's efforts in the war on terror at every 
turn. I have been to Iraq. I have visited those wounded there, and I 
have spoken with family members who have sacrificed more for their 
country than most people could stand.

I have carefully considered the President's plan. I have listened to 
his reasons, and I have tried to understand them. But the inescapable 
conclusion


is this. While there are differences between the President's new 
strategy and his prior conduct of the war, the similarities still 
outweigh the differences. The President's new plan is not a new 
strategy. Instead, it represents more of the same strategy that has 
gotten us to where we are today. If we are going to defeat terrorism in 
Iraq, we simply cannot afford to keep doing more of the same.

Congress cannot manage a war, and it should not try. Instead, 
Congress' job is to demand accountability from those charged with the 
conduct of the war effort, and so far Congress has failed to do that 
job.

This resolution, however imperfect, is intended to bring about some 
accountability on the part of those charged with the conduct of the war 
effort, and it says of the President's plan, thou art weighed in the 
balance and found wanting.

The President's plan is found wanting because he doesn't explain how 
this escalation in the number of American troops can make any 
difference in a war plan that depends on redeploying so many more Iraqi 
troops. We have been given no credible explanation as to why 21,000 
more American troops can accomplish what the 130,000 already on the 
ground cannot accomplish.

The President's plan is found wanting because it calls for completely 
new rules of engagement.



The President's plan is found wanting because it calls for new rules 
of engagement, with no explanation as to why such rules of engagement 
were not allowed in the past when they would have done the most good.

The question before us is not whether the President's new plan 
represents a better chance of success in Iraq. The real question is 
whether the chances for success it represents is a good enough chance 
to be worth the sacrifices that our soldiers will have to make to 
implement it.

A 1 percent increase in the chances of success may be better than no 
increase, but our troops deserve a better plan that that. Mr. Speaker, 
I do not believe that this plan represents the change in strategy that 
we need in Iraq, nor does it offer a good enough chance for success to 
be worth the sacrifices that it will cost. And that is why I will 
support the resolution.