---
---

# None
## `5813886449ac1718f846915ba37a70c9`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 6 November 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, thank you to Chairman Obey and Ranking 
Member Walsh and their staffs for their hard work in crafting this 
bill.

This conference report goes a long way towards addressing the current 
and future needs of millions of Americans and their families.

It provides relief for families that desperately need child care and 
afterschool programs; for teachers anxious to receive classroom 
training or professional development; for students who won't be able to 
attend college without an increase in the maximum Pell Grant; and for 
the elderly who depend on LIHEAP to help pay for the rising cost of 
home heating oil.


What some of my friends on the other side of the aisle who intend to 
vote against this conference report don't seem to understand is that 
the programs funded in this bill literally make a life-or-death 
difference in the lives of millions of American families who are 
struggling to make ends meet.

We find a way to pay $12 billion every month for the war in Iraq, yet 
some of you will fight tooth and nail against the additional $9.8 
billion in this bill that will help 436,000 more disadvantaged children 
receive math and reading assistance; or 130,000 more children receive 
afterschool care; or support 600 additional research grants at NIH; or 
provide 1.2 million uninsured Americans access to healthcare at 
community health centers.

It is outrageous, and it is unconscionable.

Chairman Obey should be commended for what he accomplished in this 
bill, and I urge every member in this body to support the conference 
report.