---
---

# None
## `58195d135b8025a9dd8fd97e70a5380b`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I find it interesting that the previous 
speaker didn't talk about the Wall Street regulatory reform bill that 
my friends on the Republican side of the aisle have been trying to 
block.

The minority leader in a recent interview said that the bill that we 
are bringing forth in Congress, this is killing an ant with a nuclear 
weapon. I find it disturbing that anyone would characterize this 
financial crisis that was brought on by Wall Street as an ant. I mean 
it impacted millions and millions of our citizens.

I will ask to put this interview that appeared in the Pittsburgh 
Tribune-Review in the Record.

In that same interview, and I think it's important for my colleagues 
to know, the minority leader talked about his belief that we should 
raise the retirement age for Social Security to 70. Clearly, we need to 
talk about how we keep Social Security solvent. But he then went 
further to say that we should take that money and not put it into 
Social Security but pay for the war. So our senior citizens should pay 
for this war, the rest of us don't, but the burden once again falls on 
our senior citizens.

We know what they're about. We know what their beliefs are. And given 
an opportunity to take back control of the House, we know that they 
will try to undo Wall Street regulatory reform and try to undercut 
Social Security.

Mr. Speaker, I would appreciate it if I were not interrupted while I 
am speaking. And we know what they believe. And it is in this interview 
which we will put in the Record.






[From the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, June 29, 2010]










 Obama's Good for GOP, Boehner Says









 (By Mike Wereschagin and Salena Zito)




 House Republican Leader John Boehner, the Ohio Republican 


 with his eye on Speaker Nancy Pelosi's gavel, said the tide 


 is turning the GOP's way.



 ''The American people have written off the Democrats,'' 


 Boehner said Monday in an interview with Tribune-Review 


 editors and reporters. ''They're willing to look at us 


 again.''



 Boehner stopped short of predicting Republicans would gain 


 the 39 seats they need to retake control of Congress, but he 


 said a backlash against President Obama's policies has 


 energized Republican voters more than Democrats. Boehner said 


 voters are angry at a government they believe is overreaching 


 and indifferent.



 University of Virginia political scientist Isaac Wood said 


 excitement among tea party protesters might not carry over to 


 the electorate as a whole.



 ''While the enthusiasm of tea party types may drive them to 


 the polls and boost Republicans, it does not yet seem that 


 huge waves of new voters will be flocking to the polls,'' 


 Wood said.



 Boehner said the protests are emblematic of deep voter 


 anger against Washington's leaders.



 ''They're snuffing out the America that I grew up in,'' 


 Boehner said. ''Right now, we've got more Americans engaged 


 in their government than at any time in our history. There's 


 a political rebellion brewing, and I don't think we've seen 


 anything like it since 1776.''



 The health care law passed in March ''pushed most Americans 


 over the edge,'' Boehner said.



 If Republicans retake control of the House, Boehner 


 promised a vote on a bill repealing the health care law and 


 replacing it with a scaled-down package of tax breaks and 


 court reforms. Democrats likely would maintain control of the 


 Senate, and Obama could veto the proposal, all but 


 eliminating its chances of succeeding.



 ''We are going to do everything we can to make sure that 


 this law and this program never really takes effect,'' 


 Boehner said. One option would be to repeal the $534 billion 


 in Medicare cuts, which pay for more than half of the law's 


 provisions. ''They're going to need money from the Congress 


 to hire these 20,000-plus bureaucrats they need to hire to 


 make this program work. They're not going to get one dime 


 from us.''



 Boehner criticized the financial regulatory overhaul 


 compromise reached last week between House and Senate 


 negotiators as an overreaction to the financial crisis that 


 triggered the recession. The bill would tighten restrictions 


 on lending, create a consumer protection agency with broad 


 oversight power and give the government an orderly way to 


 dissolve the largest financial institutions if they run out 


 of money.



 ''This is killing an ant with a nuclear weapon,'' Boehner 


 said. What's most needed is more transparency and better 


 enforcement by regulators, he said.



 Allan H. Meltzer, a political economy professor at Carnegie 


 Mellon University, said the financial bill ''does nothing to 


 restore integrity to the mortgage market by correcting Fannie 


 Mae and Freddie Mac, and the bill does not eliminate 'too big 


 to fail.' ''



 Boehner said Obama overreacted to the BP oil spill in the 


 Gulf of Mexico. The spill might warrant a ''pause'' in 


 deepwater drilling, but Obama's blanket ban on drilling in 


 the gulf--which a judge overturned last week--could devastate 


 the region's economy, he said. Louisiana State University 


 scientists estimate the ban could have affected more than 


 10,000 jobs.



 Boehner had praise, however, for Obama's troop surge in 


 Afghanistan and stepped-up drone attacks in Pakistan. He 


 declined to list any benchmarks he has for measuring progress 


 in the nine-year war, at a time of increasing violence and 


 Obama's replacement of Gen. Stanley McChrystal with Gen. 


 David Petraeus.



 Ensuring there's enough money to pay for the war will 


 require reforming the country's entitlement system, Boehner 


 said. He said he'd favor increasing the Social Security 


 retirement age to 70 for people who have at least 20 years 


 until retirement, tying cost-of-living increases to the 


 consumer price index rather than wage inflation and limiting 


 payments to those who need them.



 ''We need to look at the American people and explain to 


 them that we're broke,'' Boehner said. ''If you have 


 substantial non-Social Security income while you're retired, 


 why are we paying you at a time when we're broke? We just 


 need to be honest with people.''


At this point I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Castor).