---
---

# JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE AND TERRORISM ACT
## `58322b28dd024bf823b0fef120e55cb6`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5167, the 
''Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act.'' This bill was 
sponsored by Representative Braley of Iowa. The bill's purpose is to 
amend the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 to 
remove the authority of the President to waive certain provisions. I 
support this bill and I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

H.R. 5167, the Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act, 
responds to harms suffered by U.S. nationals under the Government of 
Iraq during the 1991 Gulf War and their efforts to hold Iraq, then a 
designated foreign state sponsor of terrorism, liable for their 
injuries. H.R. 5167 presents a new proposal to facilitate the 
settlement of these claims.

This bill is important and necessary. I was shocked when I found out 
that the President was going to veto the Defense Authorization bill on 
Christmas Eve. The President vetoed the $3.5 billion authorization 
package that would have provided resources for military members, their 
families, and veterans, because it contained a provision that would 
have allowed Operation Desert Storm Prisoners of


War, POW, to continue their case against the Hussein regime.

In 2002, 17 American ex-prisoners of war were brutally tortured in 
Iraq during the first Persian Gulf War sued Saddam Hussein's regime. 
The veterans eventually won a judgement against Hussein. But shortly 
after the invasion of Iraq, the Bush administration stepped in and had 
the judgement overturned.

According to a Dec. 28 report in Congressional Quarterly, President 
Bush issued his veto after lawyers for the Iraqi Government threatened 
to withdraw $25 billion worth of assets from U.S. banks if the 
provisions was allowed to become law. The American POWs were granted 
damages by a U.S. district court in July 2003. The court awarded $959 
million in compensatory and punitive damages to the 17 POWs--some of 
whom remain on active duty today and are serving in Iraq.

But earlier in 2003, after signing a bill that allowed Americans to 
collect court-ordered damages from the frozen assets of terrorist 
states--a list that included Iraq at that time--President Bush had 
confiscated what was then $1.7 billion in Iraqi assets held in private 
banks. He allowed the payment of two judgments including one for so-
called ''human shield'' hostages held in Iraq in 1990, but none for the 
Americans taken prisoner in the 1991 Gulf War.

The President chose to respect corporate interests over human 
interests and corporate rights over human rights. This is something 
that the American people have seen from this administration in the past 
in unrelated matters.

This bill, H.R. 5167, the ''the Justice for Victims of Torture and 
Terrorism Act'' restores a provision in the previously vetoed Defense 
bill that would allow American veterans and victims of torture to 
pursue legal claims against their torturers.

Simply put, American veterans tortured as prisoners of war do not 
deserve to be left behind by a presidential policy that keeps them from 
seeking justice. We need to hold countries accountable for torturing 
American troops so it never happens again. We need to get our 
priorities straight. Protecting American veterans and POWs should come 
before protecting a country's assets.

We must act today to correct this problem. I urge my colleagues to 
act with me, and support this bill. A strong bipartisan message of 
support needs to be displayed by this body to right the wrongs and send 
a message to the President that American soldiers deserve better. The 
message is clear: American soldiers deserve the right to bring 
torturers to justice. I invite my colleagues to stand with me today and 
support this important legislation.