---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5847d290d0a45e8ddf8781303318199a`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 63. 
Despite the brave efforts of our troops, the situation in Iraq 
continues to deteriorate. Our troops have gone above and beyond the 
call of duty. Unfortunately, they are caught in the middle of sectarian 
violence.

From the onset of the conflict, there has been mismanagement and 
mishandling from this administration. The administration was not 
prepared for the violence following the removal of Saddam Hussein.

In addition, the previous Congress did not do its job. The 110th 
Congress held the first oversight hearing since the invasion in 2003. 
That is 4 years without any congressional oversight.

I have heard so many speeches here saying that we support the troops. 
I think everyone, every single Member, supports the troops. Yet all 
those years that we were hearing from the families and from our 
soldiers themselves, saying they did not have the equipment, they did 
not have certainly the equipment to keep them safe, where were we? 
Where were we as Members in making sure that our military had the best 
equipment?

Since January, we have had 52 oversight hearings on Iraq. It turns 
out that nearly $12 billion from the American taxpayers have not been 
accounted for. That is $12 billion that could have been spent on our 
equipment to protect our troops. Our troops deserve better.

The President explained his new plan for Iraq last month. Again, I 
hear that we must stand by the President. Well, I was one that stood by 
the President. I voted with the President. I voted for every 
appropriation for the President, and now he is doing the same thing. It 
is not working. It has not worked. It is time for a new plan.

He called for an increase of 20,000 more troops in Iraq and, 
unfortunately, I am afraid that this is a little bit too late. We 
needed hundreds of thousands of troops in the beginning. That is when 
the generals asked for those troops and they were denied.



The truth of the matter is we did this war on the cheap. We did not 
do it right in the beginning, and now we are all paying the 
consequences.

Throughout the conflict our troop levels have changed. We have sent 
more troops in when our generals called for them. Then they were made 
smaller. To no fault of our troops, the extra numbers did not calm the 
situation. I do not believe that putting more of our brave men and 
women in harm's way is the solution to this conflict.

President Bush emphasized his intentions of placing more authority 
and responsibility on the Iraqi Government. Well, it is about time. We 
have spent a lot of money to train the police officers, to train their 
military, and yet they are not standing up for their own country.

Prime Minister Maliki has not proven that he can stop the violence 
that is going on in his country. That should not mean that our troops 
should be there. Our troops are trained for a war, not to settle 
political differences in that country. He has failed to bring equal 
representations of the Sunnis and the Shiites into the Iraqi 
Government. This shortfall has fueled sectarian violence, putting our 
troops in greater harm.

Poor planning by civilian leaders within the administration has 
placed our brave men and women in harm's way. Our troops have gone 
above and beyond the call of duty. They have served our country bravely 
and honorably, and we all know that. Many of these troops have served 
their full tours of duty in Iraq, and they have left behind family and 
friends to defend this great Nation.

More than 3,000 of our men and women have made the ultimate 
sacrifice, and not one of them, in my opinion, has died in vain because 
they were doing their duty. We sent them there, and they have lived up 
to that, and thousands more have suffered debilitating injuries.

It is time to shift the burden of this conflict to the Iraqis 
themselves. We have a responsibility in Congress to make sure that our 
troops are not put unnecessarily in harm's way.

President Bush has made his decisions without consulting enough 
experts and retired generals. Where was all the information that we 
needed years ago as far as bringing the experts, knowing what the 
culture was in the Middle East? That is something that we still are not 
addressing here.

Decisions have not been clearly thought out and our troops have paid 
the price. And after much thought, I have come to the conclusion that a 
phased redeployment of our troops is the best option.

No one is really talking about Afghanistan either. When we started, 
we were winning in Afghanistan. When we took those troops out of 
Afghanistan, we started seeing the insurgents coming in. We can put our 
troops along the borders. We can stop the insurgents coming into Iraq 
while the Iraqi Government tries to solve their own problems.



We can go back into Afghanistan and make sure that we shore up that 
country so more insurgents and military equipment are not coming from 
that country.

We must show the American people and our allies, by the way, who are 
leaving, they are not supporting us, it is not just Democrats and a lot 
of our Republican colleagues that feel that we should get out. Our 
strategy has been wrong, it is time to work together, and I am hoping 
after all these debates, when we come back from our break, we can 
actually go to our committees and come up with a way to solve these 
problems, not only for America, but before the world.