---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `58551b3c3de125be03594f9dcbfbf1a1`
`Mr. DODD — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I rise to speak about the fiscal year 2010 
National Defense authorization bill. Although I believe this to be a 
flawed piece of legislation, I will support it because it provides 
critical resources, training, and equipment to our troops serving 
overseas. It adds 30,000 soldiers to our Army, lightening the strain of 
rigorous deployment cycles. And it provides a 3.4-percent pay raise for 
our men and women in uniform--not enough, in my view, but welcomed 
nonetheless. It also authorizes various facility upgrades for our 
troops, including $9 million to begin construction of an Air Operations 
Command Center at Bradley International Airport in my State of 
Connecticut. I commend my colleagues from Michigan and Arizona for 
their hard work on this bill.

I would also like to take a moment to offer my strong support to the 
hate crimes prevention amendment. I am also proud to be an original 
cosponsor of the underlying legislation, the Mathew Sheppard Local Law 
Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, and I only wish that my 
dear friend, the late Senator Kennedy, could be here with us today to 
see this topic that was so important to him, finally be considered for 
final passage. This legislation is truly historic and is long overdue. 
Hate crimes sow discord and threaten entire communities. They are a 
particularly virulent form of violence, and that is why a broad 
consensus supports reacting to crimes motivated by bias with swift 
investigations and strong penalties. However, the special nature of 
hate crimes often makes those investigations particularly difficult, 
especially for small, local police departments. Passage of the bill 
before us will bring more criminals to justice by making it easier for 
the federal government to assist the investigations of more crimes. I 
am extremely proud to support this provision.

Despite my strong support for this important provision and many 
others in this bill, I also have to note some serious reservations I 
have with some portions of the bill. First, this bill effectively kills 
our Nation's most advanced tactical aircraft program, the F-22 Raptor, 
without any plans for replacing it. Furthermore, it fails to authorize 
funding for any additional C-17 cargo aircraft, though these planes are 
critical for transporting troops and equipment. Worse, the bill 
restricts the Air Force from retiring the aging C-5 cargo fleet, planes 
that are now some 40 years old. Over the President's objection, this 
bill forces the Pentagon to maintain aging aircraft, imposing an 
unnecessary burden on our taxpayers and an unacceptable risk on our 
troops.

I am also disappointed by the inclusion of $560 million for the 
continued development of the F-136 Joint Strike Fighter alternate 
engine. This is wasted money, pure and simple. We are already 
developing an engine that our military supports--one build by the 
skilled workers at Pratt & Whitney. The Pratt engine has now 
accumulated more than 140 hours of flight tests without failure. 
Developing a second engine wastes billions of taxpayer dollars, money 
that could be better spent on things our troops actually need.

So this is not a perfect bill. But there will be an opportunity to 
address these issues in the upcoming Defense appropriations bill, 
during whose consideration the critical priorities I have outlined 
attained bipartisan support. I am optimistic that we will soon be 
considering legislation that invest in strategic airlift platforms like 
the C-17, as well as other important military needs. And I remain 
optimistic that my colleagues share my commitment to our critical 
aerospace priorities. This bill includes $2.5 billion to build 125 
Blackhawk helicopters for the Army and Navy, aircraft that have proven 
invaluable in operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, $92 
million is authorized for a highly advanced wide area surveillance 
radar system, which will be built in Norwalk, CT, and which will prove 
critical for our forces' future ability to have precise and up-to-date 
intelligence of the battlefield. Similarly, $250 million is authorized 
to build new Pratt & Whitney engines for the Joint STARS radar aircraft 
that are widely used in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill also authorizes 
18 F/A-18 fighter aircraft and 30 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, which 
marks the beginning of a long production run of these sophisticated 
jets.

This is good news for our military and good news for our economy. 
According to the Department of Labor, ''The aerospace industry is a 
powerful force within the U.S. economy and one of the nation's most 
competitive industries in the global marketplace. It contributes over 
15 percent to our Gross Domestic Product and supports over 15 million 
high-quality American jobs.'' And, as I have stated before, my small 
State of Connecticut, which ranks 29th in the Nation in terms of total 
population, is 6th in aerospace employment. The workers at companies 
such as Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand, Sikorsky Aircraft, 
Goodrich, Norden Systems, Kaman, Aerogear, and hundreds of others work 
day in and day out to provide our troops with the highest quality 
equipment in the world. The billions of dollars of funding authorized 
in this bill is


proof of our military's appreciation for their hard work.

Just as important as protecting our troops from the skies is 
protecting them when they are at sea. That is why funding authorized in 
this bill for the Virginia class submarine program is so important. The 
bill includes $4 billion to procure one submarine next year and to 
prepare to begin building two submarines per year in 2011. This boost 
in production will better equip our Navy to deliver Special Forces such 
as the SEALs without detection, launch precision missiles on a moment's 
notice, and intercept enemy signals unseen and unaffected by weather. 
This bill also authorizes $495 million to design the Ohio class 
replacement submarine, our next generation ballistic missile submarine. 
This bill confirms that submarines have and will continue to stealthily 
protect our country for decades to come.

There is no higher priority than our national defense. And the brave 
men and women who serve us overseas must have the resources they need 
to do their jobs. I will support this legislation because it does that. 
But I look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen our 
approach to defense policy so that we can address some of the 
shortcomings of this bill as we consider further legislation in the 
weeks ahead.