# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `58743bcf14650248089514c94a14cb27`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, 9 years ago on this floor, 
Congressman Floyd Spence, the Republican Chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, had this to say about the bill withdrawing American forces 
from Bosnia: ''The time is long overdue for Congress to express its 
will on behalf of the American people.''

I couldn't say it better myself. In this place, the People's House, 
the will of the people must mean something. Elections must mean 
something. And if the 2006 election represented anything, it was that 
the American people were tired of the lack of oversight and 
accountability from this Congress, and they were tired of a war with 
growing numbers of casualties, and mounting costs with no end in sight. 
They asked for a new direction from this Congress, and The U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act, is the answer 
to their call.

There are many of us who feel uncomfortable giving this President 
another dime to spend to perpetuate this misguided and shortsighted 
strategy in Iraq. But I come here to support this legislation because 
for the first time since the start of this disastrous engagement, 
Congress is making sure that any further spending on this war comes 
with unprecedented support for our troops and veterans, and a real plan 
to redeploy our forces and resources to fights that we can still win.

This Administration has been wrong on just about everything about 
Iraq--there were no weapons of mass destruction, we were not welcome as 
liberators, the country has plunged into a civil war, and we have no 
exit strategy.

The days of issuing a blank check to this Administration with no 
questions asked are over. As we enter the fifth year of this war, 
people in Connecticut and across the country demand a change in our 
policy in Iraq. This bill is the change that they asked for.