---
---

# BRAC
## `58848f476840383c393d123da80172e0`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, I truly appreciate the response of the 
Senator from Texas. The reason I ask that is we are losing a $17.5 
million health and dental clinic and a $5.7 million child development 
center, which will make an enormous difference in the quality of life 
in regards to the soldiers coming back.

There is another project I want to mention, and the Senator has 
brought it up. We need a $27 million battle command training center. 
What is that all about? That is 4,000 people going through that center 
which is going to be improved, who are going immediately to Iraq to 
serve under General Petraeus to see if that mission can work, and they 
are following the doctrine General Petraeus laid down at Fort 
Leavenworth, KS, which is the intellectual center of the Army. This 
center is necessary for training command, control, and communications 
functions that are critical to the training of the brigade and division 
staff. If you don't want to have them go to Iraq, rest assured they 
need the training to basically have them prepared for any kind of 
national security threat in the future.

Another Kansas project in jeopardy of losing funding that is of deep 
concern to me and should be of deep concern to the Army is the joint 
regional correctional facility at Fort Leavenworth. This is a little 
different. I don't know if the Senator has something like this, but I 
would ask the Senator a question. We need to build a joint regional 
correctional facility to house prisoners from around the Nation who are 
moved to Kansas. Currently, the Army is stretched to its limit. It 
needs these new beds for prisoners, and as the general told me, there 
is no place to put them.

The Acting Commanding General at Fort Leavenworth, BG Mark O'Neill, 
told me yesterday, add to the equation that the facility is underfunded 
at $68 million--they need $95 million at a bare minimum. What do we do 
with the prisoners? That is $27 million more than was even budgeted.

So the House is saying they will receive zip, nada, zero. Now, that 
is a correctional facility. I know it doesn't compare to the readiness 
problem, but with more prisoners and no place to put them, what are we 
going to do? That is a real problem.

I want to give you some good news, and I am going to ask the Senator 
if she has a similar situation in Texas. Kansas leaders share my 
concern. Last night, our Governor Sebelius's Military Council passed a 
unanimous resolution supporting our efforts to bring this amendment 
before the Senate.

I ask unanimous consent the letter of support be printed in the 
Record at this point.