# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `58870ddb8d7c737d1aae9e347e3144f1`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3222, 
the Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008. I would like to 
thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Chairman Murtha, and the 
gentleman from Florida, Ranking Member Young, for their efforts to 
craft a strong bipartisan bill and for their tireless dedication to our 
national security and to the men and women in uniform who protect us.

Ensuring a strong national defense is one of Congress's greatest 
responsibilities, and at no time is that more evident when our 
servicemembers are overseas in harm's way. While the members of this 
body may disagree about our next steps in Iraq, we all agree that we 
must support the soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and civilians who 
are serving their country and facing some challenging missions. 
Further, we agree that we must have a military that can protect our 
Nation against current threats and respond to emerging challenges we 
may face in the future. As a member of the Intelligence Committee and a 
former member of the House Armed Services Committee, I believe we need 
a flexible and an adaptive


military--one whose efforts are coordinated with other assets of 
national power such as diplomacy, foreign assistance and international 
cooperation--to achieve our national security goals.

Congress recognizes that our Nation is only as strong as those who 
defend us, and the bill before us makes important steps to enhance the 
health and well-being of those serving our Nation. It provides a 3.5 
percent pay increase for our men and women in uniform, an increase over 
the President's recommendation of 3.0 percent. It continues our efforts 
to increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps in order to reduce 
the strain on our military caused by repeated troop deployments. In 
order to treat those currently in our military health system and to 
meet the needs of those returning from combat, it includes $23 billion 
for defense health programs, $416 million more than the President 
requested. It also postpones the President's recommended cost share 
increases for Tricare beneficiaries, a proposal that would have caused 
hardship to our military families and retirees.

H.R. 3222 also makes significant increases to vital non-proliferation 
programs. For years, the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction 
program has allowed the U.S. to work with Russia and other nations in 
the former Soviet Union to dismantle their nuclear, chemical and 
biological weapons. As the chairman of the Homeland Security 
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity and Science and 
Technology, I know that one of the most important safeguards to 
preventing an attack using a weapon of mass destruction in the U.S. is 
to secure dangerous materials at their source to prevent them from 
getting into the hands of terrorists. To this end, the Defense 
appropriations bill includes $398 million for Cooperative Threat 
Reduction--$26 million more than the current level and $50 million more 
than the President's request.

Finally, H.R. 3222 invests in systems and technology to protect 
against current and future threats. I am extremely pleased that the 
measure includes an additional $588 million for advance procurement of 
materials that could lead to the construction of a second Virginia-
class submarine as early as next year. Our Navy has estimated that we 
need 48 attack submarines to meet the needs of our military commanders. 
Yet, under the Navy's current 30-year shipbuilding plan, they do not 
expect to increase production to two subs per year until 2012, causing 
a perilous decline in our future sub fleet--dropping below 48 ships in 
FY2020-33 and hitting a low of 40 in FY2028 and FY2029. I have long 
advocated increasing our build rate of Virginia-class submarines to two 
per year so that we have sufficient capabilities to address emerging 
threats. However, the Navy has repeatedly delayed its two per year 
target date, causing instability in the industrial base. In FY2004, the 
Navy expected to build two subs per year in FY2007. By FY2005, the 
target had moved to FY2009. That date was pushed back again and again, 
and now stands at FY2012. Meanwhile, our defense industrial base in 
Southeastern New England has suffered layoffs of submarine designers 
and engineers, whose specialized skills would be very difficult to 
reconstitute if lost. Without immediate action, we risk shrinking our 
sub fleet to perilously low levels, precisely when nations such as 
China are expanding and modernizing their navies. After visits to Rhode 
Island and Connecticut earlier this year, Chairman Murtha stated that 
building more submarines would be a priority, and this legislation 
demonstrates his commitment to fixing this dangerous problem. On behalf 
of the submarine industrial base in Rhode Island, I thank him and 
Ranking Member Young for their leadership on this important national 
security issue.

I am pleased that one of our final actions before departing for the 
August work period will be passing this important legislation, which 
demonstrates Congress's commitment to national security and deserves 
the support of all in this chamber.