# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `588be2096d417e7d3a1d0811df4de3a7`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, it is with great sorrow that I rise 
today to honor a fallen soldier. SGT LeRoy Webster, a 28-year-old 
soldier from Hartley, Iowa, was fatally shot while on patrol on April 
25, 2009 in Kirkuk, Iraq. LeRoy was serving with the B Battery, 3rd 
Battalion, 82nd Field Artillery Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, out of 
Fort Hood, TX. My prayers and condolences go out to his wife Jessica, 
daughters Natasha, Kaydence, and Jadyn, and his parents Donald and 
Crystal Webster.

LeRoy was deployed to Iraq in January. He had previously served in 
Afghanistan in 2004 and 2005 and in Baghdad, Iraq from October 2006 to 
January 2008.

An Iowa native, LeRoy was born in Spencer, IA, and graduated from 
Hartley-Melvin-Sanborn High School in 1999. His family has deep roots 
in Hartley, the community where LeRoy grew up and met his wife, who was 
his high school sweetheart.

LeRoy Webster was a decorated soldier, having earned numerous 
military awards, and he is remembered by friends as dedicated, good-
natured, and an excellent father. His family said he was ''proud to 
serve in the United States Army.'' LeRoy's sacrifice deserves the 
gratitude of the entire nation and is a reminder of the high cost of 
freedom. I express my deepest respect and admiration for this American 
hero.

(At the request of Mr. REID, the following statement was ordered to 
be printed in the Record.)
