# NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `588fef98337a265cb408512f70b043a2`
`Mr. BAIRD — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. I thank the gentleman from California. Just a couple of 
brief comments, and it's getting late, so we don't want to carry this 
forever.

I would suggest that we all agree that consistency is a very 
dangerous thing. If the gentleman talks about being consistent, I would 
ask the gentleman why they chose not to micromanage the vast 
expenditures of dollars, not even to have oversight hearings of the 
vast expenditure of dollars on the war.

If you really want to save the taxpayer dollars, we are burning $2.5 
billion a week in Iraq. This entire bill is $21 billion over 3 years. 
We're talking about 3 full years to fund the basic scientific research 
of this entire Nation, from mathematics to physics to chemistry to 
social sciences. That's about 6 or 7 weeks or so of what you spend in 
Iraq. And yet when it came to oversight of the expenditures in Iraq, 
the majority, then-majority party was then just virtually silent. If 
you really want to save the taxpayers' money, and I do, you could have 
looked at that.

But let me suggest what the gentleman from New Jersey misrepresents. 
And I asked earlier if any folks on the other side were qualified to 
study this. The gentleman from New Jersey just doesn't seem to 
understand how this legislation works. He completely misrepresented 
when he said that it is incumbent upon the majority and the chairman 
who is bringing this forward to defend these studies. Sir, this bill 
does not authorize specific studies. That is not how the authorizing 
language for the National Science Foundation works. It would be 
ludicrous, and you should know that; and if you don't know it, you are 
not qualified to speak to this. But it would be ludicrous to suggest 
that when you authorize a foundation, that you are authorizing every 
single specific study or that you know what all those specific studies 
are. That's not how the National Science Foundation works. That's not 
how we authorize it. That's not how this bill functions. And it's 
indeed not how many, many of the authorizing bills function here. So to 
suggest that, to bring forward a broad authorization bill that gives 
responsibility to a foundation, one has to justify every single study 
is to misrepresent how this legislation works. And that's the problem. 
I think the gentleman either misunderstands or misrepresents how the 
legislation works.

I thank the gentleman from California for yielding.