# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `589ff1d8eec7079bafd73ce5d4a40f34`
`Mr. POLIS — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. POLIS. I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts for yielding.

I rise today in support of the rule and in support of the Lee 
amendment to responsibly end the war in Afghanistan. There is a real 
terrorist threat to our country, but that threat does not emanate from 
Afghanistan. It emanates from al Qaeda, a stateless menace, a menace 
that will organize and set up wherever we are not.

The ongoing and indefinite occupation in Afghanistan is not a 
constructive step towards the battle against a terrorist threat to this 
country. In fact, through the civilian casualties, we only increase the 
pool of potential terrorists every day that we continue this 
occupation.

I strongly support this concept of allowing our funds only to be used 
for the orderly withdrawal of American troops from the country of 
Afghanistan.

The mission, the challenge we have put before our men and women, is 
nearly a difficult and impossible challenge: To try to build a cohesive 
nation state out of a tribal nation, out of dealing with people in our 
own employ who are of dubious moral character and continue to engage in 
the opium and drug trade to finance their related activities.

There is a difference between the ongoing battles and insurgency in 
Afghanistan and the terrorist threat to this Nation. We should spare no 
expense in going after terrorists wherever they are, engaging in 
aggressive intelligence-gathering operations and taking out the ability 
of terrorists to train. But the ongoing occupation of Afghanistan is 
not a constructive step to that end.