# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `58aaa82069d3b01b93fe2f950628828d`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. I was listening to my friend from Texas's analogy 
about the sporting events, since that is on everybody's mind right now. 
I was thinking about two things. One, the proposal that is being put 
before this Congress, possibly this week, is to say, you know what, 
let's let the fans do the coaching. We hired us a head coach, but you 
know what, we have decided the fans know more about how to win this 
basketball championship, and so we are going to let the fans do that.

But the most compelling thing that I heard, and I want to talk a 
little bit about this trip, and the gentlemen both know, I just 
returned 10 days ago from being in Iraq for the third time. I was in 
Fallujah, was in Ramadi, and talked to General Petraeus, a four-star 
general who we have tasked to finish and win the war in Iraq, all of 
the way down to the privates. And one of the privates said to me, 
Congressman, it is like this. In sporting events, we have home games 
and we have away games. We lost one of our home games; let's win this 
away game.

He was referring to the attack on 
9/11. That wasn't the first attack on home soil. So we have lost a 
couple of home games, we want to win the away games.

Also, the gentleman from Texas is exactly right. What we saw in 
Fallujah and Ramadi is that the sheiks are not only telling us where 
the bad guys are, but in one case, one of the sheiks from his 
particular tribe sent 400 or 500 of his young people from his tribe to 
enlist in the police force in the Iraqi Army, saying not only do we 
want to tell you where they are, but we want to help you take these 
people out of our neighborhoods.

I believe one of the turning points that is going on in Iraq today is 
the fact that the Iraqi people are tired of what these terrorists are 
doing to their own country. They are tired of the killing. And I notice 
the gentleman has a picture of a street scene. I know what that father 
and mother are thinking: Will my children ever be safe to walk the 
streets of the neighborhood they were raised in?

The good news is the answer to that is going to be yes.

Now, is it still dangerous over there? Absolutely. But we are at war. 
I think some people are under the misconception that one day we are 
going to wake up and we are going to have some utopic situation in 
Iraq. The Israeli people have been waiting for that utopic situation 
for many, many years. There is still going to be violence.

We have violence in our own country. We have violence in our own 
cities. But one of the things I felt was most compelling when I was 
over there, and I was visiting with all of the way from General 
Petraeus down to privates to boots on the ground, and each one of our 
stops in Fallujah, in Ramadi, in Baghdad, we had lunch or dinner with 
the troops. Those are the people that really will tell you how things 
are going.

What they said is what the gentlemen both have been saying: Things 
are getting better. We are able to go into these neighborhoods, and we 
have a different tactic. We used to have a post and we would go in with 
a convoy and we would tour that area, and at the end of the day we 
would go back out. Now we are putting security posts inside the 
communities. I call it kind of like community policing. Now we have a 
presence there.

And one of the things that people don't realize, for example, in 
Baghdad, that presence looks like this. There are three Iraqi security 
force officers, whether they be police or army, to every one American. 
So what is happening, those people are coming up to those people that 
are in their neighborhood and saying, Down the block two ways is a bad 
person. And you know what? On a number of occasions we have gone down 
to where the people say they were, and not only did we find some high-
value targets, we also found huge caches of weapons and IED-making 
things.



So now I think the hearts of the Iraqi people are in this. I know 
that the hearts of our troops were because, as I shared with the 
conference, I believe, 2 weeks ago, those soldiers looked me right in 
the eye, and they said, Congressman, nobody has more invested in this 
war than we do.

One young man, this is his third tour. He said, sir, I have been in 
harm's way


three times for this country and for my country, and he said, nobody 
has more invested than I do. He said, Congressman, please go back and 
tell your colleagues, let us finish this job. This is a fight we can 
win.

And anybody that voted to send those troops over there just to go 
over there and play Army for a while and then come home with defeat 
made the wrong vote. When we send our young men and women in harm's 
way, we need to be sending them to win, not to place. We need to win 
those away games so that we do not have to fight any more home games.

I also shared with the conference, I believe, this week the story 
about a gentleman that joined me in the State of the Union for this 
year. His name is Roy Vallez, and Roy was sitting right back over here 
in this corner in a seat that my wife gave her ticket to Roy, and why 
Roy is so special is Roy has the distinction, unfortunately, of being 
the only father in America that has lost two sons in Iraq.

While Roy was here, he was going around telling everybody about how 
important it is for us to finish this war so that his sacrifice, his 
extreme sacrifice, that he made and his sons made was not all for 
naught. He had an opportunity to talk to the President of the United 
States who called him on his cell phone, and he and the President had a 
wonderful conversation. That is the message he said to the President. 
Now, if there is anybody that has a right to question whether we ought 
to pull out right now or quit or come home, I believe Roy Vallez 
probably gets a place at the top of the list.