---
---

# None
## `58b1b6212821261873c538d785e97f84`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Chairman, the amendment which I am offering with my good friends 
from Washington and New York simply shifts $50 million from military 
aid for Pakistan to the Emergency Refugee and Mitigation Assistance 
Account. It would leave $250 million in Pakistani military aid, the 
same level that appeared in the chairwoman's original mark.

In many areas of Federal spending, Congress has to make tough choices 
amongst important competing priorities. However, the choice between 
more military aid for Pakistan and assistance for refugees should be an 
easy one.

Anybody who has witnessed the news in recent weeks understands the 
military dictatorship in Pakistan has had serious problems in terms of 
its treatment of civil society. It is one of the worst nuclear 
proliferators, which could not occur without the knowledge of the 
Pakistani government. Yet it has been the third-largest recipient of 
military aid from the United States since 9/11, receiving $10 billion 
over the last 6 years.

Despite all that, Pakistan continues to allow the Taliban to operate 
in many parts of Pakistan and launch attacks against U.S. troops in 
Afghanistan. In fact, according to CQ Weekly, a U.S. Army officer 
stationed in Pakistan recently recalled watching a 2-mile-long line of 
Taliban fighters and suicide bombers walk across the border into 
Afghanistan unchallenged by Pakistani security forces.

Pakistan even has a ''peace agreement'' with the Taliban and other 
terrorists in one province along the Afghan border and agreed to slash 
military patrols in areas with a substantial al Qaeda presence.

At the same time, Pakistan's military dictator, General Musharraf, 
has dismissed the chief justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan and 
attempted to introduce restrictions on its television media.

Forty pro-democracy protesters recently killed by security forces; 
and, since 2001, over 1,000 people have disappeared.

On the other hand, Iraq is the fastest-growing refugee crisis in the 
world. There have been 4 million innocent Iraqis who have been driven 
from their homes by violence and threats, including tens of thousands 
who are at risk because they helped the United States.

This humanitarian crisis is rapidly becoming a regional security 
crisis, as Jordan and Syria are at risk of being destabilized by the 
millions of Iraqis they have taken in, 2 million Iraqis in Jordan and 
Syria.

Despite this, efforts to provide assistance in the region are 
dramatically underfunded. The United States has admitted only 70 
refugees since October, only one in April and one in May. It is not 
getting better. It is getting worse. I think this is a blot on Congress 
as well as the administration, turning its back on these refugees.

Adding $50 million in Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance will 
allow assistance to reach more displaced Iraqis and help mitigate the 
impacts of the refugee crisis on other countries in the Middle East. 
This amendment offered by Mr. McDermott, Mr. Crowley and myself has the 
support of the United States Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, 
Refugees International, the U.S.-India PAC, the U.S.-India Business 
Alliance and others who are deeply concerned about this humanitarian 
crisis.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
















 Point of Order
