# JOSHUA OMVIG SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `58bd68ad894e0b51a735a9afaf0109f4`
`Mr. HARKIN — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I thank my leader for joining with me on 
this issue. I respond to him, I just said--I don't know if the leader 
was on the floor at the time--that suicide rates for Iraq veterans--
Iraq veterans--is 35 percent higher than the general population. The 
Department of Defense has said their suicide rate in the Regular Army 
is at the highest rate in 28 years.

I say to the distinguished Senator from Nevada, this bill I am 
talking about was introduced in the House earlier this year. There were 
154 cosponsors on both sides of the aisle. This bill, the Joshua Omvig 
suicide prevention bill, passed the House in March 423 to 0--423 to 0. 
We can't get much better than that.

It came to the Senate. The Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee had 
three hearings on it and the House had two hearings, for a total of 
five hearings. Every veterans group, every veterans support group, 
disabled veterans, everyone came to testify on the need for this 
legislation.

We went through the committee process, had the hearings, and had all 
the testimony. Joshua's parents testified. We brought it out on the 
floor for a unanimous consent agreement before we left on the August 
break. It passed the House 423 to 0. Then I found there was an 
objection raised.

I started to nose around to find out who raised the objection. It was 
Senator Coburn from Oklahoma. I talked with the Senator from Oklahoma. 
He said, first of all, he was upset that there were not any hearings. 
He told me that right out in the back of the lobby. I said: Senator, we 
had hearings. We had three in the Senate, two in the House. Well, he 
had to go check on it.

Then he raised other objections and came on the floor this morning to 
say why he has objections. Now I am going to respond to those 
objections in kind to let the Senator know his objections are 
unfathomable.


So here we are faced with a dire situation among our veterans, with 
the highest suicide rates ever, and we are trying to pass legislation 
to direct the Department of Veterans Affairs to do certain things to 
set up processes and procedures so that our veterans will have the kind 
of counseling and the kind of medical intervention so they do not 
commit suicide, and yet we have one objection raised.