---
---

# TRIBUTE TO GUNNERY SERGEANT ANGEL BARCENAS, U.S. MARINE CORPS
## `58e44e87efacd809da21f06cce52c328`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam Speaker, the poem below was written by poet and 
Capitol guide Albert Carey Caswell in honor of Gunnery Sergeant Angel 
Barcenas from Paramount, California. Gunnery Sgt. Barcenas admirably 
served our great nation on Marine One during the Clinton and Bush 
Administrations. In July 2006, he was wounded by an improvised 
explosive device in Iraq and had both of his legs amputated below the 
knee. He started walking again 3 months after his attack, crediting the 
professionals at Walter Reed for his quick recovery. In May 2007, 
fighting all odds, he led a two-mile motivational run through lower 
Manhattan with the Marine Corps, and New York firefighters and police. 
Gunnery Sgt. Barcenas is an American hero whose unwavering sense of 
duty and dedication should be an example for all Americans. I proudly 
submit the following into the Record.
















 Marine One



 Marine One,


 America's Son, . . . A Most Heroic One!


 Who so bravely marched off to war, . . . to do what had to be 





 done!


 Terminating Evil . . . as have all of our fine heroes, long 





 as time begun!



 Lock and Load,


 A True American Hero, Who So Lives By A Code . . .


 A Marine's, Marine . . . a presence, a force upon the scene . 





 . . who'll make hearts explode . . .


 So Very Bold!


From That Great Golden State,


 As A Hero's Hero . . . our Lord God, would so create!


 Strength In Honor, In awe at what we saw . . . as we so watch 





 you rebuild, with but your new gait!


 I've got a life to live, for this Angel . . . Heaven can 





 wait!



 Serving, Two Presidents . . .


 Aboard Marine One, as has been your most honored residence . 





 . .


 Bringing home a Hero, who gave his fine legs . . . as you too 





 would live that same page . . .


 And still your courage weights, and has been getting greater 





 by the day!



 Building, from where none lies left . . .


 Rising up from the ashes, for no one will take your dreams . 





 . . for you are, America's Best!


 As into a future, this our world . . . as an Earth Angel, you 





 shall bless . . .


 On the ready, my fine son . . . you never rest!



 As An Angel, here on earth . . . until, on the scene as an 





 Angel in The Angel of Our Lord you burst!


 Teaching us all, about your fine character and courage first 





 . . . and of a human being's true fine worth!


 Our True Fine Sum, Thy Kingdom Will Come . . . Someday, when 





 you leave this earth.


 Someday, you shall shine . . . in our Lord's Sun!



 Until then! Standing Guard, Standing Strong, Standing Hard . 





 . . for That's Who You Are!


 That's What You Do . . . So Tried And True . . . As Angel, 





 Your Heart Takes Your Far!


 Walking like Travolta, no walks like you! Running fast and 





 far . . . A Force, A Shining Star



 On the road of life, where it all begins and ends . . .


 Is the Greatest of all forces, which so burns bright until 





 times end . . . is but, The Heart Which sends . . .


 As Angel, yours so emanates . . . from deep down within, your 





 soul is one of greatness . . . my fine friend!


 For you are my Son, A Marine's Marine . . . You Are . . . 





 Marine One!
