---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `58f9eac7073c2d45fa1bf6b59e266384`
`Mr. BIDEN — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, we are about to vote on a bunch of 
amendments. The two amendments on the Democratic side, one having been 
withdrawn, are designed to do one thing that is straight forward: 
Instead of focusing our military on the much more--on being engaged in 
this civil war, they are intended to focus on a limited mission, a much 
more limited mission that is in our national interest that we can 
achieve with far fewer troops: Combatting al-Qaida and like-minded 
terrorist groups and continuing to train Iraqi troops.

I am not crazy about the language in the Feingold amendment. But I am 
crazy about the fact that we have got to keep the pressure on. The fact 
is, with every passing day, the situation in Iraq gets worse, and the 
President refuses to change course, continuing to dig us deeper and 
deeper and deeper in a hole.

The most important thing we can do, and I compliment the Democratic 
leaders for this, is keep pressure, keep pressure on the President. 
Now, why pressure on the President? Quite frankly, he is not going to 
change. The only way, with all due respect to my Republican friends, is 
to put pressure on them so they start voting for the troops and not for 
the President.

The fact is, as a number of my colleagues have mentioned in the news 
on the Republican side--I will not name any of them--they basically 
told the President: Mr. President, you have got until September. Well, 
between now and September, a lot more people are going to die in the 
midst of a civil war that don't have to die in the midst of a civil war 
if we change the mission.

So this is all about keeping pressure. So every single day the public 
picks up the paper and sees that we are trying to change the 
President's course of action in Iraq. In turn, hopefully, they will 
speak to their Democratic and Republican Senators and Representatives 
and say: Make him change.

Because until we get 67 votes, we are not going to be able to change 
his God-awful war. This war is a disaster. So what my friend, Senator 
Feingold, is doing is making a very valuable contribution. I am going 
to vote for cloture so we can continue to debate this issue and 
continue to put pressure on. Starting to get our troops out of Iraq and 
getting most of them out by early next year is what we have in the 
original legislation the President vetoed, which is the preferable way 
to go, in my view.

But obviously we do not have the votes to overcome that veto, so we 
are trying to put something else on the table. But as important as 
beginning to bring our troops home, with a reasonable prospect of 
ending their presence in Iraq, it is equally important to have a plan 
for what we are going to leave behind, so we do not trade a dictator 
for chaos in a region that will undermine our interests for decades.

So we have to have a plan to bring stability to Iraq when we leave, 
and that requires a political solution. In the interests of time, I 
will not attempt to discuss that, I will do it at a later date. But I 
compliment my friend from Wisconsin for continuing to keep the pressure 
on. This is all about, in my view, getting the 67 votes to be able to 
override the President's veto and ending this God-awful mess that he 
has us in and continues to dig us deeper and deeper and deeper and 
deeper into.

I yield the floor.