# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `58fb99a2a347e255e08121ec0bd7789e`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield myself 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, this amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to 
provide Congress by the end of the year with an outline of our exit 
strategy for U.S. military operations in Afghanistan. This bipartisan 
amendment, offered by Representatives Walter Jones, Chellie Pingree, 
Barbara Lee, and me, does not demand a timeline for withdrawal or a 
halt to the deployment of the 21,000 additional troops called for by 
the President. It simply asks the administration to present its plan 
for beginning, middle, and end of U.S. military operations in 
Afghanistan.

For over 8 long years, our uniformed men and women have done all that 
we have asked them to do in Afghanistan. We are now asking them to do 
more. And we are giving them more resources and more boots on the 
ground to accomplish their mission. What we have not told them is how 
to tell when their contribution to the political solution is done and 
they can begin to transition out of Afghanistan.

Mr. Chairman, I want President Obama to succeed in Afghanistan. I 
stand by our commitment to provide the necessary resources to help the 
Afghan people take charge of their own future. But as Congress 
authorizes and appropriates billions and billions of dollars for a new 
strategy in Afghanistan, is it too much to ask how we will know when 
our troops can finally come home to their families?

Certainly, we need to hold the governments of Afghanistan and 
Pakistan accountable for governing their own nations. But it is 
incumbent upon us in Congress to hold ourselves accountable--and before 
we can even do that, the administration must clearly articulate and 
outline how it envisions completing its military operations in 
Afghanistan.

Eleven months into its term is not too soon for that outline to be 
provided. We are asking the Congress be a proper check and balance. We 
are asking for Congress to do its job. The people of this country want 
clarity. They are tired of endless wars.

Please support the McGovern-Jones-Pingree-Lee amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.