---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `59154c175d86790795822b6f66291ed5`
`Mr. CONRAD — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, our Nation's first responders are vital to 
protecting our citizens from everyday crime, and to keeping our 
citizens safe from fire and health-related emergencies. Our first 
responders are also vital in the event of disaster, whether man-made or 
natural.

But these same men and women that keep us safe and healthy at home 
are often called upon to fight for our country abroad with the National 
Guard and Reserves; or sometimes they are called to active duty within 
the U.S. The demands on the Guard and Reserves have become extremely 
heavy during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

However, the demands on first responders here at home do not decrease 
and local fire, police and ambulance services are forced to manage 
without key employees.

That is why I am introducing the Reinforce First Responders and 
Emergency Employees Deployed Overseas in the Military, or Reinforce 
FREEDOM Act today. My bill will reinforce local first responder 
agencies whose employees are fighting for our freedom overseas. It 
establishes a grant program through the Department of Homeland Security 
for first responder agencies that have employees deployed with the 
National Guard or Reserves.

The grants are available to law enforcement and fire departments, as 
well as public and private ambulance services. Agencies are eligible to 
receive up to $15,000 for each 3 month period they are without 
employees serving with the military. Primarily volunteer organizations 
are eligible if they are missing a substantial part of their workforce. 
The funds from these grants can be used to hire replacement employees 
or for overtime salary expenses. The funds can also be used for non-
salary costs that were created by the employees' deployment with the 
Guard or Reserves, or which would alleviate the impact of their 
absence.

Extra funding perhaps cannot fully make up for the loss of crucial 
employees. But this bill will help ensure that first responder agencies 
can continue to keep the American people safe when their Guardsmen and 
Reservist employees are called to defend the United States of America.