---
---

# None
## `59193c9ae351b544cc3df901a48c5840`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, November 7, the American public 
sent a powerful, unmistakable message to their elected leaders in 
Washington.

They want change. They are fed up with the corruption and sick of the 
infighting. But most importantly, voters, with a strong and decisive 
voice, demanded a change in our government's Iraq policy.

Last Wednesday, when the President addressed the Nation, and again 
last night when he came to this Chamber and called for an increase in 
troops, without mentioning an exit plan or a plan to care for our 
returning veterans, he proved yet again that he isn't going to listen 
to the voters. He doesn't care about what the polls say about the 
ordinary person and not liking what he is doing in Iraq. He won't 
listen to his commanders. And, in fact, those who disagree with him are 
either fired or transferred. And his own Republican Party that is 
coming out against this occupation in Iraq are being ignored.

In giving Democrats a majority, Mr. Speaker, Americans did not give 
my party a mandate simply to work with the President, or to wait for 
cues from any blue ribbon committee. No, the people told us to correct 
the President, challenge the President, and to confront the President 
on the moral challenge of our times.

The message is clear. The American public has directed the Congress 
to be


bold, to change course in Iraq and having our main goal be that of 
bringing our troops home.

Yet there remains a debate within this Congress on what it means to 
oppose the war. There are some who claim to oppose it, even while 
arguing that we cannot bring our troops home right away, that to do so 
would be catastrophic. But how could it get more catastrophic than 
fueling a devastating, homegrown insurgency in Iraq? The catastrophe is 
continuing to foment a civil war, a war that is tearing a proud nation 
apart at the seams.

This current policy is the catastrophe. Staying the course at this 
point will only plunge Iraq further into the abyss, costing thousands 
more American and Iraqi lives.

There are others who claim that while they oppose the war, they 
support the troops, and, they say, supporting a withdrawal would 
dishonor them. But is it honoring these brave men and women, some of 
the best America has to offer, to leave them in a dangerous, unwinnable 
situation? No. Honoring them means bringing them home to their families 
and strengthening a Veterans Administration health care system that has 
been all but laid to waste by the Bush administration in recent years.

Every day that we remain in Iraq is a day that we shortchange our 
priorities right here at home. This occupation has already cost over 
$300 billion, approximately $11 million every hour of every day, 7 days 
a week, 24 hours a day. The total cost is now projected to surpass the 
cost of the entire Vietnam war.

This is an astronomical, irresponsible sum, a sum that would be 
better used here at home to improve our schools, provide quality health 
care, put Americans back to work and help Iraq rebuild its economy and 
its infrastructure.

In January of 2005, I came down here to the floor of the United 
States House of Representatives and, as the first Member of Congress, 
demanded that the President put together a plan to bring our troops 
home. Since then I have followed up with public forums, resolutions, 
forced votes and these nightly speeches, which tonight makes 181, all 
designed to build support for a movement to end the occupation.

Many times along the way, and going as far back as 2002, when we 
first debated the Iraq invasion, the right wing and their media 
mouthpieces greeted me and other antiwar leaders with the usual smears 
and jeers. But who will history judge as calling this one correctly?

Everyone but the blindest Bush-Cheney loyalist recognizes that Iraq 
has been an unmitigated disaster, a strategic blunder and moral failing 
of historic proportions.

Today, because of the pressure applied by the anti-war camp, I stand 
with the majority of the American public and with a growing number of 
elected leaders from both parties in opposing this occupation.

We were right in 2002, and we are still right--withdrawing our troops 
is the only humane, sensible option we have left.

Congress has the power to end this occupation. We must stand up to 
our responsibility and bring every pressure to bear on this 
administration. We must use every lever and pursue any avenue to hold 
them accountable for their immeasurable failures in Iraq.

This is not just another priority for the new Congress. According to 
the voters who have elected us, this is the 110th Congress' most solemn 
duty.

That is why last week, along with 25 of my colleagues, I introduced 
the ''Bring the Troops Home and Iraq Sovereignty Restoration Act.'' 
This is the only comprehensive bill that will provide for a safe return 
of our troops, strengthen Iraqi institutions and provide for our 
veterans.

I urge my colleagues to cosponsor H.R. 508 today and to send a clear 
message to our President that--in absence of a real plan from him--
Congress is ready to bring our troops home.
