---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `5924a062df65cf3de23cc6c881feecfc`
`Mr. BYRD — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I thank my generous and considerate friend.

The process may not be flawless, but if public monies are spent 
unwisely or wastefully, at least the people have the means to know 
about it. Both the House and Senate in open session must agree on an 
earmark, and the president has an opportunity to veto the measure that 
carries it. There is a record of debate, and a record of how each 
Member of Congress votes. A controversial item is available for all to 
see and judge if not before, then certainly after it is enacted. 
Ultimately, Senators will have to defend their votes on the floor of 
the Senate, or respond to the inquiries of the media, or stand before 
the electorate and their constituency. The representatives of the 
people in Congress are held accountable.

If the Congress does not specify how funds are to be spent, then the 
decision falls to the executive branch--the so-called ''experts'' at 
bureaucratic agencies to determine the priorities of this Nation. In 
such cases, the American people may never know who is responsible for a 
spending decision. The American people never know how a spending 
decision is made. They may never hear anything about it. In the 
executive bureaucracy, there is far less accountability to the people.

We ought to prefer that spending decisions be made in an open and 
public forum of debate, rather than ensconced within the hidden and 
unaccountable agencies of the executive branch. The fact that 
controversial earmarks are being openly debated, and that several 
controversial earmarks were put before the voters last November, 
suggests that the system works. Those entrusted with power are being 
held accountable to the people.

So I say to Senators that we are treading some dangerous 
constitutional grounds with this bombast against earmarks. I support, 
as I always have, making the budget and appropriations process more 
transparent, but let their be no mistake that the misguided cries to do 
away with earmarks has constitutional ramifications


about who controls the power of the purse. The White House recognizes 
this. The President is asking the Congress to reduce congressional 
earmarks, leaving more spending decisions to the White House and 
executive branch. The President is asking for fewer limitations and 
more flexibility in how the executive branch spends the people's money. 
The President is even taking advantage of the current political 
environment to ask for a line-item veto--God help us--a wholly 
unconstitutional grant of power invalidated once before by the Supreme 
Court. If so-called earmark reforms happen too quickly and with too 
little thought to the constitutional ramifications, it could mark the 
beginnings of a dangerous aggrandizement of the executive in the 
legislative process, and I am not for that. I am not willing to go 
along with it.

In this rush to label earmarks as the source of our budgetary woes, 
and calls to expand the budgetary authorities of the President, we--
Members of the Senate--should remember why deficits have soared to 
unprecedented levels. Senators will recall that the president has not 
exercised his current constitutional authorities. He has not vetoed a 
single spending or revenue bill. He has not submitted a single 
rescission proposal under the Budget Act.

What has wrought these ominous budget deficits are the 
administration's grossly flawed and impossible budget assumptions. In 
2001, the President inherited a $5.6 trillion, 10-year surplus. After 1 
year operating under his fiscal policies, that surplus disappeared. We 
went from a surplus in the fiscal year 2001 of $128 billion to a 
deficit in the fiscal year 2002 of $158 billion, followed by the three 
largest deficits in our Nation's history in the fiscal years 2003, 
2004, and 2005. The administration's excessive tax cuts added $3 
trillion in budget deficits. The war in Iraq, which I voted against, 
has required the Congress to appropriate $379 billion, and another $100 
billion request will arrive from the President next month. Rather than 
dealing with these fiscal failures, too many would rather propagate the 
specious argument that enlarging the president's role in the budget 
process and doing away with congressional earmarks will magically 
reduce these foreboding and menacing deficits. It absolutely will not.

Often, critics of congressional earmarks assert that earmarks, by 
definition, are wasteful spending. In the 1969 Agriculture 
Appropriations bill, Congress earmarked funds for a new program to 
provide critical nutrition to low-income women, infants and children. 
This program, which is now known as the WIC program, has since provided 
nutritional assistance to over 150 million women, infants and children, 
a critical contribution to the health of the nation. Is that wasteful 
spending? Is that wasteful spending?

In the 1969 and 1970, Congress earmarked $25 million for a children's 
hospital in Washington, DC, even overcoming a Presidential veto. That 
funding resulted in the construction of what is known as the Children's 
National Medical Center. The hospital has become a national and 
international leader in neonatal and pediatric care. Since the hospital 
opened, over 5 million children have received health care. Last year, 
Children's Hospital treated over 340,000 young patients, and performed 
over 10,000 surgeries, saving and improving the lives of thousands of 
young children. Is that wasteful spending?

In 1983, Congress earmarked funds for a new emergency food and 
shelter program. In 2005 alone, the program served 35 million meals and 
provided 1.3 million nights of lodging to the homeless. Is that 
wasteful spending?

In 1987, Congress earmarked funds for the mapping of the human gene. 
This project became known as the Human Genome Project. This research 
has lead to completely new strategies for disease prevention and 
treatment. The Human Genome Project has led to discoveries of dramatic 
new methods of identifying and treating breast, ovarian, and colon 
cancers, saving many, many lives. Is this wasteful spending?

In 1988 and 1995, Congress earmarked funds for the development of 
unmanned aerial vehicles. These efforts produced the Predator and the 
Global Hawk, two of the most effective assets that have been used in 
the global war on terror. Is this wasteful spending?

No. Each of these earmarks was initiated by Congress and produced 
lasting gains for the American people.

There is no question that the earmarking process has grown to 
excessive levels in recent years. From 1994 to 2006, the funding that 
has been earmarked has nearly tripled. That is why I have joined with 
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Obey in calling for a 1-year 
moratorium on earmarks in the fiscal year 2007 joint funding resolution 
that will be before the Senate next month. That moratorium will give 
the Congress the time it needs to approve legislation that adds 
transparency to the process of earmarking funds.

I support transparency and debate in the congressional budget and 
appropriations process. I support the provisions included in the ethics 
bill now pending before the Senate that would provide a more 
accountable, above-board, and transparent process by requiring earmarks 
for non-Federal entities in all of their legislative forms--as 
authorizing measures, as appropriations measures, as revenue measures--
to be disclosed--yes, let's have it out in the open--along with their 
sponsors and essential government purpose, prior to their consideration 
by the Senate. If the sponsor is Robert C. Byrd, let him show himself. 
Taxpayers, of West Virginia and the Nation ought to know how and why 
spending decisions are made. That is why it is essential to ensure that 
these spending decisions remain in the Congress.

In past years, the Congress routinely failed to consider the annual 
appropriations bills in a timely manner. When they were considered, 
they too often took the form of massive omnibus bills that were forced 
upon the Senate without the opportunity to amend--take it or leave it. 
Such practices encouraged the kinds of earmarking practices that have 
been criticized in recent months. As chairman of the Senate 
Appropriations Committee, I, Robert C. Byrd, will endeavor to do all 
that I can to have the annual appropriations bills considered in a 
timely manner. When the fiscal year 2008 spending bills are brought to 
the floor, I will do all that I can to allow the Senate to work its 
will, and to open the spending decisions of the Congress to the 
American people.

Senators take an oath to preserve and protect the Constitution. 
Eliminating waste and abuse in the Federal budget process is important, 
but protecting the character and design of the Constitution is 
absolutely essential. Let's not lose our heads and subsequently the 
safeguards of our rights and liberties as American citizens.

I yield the floor.