# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `592b321f8bf7289e20cfcf0b0f9de50d`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the Chair. I do not intend to be long, and I am 
glad to yield at any time to the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee.

Mr. President, this is a defining moment for our country. The 
American people are watching. The world is watching. The issue is 
clear. Will we stand with our soldiers by changing their mission and 
beginning to bring them home, or will we stand with the President and 
keep our soldiers trapped in Iraq's civil war?

History will judge us. We can either continue down the President's 
perilous path or insist on a new direction. If we do not change course, 
we know what lies ahead--more American casualties, more wounded, more 
destruction.

A new strategy that makes Iraqis less reliant on our military is the 
best way forward.

More of the same misguided policy will result in more of the same 
tragedy for our military. Let's try a new course and let's try it now 
because Iraq is the overarching issue of our time and because we need 
to protect our national security.

We are told we need to be patient. We are told we have to give the 
latest escalation a chance to succeed. But we have heard all of that 
before.

We have heard for years that this administration has a plan for 
success. We have heard for years that progress is just a few months 
away. We have heard for years that we have turned the corner.


But the plans for success keep getting tossed aside for new plans. 
The administration has benchmarks to measure success, but there are no 
consequences when the benchmarks are not met.

The timelines for progress keep getting extended. We have turned so 
many corners that we have ended up back where we started--trying to 
control Baghdad. It is time for a new direction.

Mr. President, I reference this document. It is: ''Measuring 
Stability and Security in Iraq.'' It is a report to Congress by the 
Department of Defense, embargoed until 3 o'clock this afternoon. It is 
now after that hour. Here is what this document, which has just been 
released by the Department of Defense, has to say on stability and 
security in Iraq:




 The last two months of 2006, however, saw little progress 


 on the reconciliation front. The first two of four planned 


 reconciliation conferences were described in the last report 


 (November 2006). These conferences laid solid groundwork for 


 subsequent conferences, but there has been little progress 


 since then and the conferences had no effect on quelling 


 violence. On December 16-17, 2006, the Political Parties 


 Conference was held in Baghdad. Speeches given by the Prime 


 Minister and other Iraqi officials focused on political 


 participation and national unity, and welcomed former 


 Ba'athists into the political process, so long as they showed 


 loyalty to the new national government. The Sadrist bloc, top 


 Ba'athists, and many Sunni factions did not participate. A 


 fourth conference of religious leaders has not yet been 


 scheduled due to lack of financial support and attendance 


 challenges.


Mr. President, too many parents have had to bury their sons and 
daughters. Too many children have been left without their father or 
their mother. Too many soldiers are missing arms or legs. Nearly 3,200 
of our forces have been killed. More than 24,000 have been wounded. The 
casualties keep mounting. The violence in Iraq continues to spiral as 
well. Our troops are in the impossible position of trying to stabilize 
a country at war with itself.

The recent National Intelligence Estimate confirms the nightmare 
scenario unfolding for our troops. Iraq is sliding deeper into the 
abyss of civil war, and our brave men and women are caught in the 
middle of it. Prospects for halting the sectarian violence are bleak. 
Greater chaos and anarchy are looming ahead. Needless additional U.S. 
casualties are inevitable.

The intelligence community has finally determined what everyone but 
the Bush administration has been willing to admit for some time. As the 
Intelligence Estimate stated:




 [T]he term ''civil war'' accurately describes key elements 


 of the Iraqi conflict, including the hardening of ethno-


 sectarian identities, a sea change in the character of the 


 violence, ethno-sectarian mobilization, and population 


 displacements.


Those are the words of the intelligence community. Secretary Powell 
agrees. Former U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan agrees. Only President 
Bush continues to stubbornly deny that our troops are policing a civil 
war.

The facts speak for themselves. According to the United Nations, 
nearly 35,000 civilians were violently killed in Iraq last year. In 
November and December of last year, more than 6,000 civilians were 
killed. Most were killed in Baghdad, where ''unidentified bodies killed 
execution-style are found in large numbers daily.'' More than 2 million 
refugees have fled the violence in Iraq, and another 1.8 million have 
been displaced internally.

Our military should not be caught in the middle of this quagmire. 
Only a political solution can solve Iraq's problems.



General Casey, in his June 2005 testimony to the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, called out for a political solution. He said:




 If you look back historically at how insurgencies have been 


 defeated, they have been defeated when the insurgents saw 


 their options as better protected in the political process 


 and their prospects for economic advancement can be better 


 protected by the political process than fighting for them. 


 And that's the essential element here.

Last August, General Abizaid spoke about the need for a political 
solution. He said:




 Our troops are the best equipped, the best trained, the 


 best led in the world. And I am enormously proud of them, and 


 I have the utmost confidence in their ability to handle any 


 mission. Yet, sectarian violence is worse than ever in 


 Baghdad in particular. And I wonder about the validity of a 


 strategy that says that less capable troops that are not as 


 well equipped, trained or led as the best troops in the world 


 can handle the security of this country if the upswing in 


 violence has occurred despite the presence of the best troops 


 in the world. It doesn't give me a lot of confidence in our 


 underlying strategy. And it suggests to me--


This is General Abizaid--



 it suggests to me that what we need is a political rather 


 than a military solution.


Last week, General Petraeus, the new commander of our forces in Iraq, 
stated that there is ''no military solution'' in Iraq. But no one in 
the administration has been able to clearly articulate a political 
solution or how it can take hold in the midst of this chaos. Instead of 
giving the Iraqis a necessary incentive to get their political house in 
order by beginning an orderly redeployment of our troops out of Iraq, 
the President stubbornly insists on sending more and more troops into 
Iraq's civil war. Escalation didn't work in Vietnam and it will not 
work in Iraq either.

The President's latest proposal--to increase the number of our troops 
in Iraq--makes no sense at all. Sending more troops into the cauldron 
of Iraq's civil war is not the solution.

In addition to the fact that we know a military solution is not the 
answer, the administration still has not leveled with us on the number 
of troops the President plans to send to Iraq for the surge.

On January 10, the President announced he had committed more than 
20,000 additional troops to Iraq. Within a few days, this number had 
been revised to 21,500.

The CBO estimated that it would be far higher--as much as 35,000 to 
48,000 troops when support troops are included.

On February 6, I asked General Pace and Secretary Gates for the best 
military estimates of the actual size of the escalation, and their 
answer was an additional 10 to 15 percent. General Pace said:




 You're going to need no more than another 2,000, 2,500 


 troops on the ground.


By February 15, the number had more than doubled. General Schoomaker 
told the Armed Services Committee his estimate was somewhere between 
5,000 and 6,000 troops when you included imbedded trainers.

Then, on March 6, Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England told a 
House committee: ''About 4,000, maybe as many as 7,000.''

Last week, at the request of General Petraeus, Secretary Gates 
authorized an additional 2,200 military police troops.

We still don't have an accurate total for the size of this 
escalation. The administration refuses to speak with clarity and 
candor. Since the current surge began, Shiite militias in Baghdad may 
be lying low, but violence has increased elsewhere in Iraq. In Diyala 
Province, in 3 months, American casualties have exceeded the number for 
the entire year of 2006. In January this year, 83 American soldiers 
were killed, compared to 62 in the same month a year ago. Eighty more 
Americans were killed in February of this year. In the same month last 
year, we lost 55 soldiers. Already, in 2 weeks this March, we have lost 
more than 31 soldiers, the same number killed in the entire month of 
March of 2006.

This is what today's report from the Defense Department points out on 
page 18, under the section ''Attack Trends and Violence'':




 The total number of attacks on and casualties suffered by 


 coalition forces, the ISF, and Iraqi civilians for the 


 October-December reporting period were the highest of any 3-


 month period since 2003.


It continues:




 Coalition forces continued to attract the majority of 


 attacks, while ISF and Iraqi civilians continued to suffer 


 the majority of the casualties.


That is today's report.

Continuing our open-ended commitment to stay in Iraq will not bring 
victory, it will not stop the violence, and it will not protect our 
national security.

The administration has outlined military, economic, and political 
benchmarks to measure success, but it has not given any timeline to 
achieve them, and it has not stated any consequences if the benchmarks 
are not met. This same administration supported timelines for every 
Iraqi election and for drafting the Constitution. Yet it remains 
emphatically opposed for any timeline for the redeployment of our 
military.

The American people have been patient. But America now has been in 
Iraq longer than it took us to win World War II. Instead of progress, 
we continue to see unacceptably high levels of violence, death, and 
destruction. We are putting too much strain on our Army, especially the 
Army National Guard. The Army is overextended. Many soldiers are now on 
their third rotation. To deal with the recruitment shortages, we have 
eased the standards and increased the bonuses. The Department of 
Defense is formalizing a policy to redeploy reservists more often and 
for longer. But in the long run, we can't protect our Army if we don't 
end the war.

Our troops have done their part. They have served with great courage. 
We are proud of their service, and we are ready to welcome them home.

It is time to change course. It is time to ask the Iraqis to step to 
the plate and take the responsibility for their own future, and it is 
time to begin to redeploy our troops out of Iraq. It is time to put the 
Iraqis on notice that our military will no longer be a permanent crutch 
for them to lean on. As General Abizaid told the Armed Services 
Committee last November:




 I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


It is time for American combat troops to begin to come home.

Those of us who opposed the war are used to the administration's 
attacks when we disagree with their wrong-headed policy. We have come 
to expect that. They have questioned our patriotism and call us 
defeatists. When we challenged the President's misguided policy, he 
accused us of having political motives and being partisan.

Before the war, Vice President Cheney said we hadn't seen all the 
intelligence he had seen. But after the war, when things were going 
badly, the President said more than 100 times that we had seen the same 
intelligence.

More than 2 years ago, I called on the administration to focus on the 
training of the Iraqi security forces and to begin to redeploy our 
troops out of Iraq. I said the Iraqis need to take responsibility and 
that we should set a goal of about a year for the redeployment of most 
of our forces out of Iraq. Rather than debating the merits of the 
policy, the Republican spin machine went into overdrive. A year ago, on 
the third anniversary of the war, Vice President Cheney went on 
national television and said:




 I would not look to Ted Kennedy for guidance and leadership 


 in how we ought to manage national security.


Well, the American people certainly know we cannot look to the Vice 
President and this administration for national security. The 
administration has been consistently wrong about the war in Iraq. Year 
after year, they insist on a dangerously incompetent strategy. They 
were wrong about the link between al-Qaida and Saddam Hussein. They 
were wrong about Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction. They 
were wrong about America being greeted as liberators. They were wrong 
about the insurgency being in its last throes, and they are wrong to 
deny that Iraq is a civil war.

The American people are far ahead of the administration. For all of 
us who oppose this misguided war, our goals have always been clear: 
protect the lives of our soldiers and protect our national security.

We have an obligation to stand up for our troops and stand up to the 
President when he stubbornly refuses to


change course in Iraq. Our legislation will do that. It will change the 
mission of our military away from combat and require the President to 
begin to redeploy American combat troops out of Iraq in 4 months. The 
target date for the completion of the redeployment is March 2008--1 
year from now. A limited number of troops would remain in Iraq after 
that to train and equip the Iraqi security forces, to conduct 
counterterrorism, and to guarantee the safety of our soldiers.

Our proposal is consistent with the bipartisan Iraq Study Group's 
finding. It recommended that:




 The primary mission of U.S. forces in Iraq should evolve to 


 one of supporting the Iraqi Army, which would take over 


 primary responsibility for combat operations. By the first 


 quarter of 2008, subject to unexpected developments in the 


 security situation on the ground, all combat brigades not 


 necessary for force protection could be out of Iraq.


Those are the words of the Iraq Study Group.

Legislation is clearly necessary to give the Iraq Government enough 
of an incentive to step up to the plate, work out its political 
differences, and take responsibility for Iraq's future. It is also 
consistent with the wishes of the American people, who want most of our 
troops home within a year. How much clearer does it have to be before 
Republicans in Congress and the President finally respond to the voices 
of the American people?

We are meeting our responsibilities by changing the mission of our 
military. We are not micromanaging the war. Many of us oppose the war, 
but all of us support our troops. We don't want to keep sending more 
and more of them into the middle of a civil war. Under no circumstances 
do we want them to go to war without proper armor and equipment. Our 
troops deserve better. Their families and loved ones deserve better.

For the good of our men and women in uniform and the American people, 
it is time for us to take a stand. We need to adopt a new strategy. We 
need to make clear to the Iraqi Government that the mission of our 
troops must change and that we have a clear timeframe for their 
departure from Iraq.

The recent hearings on Walter Reed should inform our debate as well. 
They tell us how little faith we can put in this administration. The 
very people who hide behind the troops when we question their policies 
have failed to keep faith with our wounded soldiers. As importantly, 
the hearings on Walter Reed remind all of us of the human costs of the 
war. This administration has done all it can to conceal them from us. 
They have forbidden photographs of the coffins flown back from Iraq. 
The President has avoided attending the funerals of the fallen. The 
tours of Walter Reed never included Building 18.

But the hearings on Walter Reed swept away all the spin and 
camouflage. They put our wounded soldiers back where they belong: at 
the heart of our debates about the war.

At the end of those hearings, everyone agreed that the administration 
failed these brave soldiers, but we failed them long before they 
arrived at Walter Reed. The administration failed them when it trumped 
up the intelligence in order to make the case for war. It failed them 
when it sent too few troops with too little armor into battle. We in 
the Senate will fail them today unless we vote to change course and 
begin to bring our soldiers home. At the end of this debate, the 
American people will know where each of us stands. On our side of the 
aisle, we stand with the American people. The voters told us in 
November to change course and to begin to bring our troops home, and 
that is what we are going to do.

We stand for our Constitution, in which the Congress speaks for the 
people in matters of war and peace and can require the President to 
listen.

We stand with our troops. We, and we alone, are the ones insisting on 
a policy worthy of their courage and sacrifice.

We stand for protecting America's national security. The war in Iraq 
has been a disaster from the start. It has made America more hated in 
the world. It has made it harder to win the war against terrorism. It 
has made it harder to work with other nations on every issue.

Peace and progress in Iraq must be earned by Iraqis and their 
neighbors. We must no longer send our brave soldiers to an uncertain 
fate on the streets of Baghdad. We must begin to bring them home to the 
hero's welcome they have surely earned.

I yield the floor.