# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `59460ccb0556695b6dc45db4714523e3`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Senator from North Dakota is absolutely 
right. Having managed a number of bills, I know that sometimes it is 
hard to get people with amendments to come forth. I hope they do. Once 
this bill is finished, we will go to the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act or, as we know it here, FISA. It is intended to 
protect both our national security and also the privacy and civil 
liberties of all Americans. We are considering amendments to that 
important act that will provide new flexibility to our intelligence 
community. We all support surveillance authority. With terrorists 
plotting against us and talking about it, we want to be able to use all 
the various electronic and other means to find out what they are 
saying. Unlike some in the administration who say we are dealing with 
an antiquated law, we have updated this act many times, probably 30 or 
more times since its historic passage after intelligence abuses of 
earlier decades.

I came here 34 years ago. I well remember that this Nation was still 
reeling from the excesses of the COINTELPRO when people were being 
spied on by their Government simply because they disagreed with what 
the Government was doing; in this case, the war in Vietnam. We enacted 
FISA so we could do the legitimate thing of actually spying on people 
who wanted to do harm to the United States at the time of the Cold War, 
when we had adversaries all over the world. We also wanted to make sure 
that Americans who were minding their own business, not doing anything 
illegal, wouldn't be spied upon.

We rushed the so-called Protect America Act through the Senate just 
before the August recess and with it were a number of excesses. They 
came about because the administration broke agreements it had reached 
with congressional leaders. The bill was hurriedly passed under intense 
partisan pressure from the administration. In fact, the pressure was so 
strong, they made it very clear why they were willing to break 
agreements with those Republicans and Democrats who had been working 
together to try to craft a bill that would protect America's interests 
but also protect the privacy of individual Americans.

So we passed a bill that provides sweeping new powers to the 
Government to engage in surveillance, without a warrant, of 
international calls to and from the United States involving Americans, 
and it provided no meaningful protection for the privacy and civil 
liberties of the Americans who were on those calls. It could be an 
American calling a member of their family studying overseas. It could 
be a business person who, as they travel around to various companies 
they represent, ends up having their telephone calls intercepted.

But before that flawed bill passed--the one that came about because 
of the broken agreements by the administration--Senator Rockefeller and 
I and several others in the House and Senate worked hard, in good faith 
with the administration, to craft legislation that solved an identified 
problem but, as I said, protected America's privacy and liberties.

Just before the August recess the administration decided instead to 
ram through its version of the Protect America Act with excessive 
grants of Government authority and without any accountability or checks 
and balances. They did this after 6 years of breaking the law through 
secret warrantless wiretapping programs. It was one of the most 
egregious things I have seen in my 34 years in the Senate. First they 
violate the law, and then instead of being held accountable, they ram 
through a law designed to allow them to continue those actions. Some of 
us saw it for what it was and voted against it. Both Senators from 
Vermont voted against it. We are from a State that borders a foreign 
country. We are concerned about our security, but we are also concerned 
about our liberties and our privacy.

We did manage to include 6-month sunset in the Protect America Act so 
we would have a chance to revisit this matter and do it right. The 
Senate Judiciary Committee and the Intelligence Committee, as well as 
our House counterparts, have spent the past month considering changes. 
In the Senate Judiciary Committee we held open hearings. We had more 
briefings than I can even count and meetings with the administration, 
with people in the intelligence service, with people at the CIA, NSA, 
and others. We considered legislative language in a number of open 
business meetings where Senators from across the political spectrum 
could be heard. Then we reported a good bill to the Senate before 
Thanksgiving.

The bill we are now considering will permit the Government, while 
targeting overseas, to review more Americans' communications with less 
court supervision than ever before. I support surveillance of those who 
might do us harm, but we also have to protect Americans' liberties. 
Attorney General Mukasey said at his nomination hearing that 
''protecting civil liberties, and people's confidence that those 
liberties are protected, is a part of protecting national security.'' 
Let me repeat what the new Attorney General said:




 Protecting civil liberties, and people's confidence that 


 those liberties are protected, is a part of protecting 


 national security.


I agree with him. That is what the Judiciary Committee bill does. I 
commend the House of Representatives for passing a bill, the RESTORE 
Act, that takes a balanced approach to these issues and allows the 
intelligence community great flexibility to conduct surveillance of 
overseas targets but also provides oversight and protection for 
Americans' civil liberties. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
has also worked hard. I know Chairman Rockefeller was as disappointed 
as I at the administration's partisan maneuvering just before the 
August recess. After being here through six administrations, it has 
always been my experience, with Republican or Democratic 
administrations at certain points, when you are negotiating a key piece 
of legislation with the administration, you have to rely on them to 
keep their word and be honest with you, as they have to rely on you to 
keep your word and be honest with them. Through six administrations, 34 
years, I can never remember a time where an administration was less 
truthful or flatly broke their word in the way this one did.


I commended the efforts of Senator Rockefeller and those working with 
him. I do so again now. I believe both he and I want surveillance but 
we want


surveillance with oversight and accountability within the law. I also 
want to praise our joint members. In the Judiciary Committee we have, 
by practice, a certain number of members who serve on both Judiciary 
and Intelligence for obvious reasons. The ranking member of Judiciary 
and I, of course, have access to a great deal of intelligence whenever 
we have requested it, but that is on an ongoing basis.

Senators Feinstein, Feingold, and Whitehouse contributed so much to 
the work of the Judiciary Committee. They worked with me to author many 
of the additional protections we adopted and reported. They had worked 
on the bill in the Intelligence Committee and then worked with us. 
These Senators and others on the Judiciary Committee worked hard to 
craft amendments that will preserve the basic structure and authority 
proposed in the bill reported by the Select Committee on Intelligence, 
but then they added those crucial protections for Americans, the part 
the Judiciary Committee, because of our oversight of courts, worries 
about.

I believe we need to do more than the bill initially reported by the 
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence does to protect the rights of 
Americans. I know the chairman of that committee joins with me to 
support many of the Judiciary Committee's improvements.

Let me cite briefly what they are. The Judiciary bill, for example, 
makes clear that the Government cannot claim authority to operate 
outside the law outside of FISA--by alluding to other legislative 
measures never intended to provide that authority.

I will give you an example of what happened. The House and the Senate 
passed an authorization for the use of military force. We did this 
right after September 11. It was authorization to go in and capture 
Osama bin Laden--the man who engineered 9/11, is still loose, and 
taunts us periodically. But what happened? The administration was so 
hellbent on getting into Iraq that when they had Osama bin Laden 
cornered, they withdrew their forces and let him get away so they could 
invade Iraq--a country that had absolutely nothing to do with 9/11. Now 
they say that authorization allowed them to wiretap Americans without a 
warrant. I have heard some strange, convoluted, cockamamie arguments 
before in my life. This one takes the cake.

I introduced a resolution on this in the last Congress when we first 
heard this canard. We authorized going after Osama bin Laden, but the 
Senate did not authorize--explicitly or implicitly--the warrantless 
wiretapping of Americans. By their logic, they could also say we 
authorized the warrantless search of the distinguished Presiding 
Officer's home or my home. This body did no such thing, but the 
administration still is clinging to their phony legal argument.

The Judiciary bill would prevent that dangerous contention with 
strong language that reaffirms that the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act is the exclusive means for conducting electronic 
surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes.

The Judiciary Committee's amendment would also provide a more 
meaningful role for the FISA court to oversee this new surveillance 
authority. The FISA court is a critical independent check on Government 
excess in the sensitive area of electronic surveillance. The 
administration claims that of course the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance court can look at what they are doing, they just don't 
want the court to be able to do anything about it. No. The Judiciary 
Committee says the court should be able to look at what they are doing 
and should be able to stop them if they are breaking the law. In this 
Nation we fought a revolution over 200 years ago to have that right.


With the authority of a majority of the Judiciary Committee members, 
I am going to offer a revised version of the Committee's amendment that 
makes some changes to address technical issues and also to address some 
of the claims the administration has made about our substitute.

For example, in response to concerns raised by the administration in 
its Statement of Administration Policy, we have revised the exclusivity 
provision to ensure that we are not overextending the scope of FISA. We 
have also revised the provision concerning stay of decisions of the 
FISA Court pending appeal, the provision clarifying that the bill does 
not permit bulk collection of communications into or out of the United 
States, and a few other provisions.

I believe these revisions make the Judiciary Committee's product even 
stronger, and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Now, in the bill we have a title I, a title II. Title II in the 
Intelligence bill talks about retroactive immunity. We do not address 
that in the Judiciary Committee's bill, but I do strongly oppose the 
bill reported by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in that 
area. Their bill would grant blanket retroactive immunity to 
telecommunications carriers for their warrantless surveillance 
activities from 2001 through earlier this year. This surveillance was 
contrary to FISA and violated the privacy rights of Americans.

The administration violated FISA for more than 5 years. They got 
caught. If they had not gotten caught, they probably would still be 
doing it. But when the public found out about the President's illegal 
surveillance of Americans, the administration and the telephone 
companies were sued by citizens who believe their privacy and their 
rights were violated.

Now the administration is trying to get this Congress to terminate 
those lawsuits. It is not that they are worried about the telephone 
companies. They are not as concerned about the telephone companies as 
they are about insulating themselves from accountability.

This is an administration that does not want us to ask them anything, 
and they do not want to tell us anything. Interesting policy. If you do 
ask them, they are not going to tell you. If they do tell you, it 
appears oftentimes they do not tell you the truth.

Now, the rule of law is fundamental to our system. It has helped us 
maintain the greatest democracy we have ever seen in our lifetimes. But 
in conducting warrantless surveillance, the administration showed 
flagrant disrespect for the rule of law. It is like the King of France, 
who once said: ''L'Etat, c'est moi.'' ''The state is me.'' They are 
saying: What we want to do is what we will do. And if we want to do it, 
the law is irrelevant.

I cannot accept that.

The administration relied on legal opinions that were prepared in 
secret and shown only to a tiny group of like-minded officials who made 
sure they got the advice they wanted--advice that, when it saw the 
light of day, people said: How could anybody possibly write a legal 
memorandum like that?

Jack Goldsmith, who came in briefly to head the Justice Department's 
Office of Legal Counsel, described the program as a ''legal mess.'' He 
is a conservative Republican. He looked at this and said: It is a legal 
mess. Now, the administration does not want a court to get a chance to 
look at this legal mess. Retroactive immunity would assure that they 
get their wish and that nobody could ask how and why they broke the 
law.

Frankly, I do not believe anybody is above the law. I do not believe 
a President is, I do not believe a Senator is, I do not believe anybody 
is.

I do not believe that Congress can or should seek to take rights and 
legal claims from those already harmed. I support the efforts of 
Senators Specter and Whitehouse to use the legal concept of 
substitution to place the Government in the shoes of the private 
defendants who acted at its behest and to let it assume full 
responsibility for the illegal conduct.

Although my preference, of course, is to allow the lawsuits to go 
forward as they are, I believe the substitution alternative is 
effective. It is far preferable to retroactive immunity, and it allows 
this country to find out what happened.

Keep in mind why we have FISA. Congress passed that law only after we 
discovered the abuses of J. Edgar Hoover's FBI. Through the COINTEL 
Program, Hoover spied on Americans who objected and spoke out against 
the war in Vietnam--which pretty well involved 100 percent of the 
Vermont delegation in Congress.

It is like the Department of Defense today that is going around 
videotaping Quakers protesting the war. Quakers


always protest the war. But this administration seems to think, if you 
disagree with them, somehow you are an enemy of the country and they 
can justify spying on you. That is why we put these laws in place. Is 
memory so short around here? Is memory so short or are we so frightened 
by 9/11 that we are willing to throw away everything this country 
fought for and everything that has made this country survive as long as 
it has?

We were told this building was targeted by terrorists. I proudly come 
into this building every day to go to work. It is the highlight of my 
life, other than my wife and my family. But I come in here because I 
believe 100 Members of the Senate can be the conscience of the Nation. 
We can protect Americans' rights, we can protect those things that our 
forefathers fought a revolution for, that we fought a civil war to 
protect, that we fought two World Wars to protect. Now we are going to 
throw it away because of a group of terrorists? This is ''Alice in 
Wonderland.''

So as we debate these issues, let's keep in mind the reason we have 
FISA in the first place. As I said, back in the 1970s we learned the 
painful lesson that powerful surveillance tools, without adequate 
oversight or the checks and balances of judicial review, lead to abuses 
of the rights of the American people.

So I hope this debate will provide us with an opportunity to show the 
American people what we stand for. We can show them that we will do all 
we can to secure their future, but at the same time protect their 
cherished rights and freedoms. Those are the rights and freedoms that 
protected past generations and allowed us to have a future. If we do 
not protect them, what will our children and grandchildren have?

It is incumbent upon us to stand up for this country. When you stand 
up for this country, it does not mean jingoism, it does not mean 
sloganeering. It means protecting what is best for this country. If we 
do that, the terrorists will not win. The United States of America 
wins. The people who rely on us around the world will win. Our example 
will be one they will want to follow.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.