---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `59464733436c64f71053703b608690d7`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the 
escalation of troop levels, to call for an end to the American 
occupation of Iraq, and to support the resolution before the House.

The two clauses of this resolution go hand in hand. There should be 
no doubt about the support from this Congress and indeed from the 
American people for those who risk their lives to defend this Nation. 
As a Nation, we have learned to sincerely honor the warrior, even when 
we disagree with the war.

I have personally been moved by my own interactions with our troops. 
I have been honored to meet with them here at home, in Iraq, in 
Afghanistan, in Kosovo, and in numerous other places where they are 
serving honorably. And I have mourned with their families when their 
service has led to the ultimate sacrifice. No one who spends time with 
the members of our Armed Forces can fail to be impressed by the 
dedication and valor with which they carry out their duty.

In addition to guaranteeing that they have the resources, equipment 
and compensation they need, supporting our troops also means ensuring 
that the missions we ask them to perform are viable and well-designed 
in terms of our national objectives. The President's surge plan does 
not meet these criteria, and Congress should oppose it.

The question before us today is whether an escalation of as many as 
48,000 American troops is the best way to turn things around in Iraq. 
However, this question is part of a much larger debate that this 
country and this Chamber must conduct, a debate about the future of the 
U.S. military mission.

There cannot be a simply military solution to the challenges that we, 
and the Iraqi people, face in Iraq. The size of our military presence 
will not make the difference, because any solution to Iraq's problems 
will still be political, not military.

The recent National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraq confirms this 
conclusion. The unclassified report noted that even the term ''civil 
war'' is not grave enough to convey the complexity of the security 
challenges in Iraq. More to the point, the NIE noted that there were 
three ''identifiable elements that could help to reverse negative 
trends'': broader Sunni acceptance of the federalist political 
structure, Shia and Kurdish concessions to Sunnis, and ''a bottom-up 
approach to help mend frayed relationships between tribal and religious 
groups.'' Note that none of these elements can be achieved by military 
force.

The outgoing commander of Multi-National Forces Iraq, Lieutenant 
General Peter Chiarelli, recently stated, ''We need to get out of 
thinking that this is solely a military conflict. All of our Nation's 
strengths--diplomatic, economic, political--must be leveraged to help 
the Iraqis find their way through this process.'' Other military 
leaders have echoed this sentiment.

My colleague from North Carolina, Brad Miller, and I have proposed 
such an approach in our bill, H.R. 645.

Our bill would dramatically strengthen U.S. political and diplomatic 
efforts. It would send special envoys to the region to encourage Iraq's 
neighbors to play a more productive role in resolving the conflict and 
to facilitate a national reconciliation process in Iraq. It would also 
authorize a program to get would-be insurgents off the streets and into 
the workforce. And it would provide ongoing support for the development 
of democratic institutions, particularly at the local level.

While enhancing our political and diplomatic efforts, our bill would 
de-escalate our military commitment. It would terminate the 
authorization for the war at the end of this year, and require 
President Bush to develop an exit strategy for bringing our troops home 
by that date.

We can no longer ask our troops in Iraq to do the impossible. In 
fact, their presence is fueling the insurgency and is a magnet for 
international terrorism. It is time for the American occupation of Iraq 
to end, and for Iraqi leaders to assume responsibility for their 
country's future, for better or for worse.

Some have argued that our troops must remain in Iraq to prevent 
intolerable outcomes. But the outcomes that we have most feared--a 
civil war, a training ground for terrorists, an ascendant Iran--have 
already become reality, despite the continuing presence of our troops. 
While a military presence may delay even worse outcomes, it cannot 
prevent them. If we are to avoid a regional war or an exponential 
increase in Iraq's carnage, our best hope is the increased political 
and diplomatic effort that I have proposed.

Mr. Speaker, how we leave Iraq does matter. A well-planned withdrawal 
can enhance our ability to protect our troops and prepare Iraqis to 
assume control. We must not make the same mistake ending the war that 
we did in beginning it, pursuing a strategy without adequate planning. 
But we should not hide behind this imperative. We can't allow an exit 
strategy to prevent or postpone an exit.

I urge my colleagues to consider H.R. 645, which I believe offers the 
best way to pursue American national security interests in Iraq.

Let me close on a note of caution. The resolution we are debating 
here today is necessary, but it is not sufficient. The President should 
hear our message, which expresses the conviction of the majority of the 
American people that the time to end our occupation of Iraq has come. 
However, if he doesn't take steps to bring our troops home, the 
President should be under no illusion that this nonbinding resolution 
exhausts Congress's role. Rather, it is a first step in holding him 
accountable and reversing a failed policy that has made our Nation less 
safe, and has cost us so dearly in blood and treasure.