---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `594a87d20228bca7930b24157ed3af23`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, expectations were high on Capitol 
Hill and the rest of the Nation this month.

We were all hoping to hear a major new strategy on how to forge 
political accommodation in Iraq from General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker, and most importantly from President Bush.

We did hear of some limited, tactical success in improving security, 
but we learned nothing new on how the Bush administration would bridge 
the yawning political gap between Shia and Sunni.

In fact, the President in his speech last week to the Nation offered 
no change in policy and no strategy for reaching the political 
accommodation that is necessary in Iraq.

In his eighth prime-time address on Iraq, the President again made 
the case that his policy will bring success in Iraq.

We have heard ''mission accomplished,'' we have heard calls for 
patience, and innumerable claims that we are winning. We have heard 
that more troops will lead to political progress.

We have heard that ''when they stand up, we stand down,'' but there 
is no clear plan to get them to stand on their own.

And, this time we received yet another slogan--''Return on Success'' 
a new name for staying the course, keeping the status quo.

So, even though for months we have been told by the White House and 
many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to wait until 
September for a new strategy, we are still told to wait--again--but for 
what?

Neither General Petraeus nor Ambassador Crocker could provide answers 
to how long a U.S. troop presence will be in Iraq. As Ambassador 
Crocker said, ''No timelines, dates, or guarantees.'' Yet we are told 
to embrace their recommendations and continue more of the same.

This will do nothing to force Prime Minister Maliki to take the 
necessary actions to bring political stability to that nation.

Sadly, we are left with no conclusion but this--the upcoming year 
will result in little change in the political stalemate that marks 
Iraq's Government today.

This, I believe, is a missed opportunity for telling the American 
people how political progress would be made in Iraq, for describing how 
and when the vast majority of our troops would come home, and for 
charting a new strategy and finding a way out of Iraq.

No, this President and his military and political advisors seemed 
determined to keep a high level of U.S. forces in Iraq for the 
foreseeable future.

It was clear from the President's speech that he fully intends to 
maintain his failed Iraq policy through the end of his administration 
and then lay the problem at the feet of his successor.

The President would also like to take credit for drawing down our 
troops when the reality is that he is willing to go no further than 
presurge levels through next July. The same troop levels in Iraq 10 
months from now as we had 10 months ago. This is not change; this is 
not a plan.

In fact, this was always the expectation, because simply put, the 
Army is on the verge of breaking. Troop rotation limitations make it 
imperative that we draw down troop levels by this April to avoid 
extending our soldiers' 15-month tours further.

Only a token contingent--about 5,000--will come home by the end of 
this year.

Clearly, a choice has been made by this White House to leave the 
difficult decisions to the next administration; that is, unless 
Congress acts. So Congress, once again, has an opportunity, an 
opportunity to do what this administration will not--to bring about 
major reductions in troops, and to begin the process of bringing our 
troops home.

I hope Democrats and Republicans can find common ground in the coming 
weeks to transition the mission and remove our troops from the midst of 
a civil war that only the Iraqis can solve.

We must forge a bipartisan plan to move our troops out of Iraq.

That is what the American people want.

Improvements in security are welcome, but by themselves, they do 
nothing to answer the difficult questions facing the nation. I do not 
doubt that the surge has had a positive effect on security.

When you add 30,000 U.S. forces into a region, you are going to have 
an impact on the area. I would be surprised if it were otherwise.

And it is clear that there have been improvements in security in Al 
Anbar province. Sunni sheiks are working with U.S. forces against 
brutal foreign fighters. But we must also acknowledge that many of 
these improvements started to take place before the surge even began. 
And levels of violence in other areas of Iraq have receded from the 
December 2006 peak. Yet, these levels of violence, it should be noted, 
still remain high compared with 2004 and 2005 levels.

Every recent report admits that the security progress has been 
uneven. In fact, the latest Pentagon Quarterly assessment released just 
this week points out that even as Iraqi civilian deaths fell to their 
lowest level in 5 months in June, attacks against coalition forces 
reached record levels that same month.

Civilian casualties, in fact, rose again in July, and a telling chart 
in that Pentagon report shows the average daily casualties in Iraq--
including coalition forces, civilians, and Iraqi security forces--
increasing to about 150 per day in July and August.

Moreover, we face a growing humanitarian crisis in Iraq as the number 
of displaced Iraqis is increasing by 80,000 to 100,000 a month. To 
date, at least 2.2 million Iraqis have fled their country, and another 
2 million have been forced to leave their homes to escape the sectarian 
violence.

There continue to be IED explosions, suicide bombings, sectarian 
killings on a daily basis.

So violence continues, even if by some measures there have been 
indications of a decline in the last several weeks.

But the point is this--the surge is not an end in itself. It is not a 
strategy. It is a tactic to achieve a purpose.

The purpose of the surge was meant to give politicians the breathing 
space needed to make the tough choices necessary to forge a stable 
government.

Yet, according to independent analysis, there has been little 
progress in meeting the key benchmarks.

The Iraqi Government has met only 3 of 18 benchmarks--not including 
major political action on an oil law, constitutional reform, and 
debaathification.

These benchmarks, by the way, were commitments made by the Iraqi 
Government itself, not the U.S. Congress. They were put forward to the 
Nation by President Bush in January as critical indicators of political 
progress in Iraq that would come about as part of the surge. Yet, this 
did not happen.

And recent reports all raise stark doubts about the likelihood that 
we


will see any significant political progress on the part of the Iraqi 
government in the coming months.

Even Ambassador Crocker showed deep pessimism that meeting these 
benchmarks and achieving major political progress would be possible in 
the next month or year.

He said, ''I frankly do not expect us to see rapid progress through 
these benchmarks'' and suggested that progress would take months if not 
years to achieve.

So the American people are being asked for more patience at a time 
when it is clear that we do not have a strategy in place to remedy the 
situation in the immediate future.

While this administration continues to endorse an open-ended 
commitment of our presence in Iraq, our brave service men and women are 
caught in the middle of a situation that everyone agrees can only be 
resolved with a political solution. This is deeply troubling to me. Our 
nation has been in Iraq for 4/1/2/ years. We have spent $450 billion 
and the President will soon ask us for $200 billion more.

We have lost nearly 3,800 American troops, over 400 from my home 
State of California. Almost 28,000 have been injured in Iraq.

We entered the country thinking that we would be met as liberators, 
and had no contingency plans in place if we were not.

The borders weren't secured, leading to an inflow of foreign 
fighters.

Debaathification was put in place on all levels of civil society, 
leading to resentment and widespread unemployment.

The army was disbanded, creating a disaffected, trained insurgency.

The munitions dumps weren't secured, essentially arming the 
insurgency.

There has never been a clear-eyed strategy to resolve the major 
difference between Shia and Sunni.

In a case of truly open candor, General Petraeus even admitted that 
he did not know if the U.S. presence in Iraq had made America 
''safer.''

And now the American people are being asked for more of the same.

More time, more patience, more of our blood and treasure--all without 
a strategy. I cannot support this view.

I have said for a long time now that I believe that we should 
transition the mission in Iraq and begin to move our troops home. I am 
more convinced of that today.

Our forces only buttress the Maliki government and shield them from 
making the tough decisions.

If our President will not hold the Iraqis accountable, then Congress 
must.

Bush's plan means a large number of American troops in Iraq for years 
to come--an undefined commitment to Iraq.

Is it right to ask for a commitment from our troops when the Iraqis 
won't commit themselves? Clearly no.

So I believe that Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle 
should come together in support of a plan to start bringing our troops 
home. They should not be in the middle of an ethno-sectarian civil war.

We need an answer to the one question which General Petraeus famously 
asked as commander of the 101st Airborne in Iraq in 2003, ''Tell me how 
this ends.''