---
---

# IRAQ
## `594ba33acc47a46152e60be3ff829ddb`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I recently came to the Senate floor to 
express my views relative to the deliberations this body was 
undertaking approving and disapproving of the President's way forward 
in Iraq. I am strongly in favor of this body debating the U.S. policy 
relative to Iraq and believe all my colleagues are as well.

However, as I stated in my earlier speech, it is not appropriate to 
allow the majority party to completely dictate the terms of that 
debate, as they have tried to do over the last several weeks. That is 
why I voted against cloture on the motion to proceed to the Reid 
resolution on February 17, along with a vast majority of my Republican 
colleagues.

Mr. President, since that time, a new strategy relative to this 
debate has come forward. The strategy is essentially an attempt to 
deauthorize or restrict U.S. military action in Iraq by revoking or 
altering the Iraq war resolution, which passed this body by a vote of 
77 to 23 on October 11, 2002. I don't agree with this tactic.

On January 26, the Senate unanimously approved GEN David Petraeus for 
his fourth star and to be commander of the multinational forces, Iraq. 
No Senator opposed his nomination. General Petraeus supports President 
Bush's plan and new strategy in Iraq and has embarked on the mission 
for which President Bush chose him and for which this body unanimously 
confirmed him. Once again, now we are being asked to disapprove and 
deauthorize the very mission we have unanimously confirmed him to 
execute. Hopefully, my colleagues can see the irony, as well as the 
inconsistency, in the choice they are presenting before this body.

As I have said before, we need to give the new strategy in Iraq a 
chance to work. If General Petraeus comes and says it is not working, 
then I am prepared to change course. President Bush's current strategy 
is not guaranteed to work. However, no approach I have seen or heard 
discussed in the past several months has any greater chance of success 
than the course we are now taking. Therefore, this strategy deserves a 
chance.

In talking with some of my colleagues, on the Republican side as well 
as the Democratic side, who recently returned from Iraq, I am very 
hopeful that based on the comments they have made, per their visual 
inspection of what is going on in Iraq today, based upon their 
conversations with General Petraeus, we are seeing some successes, even 
though they are minimal at this point. But there is now hope and 
encouragement that this strategy is going to work.

If Members of Congress truly don't support our efforts in Iraq and 
believe we should withdraw troops, they should vote to cut off funds 
for the war, which is the primary authority Congress has in this area. 
However, having refused to allow the Senate to vote on protecting 
funding for our troops serving in harm's way, the Democrats are now 
proposing another symbolic resolution.

This is the fourth resolution that the Senate Democratic leadership 
has backed to address the troop increase, and the Democrats still 
insist on avoiding the fundamental issue of whether they will cut off 
funds for troops serving in Iraq.

As the Wall Street Journal wrote in an editorial:




 Democrats don't want to leave their fingerprints on defeat 


 in Iraq by actually voting to bring the troops home. So 


 instead, they're hoping to put restrictions on troop 


 deployments that will make it impossible for the Iraq 


 commander, General David Petraeus, to fulfill his mission.


This is essentially an attempt to ensure the policy does not succeed. 
Logically, the Senate should be giving General Petraeus everything he 
needs to succeed, both in terms of financial as well as political 
support. But that is not what the majority party is trying to do.

Democrats in the House of Representatives have undertaken a plan that 
would tie war funding in a supplemental spending bill to strict new 
standards for resetting, equipping, and training troops. This strategy 
to choke off resources and the Senate plan to revise the use of force 
authorization are attempts to make the war in Iraq unwinnable while 
avoiding political responsibility.

As Charles Krauthammer has said:




 Slowly bleeding our forces by defunding what our commanders 


 think they need to win or rewording the authorization of the 


 use of force so that lawyers decide what operations are to be 


 launched is no way to fight a war. It is no way to end a war. 


 It is a way to complicate the war and make it inherently 


 unwinnable--and to shirk the political responsibility for 


 doing so.


There is nothing easy or pretty about war, and this war is no 
exception. Not a day passes that I don't consider the human cost of our 
attempt to defeat the terrorists and eradicate extremism in Iraq and 
replace it with a self-reliant and representative government.

The debate, as we move forward, should focus on how we can most 
quickly and effectively achieve the victory that all of us desire. It 
is not about political posturing. It is about what Congress can do to 
support our young men and women in Iraq and help them accomplish this 
critical mission.

Losing the global war on terrorism is not an option. Failure in Iraq 
would be devastating to our national security, entangling the Middle 
East in a web of chaos that breeds terror and extremism. The Iraq Study 
Group and countless expert witnesses have testified that simply leaving 
Iraq, without stabilizing the country, would be disastrous.

As the senior Senator from my State, my support of our mission and 
our troops includes a responsibility to examine the tactics and 
question the steps that we take to reach our goal. I will continue to 
do that in a very deliberate way, but I intend to be constructive in my 
approach and criticism in order to do everything we can to ensure that 
our troops and our mission succeed, rather than doing whatever I can to 
make sure they fail.

When this motion to deauthorize or micromanage the war in Iraq comes 
to the floor of the Senate, I urge my colleagues to oppose it.

I yield the floor. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.