---
---

# None
## `595ae0e4f655ce1b8bf9370e1ba1f751`
`Mr. KAGEN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you, Mr. Ellison, and thank you, Ms. Clarke. This is 
a very difficult hour to be with you. I cannot tell you how much it 
hurts me, how much it hurts the children of Wisconsin, of New York 
State, of Minnesota, and all the children throughout the country who 
don't know yet that their President has left them behind, that the 
President has turned away from children in need.

What we are talking about is the difference between seeing a 
physician and gaining access to good health and not. Those children 
that don't get health care don't get well. When you are sick in school, 
you cannot learn. You cannot progress. You cannot move up into the 
middle class.

This bill, the SCHIP bill, and the veto by this President, a 
President who no longer represents traditional American values, he does 
not represent our values, this is a stark contrast between the two 
parties today. It really asks the question, whose side are we on? I am 
a Democrat. I am proud to be a Democrat. We are on the side of people 
who are in need. It is the role of government, isn't it, to care for 
those who are in need? Not just Hubert Humphrey. It goes back 2,000, 
5,000 years, into all of our cultures, into all of our religious 
beliefs, into all that we hold spiritually sacred. We must care for 
those who are in need.

The SCHIP bill has been lied about by many politicians. Some have 
said it's going to cover illegals. That's a lie. There are no illegal 
human beings, no illegal citizens covered in SCHIP. It does not cover 
rich people. Ninety percent of people that would be covered by the 
SCHIP bill have incomes below $41,000. Folks, the average cost of 
health care in this country is 12 to 14 grand per year. If you make 
$40,000, you can't afford health insurance today. You mentioned, Ms. 
Clarke, $3.50 a day. What are we spending in the religious civil war in 
Iraq, $400 million a day? $3.50 versus $400 million. The American 
people get it.

When I go back home to Wisconsin, I am just as frustrated as our 
electorate. People believe their elected officials are not listening to 
them. We are listening. We understand your frustration. We feel it in 
our heart, as well. This is a veto that must be overturned.

When I was running for Congress, when I left my medical practice, I 
left my medical practice because 30 percent of the time I would write a 
prescription, but my patients either couldn't afford the medication or 
it wasn't covered on the insurance company's list, or they simply 
couldn't get it. They didn't have the money. So I ran for Congress.

During my trails across the district, I had a 15-minute conversation 
set aside for a Native American activist. That conversation lasted 2/1/
2/ hours. It took me 2 weeks to recover. But she taught me that it is 
politicians who determine who lives and who dies. It is politicians, in 
this House, that will determine who has access to health care and who 
does not. It is politicians that will take us to war based on lies and 
deceptions. We are the people's voice here.

If you would allow me to take a moment, I would like to express the 
viewpoint of some of the people I represent. Chris Dion in Marinette 
wrote to me and said, ''I am a single person but can't afford medical 
insurance unless it has a very high deductible. Then it is still 
expensive. I have many medical problems and cancer runs in my family. 
But I can't afford tests or treatments because I don't meet 
requirements for free checkups.'' Her story is one of millions.

Forty-seven million don't have any coverage at all. The SCHIP bill 
makes fiscal sense. It is paid for. It doesn't raise taxes on anyone 
who isn't smoking. It is responsible. It is morally responsible to care 
for those who are in need. In my opinion, the President's veto of this 
bill is morally unacceptable not just to me, not just to me as a 
physician, but as a husband, as a father, as a Congressman. It is 
unacceptable to every citizen everywhere in this country who has a 
human heart. I think we have to work hard with our colleagues in a 
bipartisan manner to care for those who are in need. We can do it with 
the SCHIP bill that we created here in this House, the People's House.