---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `595affd874ff51784da44d80c51a772c`
`Mr. HUNTER — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3226, Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2010:

I received $3,000,000 for Trex Enterprises at 10455 Pacific Center 
Court, San Diego, CA 92121. Funding for this program will be used to 
complete development, flight testing and integration of the Brownout 
MMW Sensor that will reduce aircraft accident risk and allow aircrew 
visibility through the full range of landing and take-off operations in 
otherwise extremely hazardous flight conditions. ''Brownout'' is a 
situation Army aviators experience in combat operations daily in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Created by helicopter rotor downwash, it continues to 
cause aircraft accidents and remains a high risk to flight safety.

Specifically, as aircraft approach the ground, a thick plume of brown 
desert dust, dirt and sand disturbed by high velocity winds from rotor 
systems engulf the aircraft, causing a complete loss of the pilot's 
visual reference to the ground. The Brownout Situational Awareness 
Sensor, BSAS, is a cockpit display system capable of providing the 
aircrew visibility through the blowing sand and dust. This technology 
will greatly reduce the loss of aviator lives, loss of aircraft and 
reduce the amount of maintenance requirements resulting in damages from 
Brownout situations. Brownout is among the biggest hazards to rotary-
wing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, contributing to more than 71 
U.S. helicopter accidents. Providing this capability is critical to 
aircrew safety and combat readiness.

I also received $2,000,000 for CHI Systems at 12860 Danielson Court, 
Suite A, Poway, CA 92064. There is currently insufficient training 
provided to soldiers on the most crucial battlefield lifesaving 
situations. Medics and soldiers, in many instances, lack the experience 
to act swiftly and effectively in combat casualty situation. By 
combining instrumented manikin parts that support hands-on practice 
with computer based scenario training, this funding will complete the 
HapMed Combat Medic Trainer development and provide medics and soldiers


the ability to practice critical lifesaving tasks. In addition to 
providing realistic training scenarios, HapMed is also portable, so 
soldiers can continue to train while they are deployed. This system has 
received high praise in its ability to train soldiers for medical 
treatment on the battlefield. According to a Science and Technology 
Manager for the Army, ''New technologies such as HapMed are needed to 
provide medics with greater opportunities to develop and test their 
decision making and technical medical skills.''

New Army recruits must receive training in Buddy Aid or as Combat 
Life Savers (CLS). Currently, insufficient training is provided to help 
soldiers and medics acquire and maintain some of the crucial 
battlefield lifesaving skills such as tourniquet application, needle 
chest decompression, and emergency cricothyrotomy, addressing, 
respectively, the top three causes of preventable death on the 
battlefield. In order to perform these lifesaving functions under 
battlefield conditions, military personnel must have the awareness and 
confidence to act swiftly and effectively.

Further, I received $1,500,000 for General Atomics Aeronautical 
Systems at 14200 Kirkham Way, Poway, CA 92064. The Predator C has been 
designed and developed as the next generation aircraft in the extremely 
successful Predator series Unmanned Aircraft System. Predator C was 
designed in order to make the airplane more survivable in higher threat 
areas and to provide the U.S. Air Force with an armed reconnaissance 
capability that will be able to fly into many areas around the world 
undetected.

Predator C is slightly larger than Predator B and is capable of 
carrying 2000 pounds of the same mix of weapons as Predator B. Predator 
C will provide the U.S. Air Force with additional covert capability, 
enhanced by much higher operational and transit speeds for quick 
response and quick repositioning for improved mission flexibility and 
survivability. This system also provides variations in signature 
reduction technologies. Furthermore, Predator C means more jobs 
contributing to San Diego's local economy while providing the men and 
women on the ground the resources they need to accomplish their 
mission.
