---
---

# LIEUTENANT TODD JASON BRYANT POST OFFICE
## `595bd466d54a044e81c446e021c93d99`
`Mr. CALVERT — 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, as the author of H.R. 988, I rise today to 
pay tribute to First Lieutenant Todd Bryant. The legislation would 
designate a post office in my district as the ''Lieutenant Todd Bryant 
Post Office.'' Todd was born on January 14, 1980, in Long Beach, 
California. Todd came from a military family and his desire and 
determination to join the military was nothing short of resolute. He 
enlisted in the Army Reserve and completed Basic Training at Fort Sill, 
Oklahoma before his senior year of high school.

In the fall of 1997, Todd came to my office seeking a nomination to 
the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the following March, Todd 
accepted an Appointment to West Point. I was proud to nominate this 
ambitious young man who I knew would distinguish himself throughout his 
military service, just as he had done throughout his whole life.

Todd interned in my district office before his senior year at West 
Point and graduated with a degree in Political Science on June 1, 2002. 
He would often joke that he was going to run for my congressional seat 
some day--I have no doubt he would have succeeded. After graduation, 
Todd attended the Armor Officer's Basic Course at Fort Knox, Kentucky, 
graduating in December 2002.

On August 30, 2003, Todd and Jenifer Reardon were married in 
Pennsylvania, 9 days before shipping out with his unit in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. On Friday, October 31, 2003, Todd was killed 
by an improvised explosive device as his Humvee traveled on a road 
between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 years old.

I ask you to support H.R. 988 to honor the service and sacrifice of 
Lieutenant Bryant. The naming of the post office in Rubidoux would be a 
fitting tribute to him, and the sacrifice of his wife and loving 
family. First Lieutenant Bryant was a true patriot and a brave young 
man, and our community feels his loss immensely.