---
---

# REMEMBERING SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
## `5960c9d28c32a1498ca25c1bf83ff03b`
`Mrs. BOXER — 25 October 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I can hardly believe it has been 5 years 
since we lost Paul and Sheila Wellstone. It still seems like only 
yesterday that I would see Paul pacing up and down the aisles on the 
Senate floor, speaking out for Minnesota and what he so affectionately 
called the ''little fellers'' in the world.

There isn't a day that goes by that I don't miss him and beloved wife 
and soul mate, Sheila, but the loss is especially poignant in these 
tough times our country faces.

I remember during the Iraq war debate, Paul spoke out passionately 
against the resolution authorizing the go-it-alone military approach in 
Iraq. He spoke, almost prophetically, about the possible consequences 
of our actions--how it would impact the continuing war on terrorism and 
efforts to rebuild Afghanistan. He said that the gravest concerns were 
those raised about the possible loss of life--to our soldiers and 
innocent Iraqis. I can hardly imagine what he would think of the mess 
we are in today.

That day, Paul was strong and unafraid, as he always was, even though 
he knew his ''no'' vote could cost him his Senate seat. He said then 
that the ''only way to do it, is to do what you honestly think is 
right, and then whatever happens, happens.''

I think history has shown that Paul was absolutely right. And my only 
regret is that he is not here today to continue speaking out against 
the war in Iraq.

There are times when it is positively exhausting to keep fighting for 
just causes, especially against this administration. But then I look at 
the wall in my office and I see a beautiful picture of Paul and me 
together, and I think of what he would say if he was still here, and I 
am sure he would tell me to stand up and keep fighting.

We all lost so much 5 years ago on that tragic day--Paul, a fighter, 
a hero, a friend, a father, a grandfather. And of course we lost 
Shelia, Paul's partner in life, their daughter Marcia, and three 
devoted staffers. My heart still aches.

But what we gained, from Paul's life and legacy, cannot be erased by 
time. His passion and life's work is being carried on by his friends 
and colleagues, and by the good people of Minnesota, who I know miss 
him dearly.

And I know that if he could, Paul would tell us that there is no time 
for tears, and as he said many years ago, this is no time for timidity.