---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `59634983ab162d304ea23e0209d9b402`
`Ms. LEE — 12 March 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, let me first thank Chairman Spratt for his 
leadership and for his work on this budget. And I want to also thank 
his staff and my staff for really helping us put together I think a 
very good budget that we support.

This is a budget that, as compared to the Bush budget, I think the 
Bush budget is really the worst that we have seen in his long line of 
bad budgets. And with the staggering $12 billion a month with regard to 
the cost of the occupation of Iraq, I think it is about $3 trillion 
being projected, this is dragging our economy further into what we are 
calling an ''Iraq recession.''

It is particularly shameful that the administration would cut 
programs at this point in health care, in food assistance and in 
education which would help so many people who desperately need it right 
now.

That is why I am pleased that the Democratic budget before us rejects 
those draconian cuts. And I am also pleased that this budget is really 
war neutral. In fact, as the chairman stated earlier, the $70 billion 
placeholder in this budget can be used for whatever policy the Congress 
eventually chooses in authorizing and appropriating legislation, 
including redeployment of our troops. Now, over 90 Members of Congress 
signed a letter to President Bush and said that we would not vote for 
one more dime for combat operations. Only we will vote for money to 
redeploy our young men and women and bring them home. So as we approach 
this fifth anniversary of the invasion and occupation of Iraq, it is 
far past time that we act on the will of the American people by doing 
exactly that.

So I want to thank the chairman for this budget. And I urge my 
colleagues to support this budget and to work quickly toward 
redeploying our troops, toward addressing the waste, fraud and abuse in 
the Pentagon budget and begin to bring our troops and our military 
contractors out of Iraq and refocus our efforts and our budget on the 
many domestic needs here at home, which this budget does.