# CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER LYONS REMEMBERED FOR SERVICE TO COUNTRY
## `597526a840003dda5f6b04e072dd5d54`
`Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS — 6 November 2009`

---


Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize U.S. 
Army CWO Niall D. Lyons for his bravery and heroism while serving to 
protect our country's freedoms.

Chief Warrant Officer Lyons deployed from the B Company, 3rd 
Battalion, 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment at Hunter Army 
Airfield, Georgia to Afghanistan. On October 26th, 2009, Chief Warrant 
Officer Lyons gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country along with 
six special operations soldiers and three agents from the Drug 
Enforcement Administration when their MH-47 helicopter crashed in 
Badghis province in western Afghanistan. The crash happened when the 
soldiers and federal agents lifted off in the helicopter after an 
operation to disrupt arms smuggling and drug trafficking in the Darreh-
ye Bum Village in Qadis District.

Being a native of Spokane, Washington, Chief Warrant Officer Lyons 
was an avid Seattle Seahawks football fan. He also loved the great 
outdoors. He enjoyed water skiing and fishing. But most of all, he 
loved spending time with his son, John.

Today, his family, friends, and country must say their final goodbye 
to Chief Warrant Officer Lyons. Although the journey will be tough for 
his family and friends, we know that Chief Warrant Officer Lyons will 
always be looking from above watching over those he loved most.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge Chief Warrant Officer 
Lyons for fearlessly sacrificing his own life in order to protect our 
freedoms from the evils of terrorism. I invite my colleagues to join me 
in a moment of silence for Chief Warrant Officer Lyons as well as all 
of the men and women who lost their lives in the recent helicopter 
crash while serving in Afghanistan.
