---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `59836cf92c4643f28c891c2b112a8188`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I was sitting at home over the 
holiday recess spending time with my family when I became aware of the 
fact that the President had vetoed the Defense Authorization bill that 
we passed in this body shortly before we adjourned. And like most of my 
colleagues, I was surprised by that veto and I wanted to learn more 
about the basis, the reasoning behind the decision of the President to 
withhold pay increases to our men and women in uniform who are serving 
us in very heavily conflicted areas around the world, and why the 
President would veto a bill that would increase funding for Veterans' 
Administration health care benefits to our Nation's aging veterans and 
our most recent veterans who are in serious need of those medical 
services. And so I got a copy of the President's veto statement and I 
read it, and, quite frankly, I was shocked. I was shocked, Madam 
Speaker, because, as I saw the President's basis for the veto, I was 
taken back to a time several years ago when I was watching a 60 Minutes 
story about tortured U.S. prisoners of war from our first Gulf War. And 
when I learned that the basis for the President's veto was to keep U.S. 
POWs who had been brutally beaten and tortured by Saddam Hussein's 
thugs in the first Gulf War from receiving compensation for those 
injuries, I was ashamed for my country.

To give you some idea of what we're talking about, these were the 
words that Mike Wallace uttered on 60 Minutes at the beginning of the 
program on November 20, 2003: During the first Gulf War against Iraq in 
1991, a number of American soldiers who were captured and became 
prisoners of war were brutally, brutally tortured by the Iraqis. 
Eventually, though, the POWs came home, put the pieces of their lives 
back together, and largely remained out of the public eye. But today, a 
different battle is being fought by some of those American POWs all 
these years after they returned. It was back in 1991 that the POWs came 
home from Iraq to a hero's welcome and were greeted by the then 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Collin Powell and then Secretary of 
Defense Dick Cheney.



''Your country is opening its arms to greet you,'' said Cheney. Many 
of the POWs had suffered wounds both physical and psychological. Some 
of them suffer to this day more than a decade after they were captured 
and appeared on Iraqi TV.

And, Madam Speaker, to put a human face on these tortured American 
POWs, I am going to put up a photograph of Commander Jeffrey Zaun, who 
was a tortured Gulf War POW, who had a very visible presence on TV 
because of the attempt by Saddam Hussein's government to use him as an 
example and try to convince the American people to give up the cause 
that was the purpose for defending the invasion of Kuwait from the 
aggression of the Iraqi army. Commander Jeffrey Zaun was one of those 
POWs who was brutally tortured by the Iraqis and was part of a group of 
POWs who took action to try to hold the Iraqi Government accountable 
and to serve as a deterrent to other nations like Iraq who would dare 
to use American hostages and American POWs as a way of exacting their 
political agenda through torture and abuse in violation of 
international law, in violation of international treaties.

So how did we get to this point? During the Gulf War against Iraq, 
these captured POWs that we've been talking about were subsequently 
tortured, beaten, starved, hooked up to electric shock devices, and 
subjected to other horrendous acts by Saddam Hussein's regime. At the 
time these acts occurred, the United States Department


of State had classified Iraq as a state sponsor of terrorism. Madam 
Speaker, during the Gulf War, this very Congress that I stand in today 
had passed two resolutions by unanimous consent, stating the intention 
of the Congress to hold Iraq accountable for the torture of American 
POWs. Yet when these same brave American POWs returned home after the 
Gulf War ended, what did our current Vice President and then Secretary 
of Defense Dick Cheney tell them? ''Your country is opening its arms to 
greet you.''

Well, where I come from in Iowa, opening your arms to take care of 
tortured and wounded people means doing a lot more than ignoring their 
needs. And yet that is exactly what happened to these unfortunate POWs. 
They have suffered long-term physical, emotional, and mental damages as 
a result of brutal state-sponsored torture. And in 1996 Congress, 
responding to their concerns, raised by these international law 
violations, passed an amendment to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act 
so that torture victims like the American POWs we are talking about 
could seek compensation for their injuries from terrorist countries 
including Iraq.

On April 4 of 2002, 17 POWs and their families filed claims in the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking 
compensation for damages related to their torture and abuse by the 
government of Iraq. These POWs included many decorated officers in this 
Nation's military, people like Colonel Clifford Acree, Lieutenant 
Colonel Craig Berryman, Sergeant Troy Dunlap, Colonel David Eberly, 
Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey D. Fox, Chief Warrant Officer Guy Hunter, 
Sergeant David Lockett, Lieutenant Colonel Michael Robert, Lieutenant 
Colonel Russell Sanborn, Major Joseph Small, Staff Sergeant Daniel 
Stamaris, Lieutenant Colonel Richard Dale Storr, Major Robert Sweet, 
Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Tice, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Wetzel, and, 
of course, Commander Jeffrey Zaun.

I am on the floor tonight with some of my colleagues in the freshmen 
class so that these names do not fade into history and the abuse that 
they were subjected to does not get lost in the politics of a 
Presidential veto.

In 2003, after the Government of Iraq repeatedly refused to 
participate in arbitration on these damage claims and after hearing 
evidence about how these POWs had been repeatedly tortured, a judge 
awarded them damages and indicated that the purpose of deterring 
torture of POWs should be one of the highest priorities of our 
government.

And, Madam Speaker, the reason why what we're talking about is so 
important is because the United States, like many countries, is a 
signatory to international treaties designed to protect the treatment 
of U.S. POWs and other prisoners of war and the most important treaty 
is the Third Geneva Convention that was entered into on August 12 of 
1949.

One of the most important provisions that came out of the Third 
Geneva Convention is Article 131, and the reason that I am so outraged 
by the President's veto, Madam Speaker, is because Article 131 
prohibits the very conduct that the President engaged in in vetoing 
this legislation because the Geneva Convention Article 131 provides no 
country shall be allowed to absolve itself or any other country of any 
liability related to prohibited treatment of prisoners of war. And 
there is no doubt, there is no question, that the abuse of American 
POWs by Saddam Hussein's regime constituted the type of torture 
prohibited by the Third Geneva Convention.

I am proud to welcome to this hour the president of our freshmen 
class, the majority makers, my good friend from the southern part of 
Minnesota who has been a terrific leader in our class, who has been a 
passionate spokesman on fighting for veterans, fighting for our men and 
women in uniform, and he brings a very personal perspective to that 
based on his longstanding service in the National Guard of this 
country. And without further ado, I am going to yield to my friend and 
colleague, Mr. Walz from Minnesota.