# IRAQ
## `599cbaf82f2619aaf1b1f2814b9c720d`
`Mr. MARTINEZ â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, I wish to follow on my distinguished 
colleague's remarks regarding the situation in Iraq.

I had the opportunity to visit there a week ago today. I went to Iraq 
because I wanted to see for myself, on the ground, the conditions there 
in advance of General Petraeus's and Ambassador Crocker's report. I am 
happy to report I believe what I saw was significant military progress.

My first stop on the visit was in Tikrit. I got a full briefing there 
of the conditions in this area, which was Saddam Hussein's birthplace, 
a place that was well known as a place of a lot of al-Qaida and Sunni 
insurgent activity.

This area was under control. This area was moving in the right 
direction. Significant progress has been made in pacifying and bringing 
Tikrit to a better situation.

I had a very interesting visit then to Patrol Base Murray. Patrol 
Base Murray is about 12 to 14 kilometers south of Baghdad by the Tigris 
River. It is an area that was totally controlled by al-Qaida a few 
weeks ago. Our brave men and women in uniform moved in as the last 
brigade of the surge. See, the surge began in the middle of February, I 
guess, but it did not conclude until the last brigade reported for 
duty, and that was in early June, late May. This brigade, the Stryker 
force, moved into this area under very difficult circumstances, and 
they have had a battle on their hands. But their commanders reported to 
us that under the most difficult of circumstances, they have made 
incredible progress, and that area is beginning to turn and turn 
dramatically. They are working with the locals. I spoke with an Iraqi 
gentleman who is cooperating and working with our forces there in 
trying to bring a normalcy of life to people who live in this part of 
Iraq and is making progress. It is working not without some losses, not 
without the grief of losing one of our valued soldiers and many 
casualties, but at the same time progress has been made.

Under the most difficult of circumstances and intense heat, their 
morale is incredibly high. The fact is that by all measures, this is a 
successful outcome to this particular aspect of our surge. The surge is 
doing precisely what it was intended to do, to clear and sustain and 
work with the locals as partners. All of those things seem to be 
working as intended, as General Petraeus laid out.

I had the opportunity to spend some time with General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker to hear their assessment of the situation and hear 
some indication of what their report might yield. While we certainly 
need to allow them to speak for themselves when they come, I did get 
the definitive impression that the metric they utilized to sense and 
see whether, in fact, progress is being made, all seem to be moving in 
the right direction--not evenly, not without setbacks, but certainly 
significant progress is being made.

The strategy has shifted dramatically. It so happened that as we were 
shifting our strategy, al-Qaida and their excesses had been more than 
the local Iraqi communities could stand, and so we have had a 
confluence of interests, as many Iraqi leaders and tribal leaders and 
provincial leaders have turned against al-Qaida, understanding the way 
of al-Qaida is not the way that would be best for the Iraqi people. So 
this is a good confluence. This confluence has brought about the kind 
of incredible results the Senator from Missouri was speaking of in Al 
Anbar Province. So I believe a political reconciliation is ultimately 
the only way in which this will be a successful outcome. But the 
conditions on the ground are beginning to be such so as to allow the 
kind of a peaceful country to then begin the difficult process of 
political reconciliation.


There is no question that the Maliki Government has not delivered as 
hoped, but at the same time, some hopeful signs are beginning to 
emerge. There is no question the political progress lags behind the 
military progress. But I would expect it always would be so. The reason 
the military surge went ahead is so there could be the conditions for 
political progress.

Over the last several weeks, there have been meetings that have 
resulted in the beginnings of what I believe to be the political 
accommodations that need to take place. I think particularly important 
are the debaathification law and also the law that would allow for 
local and provincial elections. These


will go a long way toward setting the stage for the kind of political 
reconciliation that ultimately will make Iraq a peaceful country.

I wish to touch a moment on the report by General Jones on the 
conditions of the Iraqi military. I got a very positive assessment from 
General Petraeus. Their casualty rate is 3 to 1 to ours. They are 
taking the fight to the enemy, and they apparently are conducting 
themselves in stellar fashion.

However, they do need our help and will continue to need our help. I 
think it is important we note, as General Jones reports, that while he 
sees progress by the Iraqi military, surely they are going to be 
needing our help in logistics and air cover and things such as that for 
some time to come.

There is a big difference between them taking the brunt of the fight, 
which I think they are poised to do in the months to come, and still 
continuing to need the kind of backup and support that undoubtedly will 
take longer for them to build. It is a big difference for our military 
to be assisting in logistics than it is to be at the front of the 
battlefield. I think the Iraqis might be in a position to do so. I do 
not think there is any question that our goal is a successful Iraq, an 
Iraq that will not be a safe haven for al-Qaida, nor will it give Iran 
the kind of political control over this country that would be 
cataclysmic to the security and stability of the region. That is our 
goal.

As a result of that goal being achieved, then we will be able to 
withdraw our troops. But the goal ought to not be troop withdrawal at 
all costs. That would be a mistake for our country. It would be a 
mistake for the region. I believe that while progress is difficult and 
the sacrifices are great, that enough progress is being made for us to 
understand the way forward is a way of continuing involvement there 
until such time as Iraq has reached the point of stability that they 
can govern themselves and also provide for their own security.

I yield the floor.