# HONORING VICTIMS OF FORT HOOD ATTACK
## `59b16138f6f054b6e42bafaef76e0013`
`Mr. McCAUL — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, yesterday marked a dark and painful chapter 
in American history and for the State of Texas. People all across this 
Nation were devastated when they heard the news that soldiers and 
civilians of the United States Army at Fort Hood, Texas, were attacked 
by the least likely of assailants. It wasn't short an act of treason.

I want to first thank my colleague and good friend, John Carter of 
Texas, who represents Fort Hood in his district, for introducing this 
legislation to give all Members of Congress the opportunity to stand 
here today in support of the brave men and women at Fort Hood and their 
families in such a time of trial. Fort Hood lies just north of my 
district, just north of Austin. It's in central Texas. Many of us all 
across this Nation have constituents who have gone through Fort Hood to 
train for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I have had many of my 
constituents trained at Fort Hood.

But yesterday was a dark chapter; and in the aftermath, we learned 
that 13 of our finest Americans were killed, and several dozen more 
were wounded. This senseless act of horror betrays our respect and 
deepest dignity for life. Our deepest thoughts and prayers are with 
each of the families affected by this great tragedy. During this 
tragedy, there were reports that many soldiers provided heroic aid to 
their fellow soldiers who had been wounded, several of them already 
wounded themselves. These selfless acts saved the lives of many, and so 
many in central Texas have come forward to donate much-needed blood and 
offer themselves to help in this time of need.

This selfless service and determination is a testament to our 
servicemen and -women and stands in bold opposition to the horror of 
yesterday's events. And today as Fort Hood observes a day of mourning, 
we offer our prayers and support in this hallowed Chamber in the 
Congress to all those touched by this tragedy, including our soldiers, 
civilians, military families and the central Texas community.

Mr. Hasan, the suspect responsible for these acts of violence, these 
senseless acts of violence, was reported to have yelled out, ''Allahu 
Akbar,'' as he murdered innocents, as he wounded innocents. Translated 
that means God is great. To me, that's very disturbing. That is not my 
God. That is not our God. That is not the God of our fathers and 
Founding Fathers who have served in the military. May our God reach out 
to the families and the victims. May our God provide comfort in this 
great time of need. May our God hold them in the palm of his hand.

I reserve the balance of my time.