# None
## `59b677f8cca509f2ae529ea72df3feea`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, as the Senate turns its attention to the 
fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, every Member of 
this body is focused on the security of our Nation and the safety of 
our troops in Iraq. Senators Levin and McCain, along with the other 
members of the Armed Services Committee, have worked hard, very hard, 
to put together a bipartisan bill that provides our troops with the 
resources they need and sets priorities for defense spending for the 
year ahead.

This is a strong bill. I was proud to support it in committee. But it 
is incomplete--incomplete because we cannot possibly claim to have 
truly provided for our Nation's security until we have addressed the 
situation in Iraq.

It is now more than 4 years since President Bush declared the mission 
in Iraq has been accomplished. Since ''mission accomplished,'' more 
than 3,400 U.S. soldiers have died, died in Iraq. A sectarian civil war 
is now deeply entrenched, deeply entrenched and raging.

The political compromises that for years we have been promised by the 
Iraqis seem to be more distant than ever. Civilians are dying in ever 
greater numbers, and every day more American troops are hurled into the 
crossfire.

It is time, yes, far past time, for the Congress--that is us--to have 
a real debate about this war and about where our national security 
interests ultimately lie. We must start by sunsetting the outdated and 
open-ended 2002 authorization to use force in Iraq and requiring the 
President to request a new authorization that outlines the new mission 
which our troops are being asked to perform.

The amendment Senator Clinton and I are offering does exactly that. 
It will end the 2002 authorization on its 5-year anniversary, October 
11, 2007. That authorization which was passed to confront the threat 
that we were told faced us from the government of Saddam Hussein is no 
longer relevant. Our troops have toppled the dictator. The Iraqis have 
voted in a new government. No weapons of mass destruction have been 
found.

Meanwhile, American soldiers continue to die, die in the crossfire of 
another country's civil war, while the President fails to clearly 
articulate our mission, our strategy or our goals for continuing our 
occupation of Iraq. He must clearly explain his vision, his vision to 
an increasingly skeptical public, the American people, those people out 
yonder, the American people.

We were told this year would mark a turning point, a new direction in 
this war with a new strategy intended to give Iraq's political leaders 
breathing room in order to forge a political consensus. Unfortunately, 
that is not the way events have unfolded. Despite the addition of more 
than 20,000 American troops into Baghdad, civilian deaths have actually 
increased as the insurgents have engaged in a surge of their own--a 
surge of their own--far from creating breathing room for peace.



The President's current course appears to be pumping oxygen into the 
fire of sectarian violence. The decision to go to war--the decision to 
go to war--to send our sons and daughters into the line of fire, to ask 
them to kill and be killed on our behalf, is the weightiest decision 
that a Member of Congress can ever, ever, ever make.

It is wrong, wrong I say, it is wrong for Congress to continue to 
fail to reassess that outdated authority without a real debate about 
where the occupation of Iraq is headed. The authorization that Congress 
passed in 2002 to give the President authority to go to war in Iraq was 
rushed through here 3 weeks before Congressional elections--yes, rushed 
through.

It was passed in the shadow of warnings of mushroom clouds and the 
not-so-subtle implication that anyone who voted against the war could 
not be trusted with matters of national security.

It was a hasty and unconstitutional abdication of Congress's 
authority in matters of war. It is time to bring that authorization to 
a close--yes--and have an honest debate about the way forward. We do 
our troops a disservice if we do not take a fresh look, and the 
President should welcome the opportunity to solicit our renewed support 
for his policy. We must think of our national interest and think 
again--yes--of our brave troops. We must put politics aside.

At a recent Senate hearing, I asked Defense Secretary Gates if the 
2002 authorization still applies to Iraq. His response, may I say, was 
surprisingly candid:




 I don't know.


I believe the answer to that question is clear and that it is time 
for the President to make the case to the Congress of the United States 
and to the American people of the United States for the U.S. military's 
changed mission in Iraq. Our country will benefit from the debate.

This amendment puts the ball right back in the President's court, 
requiring him, the President, to request a new authorization for the 
new mission that challenges our military. The White House has 
repeatedly asserted that General Petraeus needs until September to 
assess the progress of the security escalation in Iraq. This amendment 
gives him that time. But this amendment also ensures that Congress and 
the people will have the opportunity to examine that progress to 
determine our course in Iraq. It is a simple, commonsense approach that 
reestablishes the congressional authority decreed by the Constitution 
of the United States. It also respects the President's role as the 
Commander in Chief.

It is important to emphasize to all of my colleagues that supporting 
my amendment does not preclude voting for any other legislative 
options. This amendment addresses the legal foundation for this 
horrible war. We are a nation of laws, not of men. My amendment simply 
states the obvious truth, that the facts on the ground do not match the 
open-ended authorization that is still in force. Any Senator wishing to 
vote for legislation mandating a withdrawal date or to restrict the war 
funding or to implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group 
should also support the Byrd-Clinton amendment.

As the President himself said earlier this year:




 The fight we are in is not the fight that we entered.


I couldn't agree more. This is not the fight Congress authorized. I 
urge this body to schedule a vote on the Byrd-Clinton amendment, and I 
urge my colleagues to support it.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.