---
---

# None
## `59b92f150c0176a29ceb65e56fbdc898`
`Mr. WOLF — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chairman, this is the article that I referred to, 
Public Radio, I'll put it in the Record. It says, Morning Edition, 
April 23. ''During the past week, dozens of women in southwest China 
have been forced to have abortions even as late as 9 months into the 
pregnancy, according to evidence uncovered by NPR.'' It goes on, 
mentions a family which Liang describes how they told her that she 
would have to have an abortion. ''You don't have any more room for 
maneuver,'' he says they told her. ''If you don't go to the hospital, 
we'll carry you.'' The couple was then driven to Youjiang district 
maternity ward in Baise City. ''I was scared,'' Wei told NPR. ''The 
hospital was full of women who had been brought in forcibly. There 
wasn't a single spare bed. The family planning people said forced 
abortions or forced sterilization were both being carried out. We saw 
women being pulled in one by one.''

Now, in answer to Mr. Ryan's comment, Mr. Ryan, I led the opposition 
over here in opposition to PNTR. President Clinton was one of the 
biggest supporters. He accused President Bush, criticized him, and then 
switched and strongly supported it.

I have sent your office, with due respect, probably 25 letters asking 
you as a Blue Dog member to cosponsor a bill that I have, and I'll do 
it again, on the SAFE Commission. On my SAFE Commission I have eight 
Members from the Democratic Party, eight Members from the Republican 
Party, and I put everything on the table, tax policy. Someone on your 
side said there is no Republican over there that would do it. I put tax 
policy on it. Some of my people don't like it, but we do. We also put 
all the entitlements to save the country.

I agree with you. God bless you. I agree that the debt that the 
Saudis hold is terrible. The debt that the Chinese hold. And I would 
beg you, because I know you're a good person, I watch you in committee, 
I followed your campaigns, join me in the SAFE Commission. We can get a 
handle on this deficit that we have in the country. This places a 
partisan political pit, and both sides are at each other.

So what I want to do is what we did on the Iraq Study Group, get 
eight Republicans and eight Democrats, give 1 year, this is modeled 
after David Walker, the GAO, to go around the country and educate and 
talk to the American people and listen. And then we use the Base 
Closing Commission concept whereby this Congress has to vote.

You're right. The amount of debt that the Chinese hold is horrible 
and that the Saudis hold. And I have written you over and over. The 
fact is, I will say it right now, I've been surprised that I haven't 
had anybody from your side cosponsor, because I will stipulate you care 
about the deficit as much as I do, maybe as a newer Member you may 
actually care about it more. But I agree with you, and the SAFE 
Commission is the opportunity to deal with this.

If you look at the language in the package I'll send to your office, 
I put every single thing on the table. And if you would join me, I 
don't know if we could pass it in this Congress or not, but I think 
you're exactly right, we could help save this country because we are 
living off of Chinese money and Saudi money. And keep in mind, the 
Saudis funded all the madrasses up at the border. There were 15 Saudis 
funding the Wahhabis. The Saudis are funding radical, anti-Christian, 
anti-Semitic. So if we could come together and do that.