---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `59c4c5be6c024848d3527826f2a6eff2`
`Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. I thank the gentleman for yielding, 
and I thank him for all of his hard work in struggling on this issue 
and our troops and force strength, Mr. Speaker.

But I rise in strong support of this bipartisan resolution regarding 
the Iraq war. I rise in strong support to this resolution to say to the 
President, no more. I rise in strong support of this resolution to say 
to the President, your policy is wrong. Yes, you have tried the surge 
before, and the surge has not brought peace to Iraq. It has not brought 
an end to the insurgency. It has not brought an end to the sectarian 
war that is going on in that country every day.

Yes, this is the fourth time that the President tried this policy, 
and it has not worked in any of those times. When we pass this 
bipartisan resolution, the President should pause. Because, at that 
moment, the President will not have the support of the United States 
House of Representatives; and, at that moment, the President will not 
have the superintendent of the people of the United States.

The President better think long and hard about he really believes 
that he should commit these troops, and continue to commit these 
troops, without the authority of the people, without the authority of 
this Congress.

Mr. Speaker, Members of the House, American men and women have been 
fighting in Iraq, and they will soon begin their fifth year. In 5 
years, they have done all that we have asked them. But what we have 
asked them to do cannot be accomplished by the military.

We have known for some time that Iraq now requires a political 
solution, and it requires the Iraqi government, the Iraqi people, the 
Iraqi society and the communities to take hold of their country and to 
decide whether they want a future of continued sectarian violence or 
whether they want an orderly society. They must make that decision.

The President has had it wrong for many, many months, for many years. 
He has continued to say that, as the Iraqis stand up, we will stand 
down. Mr. President, you have it wrong. As we begin to stand down, they 
will begin to stand up.

The fact that our military troops are on the streets of Baghdad and 
Anwar Province and elsewhere enables people to continue a level of 
violence that randomly and wantonly takes the lives of men, women and 
children, innocent bystanders, for almost no good reason at all, no 
good reason at all. It allows that to continue because each knows, if 
it gets out of control, the American troops will ride to the rescue, 
the helicopters will come, and the missiles will fly. We are the 
enablers of the continuation of this violence.

Once they have to take responsibility for their actions, once we 
leave, this is no longer an insurgency. This is crime on crime, Iraqi 
against Iraqi. Somebody has got to take the responsibility for that, 
and that will not be us. We will not be able to bring it to an end. The 
Iraqi government will be.

The time has come for our troops to leave. The time has come for us 
to understand that we cannot cure what is wrong in Iraq.

But for these troops that are there and for the troops that are being 
sent in spite of the will of the American people and the will of the 
Congress, we ought to understand that they should be fully equipped. We 
should not repeat the history of this administration in this deployment 
where men and women were sent into the theater without proper vehicle 
armor, without proper body armor, without proper interpreters and 
without proper training.

Many Members have come to this floor for many hours now and said, 
what is the message you are sending to your troops?

What was the message the Congress is sending?

What was the message this Congress sent to the troops when the 
President allowed them to go to war without enough troops to secure the 
peace?

What was the message this Congress sent when it allowed the troops to 
go to combat without proper vehicle armor?

What was the message that the Congress sent when it allowed our 
troops to go into combat without proper protective armor?



What was the message this Congress sent to the troops when it allowed 
this President to continue this failed course with no adjustment over 
the past 4 years?

And what was the message that we sent to the troops when it allowed 
the President to effectively draft American volunteers by continuing 
their tours, shortening their time at home, shortening their time with 
their families and sending them back without proper training, shortened 
training and without proper equipment?

We cannot do that to the troops. The message of this resolution is we 
are not going to do that. We are not going to do that. We will make a 
pledge to you that we will not let you fight and die forever with no 
plan to get you out, with no exit plan for you, with no change in the 
policy that has led tragically to so many deaths and so many wounded.

That is what this resolution is about. That is the message we must 
send to the troops, and that is the message we must send to the Iraqi 
people, that they must take responsibility.

This surge is not an election-day surge. This isn't a constitutional-
day surge. This is a surge for the purpose, this is an escalation for 
the purposes of door-to-door combat, street by street, block by block, 
house by house.

Yet today we see General Schoomaker saying in the paper that these 
troops that are getting engaged in this up-close battle in the midst of 
the Iraqi people will not have enough interpreters. They will not have 
civil affairs soldiers. They will not have enough translators. So now 
we are putting them again where they are at greatest risk, and this 
Congress is agreeing to go forward and repeat history and put them at 
risk when it is not necessary.