---
---

# HONORING CONGRESSMAN JIM SAXTON
## `59c62330b8c492df241efba62608686d`
`Mr. HUNTER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Terry Everett said Jimmy Saxton always cared about the 
soldiers, and he did, very deeply.

Interestingly, I had a lot of conversations with him about weapons 
systems. Never in those conversations, and people look at this as a 
place where lobbyists come in, and they lobby for things and want you 
to support them because they give contributions or their things are 
made in your district, I never heard Jimmy Saxton say, even in total 
confidence, we need to go for this one because it is politically the 
thing to do or it is good for my campaign. He would always argue the 
merits and he was willing to be convinced the other way if there were 
enough facts on the table.

We all visit the military bases, and we know the major bases and we 
go to them. When we go into theater in Iraq or Afghanistan, you go to 
the big bases and you spend a lot of time with the line troops. I was a 
line troop in the 173rd and our conventional forces.

Jimmy, as chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, he oversaw special 
operations forces. And so he spent a lot of time going to little, out-
of-the-way places and meeting with people who weren't highly visible 
all of the time, but people who work in small teams and work in 
dangerous and difficult places.

And kind of like the gentleman from Alabama who is one of the few 
people who served at the same time on the Armed Services Committee and 
the Intelligence Committee, and that is Mr. Everett, and understands 
the enormous character that is required of our intelligence people, 
Jimmy Saxton spent a lot of time with our Green Berets, with our Seals, 
with our Rangers and special operators, and he made sure that these 
people had the custom-made things that they need. That didn't always 
come in the regular procurement accounts. When you are undertaking 
these difficult missions, they need unusual equipment. Jimmy Saxton was 
very meticulous about making sure that they had the right stuff.

That is an important job, and I hope that those who come after Jimmy 
have the same attention to detail and the same concern for those guys 
who need extraordinary equipment.

He is going to be missed.

Mr. LoBiondo, I have watched as we would listen to a debate, and I 
will


come in and sit next to you, and we will both listen to Jim Saxton. He 
will share some of that great wisdom of his about issues, and it is 
always straight ahead. It is always the best advice he can give, and it 
is always in the best interests of our country.

Thanks for letting me come out. Since I presented Jim with his 
picture of, guess what from the west, horses, I am going to retrieve 
that back from his office and present it to him four or five more 
times.

Thank you for yielding to me.