# None
## `59cb15feb769780943f860bf6ece1a2c`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I would point out this is one of the most important 
bills on the floor today or at any time. It's called the Traumatic 
Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act of 2007.

The wounded from wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are returning with 
multiple injuries due to the use of improvised explosive devices, or 
IEDs. This often results in servicemembers and veterans needing 
polytrauma care, and has caused an increase in veterans with brain 
injury, or TBI.

We are going to have tens of thousands of these young men and women 
with these injuries. Among veterans and servicemembers that return from 
OEF and OIF and treated at Walter Reed for injuries of any type, 
approximately 65 percent have TBI or a comorbid, as they call it, 
diagnosis. Survivors of TBI experience physical, cognitive, emotional 
and community integration issues. Because of their injury, their 
capacity and initiative to seek appropriate care on their own is 
diminished.

We are also faced with thousands of veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan with milder cases of brain injury. This milder case often 
is missed and goes untreated, and symptoms may often mirror that of 
PTSD. Indeed, according to the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury 
Center, in prior military conflicts, TBI was present in up to 14 to 20 
percent of surviving casualties. The numbers for operations in OEF/OIF 
are predicted to go much, much higher.

We must ensure that the health care and services that meet the needs 
of returning servicemembers are available and accessible, while never 
forgetting the needs of veterans from previous conflicts. This bill 
provides for mandatory screening of veterans for traumatic brain 
injury. It requires the Secretary to establish a comprehensive program 
of long-term care, of postacute traumatic brain injury rehabilitation 
at four geographically disbursed polytrauma network sites. It provides 
for the establishment of TBI transition offices at each Department 
polytrauma network site to coordinate health care and services to 
veterans who suffer from moderate to severe traumatic brain injuries. 
It requires the Secretary to establish a registry of those who served 
in Iraq who exhibit symptoms associated with TBI.

This legislation establishes centers for TBI research, education and 
clinical activities, and requires the Secretary to establish a 
committee on the care of veterans with TBI. In addition to the 
provisions that address health care, research and treatment for 
veterans, this legislation also provides for veterans who reside in 
rural areas.

Mr. Speaker, it is a very important bill. We will hear soon from Mr. 
Michaud, the chairman of our Health Subcommittee, who was the primary 
author of this, who has been a leader to make sure that we serve the 
veterans who come back with these incredible injuries, that they 
receive the proper care that they need.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.