# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `59cf6c7e665ce76ca8ca9db8279964f9`
`Mr. LEAHY — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I introduce legislation about the 
National Guard with Senator Kit Bond, my fellow co-chair of the 
Senate's National Guard Caucus, and Senator Ben Nelson, a longtime 
caucus member and a subcommittee chair of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee. The National Guard Empowerment Act of 2007 would improve the 
management of the National Guard, and it will give the Guard more 
responsibility in improving our defense arrangements at home, where the 
Guard works in tandem with the Nation's governors to help keep our 
communities safe. This legislation will strengthen the National Guard, 
the military, and our Nation, and I believe it is something that 
deserves our attention and approval.

As Senators, we know all too well the many ways in which our 
communities rely on the National Guard. The soldiers of the National 
Guard, like their active duty counterparts, have expended an 
extraordinary amount of will and sacrifice in the wars in Afghanistan 
and Iraq. The National Guard comprised almost 50 percent of the forces 
on the ground in Iraq less than 2 years ago, and now, as the Pentagon 
plans to implement the President's plans for a troop escalation, the 
percentage of Guard troops on the ground is set to rise once again.

At the same time, we are constantly witness to the equally heralded 
work that the National Guard has done to increase security at home. 
Along with efforts to increase security along both the northern and 
southern borders, the Guard has bolstered security at special events 
across the country, including the Olympics, the national political 
party conventions, and events here in our Nation's capital. Most 
importantly, the National Guard provided the best--the very best--
response of any agency, Federal, State or local, in the disastrous 
aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, sending tens of thousands of troops to 
the hardest-hit communities in relatively short order.

When you look at these examples, it is indisputable that the National 
Guard is only limited in what it can do for us by the authorities, 
policies, available equipment, responsibilities, and support that we 
give them.

It is time to give the Guard more tools and support to effectively 
carry out these responsibilities.

With the knowledge that the use of the National Guard is sure to 
increase in the future, the President, the Secretary of Defense, and 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs need unfettered and unmediated advice 
about how to utilize the force, whether balancing both the domestic and 
overseas missions of the National Guard or using the Guard to support 
the Nation's governors in domestic emergencies. Given this need for 
greater input on Guard matters, it is only logical that the leadership 
within the National Guard should be the ones doing the advising. And, 
as the Guard becomes more active within the military's total force, it 
only makes sense to increase the number of Guard generals at the 
highest reaches of the military command, where key force management 
decisions are made.

At the same time, the National Guard is in a position to deal with 
some of the basic missions at home that are simply not being address by 
the Department of Defense. We have some real heroes at the recently 
established Northern Command, which is working with various civilian 
agencies to prevent another attack at home. Yet, the processes to deal 
with the mission of having military support of civilian authorities in 
domestic emergencies are as yet undefined.


Northern command, meanwhile, is taking only perfunctory input from 
the nation's governors who, along with local officials, will bear much 
of the responsibility in disaster situations. Five years after 
September 11, we cannot wait to give more definition to how the 
military will support civil authorities in an emergency, and we cannot 
wait until an actual emergency to inform State governors about what 
resources are available to them. With some new authorities, we can give 
the Guard the mission of leading the effort to support civilian 
authorities at home and in working with the States and governors to 
plan for such disasters.

Elevating the National Guard bureaucratically, increasing the quality 
advice on the Guard to the senior command, and improving response to 
domestic emergencies are exactly what the provisions of the National 
Guard Empowerment Act will accomplish.

First, the National Guard Empowerment Act elevates the Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau from the rank of lieutenant general to general 
with four-stars, with a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. This move 
will give the Nation's governors and adjutants general a straight line 
of communication to the Joint Chiefs Chairman, the Secretary of 
Defense, and the President. Having personnel with more knowledge and 
experience with the Guard involved in key budget and policy 
deliberations, the branches of the active duty services will be less 
willing to try to balance budgets on the back of the reserve forces 
like the Guard, which only goes against our overall ability to respond.

Second, the act gives the National Guard the responsibility of 
working with the States to identify gaps in their response 
capabilities, of setting equipment requirements, and procuring these 
much needed items. The act will ensure that a National Guard commander 
is the deputy commander of Northern Command and that the Guard--and 
thus, in turn, the governors--work in tandem with the command to set 
out specific plans to support our elected and civilian leaders in an 
emergency.

Let me be clear about what this legislation does not do. The Guard 
Empowerment Act does not make the National Guard a separate armed 
service. The Guard will remain an integral partner of the Army and the 
Air Force. Nor is the act some kind of wanton power grab. Instead, the 
act would bring the National Guard's bureaucratic position in line with 
what it is already doing and what we will expect of it in the future. 
Passage of the act will, utmost, not disturb or undermine our defense 
arrangements. Rather, it will empower the entire military to deal with 
critically important problems that it is simply not addressing.

This legislation has been carefully crafted over the past year and a 
half, and it incorporates the input we received from the adjutants 
general, the National Guard leadership, the governors, and key officers 
across the defense establishment. I would like to submit for the Record 
letters of support from the National Guard Association of the United 
States, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United 
States, and the Adjutants General Association of the United States.

This drive to empower the Guard is also gaining momentum in Congress. 
Since 9/11 we have been asking the Guard to do more and more, and they 
have superbly handled their dual role at home and abroad. But strains 
are showing in the system. The Guard is a 21st century military 
organization that has to operate under a 20th century bureaucracy. The 
Guard's ability to help the Nation is limited only by the resources, 
authorities, and responsibility we give it. Let us put the trust in the 
men and women of the Guard that they have deserved and earned, by 
giving them the seat at the table that they need.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that letters of support be 
printed in the Record.