---
---

# None
## `59d741b86f8458aa637895124abd8bca`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 19 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady from New York. I 
rise today to thank Chairman Obey and thank the leadership, Speaker 
Pelosi, for addressing the question that confronts us in the most 
strategic way possible. But it is important to note that many of us 
have opposed consistently a war that continues to go on unbridled and 
misdirected.

We thank our soldiers. But it's important to note that now some $600 
billion has gone to Iraq. We've lost 4,100 soldiers. Instead of having 
a military surge, we should have a diplomatic surge. We now give $165 
million unrestricted to this White House. But I do rise in support of 
amendment 2 that provides for the GI Bill that acts as a good Samaritan 
to those who have been unemployed for 13 extra weeks of unemployment, 
that provides for elimination of six Medicaid provisions that will help 
restore partially the health care that Americans need. But I believe we 
should have had provisions in this particular appropriation that would 
indicate that the dollars should be used to redeploy our troops, thank 
them and grant them the success that they have had because they are 
successful.

But we need to bring our troops home. And we need to indicate that 
the authority for military force has expired. The GI Bill is a ''thank 
you'' to our soldiers. Let's bring them home safely. And let's provide 
the investment that it needs. I am grateful that we had the disaster 
relief for all of those suffering in the Midwest, but that we've not 
forgotten the Katrina victims and survivors that now are still 
homeless. It is important, as we move forward, to begin to look at 
domestic funding.

This is a first start. But we need to have legislation that 
acknowledges the honor of those who have fallen, declare a military 
success and allow Iraq to invest. And I am grateful for the two 
amendments that require Iraq to invest in its own domestic development. 
This is the time to redeploy our troops.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to Amendment #1, and 
in strong support of Amendment #2 of the bill H.R. 2642, Making 
appropriations for military construction, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2008, and for other purposes. While I am supportive of the portions 
that contain provisions beneficial to the American people designed to 
improve our economy and protect


our young men and women, I remain adamantly opposed to this legislation 
because it continues a disastrous policy of providing unrestricted 
funding to continue the Bush Administration's war in Iraq.












 Amendment #1--Iraq War Funding


Mr. Speaker, I oppose Amendment #1 because I stand with the American 
taxpayers, who have paid over $600 billion to finance the misadventure 
in Iraq. I stand with the 4100 fallen heroes who stand even taller in 
death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their 
country. In May, I was proud to vote against amendment #1 to the 
previous version of the supplemental spending bill that would have 
provided funds for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which included a 
timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops. I was extremely pleased 
that the House did not pass this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I must oppose this legislation as it provides a total of 
$165.4 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and FY 2009, 
funds that are handed over without any strings. This legislation does 
not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my 
colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans 
now support. The bill we are considering today does not require that 
war funds can only be used for the responsible redeployment of American 
troop's home from Iraq. Instead, it hands the President nearly $163 
billion of virtually unrestricted funding, allowing him to continue a 
war that the American people do not support.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud 
of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's 
practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency 
supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would 
subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to 
be balanced against other pressing national priorities. I cannot 
support legislation that provides the President with the resources to 
prolong his ill-advised war effort unrestrained. As a Member of both 
the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for 
legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins 
the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq.

The congressional authorization providing for the use of military 
force in Iraq has expired. The 2002 Resolution authorized the President 
to:




 (1) Defend the national security of the United States 


 against the continuing threat posed by Iraq; and



 (2) enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council 


 Resolutions regarding Iraq.


Specifically, the resolution called for the disarming of any weapons 
of mass destruction in Iraq, removal of the rogue Iraqi regime, the 
capture of any al-Qaeda operatives in Iraq, as well as the promotion of 
democracy in Iraq. All of these objectives have been met.

Mr. Speaker, our troops have achieved extraordinary military success 
in Iraq, toppling the regime of Saddam Hussein in only 21 days, 
assuring the world that Iraq does not possess weapons of mass 
destruction, assisting the Iraqis in holding free elections, and 
setting the nation on a path toward democracy. However, while our 
troops have achieved the objectives for which they were sent to Iraq, 
they are now caught in the midst of a sectarian conflict. 
Unfortunately, there is no military solution to Iraq's ongoing 
political and sectarian conflicts. This is a war without end. Though 
President Bush continues to rely on a strategy that seeks to stabilize 
and reconcile Iraq by force, only the Iraqi government can secure a 
lasting peace. Thus far, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an 
inability or an unwillingness to deliver on the political benchmarks 
that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national 
reconciliation, which was the rationale and stated objective of the 
surge.











Amendment #2--Iraq policy provisions


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that Amendment #2 contains two important 
Iraq policy provisions. This amendment requires that funds spent by the 
State Department and USAID for Iraqi reconstruction be matched, dollar-
for-dollar, by the Iraqi government. In addition, this legislation 
prohibits military construction funds from being used to establish 
permanent bases in Iraq.

Like many of my colleagues, I am also concerned that the United 
States has paid and continues to pay a disproportionate amount for Iraq 
reconstruction, especially when the Iraqi government reportedly has a 
$25-30 billion budget surplus this year. I am pleased that this 
legislation calls on the Iraqi government to share equally in the cost 
of rebuilding the country. To date the United States has appropriated 
more than $45 billion for Iraq reconstruction. American-funded 
reconstruction programs have included the training and equipping of 
Iraqi security forces.

Iraq is a resource-rich nation. Though still facing problems 
including a lack of technology, damage from previous mismanagement, the 
effects of looting, and water intrusion, Iraqi oil production is 
currently at around 2 million barrels per day. The price of oil has 
skyrocketed to over $100 a barrel and Iraqi oil exports are generating 
an estimated $56.4 billion this year alone, according to the GAO, yet 
it is U.S. taxpayers who continue to foot the bill for Iraqi 
reconstruction. The government of Iraq is stashing its money in global 
banks, including a reported $30 billion in the United States, instead 
of investing this money in the development of crucial Iraqi 
infrastructure.

I am also extremely concerned about the direction of U.S. policy in 
Iraq, and the future of U.S. commitments. I am also very worried about 
the Administration's apparent desire to circumvent congressional 
approval and oversight in the process of negotiating a long-term 
agreement with the Iraqi government, as well as the still-open question 
of the establishment of permanent U.S. bases in Iraq, to which I am 
strongly opposed. Today's legislation, crucially, continues a 
prohibition on permanent American military bases in Iraq.
















Expanded GI Bill


Mr. Speaker, Amendment #2 of this legislation provides funding for 
much needed domestic programs and foreign aid. By extending 
unemployment benefits, expanding veterans' education benefits, and 
placing a moratorium on the Bush Administrations' six Medicaid 
regulations, this legislation gets us closer to where the Economic 
Stimulus package should have taken us. I am particularly pleased that 
this legislation expands the educations benefits that veterans receive 
under the GI, providing $50 billion over the next 10 years for 
veterans' college funding. This legislation restores the promise of a 
full, four-year college education, and will entitle veterans who 
enlisted after the Sept. 11 attacks and served three years or more to 
what amounts to four years of college education at a state university. 
By passing these provisions, we are making the veterans of the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan an integral part of an American economy recovery, 
much in the same way World War II veterans were incorporated under the 
original GI bill. I would like to see us go even farther to make an 
affordable college education a possibility for all those brave men and 
women who selflessly served our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan. Today's 
legislation does allow service members to transfer educational benefits 
to their spouses and dependents.













 Extension of unemployment


In addition, Mr. Speaker, this legislation includes a 13-week 
extension of jobless benefits for long-term unemployed. The number of 
Americans looking for work has grown by 800,000 over the last year, and 
the number of American jobs has declined by 260,000 since the beginning 
of 2008. The extension of unemployment benefits will provide a crucial 
safety net to American workers who are feeling the strain of the 
sagging economy.











 Emergency funding for the Midwest


This legislation also includes $2.65 billion in much-needed aid for 
the storm-ravaged American Midwest. Violent storms, bringing tornados 
and flooding, have been blamed for at least 24 deaths since late May. 
With damage still not fully assessed, what has been called the worst 
flooding in the Midwest in 15 years has ruined an estimated 5 million 
acres of farmland. According to the Army Corps of Engineers, 23 levees 
along the Mississippi have failed this week alone, and 48 more, which 
protect over 285,000 acres of cropland, are either overflowing or at 
high flood risk. Today's legislation provides critical resources to 
respond to these disasters, which are affecting millions of Americans.


















Medicaid


In addition, this legislation also delays most of the destructive 
Medicaid cuts proposed by this President. The Bush Administration 
sought to cut services and payments to American families by 
adding seven different Medicaid regulations to the stimulus. This 
legislation places a much needed moratorium on six of these 
regulations, giving back to our seniors, families, and those with 
disabilities as well as cut payments to safety net providers.


Because I believe that fixing our health care system is one of the 
most important issues we currently face, I recently introduced the 
''Medicare Efficiency and Development of Improvement of Care and 
Services Act of 2008'' (MEDICS Act), which provides a solution to the 
Medicare reimbursement problem as well as grows beneficiary access.

My bill increases the number of primary care physicians. It 
specifically requires that within one year of enactment, the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, in coordination with the Association of 
American Medical Colleges shall submit to Congress an effective plan to 
increase the number of primary care physicians particularly those 
practicing in counties, cities, or towns ''underserved'' or with a 
disproportionate number of Medicare-eligible and/or Medicare 
recipients. In addition, my legislation forces an examination of the 
disparities in our health system, particularly those based on race, 
ethnicity, and gender,


and begins the process of eliminating these discrepancies, and making 
health care an affordable reality for all Americans.












Food aid and disaster assistance


I am also pleased that this legislation provides increased funding 
for international affairs. This includes $1.865 billion for food aid 
and disaster assistance, which is $745 million above the President's 
request. This sum includes $500 million above the President's request 
for PL480 Food Assistance and $245 million above his request for 
development assistance and disaster assistance programs meant to 
alleviate world hunger.

This additional funding comes at a crucial time. As my colleagues are 
aware, we are facing an international food crisis. According to the 
International Monetary Fund, IMF, global food prices have increased an 
average of 43 percent. In fact since March 2007, wheat has increased by 
146 percent, soybean has increased by 71 percent, corn by 41 percent, 
and rice prices have increased by 29 percent, according to the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture.

Sadly, approximately 1 billion people--or one-sixth of the world's 
population--subsist on less than $1 per day. Of this population, 162 
million survive on less than $0.50 per day. Overall, increased food 
prices particularly affect developing countries, and the poorest people 
within those countries, where populations spend a larger proportional 
share of income on basic food commodities. It is simply unacceptable in 
this day and age that so many children are going hungry. We have 
millions of dollars to bailout Bear Stearns, let's find that same money 
to help our families and our children.















 Refugee assistance


I am also extremely supportive of the provisions in this legislation 
that increase funding for refugee assistance. This legislation provides 
$696 million, a total $475 million above the President's request, to 
address the ongoing refugee crises in Iraq and elsewhere. This funding 
comes in the midst of a worldwide surge in the number of refugees, with 
Iraq and Darfur facing particularly severe crises. Having recently 
spent time on the ground with refugees living in camps in Darfur and 
Chad, I am pleased that the figures in this legislation represent the 
reality of the global refugee situation, and will make important 
strides toward meeting the needs of the growing number of people 
displaced by conflict, poverty, disaster, or other extreme 
circumstances, particularly those in Darfur and in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support amendment #2 to this legislation 
because it contains vital provisions that will directly benefit the 
American people. I must oppose amendment #1 because I refuse to support 
the continuation of a disastrous policy of providing unrestricted 
funding to continue the Bush administration's war in Iraq. It is pure 
fantasy to imagine that President Bush's military surge has created the 
necessary safety and security to meet economic, legislative, and 
security benchmarks. It is time for a new strategy, a new plan that 
will encourage Iraqis to take charge of their own destiny, seek 
constructive and sustained regional engagement, and substitute the ill-
advised military surge for a thoughtful diplomatic one. It is time to 
be realistic and pragmatic, to recognize that our troops achieved what 
they were initially sent in for and that continued U.S. military 
engagement is not bringing about the desired results.