---
---

# CHIROPRACTIC CARE AVAILABLE TO ALL VETERANS ACT
## `59d81699d840631729f5407d51c755c1`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

We are continuing with a packet of seven bills from the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee that is really a thank-you in prelude to Memorial 
Day, a thank-you to our Nation's veterans. Memorial Day is a tribute to 
those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.

What we are saying is we're honoring them and all our veterans who 
are living with us in the United States. And as I said earlier, no 
matter where we are on the current debate on the war in Iraq, we are 
united in saying that every young woman, every young man who returns 
from that battle gets all the care, the attention, the love, the honor, 
the dignity that a grateful Nation can bestow. And that's what we are 
saying in these bills today.

We have already passed a bill which extends from 2 years to 5 years 
the ability of any returning servicemember in combat to access the VA 
health care system. Two years was not sufficient for those who might 
have brain injuries, who might have PTSD, posttraumatic stress 
disorder. These are, in many cases, hidden diseases. You don't know 
that you have it. A doctor may not diagnose it at first, and so as time 
goes by, you may feel the need to access the VA health care system. So 
we have extended that from 2 years to 5 years.

In addition, we have passed a new outreach program to meet especially 
the needs of rural veterans, and we will continue this package in the 
hour ahead.

Veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan should 
be able to depend on medical services that they want being available in 
the system of health care that was built to take care of them and their 
unique needs.

For those returning veterans seeking care in a VA health care system, 
we know that the most common health problems are under the category of 
musculoskeletal ailments, principally joint and back disorders. We hear 
a lot about brain injury and PTSD, and those we have to give a lot of 
resources to, but 42 percent of veterans coming to the health care 
system have been presented to the VA with the needs of joint and back 
disorders.

This bill, the Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act, 
requires


that chiropractic services be made available in not fewer than 75 VA 
medical centers by the end of December 2009 and all the health care 
centers by the end of 2011.

Undoubtedly the returning servicemembers will be able to benefit from 
this care. I speak from experience as I have had chiropractic care a 
good part of my life. I am confident that with expansion of these 
services within VA, many veterans will be able to find relief from 
their pain.

Since the creation of the VA health care system, the Nation's doctors 
of chiropractic have been kept outside and all but prevented from 
providing proven, cost-effective and needed care to veterans. So we are 
grateful that access is becoming wider and wider.

The support for VA chiropractic service is bipartisan. Former 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi released a policy 
directive before his departure several years ago regarding the true and 
full integration of chiropractic care in the VA.

Secretary Nicholson and I have developed a solid working 
relationship, and chiropractic care is an area where we will be working 
closely together. Both Republican and Democratic Members have supported 
the inclusion of chiropractic care in the VA.

I have worked very closely with chiropractic patients, particularly 
our veterans, as well as with various associations dedicated to the 
profession such as the American Chiropractic Association.

Veterans are returning home from combat expecting to receive needed 
services. Let us not disappoint them. Expansion of chiropractic 
services is the right thing to do, and it is the least we can do for 
our returning heroes.

I urge support of H.R. 1470.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.