# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `59ec9ae13bf6c8ef12fff314f658fbd0`
`Mr. ROBERTS â€” 5 November 2009`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, suddenly I find myself a member of the 
powerful Appropriations Committee, but it comes under a dark cloud 
indeed. The distinguished chairman, who does such a great job in behalf 
of our veterans and military construction, has pointed out the terrible 
tragedy that has happened at Fort Hood. So I am here standing in, if 
you will, for Senator Hutchison, who does such a good job, in 
partnership with my colleague and my friend and my neighbor, whom I 
respect a great deal. So I appreciate the opportunity to speak on the 
bill before us.

As Senator Hutchison departs as early as she possibly can to get to 
Texas to assist in the challenge of this great tragedy, we wish her 
well, and our prayers are with her and all the people at Fort Hood and 
all the people in Texas.

As the distinguished chairman has stated, a lot of time and energy 
have gone into putting this legislation together. Senator Hutchison 
wanted to thank Chairman Johnson and his staff for working hard to 
address the needs of our servicemembers and veterans. I am going to 
repeat just a couple of things that are in the full statement of the 
distinguished Senator from Texas.



As Chairman Johnson has pointed out, the Military Construction, 
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies appropriations bill includes for 
fiscal year 2010 $76.7 billion in discretionary spending, $23.2 billion 
for military construction, $53.2 billion for our veterans, $55.8 
billion in mandatory spending for veterans' benefits, and $1.4 billion 
for military construction projects to assist our troops in Afghanistan 
in their fight against terrorism.

A lot of the figures Senator Hutchison has here have been mentioned 
by the distinguished chairman, so I won't go into those, but Senator 
Hutchison wanted to indicate and wanted to highlight that she was very 
pleased that the bill provides full funding for the base realignment 
and closure actions. The funds are essential to bringing our troops 
home, predominantly from Europe and Korea, and basing them in the 
United States. By fully funding BRAC, we can help the Department of 
Defense to stay on schedule to achieve this goal by September of 2011.

Senator Hutchison would also like to highlight that the legislation 
contains the necessary funds for the Defense Department program 
especially designed to help our servicemembers who were forced to 
relocate in this harsh economic housing environment--I might add that 
we see this at Fort Leavenworth and Fort Riley as well in Kansas--the 
Homeowners Assistance Fund. Chairman Johnson has been absolutely 
instrumental in making this program a success.

The legislation contains about $1.4 billion in emergency funding for 
the war in Afghanistan. Senator Hutchison, myself--almost every Senator 
knows that the policies of this conflict have been passionately debated 
on the Senate floor in recent days, but I am sure we can all agree that 
independent of our views on the war or the strategy of that national 
security threat, we must provide the infrastructure needs of our 
sailors, soldiers, airmen, and marines, who, by the way, celebrated 
their birthday today. This bill does just that.

In addition, I would point out that the distinguished ranking member 
wanted to express her strong commitment to making sure that our NATO 
allies--our NATO allies--fund their fair share of these joint projects.

The chairman has already gone over the figures for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, although Senator Hutchison did want to point out that 
it includes funding to enhance outreach and services for mental health 
care, combat homelessness, further meet the needs of women veterans, 
and expand our health care to rural areas--something the chairman knows 
all about, something which I like to think I know something about, and 
something that I know Senator Hutchison knows about a great deal.

Finally, we have included $48.2 billion in advanced appropriations 
for veterans' medical care for fiscal year 2011. This funding will 
allow the VA to better plan the budget for our veterans' health care.

Congress has shown its resolve time and again to care for our 
Nation's veterans and provide the infrastructure for our men and women 
in uniform. We all owe them a debt of gratitude and will do our part to 
take care of them.

So I ask my colleagues to support this bill. We have no objection on 
this side.

Again, I wish to thank the distinguished chairman for all of his work 
and leadership.

I yield the floor.

(At the request of Mr. Roberts, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)