# PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007
## `59f1ef074d4ffac39bc4289eafe632a2`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 12 March 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 1424, the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction 
Equity Act. This legislation is named in tribute to Minnesota Senator 
Paul Wellstone, whose work on behalf of the vulnerable was well known 
and well respected.

I also rise to thank my colleague from Minnesota, Congressman Jim 
Ramstad, for continuing Senator Wellstone's fight on behalf of those 
who the stigma too often attached to the issues of mental health and 
substance abuse has left voiceless. Mr. Ramstad's courage in sharing 
his experience with substance abuse and his dedication to passage of 
this legislation is the reason we are here today. This bill will help 
end the pattern of senseless and immoral discrimination against those 
suffering from mental illness and put to rest the outdated notion that 
these challenges are less legitimate or severe than physical ailments.

Mental illness left untreated affects all facets of our society and 
costs our economy over $150 billion annually. Mental illness affects 50 
percent of the homeless population in Minnesota, 70 percent of those in 
our juvenile justice system, and those with the highest unemployment 
rates. Health care costs double when diabetes and heart disease 
patients have co-morbid depression, and patients with mental illness 
and substance abuse disorders are often less responsive to treatment.

In addition, the burden that mental illness places upon the health 
and productivity of our Nation has long been underestimated. One in 
five adults and one in ten children have a mental illness. And over 
one-third of our returning servicemembers from Iraq and Afghanistan 
suffer from mental health problems.

The costs of untreated substance abuse are also high for families and 
our health care system. Studies have shown that 1 in every 5 Medicaid 
dollars spent on hospital care is related to substance abuse; health 
care costs for those dependent on drugs or alcohol is 100 percent 
higher than those without an addiction; and the costs to law 
enforcement and to employers are significant. Treatment makes a 
difference. A recent study showed that after treatment, family health 
care costs dropped 50 percent.

H.R. 1424 requires parity with co-payments, deductibles, and out-of-
pocket expenses, and requires that limits on mental health and 
addiction care are no more restrictive than those on physical health. 
This legislation requires equality in out-of-network care and ensures 
coverage for mental illness and substance related disorders included in 
the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, DSM.

It is time to pass this bill. We have all been affected in some way--
ourselves, a family member, a friend, or colleague--by mental health or 
substance abuse. As we look to reform our health care system, mental 
health and physical care can no longer be looked at as separate 
entities. It is morally right and good for both our economy and our 
health care system. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this 
important bill.
