# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `59f73259a7a6de05f3640658e3f8e58e`
`Ms. HERSETH â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join so many other proud 
and patriotic Members of this body, including a number of our military 
veterans, in support of this bipartisan resolution.

Just over a year ago when I was in Iraq on my second trip to the 
region, I shared the optimism and the assessment of many that, 
following three consecutive elections in 2005 with increasing turnout 
among Iraqi voters in each, 2006 would be a key transitional year 
militarily, politically, and economically.

However, a year ago this month, the sectarian strife in Iraq began to 
worsen, and our inadequate planning for possible and likely scenarios 
that could unfold in this war continued to catch up with us and 
continued to narrow our strategic options. As initial and important 
political developments did eventually unfold throughout last summer, 
sectarian violence did not abate but intensified, particularly in 
Baghdad. In response, U.S. forces were part of as many as four 
different efforts to enhance security in the capital in order to ease 
the path toward further essential political compromise. None of these 
efforts proved successful because of the limitations of the Iraqi 
security forces and police and the restrictions imposed by Iraqi 
Government leaders.

I had serious concerns when the President proposed last month to 
increase the number of troops in Iraq, and I hold them still today. I 
have serious concerns regarding the ability of Iraqi security forces 
not only to act as a reliable partner in the efforts to secure Baghdad, 
but to take on and maintain the lead in such efforts, concerns echoed 
in the most recent National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq.

I have serious concerns regarding whether this plan is sufficiently 
different from previous efforts to secure the Iraqi capital, 
particularly when Prime Minister al-Maliki's initial proposal presented 
to the President in December did not envision additional U.S. troops as 
part of the effort. I have serious concerns about the further erosion 
of the commitment of our coalition partners and other allies, if indeed 
Iraq is the central front of our battle against terrorism.

Now, there is no doubt that al Qaeda in Iraq and elsewhere poses a 
real and serious threat to our security in the Middle East and to our 
national security here at home. But the security situation in Iraq has 
evolved to include a complex civil war, described as ''a self-
sustaining intersectarian struggle'' by the NIE, for which additional 
U.S. troops should not be on the front line to resolve.

The Iraqi Government needs to understand they are on borrowed time 
and they must take greater control of the future of their own country 
through political reconciliation to quell the sectarian violence. 
Iraq's neighbors and the international community must be more engaged 
diplomatically to end the sectarian strife so as to prevent the spread 
of it and the instability in the region that would result.

Moreover, as recent oversight hearings have revealed, such a large 
escalation of both combat and support troops undoubtedly will have an 
impact on our overall military readiness. And despite their unwavering 
commitment to serve when called, there may be serious consequences for 
National Guard and Reservists, as redeployments of full units will be 
required to implement the troop surge, according to Secretary of 
Defense Robert Gates.

So after carefully reviewing the President's proposal to increase the 
number of U.S. troops in Iraq, hearing testimony from senior members of 
the military, and analyzing the public statements of combatant 
commanders, and speaking with many of those from my home State of South 
Dakota who have served or who have loved ones who are serving in the 
war on terror, I conclude we should not stay this course. I remain 
unconvinced that sending additional troops to Iraq is the best way 
forward. Some who support the escalation have described it as ''our 
last best chance to win.'' To me, that is a clear acknowledgment that 
the President's plan further narrows rather than expands our strategic 
options.

And let me add this: This is an issue that demands a bipartisan 
approach, and it is most unfortunate that the administration has made a 
decision that dismisses the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq 
Study Group. I believe this bipartisan, narrowly crafted resolution 
reflects the public's and Congress' assessment that increasing our 
military's combat role, especially in the midst of an intensifying 
sectarian struggle, is not the answer.

For those who would attack this limited resolution and the debate 
surrounding it or to suggest and ask, Whose side are you on, I would 
refer them to the comments of Secretary Gates from his testimony in the 
House Armed Services Committee last week in which he said that the 
troops are ''sophisticated enough to understand that . . . the debate's 
really about . . . the path forward in Iraq. They understand that the 
debate is being carried on by patriotic people who care about them and 
who care about their mission.''

Lastly, I want to reemphasize the first part of today's important 
resolution. Congress and the American people will continue to support 
and protect members of the U.S. Armed Forces who are serving or who 
have served bravely and honorably in Iraq. We have a new generation of 
veterans returning from Iraq. As a subcommittee Chair on the House 
Veterans' Affairs Committee, I will work with all of my colleagues to 
ensure that the tens of thousands of young people coming home, some 
after their second, third, and fourth tours, many with severe and 
debilitating physical and mental wounds, return to the democracy which 
they fought to protect, with a government that recognizes their service 
and sacrifice with more than just words of gratitude, but with action 
that fulfills our Nation's collective duty and obligation to them as 
veterans who take their place alongside the other fighting men and 
women who have kept America free and safe.