---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5a03aefdd705ef8c55b17a511e505cbb`
`Mr. HOYER — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to tell my friend that there 
are more ways to skin a cat than one.

I tell the Chair that I have heard the argument of these earnest 
young men who have all stood on this floor. David Stockman at the age 
of 34 telling the country as director of OMB how we were going to 
balance the budget, how Ronald Reagan said we are going to balance the 
budget. Ronald Reagan ran over $1 trillion in deficits over his 8 
years. Over $1 trillion in deficits.

There is one person in America who can stop spending in its tracks, 
only one, and that is the President of the United States. Ronald Reagan 
ran $1 trillion in deficits, actually $1.4 trillion. George Bush I in 
just 4 years ran $1 trillion in deficits. And this President in the 6 
years he has been President has run over $1.6 trillion in deficits. 
$4.1 trillion of deficits during the Reagan administration, the Bush I 
administration and the Bush II administration.

Now, I tell the Chairman that my friend does not seem to be paying 
attention to these dramatic figures. But ladies and gentlemen of this 
House, I hope you are, and I hope all of our constituents are listening 
as well, because the rhetoric on this floor is cheap, but the 
performance is not.

During those 18 years of Republican leadership of this country, we 
ran $4.2 trillion in deficits. During the 8 years that Bill Clinton was 
President, we had a $62.9 billion surplus. The only President in the 
lifetime, I tell the Chairman, of my young friend from Wisconsin that 
that has been accomplished, notwithstanding Mr. Stockman or Mr. Kasich 
or Mr. Nussle, who all said they wanted to balance the budget, and 
none, none, none of them did it. None of them did it.

Now, we adopted a program in 1993, and I heard the same rhetoric, I 
tell my friends on this side of the aisle, that I am hearing today, the 
same rhetoric. Dick Armey not only was the majority leader of the 
Republican House, it wasn't a Republican House then, but he was also an 
economist, and an economist still. And Mr. Armey told the President of 
the United States, if we adopt this program, we are going to have deep 
debt, high unemployment and annual deficits.



That was the representation I tell my friends on this floor. Those 
representations were all wrong. That's why when we listen to debate on 
this floor today we see a balanced budget, a responsible budget that 
invests in our future.

Mr. Chairman, if I were speaking directly to him, I would tell my 
young friend, I have heard about these cuts that you talk about, for a 
quarter of a century I have heard about these cuts. Why is it that you 
spent more money as a party with the President with control of the 
Senate, control of the House by a factor of two, twice as much spending 
rise under the Bush Administration than under the Clinton 
Administration. Why is that?

Why do you come here and crow about cutting spending when you doubled 
the rate of growth when you controlled everything? That's what the 
American public needs to judge.

Now, I had some prepared comments here, and I apologize to my good 
friend who spent so much time doing this. But, ladies and gentlemen, 
Lewis Carroll is not writing this budget. Alice is not going to have to 
live under this budget. My children, my grandchildren, my great 
grandchildren and, more importantly, my country, are going to have to 
live under this budget.

We didn't adopt a budget last year. We didn't adopt appropriation 
bills last year. We didn't do any of the fiscal business that we should 
have done last year. Why? Because your party could not agree with one 
another. So you had no fiscal program. Your fiscal program was spending 
more money.

I hope that this House, for the first time in 6 years, adopts a 
responsible budget that will move us towards balance. It won't get 
there overnight. And when I say that, it is not empty rhetoric, because 
when we, in 1993, passed that program, we took this country for 4 
straight years out of deficit.

Now, I know you will say, ''Well, we Republicans took over in 1995.'' 
And my response to that, of course, is, you didn't have the presidency. 
When you had it all, why couldn't you do it? When you had the 
presidency, when you had the Senate, when you had the House, tell me 
why you couldn't do it.

I will tell you why. Because it was the President of the United 
States who said this is the way we are going to do it or I am going to 
veto it. This President can veto it, and we won't be able to override 
his veto. I understand that. He is in charge. That's why we have these 
deficits, because he has not vetoed one spending bill. He vetoed one 
bill, embryonic stem cell research. Not one spending bill. Every nickel 
that has been spent in this country has been spent under the signature 
of George Bush, the President of the United States, every nickel.

So I ask my friends, vote for a responsible budget. Move us, as we 
did during the 1990s, 4 years out of debt, 4 years into surplus, the 
first time that had happened, and left you folks that took over with a 
$5.6 trillion surplus that you have squandered into a $3 trillion 
deficit. And, yes, 9/11 had an impact on that. And your tax cut, we had 
a very shallow recovery. You know that. Every economist says that. And 
a relatively shallow downturn in the economy.

This budget offered by Mr. Spratt is a responsible budget that 
provides for tax cuts for the middle class, provides for investment in 
education and competitiveness of our country, provides for investment 
in our veterans, provides for investment in defense, using the same 
number that the President gave us so that we can keep America strong.

Mr. Spratt, I thank you. I thank the members of your committee for 
having the courage and the wisdom and the fiscal soundness to come 
forth with this budget. It is worthy of support of every Member of this 
Congress.

I urge this House to adopt this budget this day.

Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to our republican colleagues, let 
me say that to hear them talk about fiscal responsibility is nothing 
less than surreal.

In this debate on the fiscal 2008 budget, many numbers have been 
used.

But only two are really relevant on the issue of fiscal 
responsibility, and the Republican Party's lack thereof--$5.6 trillion 
and more than $3 trillion.

When President Bush took office, he and the then-Republican 
majorities in Congress inherited a projected 10-year budget surplus of 
$5.6 trillion.

The President proclaimed: ''we can proceed with tax relief without 
fear of budget deficits, even if the economy softens.''

He promised that he would pay down the national debt, and some in the 
administration even worried publicly about paying down the debt too 
fast.

Well, as we have learned, the President's projections were 
unequivocally wrong and worries about paying down the debt were 
completely misplaced.

Over the last 6 years, the President and Republicans in Congress--
after enacting the most reckless fiscal policies in American history--
have turned a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion into record budget 
deficits and additional debt of more than $3 trillion.

In fact, the amount of foreign-held debt has more than doubled under 
the Bush administration--from about $1 trillion in 2001 to $2.1 
trillion today.

And, interest payments on the national debt have increased from $206 
billion in 2001 to a projected $256 billion under the President's 
budget for fiscal 2008--consuming more than 20 percent of all 
individual income taxes.

Let me say, too, that until the American people spoke last November 
and elected Democratic majorities in Congress, the President never--not 
once--budgeted the costs of the on-going war in Iraq, which today stand 
at more than $400 billion, with another $100 billion being considered.

Thus today, Mr. Chairman, with this budget written and offered by 
Chairman Spratt, House Democrats will take our Nation in a new 
direction and begin to clean up the fiscal train wreck left by 
Republicans.

Our budget is a statement of our values and priorities, demonstrating 
our unwavering commitment to defend our Nation, grow our economy, 
protect our children and strengthen families, preserve our plant, and 
ensure that the Federal Government is accountable and efficient.

First, this fiscally responsible Democratic budget will bring the 
Federal budget back to balance by 2012. Over the next 5 years, the 
cumulative deficit in our budget is $234 billion lower than the 
President's budget.

Our budget strictly adheres to the pay-as-you-go budget rules that 
were reinstated in January by the new majority, and which Republicans 
allowed to expire in 2002. The Concord Coalition even says this budget 
is ''a successful first test of how seriously they [House


Democrats] plan to abide by [the PAYGO] rule.''

Furthermore, this Democratic budget invests in our priorities without 
increasing the deficit. It provides for a robust defense, boosting 
Homeland Security funding and providing $3.5 billion more for veterans' 
services than the President's request for 2008.

It also makes critical investments in education, children's health 
care, transportation infrastructure, and alternative energy research 
and development--while rejecting the President's request to cut Head 
Start, LIHEAP, COPS and First-Responder programs, and community 
development block grants.

And, our budget accommodates immediate relief for the tens of 
millions of middle-income households which would otherwise be subject 
to the alternative minimum tax--while calling for the extension of 
middle-class tax cuts that are not due to expire until December 31, 
2010.

This is a budget that we can be proud of. And, it stands in stark 
contrast to the extraordinarily irresponsible policies of the last six 
years.

I urge all of my colleagues: vote for fiscal responsibility and a 
bright future for our children. Vote for the budget that reflects our 
values and meets the needs of the American people. Vote for this 
Democratic budget.