---
---

# S/SGT LEWIS G. WATKINS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `5a088ae856b87a2bb1b72a9b5c1eef21`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

We often come to the floor to talk about our brave soldiers fighting 
in Iraq and Afghanistan; but today I am proud to speak about a hero, a 
highly decorated Korean War veteran, Lewis G. Watkins.

Staff Sergeant Lewis G. Watkins was born in Seneca, South Carolina, 
on June 6, 1925. After graduating from Greenville High School, he 
joined the Greenville Police Department. Furthering his public service, 
he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in 1950. After his 
training in Camp Lejeune and Camp Pendleton, he was sent to serve in 
Korea.

Staff Sergeant Watkins fought valiantly during his only tour of duty. 
On October 7, 1952, his unit was attempting to take an outpost from the 
enemy. While leading his men up a hill and fighting off heavy small-
arms fire and grenades, he was severely injured. Pushing through the 
pain, he successfully led his team further up the hill.

It was then that he noticed a grenade had landed nearby. Pushing his 
comrades aside to protect them, he instinctively grabbed the grenade to 
throw it out of harm's way. Unfortunately, the bomb exploded in his 
hand and he was mortally wounded. His heroic actions on that hill saved 
the lives of his fellow soldiers; and it was for this act of bravery 
and courage he deservedly, albeit posthumously, was awarded the 
Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor. His other 
awards include the Purple Heart, the United Nations Service Medal, and 
the Korean War Service Medal with two bronze stars.

Staff Sergeant Lewis G. Watkins' life and military achievements are 
to be commended. He fought and died for his country; and today we honor 
his heroism, his self-sacrifice, and his inspiring leadership by naming 
this post office after him.

I commend my colleague Mr. Barrett for bringing this to our 
attention.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.