# IRAQ
## `5a0d9905fa29b5b8dead8026e62c353b`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on 
behalf of the people of America who want a new way forward in Iraq and 
expect Congress to act accordingly.

My constituents in North Texas continue to grieve the loss of their 
sons and daughters in Iraq and voice their utmost concerns for our 
troops' safety. They deserve answers from me and from our government 
regarding the consequence of the monetary and casualty cost of the Iraq 
war.

Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom have affected 
the lives of countless Americans. There are over 3,000 troops from the 
great state of Texas that have been wounded during duty and many 
thousands more from across the United States.

Despite the struggles our soldiers face both on the field and the 
home front, they are thankful for the support they have been receiving 
from their fellow Americans. They share their concerns none of which 
are for themselves, but of their fellow comrades and families. If given 
a chance, they are willing to return to the field and fight for this 
nation. I stand here today, humbled by these men and women.

The current administration has recently submitted data reflecting 
that violence in Iraq has decreased, but this data has been skewed. The 
data does not reflect the truth. Violence in Iraq has increased.

It is our responsibility to care for the best interest of our 
soldiers. It is our responsibility to protect our troops from 
unnecessary harm. Our men and women in uniform are owed a debt of 
gratitude for their courageous efforts. A failure to bring about 
democracy in Iraq rests solely on the shoulders of the President and 
his Administration.

Mr. Speaker, a great American military cannot be a substitute for a 
weak Iraqi government. Americans want a new direction in Iraq. The best 
way to support our troops serving in Iraq is to bring them home.