---
---

# None
## `5a18d4ec1d91a3ef6ad69a1c81c15c20`
`Mrs. SHAHEEN — 18 December 2010`

---


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I am here today to express my strong 
support for the repeal of the don't ask don't tell policy. The Senate 
took a significant step toward that repeal earlier today. I want to 
congratulate and thank Senators Lieberman and Collins for their strong 
bipartisan leadership on this issue. I was proud to be a cosponsor of 
this bill, and I hope we will soon send it to the President for his 
signature.

It is not often that the Senate gets the opportunity with a single 
vote to right a wrong, but we have that opportunity here today. This is 
a historic vote, one for which this Senate will be remembered for a 
long time. This is our opportunity to fix an outdated, discriminatory 
and broken policy and to strengthen America's security. The United 
States, our military, and our security will be better off because of 
this legislation.

I completely agree with Defense Secretary Robert Gates, who strongly 
endorsed the repeal and urged the Senate to pass this legislation 
before the end of the year. Secretary Gates and America's military 
leadership understand that this discriminatory policy undermines our 
national security and diminishes our military readiness.

A nation at war is a nation that needs the best, most qualified 
service members we can find regardless of sexual orientation. At a time 
when nearly 150,000 American men and women are serving in combat 
overseas, and at a time when our military is stretched thin across the 
globe, we simply cannot afford to lose some of our finest soldiers.

Since the policy was instituted in 1993, more than 14,000 service 
members have been expelled from the military, and an estimated 4,000 
service members per year voluntarily leave because of this 
discriminatory policy. One thousand of those expelled were badly needed 
specialists with vital mission critical skills, like Arabic speakers 
and other technical experts.

Don't ask, don't tell also ignores the realities of today's combat 
environment, where American soldiers are fighting next to allied troops 
from around the world. In fact, at least 12 nations allowing gays and 
lesbians to serve openly have fought alongside U.S. service members in 
Afghanistan. At least 28 countries, including our closest allies, Great 
Britain, Australia, Canada, and Israel, already allow open service.

Not only is this policy costing us critical capabilities, it is also 
unnecessarily costing us a significant amount of money. The military 
spends as much as $43,000 to replace each individual charged under the 
don't ask, don't tell policy. At a time of extremely tight budgets with 
little money to go around, it just does not make sense to spend tens of 
thousands of dollars to investigate, try, and replace American soldiers 
based only on their sexual orientation.

Repeal of this policy has earned the backing of an overwhelming 
majority of America's Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and countless 
military leaders, including retired GEN Colin Powell, who says that 
attitudes and circumstances have changed since the policy was first 
instituted 17 years ago.

In addition, we now have a good understanding of what our own 
military men and women feel about the repeal of this policy. The 
military undertook one of the largest and most comprehensive reviews in 
its history to make sure those most affected by this change had their 
views heard and incorporated. The in-depth, 9-month review included a 
comprehensive survey that was sent to nearly 400,000 active duty and 
reserve component service members as well as 150,000 military spouses.

The review's final report, released several weeks ago, found that 
repealing this policy could be accomplished without undermining 
military readiness and can be initiated immediately. The report found 
that more than two-thirds of those questioned found that repeal would 
have no effect on cohesion, effectiveness, unit readiness, or morale.

We used to tell young Americans, ''Don't ask what your country can do 
for you.'' Yet now we tell the very people who have answered that call, 
''don't ask, don't tell.'' This is a civil rights issue. It is a moral 
issue, and it is a national security issue. Today, the Senate has an 
historic opportunity to fix this broken and outdated policy.