---
---

# None
## `5a29b65e385142bb5b492d8a29e3e09b`
`Mr. BILBRAY — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. BILBRAY. Mr. Speaker, from the Revolutionary War to the current 
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, our wounded warriors have returned 
from combat with varying degrees of injury. Some of these physical 
injuries, such as bullet wounds or losing a limb have been diagnosed 
and treated since the dawn of our Republic. Others, such as Traumatic 
Brain Injury, TBI, have required the practices of treating veterans to 
evolve and adapt so that we can give our returning service members the 
quality of care and the quality of life they deserve.

The bill before us today is an example of how our system must adapt 
to these increasingly devastating injuries, specifically TBI. H.R. 2199 
would require that Veterans Affairs, VA, screen every combat veteran 
for TBI and submit a report to Congress on the number of returning 
soldiers that have this debilitating injury, and how we can improve 
upon the care they receive. Additionally, the VA would be required to 
establish transition sites so that those service members who are 
diagnosed have the ability to choose various recovery programs that are 
most comfortable to them.

What makes TBI such a frightening injury is that the symptoms are not 
instantaneous. A service member might not know if he or she has TBI 
until weeks after the initial jolt or blow to the head. If treatment is 
not readily available, then permanent brain damage and loss of motor 
skills and cognitive thought may be the end result.

For this reason, I am pleased that the House Veterans' Affairs 
Committee has taken up this legislation and continues to seek ways to 
better the care that our returning men and women will receive. H.R. 
2199 is similar to legislation that was passed during the 108th 
Congress which increased research and outreach activities to service 
members with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, PTSD.

I am proud to serve on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee and I 
look forward to supporting further legislation that addresses the 
complex needs of our Nation's veterans. As Memorial Day approaches, I 
urge my colleagues to reflect on the sacrifices our veterans have made 
to preserve freedom and how much work we need to do to properly honor 
that sacrifice. I believe that passing H.R. 2199 is a good first step 
in showing that we in Congress recognize the evolving needs of our 
brave veterans.
