---
---

# HONORING THE 5TH STRYKER BRIGADE
## `5a2b1b626b35bdcd4a5229ec58d84236`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 5th 
Stryker Brigade,


2nd Infantry Division for their service and recognize their 
achievements after returning home from a 12-month deployment in 
Afghanistan. I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring the men and 
women of this Stryker Brigade and thank them for their service.

After 2 years of training in preparation to deploy to Iraq, the 5th 
Stryker Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division received a change in orders and 
was directed to deploy as the first Stryker brigade in Afghanistan. The 
brigade began its operations in Kandahar Province, where they quickly 
encountered a determined enemy. Over the course of their year in 
Afghanistan, the brigade went on to lead the assault on Marjah, fight 
against the Taliban in Arghandab River Valley, help secure President 
Karzai in Daykundi, and secure highways and lines of communications, 
all while fighting enemy combatants. Under the leadership of Colonel 
Harry D. Tunnell, the soldiers performed their duty with honor and 
courage.

While the brigade performed admirably in challenging circumstances, 
the deployment did not come without sacrifice. Thirty-seven members of 
the brigade died in combat operations with another 239 wounded over the 
course of the deployment. Their sacrifice in defense of our nation, and 
in an effort to establish a more stable Afghanistan, should be 
acknowledged and their sacrifice will not be forgotten.

After 12 months in Afghanistan, the brigade began redeploying in June 
2010 and held their homecoming ceremony on July 22, 2010 at Joint Base 
Lewis-McChord. During the ceremony, the brigade was also formally 
reflagged as the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division. Though the brigade 
may have a new designation, the service and sacrifice during their 
deployment as the 5th Stryker Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division will not 
be forgotten.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring the men 
and women of this brigade, who have displayed venerable service to 
their country.
