# PREVENTION OF VETERAN SUICIDES
## `5a2ec2558acfe2d47a1940d837770b74`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 21 March 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Joshua 
Omvig Suicide Prevention Act, of which I am a cosponsor. The House will 
consider this important legislation today.

Roughly one in five military personnel returning from active duty 
suffers from a debilitating condition called post-traumatic stress 
syndrome. Unfortunately, the effects of PTSD have hit close to home for 
one family in my district. Their son, Sergeant


Charles Call, of the United States Army, always dreamed of serving his 
country. He even left his unit, which was not being sent to Iraq, and 
joined another that was being deployed so he could be with those 
fighting for our freedom and safety. He loved his country and was 
willing to make that sacrifice.

After returning from Iraq, he developed the symptoms of PTSD. Despite 
his attempts to seek help from the local veterans hospital, he did not 
receive the treatment he so desperately needed; and, sadly, Sergeant 
Call took his own life on February 3, 2006.

With the passage of this legislation, we can finally provide a safety 
net for our veterans coming home and prevent tragedies like that of 
Sergeant Call. It is crucial that they have the resources needed to 
pursue healthy lives upon returning to civilian life. Screening of all 
returning combat veterans and 24-hour access to counseling are just 
some of the options we must offer.

I support this in the name of Sergeant Charles Call.
