---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5a38a378669489ea8b9f870fa3d528a1`
`Mr. PRYOR — 22 March 2010`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Madam President, it is with a heavy heart that today I 
honor U.S. Army Sgt. Jonathan J. Richardson from Bald Knob, AR, and pay 
tribute to his life and service to our country.

Sergeant Richardson was a fire support specialist who lost his life 
from wounds suffered when his unit came under fire in Khost Province, 
Afghanistan. He was a member of the C Company, 1st Battalion, 187th 
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, 
and had previously served in Iraq with the same unit. He was never 
afraid to go where the action was, knowing that the line of fire was 
where he was needed most.

Sergeant Richardson served both tours with courage and distinction, 
receiving awards including the Army Commendation Medal, Iraq Campaign 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, 
and National Defense Service Medal.

Sergeant Richardson graduated from Bald Knob High School in 2004, 
where he was a talented student and excelled on the football team. His 
family and friends described him as an honorable man, devoted to his 
wife and family. These qualities were readily apparent on the 
battlefield, where his comrades called him ''the kind of leader 
soldiers strive to emulate.'' He was committed to serving others, and 
while he could have done a great many things with his young life, he 
chose to serve our Nation in the military. This commitment to serve is, 
to me, what makes Sergeant Richardson a true hero.

My thoughts and prayers are with Sergeant Richardson's wife Rachel, 
parents, Sharon and Jeffery, and all those who loved him during this 
heartbreaking time.

As John 15:13 states: ''Greater love has no one than this, that one 
lay down his life for his friends.'' Sergeant Richardson had the 
greatest love for his country, and his country will always remember his 
selfless service.
