# SCHIP
## `5a3e332e05e885d82400088c4c058222`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Absolutely. And this issue again comes back to 
the basic core principles of budgeting. I would just like to refer to 
the chart here for a moment.

Whenever you make a budget and whenever we sit down in this body, we 
have to determine what our values are, what our priorities are, put 
them in order, and pay for them accordingly. The President has 
indicated that this is simply too expensive, that we cannot do it. Now, 
to keep in mind, I want to give an illustration here. The cost of a day 
in Iraq in the war is about $33 million. To get an idea, that is about 
a quarter of a million children we could cover. For 37 days, just over 
a month of what this war is costing us, and this number doesn't 
include, by the way, soldiers' salaries nor the health care costs that, 
it was estimated in a hearing I was at today, are going to cost us 
somewhere in the neighborhood of $9 billion a year, probably 
stretching, with the total cost coming from CBO and the Congressional 
Research Service, to $1.3 trillion over the next 15 years. We could 
cover all 10 million kids.

So we have got a decision to make in this country, where we are going 
to put our resources, where we are going to invest, where we are going 
to see the future on this. And this is a simple decision. When the 
President comes to this body and will demand, cajole, just about 
everything you can think of and tell us why he is going to need $200 
billion, of course he told us 5 years ago that it was silly when 
General Shinseki mentioned that this might cost $100 billion. Of 
course, General Shinseki was let go. He didn't agree with that 
budgeting. Or, that we might actually have to take care of more 
veterans. That is why we ended up short for the last 3 years taking 
care of our veterans.



So the President is going to say this is a budgeting issue. This is 
the same gentleman that did what the previous 42 Presidents could not 
do. He got us into a trillion dollars in debt to foreign nations. It 
took him about 60 months to be able to do that while it took 218 years 
for our previous administrations. This is the one who took a massive 
surplus under the Clinton administration and turned it into a massive 
deficit.

So the President's credibility when it comes to fiscal matters is 
pretty much zero. This Nation, 81 percent by the latest numbers, and 
possibly more, are saying, invest in the children, invest in the health 
care. Do what is right.

I yield to the doctor from Wisconsin.