---
---

# ENERGY
## `5a441ac237d8b58fa2dbd54dd483c4d3`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 20 October 2009`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. The gentleman is correct that we spend an awful lot of 
time often looking back at what was instead of looking ahead at what 
could be. And I remember the words so clearly, reading and hearing 
about what President Kennedy said: We do these things not because they 
are easy, but because they are hard.

It is hard to break from the status quo. It is hard to let the folks 
who have been delivering us $4 a gallon gasoline, let them go and break 
our dependence on our consumption of oil that comes from overseas. The 
opponents of a robust energy policy in this country have been 
attempting to define this bill and define our movement towards 
efficiency, towards creating jobs, towards protecting our national 
security, about cap-and-trade. Cap-and-trade is one section of the 
bill, one section of the bill that looks at addressing the climate 
change issue that the CIA, that the Department of Defense and our 
intelligence experts are looking at.

So, are we going to put our weight with the folks who have been 
giving us $4 a gasoline and those big energy industries that have been 
making a lot of money over the status quo years, or are we going to 
stand with our intelligence experts and suggest that this is real? Our 
intelligence experts are suggesting we need to do this.

Now, when this body was faced with the decision, the section of the 
bill that deals with cap-and-trade, we had a decision to make. There 
was a court case at the end of last year that said the EPA was going to 
regulate emissions in this country. Well, do you want the EPA and 
bureaucrats in Washington doing it, or do you want the free market to 
do it? Because I believe, like so many of my colleagues, that the 
Federal Government has a responsibility to set the out-of-bounds 
markets, to set the goalposts, let the free market operate in between, 
and then throw the flag like a good referee does when someone goes out 
of bounds. That is what we should do. Let the free market drive 
innovation; let entrepreneurial spirit, let the innovators in this 
great country do that.

Let's do that. But attempting to define this as a national energy 
policy, as cap-and-trade, is not only disingenuous, I think it 
threatens our national security. And those aren't just my words. Those 
are the words of a fellow who I have a great deal of respect for, John 
McCain, Senator McCain.

I flew this gentleman, this honorable American, out of Baghdad when I 
was flying missions over in Iraq and Afghanistan. He said it is about 
cap-and-trade. There will be incentives for people to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. It is a free market approach. John McCain is saying it 
is a free market approach. The Europeans are doing it. We did it in the 
case of addressing acid rain.

He said if we do that, we will stimulate green technologies. This 
will be a profit-making business. It won't cost the American taxpayer. 
Let me repeat that. It won't cost the American taxpayer, he said, 
because of the free market approach. Joe Lieberman and I, 
Senator McCain introduced the cap-and-trade proposal several years ago 
that would reduce greenhouse gases within a gradual reduction. He said 
we did this with acid rain. This works. It can work--if we have the 
courage to do it.


We do these things not because they are easy, but because they are 
hard. That is what leadership does. But if we are worried about the 
next election and not worried about where our future is going, the 
gentleman from Virginia is absolutely correct that we are going to 
continue to be enslaved, like the gentleman from Arkansas said. Like he 
said, if we can't produce the weapons to fight our own Nation's wars, 
if we can't find the energy here in our own country, if we can't feed 
ourselves, it is exactly right that we will be forever enslaved. That 
is why we have to make the decision now. That is what leaders do.