# None
## `5a494ddc737d475deedebb261e8b6e70`
`Ms. LEE — 16 October 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the gentleman for yielding and 
also for his leadership as Chair of the committee for insisting that 
Congress exercise its constitutional responsibility of oversight of the 
executive branch.

The classification process is meant to protect State's secrets, not 
to cover administration's failed policies. The American people and 
Congress deserve honest answers about the extent of corruption in the 
Iraqi Government, and to what extent corruption is fueling the 
insurgency and endangering our troops. We deserve to know if our troops 
are dying to support a corrupt regime propped up with United States tax 
dollars.

But when the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform started to 
ask those questions, the State Department turned around and classified 
key sections of the report and testimony.

In a democracy, we do not run away from facts. We do not classify 
information just because it is embarrassing. Unfortunately, this 
administration has shown an alarming lack of interest in the facts. 
This incident looks more like the same kind of stuff we have seen 
coming from this administration that really wants to continue to keep 
our young men and women in harm's way knowing full well this is a civil 
war that cannot be won militarily. I urge my colleagues to support 
transparency and accountability and condemn this abuse of the 
classification process and to support this resolution.