---
---

# None
## `5a4f40aeb3da16f9efd70174b8c30de4`
`Mr. POLIS — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Murtha and 
Ranking Member Young for their and their staff's hard work on bringing 
this bill to the floor, as well as for offering an amendment to strike 
the funding for continued procurement of F-22 aircraft.

I particularly would like to thank President Obama and Secretary 
Gates for their leadership on this important issue, for targeting the 
elimination of unnecessary weapons systems and aircraft. It is not in 
the American people's best interests to pay Lockheed Martin $369 
million of taxpayer money to add dozens of aircraft when we already 
have a fully functioning fleet of 187 F-22s currently operated by the 
Armed Forces.

This victory is an important first step in eliminating cold war-era 
weapons systems and questioning the relevance of aircraft and security 
systems that are an inadequate defense against the 21st-century 
national security threats we face and an important step in moving 
towards balancing the budget and fiscal responsibility.

I also strongly support provisions in the legislation that prohibit 
the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq and Afghanistan, require 
the Secretary of Defense to provide goals and a timeline for 
withdrawing our troops from Iraq, and restate the United States 
commitment to prohibiting torture of detainees currently held in U.S. 
custody.

This is just the beginning of President Obama's efforts to bring our 
troops home safely, and I look forward to the time when stop-loss and 
troop surges are a thing of the past.

Although I strongly support withdrawing our troops from both Iraq and 
Afghanistan as soon as possible, until we do so I believe it is crucial 
to provide support to our servicemen and servicewomen in harm's way and 
those returning home to their families.

This legislation also provides $29.9 billion to guarantee that our 
troops have the best medical care made available to them. Included in 
the Defense appropriation is over $2 billion for funding of medical 
research and developing treatment for diseases, including breast cancer 
research, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer and spinal cord injuries, 
research for applications that have much wider applications outside of 
defense.

The Defense appropriation also funds important technology research, 
providing funding for research that keeps the United States on the cusp 
of innovation for important civilian applications. Funding for this 
legislation will advance lithium ion battery technology, energy storage 
that is a linchpin of making renewable energy like wind and solar 
viable and cost-effective.

Installing photovoltaic panels on military installations saves our 
military money and ensures that no matter where in the world our troops 
stand in harm's way, they can quickly access the infrastructure of the 
modern world. This technology also has the effect of reducing costs for 
Americans to use these technologies in their homes by driving scale.

This legislation also funds a robust, small business innovation 
program. Small businesses receive capital to develop technologies to 
keep our country safe, while providing high-wage employment and 
bolstering local economies.

These innovations also have direct civilian applications. Many of the 
technologies we enjoy in our daily lives, like global positioning 
systems to microwave ovens, we often take for granted; but they have 
been developed and researched as part of a DOD effort.

Mr. Speaker, this bill provides critical funding for our national 
defense, as well as funding for civilian activities. Among these 
activities are those in support of small business and workforce 
development.

In Colorado, many small businesses rely on the SBIR program of the 
Department of Defense, such as TechX, which provides critical software 
innovations to the Department of Defense while providing high-paying 
jobs to my constituents.

This bill also provides funds for programs such as the Center for 
Space Entrepreneurship, a program that is a collaboration between the 
educational institutions, the Colorado Office of Economic Development, 
and the leadership efforts of our Lieutenant Governor, Barbara O'Brien. 
This program incubates aerospace industry's small businesses. It also 
helps individuals transition into careers in this industry.

Among their most important work is the outreach they do in schools to 
ensure that the next generation has an interest in and the skills to 
ensure that our Nation remains a world leader in space industry.

The satellites and spacecraft developed and manufactured by 
Colorado's thriving aerospace industry are not only of tremendous 
economic benefit to our State, which is one of several reasons we have 
an unemployment rate below the national average; but also this 
equipment keeps our Nation safe, and many of the satellites provide 
civilian applications, such as the DISH television, GPS service for our 
cars, and reception for our cellular phones.

While H.R. 3326 provides top-of-the-line equipment and technologies 
for our troops, these dollars would be hollow without the bravery, 
dedication, and skill of the men and women who serve us every day in 
our Armed Forces.



Their service wouldn't be possible if it weren't for the support, 
dedication and sacrifice of military families that receive support from 
this bill.



Mr. Speaker, in a moment I will be offering an amendment to the rule. 
I want to briefly explain the amendment. This amendment will add to the 
rule a technical provision that's included as boilerplate language in 
virtually all of our rules for both appropriating and authorizing 
legislation but was inadvertently dropped from this rule. This language 
simply protects amendments from a division of the question.

I urge all Members to vote ''yes'' on the amendment, the rule and the 
previous question.












 Amendment Offered by Mr. Polis
