---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `5a5d82e930c1229285473c5834d67966`
`Ms. STABENOW — 11 March 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, in a moment I am going to yield to 
Senator


Whitehouse, but I do want to respond for a moment because what my 
friend from Texas is talking about, frankly, in terms of focusing on 
middle-class families, is exactly what this budget does. It will be 
enhanced by the Baucus amendment, that takes surplus dollars that are 
in the budget and targets them right back to middle-class families, 
putting dollars into their pockets in terms of extending the middle-
class tax cuts that we all support.

But we also do more than that. We focus on jobs. We focus on health 
care, investing in education and opportunity for the future. We are not 
more of the same. This budget resolution is not more of the same of 
what has been occurring since 2001, in the last 8 years, particularly 6 
years of that when we have seen our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle and the White House basically controlling all of the agenda in 
terms of the priorities in the budget and spending and so on.

We create a budget that offers a change, a set of priorities based on 
the values that are important to the American people, American 
families, American jobs here, investing here. Let me first say, 
overall, we have a situation where basically we have seen, under this 
President, more debt, more tax cuts for the wealthy, more spending in 
Iraq, less investment in America. That is what we have seen.

In listening to the outline of what I understand will be a Republican 
budget alternative that will be presented this week, it is more of the 
same. It is more of the same. We want to reduce that and balance the 
budget by 2012, focus tax cuts on middle-income workers, hard-working 
Americans who have not seen tax relief or investments in their future 
and in their children's future.

We want to refocus. Instead of talking about the spending in Iraq, we 
want to be focused on spending at home. We have somewhere near $12 
billion to $15 billion a month being spent right now in Iraq. Even 
though we know the Iraqi Government is receiving dollars in oil 
revenues, we continue to be the ones investing in rebuilding their 
communities and their jobs, their infrastructure.

Our budget invests in America--American jobs, American families, 
American communities. I am hopeful we will see a strong vote for the 
budget resolution we are presenting.

I now yield up to 30 minutes to my friend and colleague from Rhode 
Island, Senator Whitehouse.