---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `5a658beba3d6c93fb4d92ed634892a7c`
`Mr. KIND — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1591, Health, 
and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007.

It is time for a new direction in Iraq. We cannot continue to ask our 
troops to baby-sit a civil war. With our help, the Iraqis have 
established a coalition government, and we have trained more than 
250,000 Iraqi security forces. We must now send a message to them that 
the patience of the American people is not endless, and that the Iraqi 
people must take control of their future by making the tough political 
compromises essential to living in peace. In short, it is time to take 
the training wheels off.

The bill before us today achieves the goal of redeployment of U.S. 
forces by setting specific benchmarks of progress using for the Iraqis 
and President's own benchmarks for success. If these benchmarks cannot 
be met, then the bill provides for a systematic approach for withdrawal 
of our troops.

Although I have had concerns about setting a date certain for 
withdrawal, a responsible timeline will work to hold the Iraqi 
Government accountable for much-needed and overdue progress. 
Essentially, this is a timeline on the Iraqis to come together and take 
control of their country.

The proposals included in this bill are truly a new direction, rather 
than just more of the same. By calling for a responsible, phased 
redeployment of our troops out of Iraq, this bill allows us to re-focus 
our military efforts in Afghanistan.

I am increasingly concerned that the main threat against the United 
States, al Qaeda, is still a global threat with global reach, and that 
the person who was directly responsible for 
9/11, Osama Bin Laden, is still at large. The President has taken his 
eye off the ball in Afghanistan and is not doing everything in his 
power to bring those responsible for 9/11 to justice. It sends a 
terrible message to would-be terrorists who may be interested in 
striking us that all they have to do is go in hiding and lie low until 
we get distracted on another adventure. I am hopeful that this 
supplemental appropriations bill sends a signal to the President that 
he needs to reassess his priorities.

Our men and women in the Armed Forces are to be commended for the 
terrific job they do for us across the globe each and every day, often 
in very difficult and dangerous circumstances. They deserve a clearer 
mission, they deserve to have the training and equipment they need to 
complete that mission, and they deserve the best care when they return 
home with physical and emotional wounds. The supplemental provides for 
all these needs.


During my three visits to Iraq, I met with our military command, 
troops in the field, and numerous Iraqi leaders and civilians. I can 
honestly say that nothing has made me prouder to be an American than 
seeing the performance of our troops in the field. They are well-
trained, well-motivated and an inspiration to us all. They are, in 
short, the best America has to offer.

In particular, active military, Guard, and Reserve forces from 
western Wisconsin have answered the call to service. I have been to 
many deployment ceremonies and witnessed the anguish in the hearts and 
faces of family and friends as they say goodbye to their loved ones 
being sent abroad for lengthy stays. I have also been to several 
welcome home ceremonies to honor their service and to thank them for 
their sacrifice.

Sadly, I have also had 18 military funerals in my congressional 
district alone, most of which I have personally attended. If I don't 
have to attend another military funeral, if I don't have to pick up the 
phone to call another grieving family, I will be one of the happiest 
people in the world. They are a constant reminder of the human toll 
this war is having, not only with our troops but also with their 
families and our communities. There is not a day that goes by when I am 
not concerned about the safety and welfare of our troops.

A new direction, not an escalation, is what is needed in Iraq. We 
have now been in Iraq longer than the entire Second World War. The 
supplemental provides that new direction--one where the Iraqis assume 
responsibility for their future, and the U.S. starts to redeploy our


troops and strengthen our military that is stretched too thin and on 
the verge of breaking. ''More of the same,'' or ''staying the course,'' 
is not an option.

Once again I would like to offer my heartfelt thanks and undying 
admiration for our men and women in uniform for their service to our 
country. May God bless them and their families during this difficult 
time. May God provide his special blessings and care for those who fell 
in the line of duty. And may God continue to bless these United States 
of America.