---
---

# RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008
## `5a6916bb8eb6c9193bc81c5c62ff3b63`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Okay, I didn't hear that. And I certainly don't 
reserve nor do I object to that e-mail from USCIS being introduced into 
the Record. In fact, I would like to read it into the Record.

It says, ''The religious worker BFA non-immigrant had a 32.73 percent 
fraud rate out of a sample of 220 cases. The public version of the BFA 
did not further break down the 220 cases into religious categories. The 
fraud rate for Muslim organization has been spoken of many times on the 
Hill for some time. The reality is that because the population sample 
for Muslim groups in the BFA is so small, the rate of fraud is 
statistically insignificant. I am still waiting on the site check 
data.''

I believe that is the e-mail referenced by the gentlewoman from 
California, and I reference it here to speak to the data that is in the 
report rather than a comment about the data that is in the report.

These 220 cases were drawn to give indicators for further scrutiny. 
When you see a 70, 73 or 80 percent fraud rate, there is an obligation 
to look into that and verify the sources of that fraud and also the 
indicators that it might be greater, not less. I don't imply it is, but 
we can draw just as much inference that it is greater than it is less 
from these statistics.

I pointed out that Jamaica has a 100 percent fraud rate out of the 
sample in this study. That doesn't mean there aren't other 
denominations we shouldn't be looking at. But I am looking at each one 
of these cases, and I referenced the special registrant countries that 
are part of that list. The special registrant counties would be, for 
the record, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Afghanistan, Algeria, 
Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, 
Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Egypt and Pakistan.

For the record, when I referenced then the special registrant 
countries, those are the countries. This is the record. It is the data 
we are dealing with. I think that it is something that we need to pay 
special scrutiny to. But we should encourage the reciprocity and the 
exchange of religious workers.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.