---
---

# RED RIBBON WEEK
## `5a6c1c2ff860f9304b9f53bd7562a861`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 29 October 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I support Red Ribbon Week and our 
unified efforts against illegal drug use.

Red Ribbon Week represents the largest united effort of the American 
people to promote drug prevention. We must all continue to support this 
effort.

This dreadful problem plagues communities throughout our Nation and 
especially my home district in South Florida. Miami is one of the 
leading areas in cocaine related deaths. And an estimated 20,000 people 
a year die from illegal drug use throughout the United States each 
year.

Thankfully, over 80 million people participate in Red Ribbon week by 
pledging to lead a drug free life. With our encouragement we can have 
many more youths take this pledge.

As a former educator I know that Red Ribbon Week offers the perfect 
opportunity to raise awareness and help educate students at a young age 
on the dangers of drug use. The terrifying fact is that over 60 percent 
of teens reported that drugs were sold, used, or present at their 
schools. We must teach students about the dangers of drugs and 
discourage them of ever becoming involved with drugs in the first 
place. Only by actively engaging our children can we impress on them 
the importance of being drug-free.

It has been proven that when teenagers' parents talk to them 
regularly about the dangers of drug use, they are 42 percent less 
likely to use drugs. Families, adults, and children joining together 
for this cause have a profound impact on not only those participating, 
but also the communities as a whole.

We must continue to strive to increase awareness and participation in 
Red Ribbon Week to help stop this devastating problem of drug abuse and 
drug-related violence.

In this effort we must also remember those who seek to safeguard our 
children in the fight against drugs. Just this Monday, three Drug 
Enforcement Administration agents died tragically while conducting 
overseas operations. The agents were returning from a counter-narcotics 
operation when the military helicopter they were riding in crashed. 
Seven U.S. military servicemembers were also killed in the crash.

Of these heroes, Special Agent Chad Michael was from my Congressional 
district and I would like to take this moment to honor his memory and 
sacrifice. Before being reassigned in August to a DEA operation in 
Afghanistan, Special Agent Michael was a member of South Florida's DEA 
team for six years. The DEA agents were assigned to the agency's 
operation against Afghanistan's opium trade, which frequently funds 
insurgent activity. Efforts in Afghanistan began in 2005 and in the 
past year have been reinforced to fully attack international drug trade 
and the activities it funds. Since illegal drugs have a large 
dependence on international sources, it is critical that we support 
those who help to fight this part of the drug war.

My prayers go out to Special Agent Michael's family, and to the 
families of all the heroes who risk their lives each day to make our 
country and this world safer and drug-free.

As a mother and grandmother, and for the sake of all our children, I 
urge all Americans to take the Red Ribbon Week pledge this and every 
October.
