---
---

# FAILURE OF LEADERSHIP
## `5a7254c02ff9db4f1ac198b80082c8b9`
`Mr. DORGAN — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wish to make a couple comments about 
energy. There has been a lot of discussion all week--in fact, the last 
several weeks--on energy, and the reason is obvious. When you see the 
runup and doubling of price of gas and oil in a year, the American 
people are pretty apoplectic about that. They wonder what can they do 
to respond to it. How do I afford to fill my gas tank to go to work? 
The airlines wonder: How do we afford to put jet fuel in the airplanes 
we fly? The truckers wonder: How do I fill the saddle tanks and be able 
to afford it? The farmers wonder: How do I fill the fuel tanks for the 
harvest? This is a big hit to the American economy.

The first step is to do the obvious thing. I have a letter, for 
example, from the chief executive officer of an oil refining company 
called Tesoro. They don't produce oil; they have to buy oil like 
everybody else to refine it. He believes there is a dramatic amount of 
excess speculation in the oil market. We need to wring out the excess 
speculation from the commodity markets. Seventy-one percent of what is 
happening in the oil futures market has nothing to do with people who 
want oil. They don't want a can of oil, a 5-gallon can or even a quart. 
They want to trade paper and make money. That market is broken and has 
been taken over by speculators. We should set that market right and 
wring out the excess speculation in that market. We have testimony 
before the committee that doing that can reduce the price of oil and 
gas by 20 to 40 percent. That is step 1. We ought to do the easy 
things, and then a lot of other things.

My colleagues say drill. I say absolutely. Conservation is the 
cheapest form of energy. Saving a barrel is the same as producing a 
barrel. We waste a lot. Producing and drilling and conservation and 
efficiency. Every light switch we turn on, every thermostat, everything 
we do can be much more efficient and lose much less energy, no question 
about that. Conservation, efficiency, production--and especially a 
game-changing approach away from every 15 years shuffling in here like 
bags of wind in blue suits, talking about the plan we had 15 years ago 
and 15 years before that and 15 years before that.

How about finding new energy and moving toward hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles? Hydrogen is everywhere. Water vapor would come out of the 
tailpipe. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Battery storage technology, with 
substantial research, and moving to electric cars. How about doing all 
these things? Solar, wind, biomass, geothermal--we have so many 
opportunities. We can round up all the money we spend on all of it and 
research a different energy future, which equals what we spend in the 
war in Iraq in 40 hours. We ought to do everything and do it well; but 
we ought to decide that if we are addicted--and President Bush says we 
are--what do you do with an addict? Do you say I will quit tomorrow and 
pass the bottle tonight? That is not what you do. You decide you are 
going to have something that is game changing. You are going to go to a 
different kind of energy future.

I wish to make a final point that is very important. I support 
increased production, all those things. But my colleagues in the Senate 
have blocked--some of them in the minority--through eight votes, our 
determination to provide tax incentives for renewable energy. Renewable 
energy is so important, and we put into place permanent, robust tax 
incentives in 1916 to say that if you look for oil and gas, God bless 
you, we need it. If you find it, you will get tax incentives. We have 
done that for almost a century. Do you know what we did for people who 
tried to go find and produce wind, solar, and other renewable forms? We 
put into place tax incentives in 1992--short term, kind of shallow--and 
we extended them five times, and we let them expire three times. Start, 
stop, stutter step. The fact is, we shut off all the investment every 
time they stop. They are set to expire at the end of the year. The 
minority has blocked, eight times, the extension of the tax incentives 
so we can move toward a different energy future.

If we don't understand that when 65 percent of your oil comes from 
Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait, and Venezuela and outside our country and 
that makes America vulnerable--if we don't understand that, we ought to 
go back to bed; you don't need to wake up. It has been pretty 
disconcerting to see people thumb their suspenders and stick out their 
stomachs and say we need to drill another hole someplace. We suck 85 
million barrels of oil a day out of this planet, and 21 million barrels 
of that are destined for this country. We use one-fourth of every drop 
of oil pulled out of this planet every day, and almost 65 percent of it 
comes from outside our country. If you don't understand the 
vulnerability of that, then you don't have the capability to understand 
very much, in my judgment.

We need a robust, aggressive, new energy future. It must include 
virtually everything, but at its root and at its foundation, it must 
have a game-changing device that says that 10 years from now we are 
going to have a different energy mix, a different construct.

Yesterday, I said John F. Kennedy didn't hang around in the early 
sixties and say: I am thinking of sending a person to the Moon or I am 
going to try to send a person to the Moon or I hope we can send a 
person to the Moon. That is not what he said. He said that by the end 
of the decade, we are going to have a person walking on the Moon. How 
about saying that in this country now on energy?

By the end of the next 10 years, we will have substantially changed 
this country's energy mix, and we are going to make the investments 
necessary to do it, so we are not shuffling around here 10 years from 
now with the same tired arguments I call ''yesterday forever.'' How 
about something that does advance this country's long-term interest in 
energy? Let's do everything we can at this point. In the meantime, 
let's set a goal and meet the goal as a country that makes us less 
dependent on foreign oil and move to a different kind of energy future.

I yield the floor.