---
---

# RECOGNIZING 100 YEARS OF MILITARY AVIATION
## `5a75e650ba2623b6ccf562ba53500730`
`Mr. OLSON — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. OLSON. I thank my colleague from Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to rise today in support of House 
Resolution 445, a resolution I introduced earlier this year honoring 
100 years of military aviation.

Before I begin my remarks, I would like to thank Armed Services 
Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon, as well as Subcommittee Chair 
Abercrombie and Ranking Member Bartlett.

Mr. Speaker, as a former naval aviator, I have firsthand knowledge of 
the vital and essential role the airmen of the United States military 
play in protecting our homeland and strengthening our global alliances.

Given the air superiority the United States enjoys today, it is easy 
to forget that 100 years ago there was much skepticism about the 
usefulness of aircraft for our Armed Forces. Shortly after the Signal 
Corps purchased its first aircraft for military purposes, ''Scientific 
American,'' a respected publication wrote, ''Outside of scouting 
duties, we are inclined to think that the field of the aeroplane will 
be rather limited. Because of its small carrying capacity and the 
necessity for its operation at great altitude, if it is to escape 
hostile fire, the amount of damage it will do by dropping explosives 
upon cities, forts, hostile camps, or bodies of troops in the field, to 
say nothing of battleships at sea, will be so limited as to have no 
material effects on the issues of a campaign.''

One hundred years later, American courage, ingenuity, and innovation 
have proven them very wrong. We have come a very long way since 
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Theodore Roosevelt, recommended that 
the Secretary investigate Professor Samuel Langley's so-called ''flying 
machine'' and report on its potentiality for use in combat.

The earliest planes were open-cockpit, single-seat mounts, and the 
only weapon was a sidearm and perhaps a few bricks that could be 
dropped on the enemy. During World War I, America's first military 
aviators wrote their instruction manual as they lived it and created 
traditions that are still honored and followed today.

In the aftermath of Pearl Harbor, America's airmen delivered the 
first moral victory of World War II. Flying B-25s from the deck of the 
Aircraft Carrier Hornet 400 miles from the shore of Japan, Colonel 
Jimmy Doolittle and the Knights of the Air struck back and struck back 
hard. And less than 2 months later, U.S. military aviation changed 
world history at the Battle of Midway.

In 1947, Congress and President Truman wisely recognized the 
important role our country's airmen play on the battlefield and 
established the United States Air Force, a new, separate branch of 
military service.

From the hills of Korea, where our newest branch rose to the occasion 
and won 10 out of every 11 air engagements, to the jungles of Vietnam, 
where the ingenuity and versatility of our military aviators were 
tested like never before, the stories of the valor and the courage 
displayed by our country's airmen throughout our history are too 
numerous to tell.

On September 11, 2001, as F-16s were flowing low over Washington, 
D.C. and our country entered a new, unconventional war against an 
unknown enemy, America's brave airmen were on duty ready to defend. 
Whether pinpointing enemy fighters along the ridges of eastern 
Afghanistan from the cockpit of a P-3 Orion, manning a C-17 to deliver 
needed supplies to our troops on the ground, or operating strategic air 
strikes with a Predator drone from thousands of miles away, today in 
Iraq and Afghanistan our military aviators remain on guard.

General Curtis Lemay once said, If we maintain our faith in God, love 
of freedom, and superior global air power, the future looks good. And, 
today, as we look back on 100 years of military aviation in the United 
States of America, we honor the heroes of military aviation and thank 
them for the shining path they created for our country. Indeed, the 
future looks good.

I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 445.