# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `5a778bc1daa1c37a8c6c45f5554413c7`
`Mr. WEBB — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to first express my profound 
appreciation for the majority leader's words today. Senator Reid likes 
to say he is not a speaker of eloquence, but I have rarely heard such 
eloquence of words on this particular issue. They were from the heart, 
they touched me deeply, and also they were humbling. But most 
importantly, having the majority leader stand here and bring words to 
the floor today, as my colleague, Senator Hagel, and I are attempting 
to do, in an attempt to inject a reality, a responsible reality to this 
debate that in many cases has been lacking, is greatly gratifying to 
me.

I also would like to thank and congratulate my good friend and 
colleague, the Senator from Nebraska. I greatly respect his service to 
our country. I greatly admire his courage and his willingness to speak 
out on this issue over the past several years. I would point out that 
he and I began our Government service many years ago as people who had 
come back from a different war and decided we would devote a good 
portion of our lives to trying to take care of those who had served.

The motivation behind the amendment he and I have worked so 
assiduously on over the last couple weeks is that same motivation that 
began nearly 30 years ago. I have seen a lot of comments over the past 
3 months, some of it accusatory with respect to people who are trying 
to bring a different focus to our situation in the Middle East, saying 
that the people who are doing this were somehow hurting the troops.

The question becomes, how do you support the troops? What does it 
mean to support the troops? Who is really speaking for the troops? We 
have a good many Members of this body--and I respect them all--who have 
come back from multiple trips to Iraq. They have sat down with the 
military leaders who are charged with the responsibility of carrying 
out our policies. They have heard in many cases optimistic predictions. 
In too many cases, they have come back and basically said: If you want 
to do something different, you are affecting the options of the 
Commander in Chief, and you are being disloyal to the troops.

Who is really listening to the troops? On the one hand, the people 
who have been serving in this war are justifiably proud of their 
military service. On the other, they are carrying out the policies of 
our political process. If we look at polls--our best way of trying to 
figure out how the average military person feels about this war--we 
will see they share the same concerns in the aggregate as everyone else 
in the country. A little more than a year ago, when I announced for the 
Senate, there was a poll of our Active-Duty people actually serving in 
Iraq. Seventy-two percent of those people believed the United States 
should withdraw from Iraq by the end of last year. This included 70 
percent of the Regular Army and 58 percent of the regular Marine Corps.

Our motivation today is to try to put a formula together that will 
respect the policies of the United States and truly show the best way 
to take care of the troops.

I note with some irony that the bill before us is called an emergency 
supplemental appropriation. Beginning the fifth year in this war, we 
are now calling it an emergency that we need to bring more money to the 
table. Why? There are a lot of different possibilities, but let's start 
with this: This has been a war which has been fought without a 
strategy. You do not have a strategy unless you can clearly articulate 
the end point of your military operations. I have been saying this for 
more than 4 years. But what we have had instead of a strategy is the 
plan of the week. We have had a lot of flailing around from the 
political leadership that has spilled over into the military 
leadership--let's try this; let's try that; let's extend our troops; 
let's deploy our troops early; let's send them back before they have 
had a chance to rest, recuperate, and refurbish. We are seeing now, as 
my good friend from Nebraska mentioned, the military cost of that kind 
of policy. We are also seeing a human cost. Who pays for this lack of 
clarity? The troops pay. They are sacrificing. They are proud to serve 
their country, and they can't plan their lives. They have kids being 
born, weddings to go to, people to visit, holidays to enjoy--all a part 
of the plan when they were deployed.

This amendment goes to that point, the proper utilization of our 
military. The first thing that it does is it establishes clearly, as 
Senator Hagel and I and others have been saying for a long time, that 
the primary U.S. policy objective in Iraq should be a political 
solution that can be obtained through increased, concerted regional and 
international diplomacy. We have seen the seeds of that over the past 
couple of months. We are stating that this should be recognized as our 
primary goal.

The second point is that we are putting in, as the Senator from 
Nebraska mentioned, legally binding restrictions calling for the 
certification of any unit in the U.S. military that is going to be 
deployed, that it be fully mission capable. We have a reality check in 
this provision. We understand that in terms of heavy equipment, many 
units deployed fall onto equipment inside the theater of operations. We 
are not requiring that they have that equipment with them when they 
first deploy. We also have Presidential waivers in terms of possible 
national emergencies that might occur. Other than that, we should have 
unit-ready deployments.

The third portion of this amendment goes to extending deployments. We 
are basically saying Army units that deploy for a year should come back 
in 365 days. Marine units that are deployed for 7 months should come 
back at the end of 210 consecutive days with certain, again, realistic 
exclusions.

The fourth provision goes to the minimum period between deployments. 
You are not going to deploy military units until they have been home at 
least the amount of time they previously were deployed. This goes for 
individuals as well as units. It is quite possible in today's military 
for an individual to come back from deployment and, after a very short 
period of time, be backfilled into another unit that is going. 
Technically, the unit may have been back here for a year or 7 months, 
but the individual has not. That has to stop.

We are also saying in terms of the Guard and Reserve that they need a 
one for five. They need to be able to be home for five times the length 
of time they have been deployed. On this one-to-one cycle for Active 
Forces, the military itself, the Commandant of the Marine Corps has 
said they would like to have a two-for-one cycle--for every year you 
have been gone, 12 years home. In my experience in the Pentagon, as 
Assistant Secretary of Defense and as Secretary of the Navy, we looked 
at a two-for-one ratio for our ships, for our troops, a period of time 
deployed, a period of time to come back, get reacquainted with your 
family, get some down time, and then an equal period of time to 
refurbish and get ready to go again. All we are asking for here is a 
one-for-one.

If you look at what has happened in the conduct of this war, it has 
not been operational demands that have created the situation for our 
troops; it has been a lack of proper leadership. There is nothing in 
Iraq that would require this sort of chaotic planning. There is no 
emergency right now that can justify the unpredictability we have built 
into these deployments.

At the right time, when the Senator from Nebraska is able to 
negotiate this with the leadership--and I will pursue this as well--we 
want a vote. We are working to get a vote.

I urge all of my colleagues to support the amendment.

I yield the floor.