# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5a9b0d457ac3d92c02ea902df5d12eb6`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to respectfully speak against 
the amendment offered by my colleague from Virginia.

Let me put this in context, as I see it. One week ago, the commander 
of our military forces in Iraq and our top diplomat in Baghdad returned 
to Washington to address the Members of this Congress. What General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker offered us last week was not hype or 
hyperbole but the facts. They offered us the facts. What we heard from 
them was reality--hard evidence of the progress we have at last begun 
to achieve over the past 8 months--progress against al-Qaida, progress 
against sectarian violence, progress in standing up the Iraqi Army, 
progress that all but the most stubborn of ideological or partisan 
opponents now acknowledge is happening.

What we also heard from General Petraeus last week was a plan for the 
transition of our mission in Iraq which he has developed, together with 
our military commanders on the ground, that builds on facts on the 
ground, not on opinions over here, that builds on the successes our 
troops have achieved on the ground which will allow tens of thousands 
of American troops to begin to return home from Iraq starting this 
month.

So the question now before the Senate is not whether to start 
bringing some of our troops home. Everyone agrees with that point. 
Beginning this month, some of our troops will be coming home. The 
question before the Senate now is whether we are going to listen to the 
recommendations of our commanders and diplomats in Iraq, or instead 
whether we will reject them and try to derail the plan they have 
carefully developed and implemented and that is working. The question 
is whether we build on the success of the surge and the strategy of 
success led by General Petraeus, or instead whether we impose a 
congressional formula for retreat and failure.

I believe the choice is clear because we have too much at stake for 
our national security, our national values, and most particularly, of 
course, freedom is on the line and the outcome in Iraq. Are the victors 
going to be the Iraqis with our support and the hope of freedom and a 
better future for them or are the victors going to be al-Qaida and Iran 
and Iranian-backed terrorists? That is the choice. It is in that 
context that I believe the Webb amendment is a step in precisely the 
wrong direction. That is its effect.

The sponsors of the amendment say they are trying to relieve the 
burden on our men and women in uniform. I, of course, take them at 
their word. They


have an honorable goal that all of us in this Chamber share. It is not, 
however, what the real-world consequences of this amendment will be.

On the contrary, Secretary of Defense Bob Gates has warned us in the 
most explicit terms that this amendment, if enacted, would have 
precisely the opposite effect that its sponsors say they desire. It 
would create less security, more pressure on more soldiers and their 
families than exists now.

As many of my colleagues know, Secretary Gates is a man who chooses 
his words carefully. He is a former member of the Iraq Study Group. He 
is a strong believer in the need for bipartisan consensus and 
cooperation when it comes to America's national security, particularly 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. He does not practice the politics of 
polarization or partisan spin. So when he tells us this amendment would 
do more harm than good, so much harm, in fact, that he, as Secretary of 
Defense, would feel obliged to recommend to the President that if this 
amendment is adopted, the President veto the entire underlying 
Department of Defense authorization bill, well, then, when Bob Gates, 
Secretary of Defense, says that, I think we have a responsibility to 
listen and to listen to his words very carefully.

The reason for Secretary Gates' opposition to this amendment is not 
political, it is practical. As he explained in a letter to Senator 
Graham of South Carolina earlier this week, the Webb amendment ''would 
significantly increase the risk to our servicemembers''--significantly 
increase, not decrease, the risk to our servicemembers--and ''lead to a 
return to unpredictable tour lengths and home state periods and home 
station periods.'' Exactly the opposite of the intention of the 
amendment.

By injecting rigid inflexibility into the military planning process, 
this amendment would force the Pentagon to elevate one policy--the 
amount of time individual members of the military spend at home--above 
all other considerations, above the safety and security of those same 
soldiers and their colleagues when they are deployed abroad, above the 
impact of implementing that policy would have on our prospects for 
success in Iraq and all that means to our country and, I add, to our 
soldiers. Secretary Gates also described a range of grim consequences 
that would result if this amendment is adopted.


To begin with, it would likely force the Pentagon to extend the 
deployments of units that are already in Iraq and Afghanistan beyond 
their scheduled rotations. So some of those units which are now 
scheduled to be there for 15 months might have to be extended beyond 
that because of the provision in this amendment that says you have to 
have an equal amount of time at home as deployed. Why? Because there 
aren't enough capable units to replace them that meet the inflexible 
requirements imposed by this amendment.

Far from relieving the burden on our brave troops in battle deployed 
overseas, this amendment would actually add to their burdens and keep 
our soldiers away from their families, certainly a goodly number of 
them, for even longer. It would also mean more frequent and broader 
callups of our National Guard and Reserve units, pulling forces into 
the fight that would otherwise be able to remain at home.

In other cases, this amendment will require the Pentagon to deploy 
units trained for one mission to go fight another mission, not because 
it makes military sense to do so but because they are the only ones 
left that meet this amendment's inflexible dwell-time rule. In plain 
English, we are going to be forced by this amendment to send less-
capable units into combat.

In addition to imposing greater dangers thereby on our individual 
service men and women, this amendment would also have other baneful 
effects on our national security. At a time when our military is 
stretched and performing brilliantly, it would further shrink the pool 
of units and personnel available to respond to events, crises, not just 
in Iraq and Afghanistan but around the world. In doing so, this 
amendment--and again I quote Secretary Gates--''would dramatically 
limit the Nation's ability to respond to other national security needs 
while we remain engaged in Iraq or Afghanistan.'' Is that what any one 
of us desire? Is that what the men and women who serve us in uniform 
desire? No.

All of us recognize the extraordinary services our troops are giving 
our country and the burden that places on their family in this time of 
war. All of us want to do something to help relieve the burden they 
bear. But the answer is not to impose a legislative straitjacket on our 
men and women in uniform. The answer is not to impose an inflexible 
one-size-fits-all rule that will endanger their safety and hobble our 
military's ability to respond to worldwide threats. The answer is not, 
in our frustration, to throw an enormous wrench into the existing, 
well-functioning personnel system of the U.S. military. The answer is 
most definitely not to make it harder for us to succeed in Iraq.

I know there has been some disagreement among the supporters of this 
amendment about whether it is intended to be a backdoor way to 
accelerate the drawdown of our troops from Iraq, for which there is not 
adequate support in this Senate Chamber, fortunately, and thus discard 
the recommendations of General Petraeus and, if I may say so, put us on 
a course for failure instead of the course of success we are on now. My 
friend, the Senate majority leader, said he does not see this as a 
backdoor way to accelerate the drawdown. On the other hand, Congressman 
Murtha said that is exactly what it is supposed to do and he hopes it 
will do.

The fact is many in this Chamber have argued honestly and openly for 
months that General Petraeus and his troops were failing to make 
meaningful progress in Iraq and that Congress should, therefore, order 
them to begin to withdraw. That could be done by cutting off funding or 
mandating a congressional deadline for withdrawal.

I have argued against those recommendations, as my colleagues know. 
But I must say I respect the fact that those arguments by opponents of 
the war accept the consequences of their beliefs, and they are real and 
direct. Those in the Chamber who want to reject the Petraeus 
recommendations and his report of progress and impose on him their own 
schemes for the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq, I think ought to do 
it in the most direct way, rather than any attempt to derail this now 
successful war plan by indirection.

The fact is, regardless of the intention of its sponsors, the Webb 
amendment, if enacted, will not result in a faster drawdown of U.S. 
troops from Iraq. The fact is the Commander in Chief and the military 
commander in Iraq are committed to the success of this mission. On the 
contrary, therefore, it would only make it harder for those troops, 
along with their brothers and sisters in uniform in Afghanistan, to 
complete their mission successfully, safely, and return home but to 
return home with honor to their families and their neighbors.

Yesterday, a couple of Connecticut veterans from the Iraq war were in 
town and came to see me. At the end of a good discussion, in which they 
did urge me to vote against the Webb amendment, one of them said to me: 
Senator, we want to win in Iraq, and we know we can win. I said to 
them: Thanks to your bravery and skill--and now a good plan--and with 
the help of God, you are going to win, so long as the American people 
and their representatives in Congress don't lose their will. That 
victory will not only secure a better future for the people of Iraq and 
more stability and an opportunity for a course in the Middle East that 
is not determined by the fanatics, the haters, the suicide bombers of 
al-Qaida and Iranian-backed terrorism but is determined by the people 
themselves who pray every day and yearn every day for a better future.

I will say something else. There are different ways to burden men and 
women in uniform. One is the stress of combat, another is to force them 
into a position where they fail. I have had many conversations with 
soldiers from Connecticut and elsewhere who have served in Iraq, and I 
have had the conversations in Iraq and here. I don't want to mislead my 
colleagues in what I am about to report. I don't get this in 100 
percent of those conversations, but in an overwhelming number of those 
conversations, they are proud of what they are doing, they believe in 
their mission, they believe they are part of a battle that can help 
make the future of


their families and our country more secure. They are proud. They are 
reenlisting at remarkable numbers. That is the best indicator of this 
attitude.

If you want to burden them and their families in a way we can never 
quite make up for, then take us from the road of success, leading to 
the road of victory, and force us directly, force them directly or 
indirectly, to a retreat and defeat. That can break the will of an 
army. We don't have to do it, we must not do it, and I believe this 
Senate will not allow this to happen. I, therefore, urge my colleagues 
to vote against the Webb amendment.


I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.