# TRIBUTE TO POLISH FOREIGN MINISTER GEREMEK
## `5aa560a0ceb570a2d56a178f2c30e028`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 21 July 2008`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Madam President, I rise to honor the life and legacy of 
Bronislaw Geremek--scholar, diplomat, and Polish patriot--who passed 
away on Sunday, July 13.

Bronislaw Geremek played a key role in Poland's transition from 
communism to democracy. The Solidarity movement is known as a labor 
movement. In 1980, an obscure electrician jumped over the wall of the 
Gdansk shipyard and took the world with him. Yet behind these workers 
stood leading Polish academics and intellectuals, like Professor 
Geremek. The scholars became advisers to the workers. Professor Geremek 
was imprisoned by the Communist government during the dark days of 
martial law.

Professor Geremek was instrumental in the negotiations that led to 
the election of 1989. These elections brought the Solidarity government 
to power and ended Communist control of Poland. This peaceful 
transition was a model for other nations.

I got to know Minister Geremek during the debate on NATO Enlargement. 
Poland was taking the difficult steps to become a free market 
democracy. Yet Poland yearned to be a true partner in Europe. That 
meant joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

The Senate had a robust debate on enlarging NATO. I argued that the 
new democracies would strengthen NATO and share the burden of European 
defense.

In the years since, Poland has shown the world why NATO membership 
was so important. In Kosovo, in Iraq, in Afghanistan--Poland has stood 
by the side of the United States and the members of NATO.

I was with Foreign Minister Geremek in Madrid--when Poland signed the 
articles of enlargement. I joined President Clinton in Warsaw to 
celebrate. It was a historic time for America and for Poland.

Bronislaw Geremek's achievements will live on in the history books. 
His legacy is a Poland that is democratic and free--and a true friend 
and ally of the United States.
