---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5ab7e91f2f75ad193ec2d422dae79d32`
`Ms. LEE — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the gentlewoman for her 
leadership, for yielding, for her deep commitment to our troops and to 
our country.

As a daughter of a proud veteran of two wars, I know personally that 
we have a moral obligation to support and protect our brave men and 
women on the ground in Iraq. However, there is no reason for us to 
stand behind the President's plan to escalate his failed policy in 
Iraq. In fact, Madam Speaker, the American people are way ahead of us.

A USA Today/Gallup poll released just today shows that 60 percent 
oppose this escalation, 63 percent favor bringing our troops home by 
the end of 2008, and last November the American people soundly rejected 
the President's failed policy in Iraq at the voting booth. You would 
think that the President understood what all this meant. After the 
election he continued his listening tour on options for Iraq, but it 
seems that he wasn't hearing what the American people were saying.

The Iraq Study Group actually indicated and said very clearly that 
there was no military solution to this mess. And rather than heed the 
call of military experts, advisers, and the American people, the 
President offered an even worse plan: put more troops in harm's way in 
Iraq. This just doesn't make any sense.

That is why this no-confidence resolution puts the administration on 
notice: end the occupation and bring our troops home. However, if the 
President doesn't change course, we must go further. This war has 
undermined our credibility and standing in the world. It has cost too 
many lives and injured too many of our troops. This war has cost too 
many Iraqi lives. This war has cost us nearly half a trillion dollars, 
and the costs keep mounting. The chaos in Iraq that the President set 
in motion has further destabilized an already precarious balance in the 
Middle East.

We must take steps to use the upcoming supplemental appropriations 
bill to set in motion an end to this terrible and misguided war and 
bring our troops home from Iraq.

To that end I support fully funding the safe withdrawal of our troops 
from Iraq over a 6-month period, and I will work with my colleagues to 
do this. Additionally, along with Congresswomen Woolsey and Waters, we 
have introduced H.R. 508, the Bring our Troops Home and Sovereignty of 
Iraq Restoration Act.



This bill would completely fully fund military withdrawal from Iraq 
within 6 months, while ensuring that our troops and contractors leave 
safely, and accelerate the training of Iraqi Security Forces. And we 
would make certain that our veterans, who have given us so much, 
receive the health and mental health benefits that they deserve.

Our bill would remove the specter of an endless, and that is what 
this is right now, it is an endless occupation, by preventing the 
establishment of permanent military bases. Our very presence in Iraq is 
fueling the insurgency, and our troops have been the targets of this 
civil war.

Madam Speaker, these are the best and the safest ways to end this 
occupation. But it really didn't have to be this way. Imagine for a 
moment what would have happened had Congress adopted my substitute 
amendment to the authorization to use force against Iraq in October 
2002. We would have allowed the United Nations inspectors to finish 
their job. We would have discovered what we all know now as fact, that 
Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruction, and, as then, there 
was no connection between the horrific events of 9/11 and Iraq. Iraq 
did not attack us, as many are trying to continue to convince the 
American public that it did. Iraq did not attack us 5 years ago.

The bottom line is that Iraq also would not be a war-torn country as 
it is today, and, again, the world is less safe. And if this wasn't 
enough, over the last several months the President has been saber-
rattling on the issue of Iran. We must not go down the same path and 
end up in another unnecessary, dangerous, costly and disastrous 
preemptive war with Iran. This notion of the ''axis of evil'' and 
preemptive war is very, very dangerous.

Madam Speaker, the stakes are too high. We need to stop digging 
ourselves deeper into this hole. Escalating this war and expanding this 
war does nothing in terms of our national security. It puts us more at 
risk. Iraq was not a haven for terrorists as it is now. Again, Iraq, 
Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda, there was no connection, and we have to 
dispel that notion so the American people know the truth.

So, rather than end this war today, we are saying let's just for 
today at least take one step and stop the escalation and expansion, and 
we will be back to talk about how we are going to begin to bring our 
troops home, and bring them home within 6 months