---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `5ace79a37637aaa2be84b948db9d852e`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida â€” 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding earmarks I received as part of the Fiscal Year 
2010 National Defense Authorization bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: AFSOC Injury Prevention and Human Performance 
Initiative

Account: RDAF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of Pittsburgh School of 
Health and Rehabilitative Services/Andrews Institute

Address of Requesting Entity: 1040 Gulf Breeze Parkway Gulf Breeze, 
FL 32561

Description of Request: $1,000,000--AFSOC Injury Prevention and Human 
Performance Initiative, University of Pittsburgh School of Health and 
Rehabilitative Services/Andrews Institute. I requested these funds for 
an injury prevention and performance enhancement initiative that will 
achieve a critical doctrinal shift in human performance strategies in 
Air Force Special Operations. Phase 1 will include task and demand 
analyses to identify Air Force Special Operator-specific tasks during 
which injuries occur, mechanisms of injury, and the physiological 
requirements of training.

The entity to receive funding for this project is the University of 
Pittsburgh School of Health and the Andrews Institute located at 1040 
Gulf Breeze Parkway Gulf Breeze, FL 32561. I certify that neither I nor 
my spouse has any financial interest in this project.



Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Anti-Materiel Explosive Round for Javelin Block II

Account: RDA

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: General Dynamics Ordinance and 
Tactical Systems, Niceville Operations

Address of Requesting Entity: 115 Hart Street Niceville, FL 32578

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Anti-Materiel Explosive Round for 
Javelin Block II, General Dynamics. I requested these funds to provide 
the warfighter with a significant improvement in lethality against 
Military Operations in Urban Terrain (MOUT) structures. The funding 
will allow for a qualification program in FY 2010 and early fielding in 
FY 2012.

The entity to receive funding for this project is General Dynamics 
located at 115 Hart Street Niceville, FL 32578. I certify that neither 
I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Coordinated Operation of Unmanned Vehicles for Littoral 
Defense

Account: RDN

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Florida Institute for Human and 
Machine Cognition

Address of Requesting Entity: 40 South Alcaniz Street, Pensacola, FL 
32502

Description of Request: $2,000,000--Coordinated Operation of Unmanned 
Vehicles for Littoral Defense, General Dynamics. I requested these 
funds to perform research to: develop a fully-functioning prototype of 
biologically inspired robotic concepts uniquely suited to the littoral 
environment; to develop and evaluate policies and metrics for optimal 
resource utilization and for effective configuration and control of 
hybrid teams of people and heterogeneous unmanned systems and to assure 
effective tasking of physically distributed humans and heterogeneous 
configurations of unmanned platforms to best support littoral 
operations.

The entity to receive funding for this project is the Florida 
Institute for Human and Machine Cognition located at 40 South Alcaniz 
Street, Pensacola, FL 32502. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has 
any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Eglin Air Force Base Range Operations Control Center 
(ROCC)

Account: RDAF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Cubic Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 1225 South Clark Street, Suite 702 
Arlington, VA 22202

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Eglin Air Force Base Range 
Operations Control Center (ROCC), Cubic Corporation. I requested these 
funds to address the increased testing and evaluation at Eglin AFB, the 
46th Test Wing Super ROCC initiative is a phased effort involving 
development, procurement and military construction (MILCON) funding to 
meet the future need in the 2015-2020 timeframe. This project provides 
more effective control to better optimize range scheduling and 
increases flexibility in meeting the Eglin AFB test and training 
missions. By knowing the locations of all entities on the range, the 
Super ROCC will have great flexibility in reassigning missions to 
ground and air space previously not being used.

The entity to receive funding for this project is Cubic Corporation 
located at 1225 South Clark Street, Suite 702 Arlington, VA 22202. I 
certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this 
project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Flight Test Operations Facility (413 FLTS)

Account: MCAF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Hurlburt Air Force Base

Address of Requesting Entity: Hurlburt Air Force Base

Description of Request: $9,400,000--Flight Test Operations Facility 
(413 FLTS), Hurlburt Air Force Base. I requested these funds to a 
construct a facility to conduct developmental and qualification testing 
of aircraft. A modern facility is necessary to ensure mission success, 
minimize acquisition costs and fielding delays. Functional areas 
include administration, operations and special purpose areas including 
open storage area with SIPRNET, workshop/maintenance area with 
compressed air, a hoist system and an electrical system capable of 
providing multi-phase power and covered outside storage.

The entity to receive funding for this project is Hurlburt Air Force 
Base located at Hurlburt AFB, Florida. I certify that neither I nor my 
spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation Capability

Account: RDDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Prologic

Address of Requesting Entity: 9400 Innovation Drive Manassas, VA 
20110

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation 
Capability, Prologic. I requested these funds for Gulf Range Mobile 
Instrumentation Capability for the 46th Range Group (46 RANG. The 46th 
Range Group (46 RANG) has a need for a capability for remote test, 
collection, storage and relay of various data types. This capability 
can be accomplished with a Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation Capability 
(GR-MIC). The GR-MIC is needed to support test events on the Eglin AFB 
range which occur over large geographic areas (land and sea based).

The entity to receive funding for this project is Prologic located at 
9400 Innovation Drive Manassas, VA 20110. I certify that neither I nor 
my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Intelligence Broadcast Receiver (IBR) for AFSOC MC 130 
Aircraft

Account: PDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies

Address of Requesting Entity: 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 
32548

Description of Request: $2,500,000--Intelligence Broadcast Receiver 
(IBR) for AFSOC MC-130 Aircraft, DRS Technologies. I requested these 
funds to procure equipment that provides Air Force Special Operations 
Command (AFSOC) MC-130 Combat Shadow aircraft with vastly improved 
situational awareness in high threat arenas. These aircraft provide 
clandestine or low visibility, low level missions into denied areas to 
provide support to small SOF ground teams as well as to provide air 
refueling for specialized infiltration aircraft. This equipment 
provides real time information to include; immediate intelligence, Blue 
Force tracking (friendly units), and survivor information, greatly 
improving mission success and survivability.

The entity to receive funding for this project is DRS Technologies 
located at 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548. I certify that 
neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.-

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Joint Gulf Complex Test and Training

Account: RDDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Boeing

Address of Requesting Entity: 634 Anchors St NW Fort Walton Beach, FL 
32548

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Joint Gulf Complex Test and 
Training, Boeing. I requested these funds to provide critical training


and mission rehearsal for Iraq and Afghanistan deployments. The range 
must accommodate requirements for joint testing of weapons systems that 
are revolutionary in nature and being developed for the War on 
Terrorism. The Joint Gulf Range must accommodate critical joint 
training requirements specifically in support of U.S. Air Force Special 
Operations Command and U.S. Special Operations Command.

The entity to receive funding for this project is Boeing located at 
634 Anchors St NW Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548. I certify that neither I 
nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: LAIRCM for AFSOC MC-130

Account: PDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: L-3 Crestview

Address of Requesting Entity: 5486 Fairchild Road Crestview, FL 32539

Description of Request: $4,000,000--LAIRCM for AFSOC MC-130, L-3. I 
requested these funds for enhanced protection of AFSOC's C-130 aircraft 
operating in combat conditions where man-portable infrared missiles are 
present. Current countermeasures, during critical phases of their 
mission, have marginal effectiveness. This is needed to protect lives 
and assets in current and future missions in the Global War on Terror.

The entity to receive funding for this project is L-3 located at 5486 
Fairchild Road Crestview, FL 32539. I certify that neither I nor my 
spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Mobile Learning Cultural Training for Military 
Personnel

Account: OMN

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of West Florida

Address of Requesting Entity: 11000 University Parkway Pensacola, FL 
32514

Description of Request: $1,500,000--Mobile Learning Cultural Training 
for Military Personnel, University of West Florida. I requested these 
funds to provide regional cultural awareness training through multiple 
mobile devices and through the Navy Knowledge Online (NKO) portal. 
Cultural awareness and language skills are critical for operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. This project builds on previous projects by the 
University of West Florida on mobile learning instructional delivery 
and on an Arabic Language and Cultural Awareness for-credit certificate 
program.

The entity to receive funding for this project is the University of 
West Florida located at 11000 University Parkway Pensacola, FL 32514. I 
certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this 
project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Moving Target Strike

Account: RDAF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: General Atomics/Alpha Data 
Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 1326 Lewis Turner Blvd Fort Walton 
Beach, FL 32547

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Moving Target Strike, General 
Atomics/Alpha Data Corporation. I requested these funds for GPS-guided 
weapons systems. The project will demonstrate the ability to strike a 
time-critical moving target with a low cost GPS guided weapon using 
coordinates derived and communicated from a single platform. GPS guided 
weapons are replacing higher cost laser guided and seeker weapons 
throughout DoD. The ability to use the GPS guided weapons against 
moving targets furthers this trend and reduces overall costs of weapon 
systems.

The entity to receive funding for this project is General Atomics/
Alpha Data Corporation located at 1326 Lewis Turner Blvd Fort Walton 
Beach, FL 32547. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any 
financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Virtual Perimeter Monitoring System (VPMS)

Account: RDDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies

Address of Requesting Entity: 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 
32548

Description of Request: $2,000,000--Virtual Perimeter Monitoring 
System (VPMS), DRS Technologies. I requested these funds to provide a 
perimeter monitoring system of remote sensors for detecting and 
alerting security personnel of intrusions in defined areas of interest 
at critical facilities. Virtual Perimeter Monitoring System (VPMS) 
provides continuous and persistent surveillance of areas of interest to 
include near real time monitoring of air fields, ports, depots and 
other critical infrastructures.

The entity to receive funding for this project is DRS Technologies 
located at 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548. I certify that 
neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.
