# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `5add61ec1e307b596fe0a9a17a064f57`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 
20, which among other things avert the impeding budgetary train wreck 
left by the Republican-controlled 109th Congress. I want to pay 
particular tribute to Mr. Obey, the Chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee for his incredible work in fashioning this legislation that 
will enable us to put behind us the mess left by last Congress and get 
on to the important business of addressing the real and pressing needs 
of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, last November millions of Americans went to the polls to 
register the strong disgust with the Republican dominated control of 
the legislative and executive branches of our Federal Government. 
Americans were fed up with a Republican Congress and its legacy of a 
culture of corruption, its failure to address the pressing needs of the 
American people, its unwillingness to provide effective oversight of 
the executive branch, its fiscal irresponsibility that resulted in 
record budget deficits and added trillions to the national debt, and 
its ability to complete one of the most basic tasks of the legislative 
branch: to pass the appropriations bills needed to fund the government. 
Is it any wonder that Americans were voting for a new way of doing the 
people's business when they elected the Democratic majorities in the 
House and Senate? I think not. We Democrats promised a new and better 
direction for America. And we have been delivering.

Mr. Speaker, behold what we accomplished in less than the first 100 
legislative hours of our majority. We passed H.R. 1, which implements 
the recommendations of the 911 Commission; we passed H.R. 2, raising 
the minimum wage by $2.10 an hour over three years and providing a much 
needed raise to nearly 5 million workers; we passed H.R. 3, which will 
provide funding for embryonic stem cell research and provide hope for 
millions of Americans suffering from some of the most debilitating 
illnesses.

But we did not stop there. We passed H.R. 4, which requires Medicaid 
to negotiate lower prescription drug prices for our seniors and 
disabled citizens; we passed H.R. 5, which will make college more 
affordable to middle and working class Americans by cutting the 
interest rate on federally insured student loans in half; and we passed 
H.R. 6, which is a substantial start in making this country more energy 
independent.

And we accomplished all this, Mr. Speaker, after draining the swamp 
and ending the culture of corruption by adopting the strongest, 
toughest ethics and lobbying rules in history.

Today, we clean up the fiscal mess left by the Republican-led 109th 
Congress. The last Congress abdicated its duty to be a faithful and 
responsible steward of the public fisc. They shirked their 
responsibility to establish the right priorities and make the right 
choices to serve the American people. They failed to pass nine of 
the eleven appropriations bills needed to sustain the operations of 
government for Fiscal Year 2007.


Mr. Speaker, thanks to your superb leadership, and especially the 
extraordinary legislative craftsmanship of our remarkable Chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee, we rectify these Republican failures 
today. The Continuing Resolution we take up today, H.J. Res. 20, is not 
the ideal manner to fund the government and contains some provisions 
that each of us might not like, unlike the President's decision to 
escalate the war in Iraq, the choices reflected in H.J. Res. 20 
represent the best available alternatives out of a universe of worst 
choices. That is why, Mr. Speaker, I rise to offer my support for the 
Fiscal Year 2007 Continuing Resolution, and my appreciation to the 
leadership, the Chairman and members of the Committee, and for all my 
colleagues who join me in voting for H.J. Res. 20.

Mr. Speaker, H.J. Res. 20, totals $463.5 billion, the amount 
remaining under the Republican budget resolution for the current fiscal 
year. Most programs are funded at FY 2006 levels with increases to 
cover the cost of pay increases. Of course, it was also necessary to 
make additions to maintain staffing levels, avoid furloughs, and 
generally meet increased costs or workloads for agencies, particularly 
the Department of Justice, the federal judiciary, the Social Security 
Administration, the FAA (including air traffic control), international 
peacekeeping operations, the Indian Health Service, the Food and Drug 
Administration, and the USDA Food Safety Inspection Service.

But Mr. Speaker, because the new Democratic majority knows how to, 
and does not shirk from, choosing wisely and setting the right 
priorities, in this continuing resolution we were also able to provide 
significant new investments for high priority needs in many areas, 
including veterans healthcare and assistance, law enforcement, public 
health, housing and education, scientific research, energy 
independence, transportation, and the environment. Let me discuss 
briefly some of the more important and beneficial provisions.
















veterans Affairs


In the area of veterans healthcare, the resolution provides $32.3 
billion, an increase of $3.6 billion above the FY 2006 funding levels 
to provide service for the anticipated increase of at least 325,000 
veteran patients and to meet rising healthcare costs', especially of 
our returning soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan. As President Lincoln 
reminded us 142 years ago, we have a moral obligation to care for him 
whom has born the battle, and for his widow and orphan. We are going to 
keep that commitment.

We also provide $21.2 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion to provide 
care for service members and their families, including treating service 
members wounded in action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, we will never neglect the needs of those who proudly don 
the uniform in the defense of the United States. That is why the 
resolution provides $13.4 billion to fund the Basic Allowance for 
Housing, an increase of $500 million. This increased funding is


needed to provide a down payment towards the funding shortfall caused 
by higher housing rates.











 Public Safety and Law Enforcement


In the vitally important area of public safety, law enforcement, and 
crime prevention, the resolution increases the funding for the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation by $216.6 million to fully fund 31,359 
positions, including 12,213 agents and 2,577 Intelligence Analysts--
doubling the number of Intelligence Analysts since September 11th. This 
amount also includes $100 million to proceed the FBI's plan to move 
from paper-based case management to electronic data sharing. The 
resolution also includes $147.4 million for counter-terrorism and 
intelligence infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, 
Terrorism, and Homeland Security, I know that investing in crime 
prevention programs is an effective use of the taxpayers' precious 
dollars. That is why I am pleased that the resolution provides $520 
million for Byrne Justice Assistance Formula Grants, an increase of 
$109 million, and $542 million for Community Oriented Policing Services 
(COPS), an increase of $70 million. Together these increases are the 
first step in reversing the drastic cuts to State and local law 
enforcement programs made since the Bush administration came into 
office in 2001. I will immediately make the request for the U.S. 
Justice Department to fund the new crime-prevention needs of Houston.

Mr. Speaker, as we all know, education is destiny. The surest and 
most certain path to continued American prosperity lies in an educated 
citizenry. That is why I am especially pleased that for the first time 
in 4 years, the maximum Pell Grant has been increased, by $260 to 
$4,310. This long-overdue increase will help over 5.3 million students 
pay rising college expenses.

The resolution also provides $10.7 billion for IDEA Part B State 
grants, an increase of $200 million to help school districts serve 
6.9 million children with disabilities and special needs. If we are 
going to be serious about leaving no child behind, then we must make 
sure to adequately fund special education.


But there is more, Mr. Speaker. The resolution increases Title I K-12 
Grants by $125 million and provides more than 38,000 additional low-
income children performing below grade level with intensive reading and 
math instruction. Thus, we have begun to reverse the decline since 2005 
in Title 1 support for elementary and secondary schools at a time of 
record enrollments (55 million students in 2006) and pressures for more 
accountability from No Child Left Behind requirements.

The resolution also contains $125 million targeted to the 6,700 
schools that failed to meet No Child Left Behind requirements in the 
2005-2006 school year, enabling them to implement improvement 
activities, such as teacher training, tutoring programs, and curriculum 
upgrades. According to the Department of Education, without this 
funding more than 80 percent of high-poverty districts would be unable 
to afford these improvements.

The value and efficacy of Head Start is well known and long 
established. That is why it is so scandalous that the Bush 
Administration has cut this program by 11 percent in real dollars since 
2002. The resolution increases funding by $103.7 million to help 
prevent a drop in Head Start enrollments. The money the Department of 
Education will have will still allow for teacher incentive pay for 
Houston.














 Public Health Programs


The resolution provides $1.9 billion, an increase of $206.9 million 
to finance more than 300 critically need new or expanded health 
centers, serving an estimated 1.2 million new patients. We also 
increase Ryan White CARE Grants by $75.8 million to bring it to its 
authorized funding level of $1.2 billion.















Scientific Research


One of the most important investments this nation can make to secure 
its long-term future is in the area of scientific research. As a long-
term member of the Science Committee, I am keenly aware that to keep 
ahead of our international competitors we cannot scrimp when it comes 
to expanding the Nation's intellectual capital and knowledge base. That 
is why the resolution wisely funds the National Institutes of Health at 
$28.9 billion, an increase of $619.5 million. This level of funding 
reverses a projected decline in new NIH research project awards and 
supports an additional 500 research project grants, 1,500 first time 
investigators, and expands funding for high risk and high impact 
research.

The resolution also provides an additional $50 million in new funding 
for the National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) 
innovation programs for physical science research and lab support for 
nanotechnology and neutron research. Equally important, the resolution 
increases provides funding for the National Science Foundation in the 
amount of $4.7 billion, an increase of $335 million. This increase is a 
down-payment towards enhancing U.S. global competitiveness by investing 
in basic science research.

Mr. Speaker, in an area close to my heart and important to my 
district, which is often referred to as the Energy Capital of the 
nation, the resolution increases funding to the Department of Energy's 
Office of Science by $200 million to support cutting edge research, 
including new energy technologies such as improved conversion of 
cellulosic biomass to biofuels. I also appreciate that the resolution 
increases funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy resources 
by $300 million which will enable us to accelerate research and 
development activities for renewable energy and energy efficiency 
programs. NASA and in particular the Johnson Space Center can be funded 
by redisbursing funds in the Agency to avoid lost jobs and the stopping 
of important work. I will work for the continued work of NASA.












 Housing and urban development


Mr. Speaker, as Hurricane Katrina laid bare for all the world to see, 
affordable housing has for too long been a neglected priority in this 
country. The resolution makes a modest but useful stab at correcting 
this woeful situation. The Section 8 Tenant-Based Program is funded at 
$15.9 billion, an increase of $502 million, which will enable the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to renew 70,000 housing 
vouchers currently in use by individuals and families. The Section 8 
Project-Based Program is budgeted at $5.9 billion, an increase of $939 
million. This much needed increase will help HUD renew 157,000 housing 
vouchers currently in use by individuals and families.

Although no one likes to live in public housing, we must remember 
that for millions of our fellow citizens they are their home and 
sanctuary. For too long they have been neglected, which has led to an 
accelerated state of disrepair. That is why it is encouraging to see 
that the resolution provides an extra increase $300 million to enable 
Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) to address critical operating needs 
after last year's energy hikes saddled them with $287 million in 
unexpected utility costs. Although this increase is still $672 million 
short of the total estimated need of $4.5 billion, it will help to 
restore staff levels, maintenance activities, elderly service 
coordinators, security officers and equipment.

Also Mr. Speaker, the resolution contains language changing the 
funding formula for the Section 8 Tenant-Based Program. The current 
formula is based on information from 2004 that is out of date and 
results in some Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) getting more money 
then they can spend while others have less than they need. The 
resolution corrects this problem by directing HUD to use the most 
recent 12-month leasing and cost data. Last week HUD announced that a 
similar provision would be included in their 2008 budget request to be 
implemented in 2009. By including the language now, 2007 funds will be 
put to their intended use--funding housing units for low-income 
families and individuals rather than sitting unspent.













 Transportation Guarantees


Next to human capital, few things are as important to the nation's 
economic future as is its physical infrastructure, especially its roads 
and bridges. That is why it is very good news that the federal aid 
highway program is fully funded at the level guaranteed in the SAFETEA-
LU Act by providing an obligation limitation of $39.1 billion for FY 
2007, $3.5 billion over the FY 2006 enacted level; and funding for 
Federal mass transit programs is increased by $470 million to $8.97 
billion to meet the transit funding guarantees as required by SAFETEA-
LU.
















 Global Health


Mr. Speaker, America is a generous and compassionate Nation. That is 
why it is consistent with our values that the resolution increases 
Global HIV/AIDS funding by $1.3 billion to $4.5 billion. This increase 
will help to expand efforts to combat HIV/AIDS, and TB programs 
including in the 15 focus countries and the multilateral efforts 
through the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria.

I am proud that the United States is doing more than its share in 
helping to eradicate malaria, which is still too often an unnecessarily 
fatal disease in too many parts of the world. The resolution funds the 
Agency for International Development's Malaria programs in the amount 
of $248 million, an increase of $149 million. This will allow U.S. AID 
to expand its bilateral global malaria initiative activities from the 
current 3 countries to 7. Country programs expand access to long-
lasting insecticide treated bed nets, promote and support effective 
malaria treatment through the use of proven combination therapies; and 
increase prevention efforts targeted to pregnant women.










Moratorium on Directed Spending Projects


Mr. Speaker, the continuing resolution explicitly eliminates directed 
spending projects (''earmarks'') for Fiscal Year 2007 and retains the 
moratorium on earmarking in place until a reformed process was put in 
place. Unfortunately, many worthy earmarks are not funded


including the Boys and Girls Clubs, America's Promise, and the Thousand 
Points of Light Foundation. I know many of my colleagues are 
disappointed that the budgetary mismanagement by the Republican-
controlled 109th Congress necessitated this draconian measure. In spite 
of this prohibition I will fight to secure funding for the TSU Lab 
School and other projects.

But I take some consolation in Chairman Obey's assurance that 
earmarks included in this year's appropriations bills will be eligible 
for consideration in the 2008 process, subject to new standards for 
transparency and accountability and that the Committee and leadership 
will work to restore an accountable, above-board, transparent process 
for funding decisions and put an end to the abuses that have harmed the 
credibility of Congress.

Although the resolution eliminates earmarks for the current fiscal 
year, I note Mr. Speaker, that the resolution will, however, continue 
to help State and local governments meet the needs of their communities 
by providing funding for grants through authorized discretionary and 
formula programs including Teacher Incentive Grants, Corps of Engineers 
programs, Military Construction, Department of Energy science programs, 
Agricultural Research Service operations, and the USDA Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension Service.

Mr. Speaker, perhaps the most compelling reason for supporting H. 
Res. 20 is that stated by Chairmen Obey and Byrd in their Joint 
Statement of December 13, with which I close:




 There is no good way out of the fiscal chaos left behind by 


 the outgoing Congress. Indeed, this joint resolution provides 


 the Administration far too much latitude in spending the 


 people's money. But that is a temporary price that we will 


 pay in order to give the President's new budget the attention 


 and oversight it deserves and requires, and so that we can 


 begin work right away at putting the people's priorities 


 front and center. We, in the new Congress, have a 


 responsibility to build the foundation for a better future. 


 We cannot begin that work until we fix the problems left 


 behind by the Republican Congress. So, we must turn the page 


 on the Republican failures and work together in the best 


 interests of the American people.


Mr. Speaker, I urge all members to support H.J. Res. 20 so we can 
move forward and attend to real and pressing needs of the American 
people.