# CELEBRATING 90 YEARS OF UNITED STATES-POLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
## `5af607016ff047c9a1fcb1fee5ca28cc`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. I thank the gentlelady, as always.

Mr. Speaker, it is a privilege for me to stand here today in strong, 
wholehearted support of our cherished ally, the nation of Poland, and 
in strong support of House Resolution 266. And I want to thank Mr. 
Lipinski, a cherished friend of mine, for his willingness to put forth 
this resolution.

After the recently announced decision by the Obama administration 
abandoning our promised missile defense interceptors in Poland, our 
allies' newspaper headlines stated the situation in rather stark terms, 
Mr. Speaker. One Polish newspaper had the headline, ''Betrayed! The USA 
has sold us to the Russians and stabbed us in the back.''

Now, Mr. Speaker, it's a travesty beyond words that the United States 
of America, the bastion of freedom throughout the entire world, would 
give reason to a loyal ally like Poland to write headlines like that. 
Poland has strongly supported the United States diplomatically and 
militarily and has joined with us courageously in combating global 
terrorism and has contributed troops to the coalitions led by the 
United States of America both in Afghanistan and in Iraq.

For these reasons and so many others, Mr. Speaker, I'm honored to 
stand here today with my colleagues to warmly congratulate the Polish 
people on their remarkable accomplishments as a free nation and to 
express our gratitude for Poland's steadfast partnership with the 
United States and to affirm our clear and unwavering support for the 
free democratic nation of Poland.

Mr. Speaker, I would go one step further by stating that one of the 
best ways we could demonstrate our deep love and appreciation for the 
nation and people of Poland would be to prove that we mean this by 
extending the Visa Waiver Program to our Polish allies. We've already 
extended the Visa Waiver Program to 35 other allies, including other 
European nations like Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, 
Lithuania, and Latvia, and I strongly believe we should have extended 
this same courtesy to our allies in Poland long ago. Poland repealed 
its own visa requirement back in 1991 and allows Americans to travel 
throughout Poland without the use of a visa.

The nation of Poland has proven time and again, Mr. Speaker, its 
steadfast dedication to the cause of human freedom as well as its 
friendship with the United States, and it is appropriate that they 
understand that America is grateful. And I just reiterate my gratitude 
to Mr. Lipinski and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen.