# RESTORE ACT OF 2007
## `5b00731695faeba07ae8ada80ee84e5a`
`Mr. REYES — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise once again in support of H.R. 3773, the RESTORE 
Act. I would also like the Record to reflect that Congressman Baron 
Hill intended to be listed as a cosponsor of H.R. 3773, and we are 
certainly grateful for his support.

In early September, at the direction of Speaker Pelosi, the 
Intelligence Committee and the House Judiciary Committee took up the 
call to improve the Protect America Act, or PAA. Passed in August, the 
PAA modified FISA and gave sweeping and unprecedented surveillance 
powers to the executive branch, while requiring minimal oversight and 
without providing a meaningful judicial check on the President's use of 
the new powers.

While we were charged with undoing the excesses of PAA, we also have 
the mandate to provide our intelligence professionals the legal 
authorities required to protect the country from our enemies. Six years 
after the tragic attacks of 9/11, Osama bin Laden remains at large and 
America continues to face threats from al Qaeda and other terrorist 
organizations. The war in Iraq continues to act as a recruitment tool 
for all our enemies.

Mindful of these threats, we drafted the RESTORE Act as a bill that 
we can all support and be proud of. The RESTORE Act arms our 
intelligence community with powerful new authorities to conduct 
electronic surveillance of targets outside the United States while 
maintaining our fundamental liberties. First, it exempts truly foreign-
to-foreign communications from any judicial review, even when the 
communication passes through the United States or the surveillance 
device is still actually located in the United States. Second, it 
authorizes the acquisition of foreign intelligence information for all 
matters of national defense, including information relating to 
terrorism, espionage, sabotage, and other threats to the national 
security of our country.

Third, the act clarifies that nothing in the act or the amendments to 
the act shall be construed to prohibit lawful surveillance necessary to 
prevent Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda, or any other terrorist organization 
from attacking the United States or our allies. But these powerful 
authorities are subject to the checks and the balances required by our 
Constitution.

The RESTORE Act puts the FISA Court back in business where the rights 
of Americans are at stake. The RESTORE Act tightens overbroad language 
in the PAA that authorized physical searches of Americans' homes and 
offices without a warrant. The RESTORE Act restores meaningful, robust, 
and continuous oversight by the judicial and legislative branches to 
ensure that the powerful intelligence-gathering tools authorized by the 
RESTORE Act are being used effectively and within the boundaries set by 
our Constitution.

In sum, the RESTORE Act provides tools to keep the Nation safe and 
upholds our constitutional liberties. This debate has gone on long 
enough, I believe, Mr. Speaker. It has been unnecessarily prolonged 
bipartisan maneuvering from some in this House. I am sure that we will 
see more of that partisan gamesmanship tonight. But I urge my 
colleagues to reject partisan politics in favor of sound policy and 
support this critically important bill.

I urge all my colleagues to vote ''yes'' for the RESTORE Act.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.

