# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5b1511c02873cd1f7dfc9f1d01c39835`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I guess the first thing I want to point out, and there are other 
arguments I want to make, but during Mr. Lewis' comments, and I have a 
great deal of respect for the gentleman from California, he mentioned 
that, you know, George Washington never retreated. Well, as it happens, 
I just read a biography of Mr. Washington, and not to go puncturing 
holes in the midst of our great Nation, he retreated a fair amount, 
actually.

In fact, I don't know where we got this idea that the great leaders 
of our time only went forward. We have heard about President Kennedy 
and President Truman. At one time or another, they retreated from a 
fair number of battles. Now, sometimes that was a wise and tactical 
maneuver to win the larger war. Sometimes it was a mistake.

History judges, but I think it does sort of portray the thinking of 
the President that the only way is forward, regardless of the details. 
A little more thought, I think, might help us. I will return to that 
point at the end of my remarks.

But the first thing I want to say, I think this is by and large a 
very good debate on a very important issue facing our Nation. The only 
time I become troubled in this debate is when speakers on the other 
side say that this is just political, and that this resolution is 
irrelevant. What they are saying is that the opinion of the United 
States House of Representatives on the most important public policy 
issue facing our Nation today is irrelevant. The opinion of the 
people's House doesn't matter.

Now, that explains a lot for the last 4 years while the minority 
party was in the majority, when they did not question this President, 
when they did not express their opinion in a way that would move us in 
a more positive direction.

I feel very strongly that it is absolutely the responsibility of 
those of us in Congress who represent people, our constituents, to 
express our opinion. In a way we are expressing their opinion. That is 
what we are supposed to be here in the House, the most directly 
reflective voice of the people of this country.

So to say that this is irrelevant is just an absolute attack on the 
Constitution and the way this country is supposed to be set up. We must 
express our opinion on the most important issues of the day.

Then we come to the next issue, which is, you cannot question the 
Commander in Chief. He is the guy in charge, he knows more than the 
rest of us. You cannot question him. It undermines everything.

Let me say I express a certain amount of sympathy for the view that 
we should place faith in the Commander in Chief. That is a good part of 
the reason why I voted for this resolution 4 years ago. A little more 
than a year after 9/11, our President was saying to us, To prosecute 
the broader war on terror I need this authority. And I had my doubts, 
but, by and large, I want to be supportive of the Commander in Chief, 
recognizing the power he has.

But the question I have for the minority is for how long? How many 
mistakes does this President have to make before we don't have an 
obligation, not just a right, but an obligation to express our 
disapproval and try to get him to move in a different direction? Books 
have been written, more than I can count, about all of mistakes that 
this President has made in Iraq; books not written just by opponents of 
the war, many of them written by proponents, outraged that they took 
their idea, the President took their idea and made such a hash of it.

We have an obligation at some point to stand up and say, enough. Mr. 
Commander in Chief, I am sorry, but based on 4 years, we do not trust 
you enough to give you a blank check anymore. We have to express our 
opinion, and that is what this resolution does.

Let me also assure you, we want to win. We, on this side of the 
aisle, recognize everything that has been said on that side about the 
threat that al Qaeda and their followers present. We


will fight them anywhere, anytime, because we recognize that threat.

In fact, I believe that there is al Qaeda in Iraq, and we should 
fight them.

But what we are talking about specifically today, and Mr. Buyer 
mentioned the 21,000 troops, that is the aspect of the plan that we 
focused on, precisely because that is the aspect of the plan that is 
most wrong, that does the exact wrong thing, sending 21,000 U.S. troops 
to fight in a civil war that has been better described by some of my 
colleagues, so I won't go into it any further, that they cannot 
possibly sort out the bad gays from the good guys is the exact wrong 
thing to do.

Given that feeling, and I have personally thought about this a great 
deal, I met with the President on a couple of occasions as he outlined 
this plan. I talked with many soldiers who served, gotten many opinions 
on this, and have come to the honest conclusion that it is a mistake, 
that it undermines our ability to win that larger war against al Qaeda, 
which is the war we are fighting.

Given the fact that I feel that way, I would be betraying everything 
that I said I was going to do when I got elected if I didn't on the 
Record express that opinion. That is what this resolution does.

So I know this hope will go unfulfilled, but I would hope at a 
minimum that the minority can stop saying that the opinion of this 
House is irrelevant. If they feel that way, they should all just go 
home. All right, it matters. You may disagree with the opinion we are 
expressing. I urge you to vote ''no'' if you feel that way, but I don't 
feel that way.

I feel we need to tell the Commander in Chief that he has led us down 
one too many blind alleys. We disagree with him. We want him to change 
course, and that is the will of the people's House, being expressed by 
us. That is not just our right. It is our duty as Members of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, it has been nearly four years since the war in Iraq 
began--four-and-a-half since President Bush and his team in the White 
House started the effort to launch our nation on the path to this war. 
We learned a lot during that time frame, but two things stand out. 
First, the war effort has failed to achieve the outcome the President 
hoped for, instead creating problems he clearly felt would not come to 
pass. Even he admitted that he is dissatisfied with the way the war has 
gone. Second, at every step along the way, beginning with the way the 
President got us into the war, right up to the President's latest plan 
to once again increase the number of U.S. troops in Baghdad, President 
Bush and his administration made mistake after mistake--failing to an 
almost incomprehensible level to learn from past errors or to 
demonstrate even a modest level of competence in prosecuting this war. 
Countless books from all points on the political spectrum lay out in 
painful detail all the mistakes this administration made in Iraq.

It is way past time for this Congress to stand up and say enough. We 
disapprove of what President Bush is doing in Iraq.

But our friends on the other side of the aisle claim that such a 
statement is meaningless. This is an astounding assertion. The United 
States House of Representatives--the elected voice of the people of our 
Nation--stating clearly and on the record how they feel about the 
single most important policy issue of our time is meaningless? This 
opinion, expressed by the minority party, perhaps explains the utter 
lack of oversight and accountability that they employed when they were 
in charge--standing by and acting as mere cheerleaders for the 
President's actions in Iraq as he made mistake after mistake. The other 
side of the aisle at least has a consistent record of believing that 
the opinion of Congress, a body our Constitution set up as a coequal 
branch of government with the Executive, is meaningless.

As much as I disagree with this conclusion as to the proper role of 
Congress in expressing its opinion on the Iraq War, I do understand 
this initial reluctance to pressure President Bush to change course. In 
a time of war we all want to stand behind our Commander-in-Chief as a 
first option, and the powers of the presidency make it difficult for 
Congress to, in a clear-cut straightforward manner, direct the 
President in the conduct of war. But the President's record of mistakes 
in Iraq makes it clear we can no longer cling to this first option, 
and, difficulties notwithstanding, the cost of continuing down the same 
path the President has been pursuing in Iraq has reached the point 
where Congress must at least try to force a change in direction.

This effort should logically begin with a clear statement from the 
House that we disapprove of the way the President is conducting the war 
in Iraq. That is what this resolution does. With this vote members can 
no longer hide behind, ''on the one hand, but then again on the other'' 
statements. We can all mutter about things we don't like in Iraq, but 
an official on the record vote is required to make that disapproval 
clear. Do you support the way President Bush is conducting the war in 
Iraq? Yes or no.

And make no mistake about it the President's plan to increase the 
number of U.S troops in Baghdad represents no change in policy. It is 
stay the course, more of the same. In the last year we made large 
increases in the number of our troops in Baghdad twice already. Both 
times violence went up in the city, and as we have begun the current 
increase in troops that violence has once again increased. The lesson 
should be clear at this point--United States military might will not 
stop or even reduce the violence in that city.

Listening to the arguments against this resolution helps to 
understand why our President insists on making some of the same 
mistakes over and over again in Iraq. We are told that our fight in 
Iraq is a clear-cut battle against the same type of al Qaeda-backed 
extremists who attacked our Nation on 9/11 and that we are defending a 
worthy Iraqi government against these evil forces. If this were true, I 
would support whatever increase in troops was necessary to defeat that 
evil force.

But it is not even close to true--it is instead a dangerous attempt 
to paint a black and white picture on a situation that is far, far more 
complex. Baghdad is caught in a sectarian civil war. Both Shia and 
Sunni militias are battling each other as well as United States forces 
and the Iraqi government. It is a complex web of frequently changing 
alliances and interests that makes it impossible for our troops to 
separate good guys from bad guys. This is why our troops cannot stop or 
even reduce the violence. And the Maliki government we are being asked 
to support spends as much time acting like they are supporting the Shia 
side of the civil war as they do acting like they want to bring 
Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds together to form a stable Iraq.

Al Qaeda is in Iraq and we should continue to target them, but that 
effort will require a far, far smaller U.S. military presence than we 
have there today. Currently we are expending an enormous amount of 
resources in Iraq, most of which is going towards putting our forces in 
the middle of a chaotic civil war where our efforts do not advance and 
may even retard our fight against al Qaeda. That massive military 
commitment reduces our ability to pursue al Qaeda in the dozens of 
other nations where they have influence--most glaringly in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan.

This larger, more important fight is not solely or even primarily 
military. Diplomacy and other efforts to move disaffected Muslim 
populations away from joining al Qaeda are a huge part of our battle, 
and we need to enhance those efforts. But we can't, because we're 
hamstrung both by a lack of resources--financial and strategic--that 
are tied down in Iraq, and because our open-ended occupation of Iraq 
continues to undermine America's standing in the world.

Instead of sending more troops to Baghdad the United States policy in 
Iraq should be to instruct our military leaders there to put together 
plans to as quickly and responsibly as possible reduce the number of 
U.S. troops in Iraq. We need our troops to focus on al Qaeda and its 
supporters, not to be bogged down in a sectarian civil war that is only 
tangentially related to the larger fight against al Qaeda.

The first, critical step in this process of changing our policy in 
Iraq is this resolution. Congress must make its disapproval of the 
President's policy in Iraq clear and on the record.

Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Maine (Mr. 
Allen).