# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `5b18e25a5faee485e75d6f36ad545247`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I thank the Chair.

This, in fact, is exactly what the most recent National Intelligence 
Estimate on Iraq predicted. A withdrawal of American troops in the 
months ahead would ''almost certainly lead to a significant increase in 
the scale and scope of sectarian conflict, intensify Sunni resistance, 
and have adverse effects on national reconciliation.''

That is the NIE, broadly supported and embraced by proponents of the 
Iraq language in this legislation.

Second, the majority leader said withdrawing our troops will ''reduce 
the specter of the U.S. occupation which gives fuel to the 
insurgency.''

My colleague from Nevada, in other words, is saying the insurgency is 
in some measure being provoked by the very presence of American troops. 
By diminishing that presence, presumably the insurgency will diminish.

But I ask my colleagues, where is the evidence to support this 
theory? I find none. In fact, all the evidence I find supports the 
opposite conclusion. Since 2003, and before General Petraeus took 
command and began implementing our new strategy there, American forces 
were ordered on several occasions to pull back from Iraqi cities and 
regions, including Mosul, Fallujah, Tel'Afar, and Baghdad. What 
happened in these places? Did they stabilize when the American troops 
left? Did the insurgency go away? Of course not.

On the contrary, in each of these places where U.S. forces pulled 
back, al-Qaida and sectarian warriors rushed in. Rather than becoming 
islands of peace, they became safe havens for terrorists, islands of 
fear and violence.

So I ask advocates of withdrawal, on what evidence, on what data have 
you concluded that pulling U.S. troops out will weaken the insurgency 
there when every single experience we have had since 2003 suggests that 
withdrawal, the kind of withdrawal mandated by this legislation, will 
strengthen the terrorists and insurgents and increase violence?

I ask my colleagues to consider the words of Sheikh Abdul Sattar, one 
of the leading tribal leaders in Anbar Province, who is now fighting on 
our side against al-Qaida because he is convinced we are on his side. 
This is what he told the New York Times when asked last month what 
would happen if U.S. troops withdraw? He said:




 In my personal opinion, and in the opinion of most of the 


 wise men of Anbar, if the American forces leave right now, 


 there will be civil war and the area will fall into total 


 chaos.





This is a man whose father was killed by al-Qaida, who risks his life 
every day to work with us, a man who was described by one Army officer 
as ''the most effective local leader in Ramadi I believe the coalition 
has worked with . . . since 2003.''

In his remarks earlier this week, Senator Reid also observed there is 
''a large and growing population of millions--who sit precariously on 
the fence. They will either condemn or contribute to terrorism in the 
years ahead. We must convince them of the goodness of America and 
Americans. We must win them over.''

On this I completely agree with my friend from Nevada. But my 
question to him and others supporting this language is this: How does 
this strategy you propose in this bill possibly help win over this 
population of millions in Iraq who sit precariously on the fence?

What message, I ask, does this legislation announce to these people 
who are the majority in Iraq? How will they respond when we tell them 
we are not longer going to make an effort to protect them and their 
families against insurgents and death squads? How will they respond 
when we declare we will be withdrawing our forces, regardless of 
whether they are making progress in the next few months toward 
political reconciliation? Where will their hopes be for a better life 
when we withdraw the troops that are the necessary precondition for the 
security and stability and opportunity for a better life that the 
majority of Iraqis clearly yearn for?

Do my friends believe this is the way to convince Iraqis and the 
world of the goodness of America and Americans? Does anyone in this 
Chamber believe that by announcing a date certain for withdrawal we 
will empower Iraqi moderates, the mainstream, or enable Iraq's 
reconstruction, or open more schools for their children or more 
hospitals for their families or provide more freedom for everyone? With 
all due respect, this is a fantasy.

The third step the majority leader proposes is to impose ''tangible, 
measurable, and achievable benchmarks on the Iraqi government.''

I am all for such benchmarks. In fact, Senator McCain and I were 
among the first to propose legislation to apply such benchmarks on the 
Iraqi government.

But I don't see how this plan will encourage Iraqis to meet these or 
any other benchmarks, given its ironclad commitment to abandon them--
regardless of how they behave.

We should of course be making every effort to encourage 
reconciliation in Iraq and the development of a decent political order 
that Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds can agree on.

But even if today that political solution was found, we cannot 
rationally think that our terrorist enemies like al-Qaida in Iraq will 
simply vanish.

Al-Qaida is not mass murdering civilians on the streets of Baghdad 
because it wants a more equitable distribution of oil revenues. Its aim 
in Iraq is not to get a seat at the political table.

It wants to blow up the table--along with everyone seated at it. Al-
Qaida wants to destroy any prospect for democracy in Iraq, and it will 
not be negotiated or reasoned out of existence. It must be fought and 
defeated through force of arms. And there can be no withdrawal, no 
redeployment from this reality.

The fourth step that the majority leader proposed on Monday is a 
''diplomatic, economic, and political offensive . . . starting with a 
regional conference working toward a long-term framework for stability 
in the region.''

I understand why we are drawn to ideas such as those that are in this 
legislation on Iraq. All of us are aware of the justified frustration, 
fatigue, and disappointment of the American people with Iraq. All of us 
would like to believe there is a better solution--quicker, easier--to 
the challenges we face in Iraq. But none of this gives us an excuse to 
paper over hard truths of which I have tried to speak. We delude 
ourselves if we think we can wave a legislative wand and suddenly our 
troops in the field will be able to distinguish between al-Qaida 
terrorism and sectarian violence or that Iraqis will suddenly settle 
their political differences because our troops are leaving or that 
sweet reason alone will suddenly convince Iraq and Syria to stop 
destabilizing Iraq, stop enabling the terrorists and insurgents who are 
killing too many Americans and Iraqis there today.

What we need now is a sober assessment of the progress we are 
beginning to make and a recognition of the significant challenges we 
still face. There are many uncertainties before us, many complexities, 
many challenges. Barely half of the new troops General Petraeus 
requested have even arrived in Iraq.

In following General Petraeus's path, there is no guarantee of 
success, but there is hope and a new plan for success. In rejecting 
General Petraeus's path, as this legislation would do, there is a 
guarantee of failure and, I fear, disaster. The plan embedded in this 
language contains no reasonable prospects for success. It is a strategy 
based on catch phrases and bromides rather than military realities and 
all that is on the line for us in Iraq.

It does not learn from the many mistakes that have been made in Iraq. 
Rather, it promises to repeat them. Let me be absolutely clear. In my 
opinion, Iraq is not yet lost, but if we follow the plan in this 
legislation, it will be lost and so, I fear, will much of our hope for 
stability in the Middle East and security from terrorism here at home. 
That is why I will vote no.