# MOTION TO ADJOURN
## `5b21394e7c2e7f6708d5389c67ae3384`
`Mr. KINGSTON â€” 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, there is one economic fact that doesn't belong to the 
Democrats or the Republicans. Facts work that way. And that is, that 
price in the long run is the cost of production, period. It is true 
with anything.

What we are doing with this bill, should it pass, is we are 
increasing the cost of production, specifically, domestic production.

We live in a world where, in 2004, we spent $103 billion buying oil 
from nondemocratic countries. Now, some of them might be your best 
friends. Saudi Arabia, for example. Others might be less than your best 
friends. Of course, I say that tongue in cheek. But Iran, Iraq, Russia, 
Venezuela, that is who you are buying your oil from today; and you are 
going to increase the cost of domestic production. It doesn't quite 
make sense, except for in the context of the last 2 weeks, the context 
of the transfer of power from Republican to Democrat. We were promised 
open government; we were promised open rules; we were promised the 
opportunity to add amendments and to have fair debates. And yet this 
bill, as has been the case with the five bills before it, did not even 
have a committee hearing. It is like giving a book report having not 
read the book.

Sure, it is a power jam, and certainly the majority has the right to 
jam its power through on the minority. But in this case, wouldn't it 
have been more helpful to have a committee hearing so we could have 
gotten rid of what I would call the tuna fish clause?

Now, we know what the tuna fish clause is. Right? That is where we 
heard over and over again on the minimum wage debate that increasing 
wages was good for everybody, good for the economy, good for the 
worker, particularly the poor worker. And then we read this insidious, 
surreptitious scheme to exempt American Samoa and the tuna worker 
factories. Sorry, Charlie, but only the best tuna workers are entitled 
to minimum wage, not the folks on American Samoa.

Now, that is the tuna fish clause. Now, frankly, I think other States 
ought to have that option, too. We found out there was a tuna fish 
clause yesterday in the education bill; and that was that the title of 
the bill was to decrease the student loan interest rate down to 3.4 
percent, but the tuna fish clause in it said that it was only applied 
for 6 months of the bill. How do you go back home and tell people you 
cut student loan rates in half when you only did it for 6 months? It is 
a tuna fish clause.

How do you tell the American people that you are going to have open 
government, and yet your first six bills bypass the committee process? 
That is the tuna fish clause.

Today the tuna fish clause is that our domestic oil production is low 
in terms of our consumption, and we are going to be increasing the cost 
of the production, which will be passed on to the American consumers.

We do need alternative energy. We need it on a bipartisan basis. I 
would say to the majority, you missed a great opportunity to work on 
this.