# None
## `5b23bef53a0653f8891d5d9ff24aead7`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I'd like to congratulate the 
Appropriations Committee for putting together a bipartisan bill that 
provides assistance for such important issues as global health, 
humanitarian assistance in Sudan, the environment and peacekeeping 
operations around the world.

The 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill reinforces 
the notion that foreign policy is about more than the use of military 
force and that foreign assistance and humanitarian aid are important 
components of foreign policy making.

The bill provides $949 million for Sudan, of which $210 million is 
for critical humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in Darfur. The 
remaining funds are for development assistance and to strengthen 
democratic institutions in southern Sudan.

Global health efforts also receive funding in this bill. The bill 
provides $5 billion for HIV/AIDS treatment, prevention and care 
programs around the world.

The bill also includes $501 million for clean energy and biodiversity 
programs worldwide. Educational and cultural exchanges receive more 
than $500 million to fund participation of over 42,000 individuals in 
educational, cultural, and professional exchange programs including 
Fulbright exchanges.

The bill also contains funding for programs in many countries around 
the world, including Pakistan.

The U.S. appreciates Pakistan's effort in the fight against global 
terrorism. However, President Musharraf's decision to enter into a non-
aggression pact with tribal leaders in the Waziristan region appears to 
have provided a safe haven for the Taliban and has led to an increase 
in Taliban and al Qaeda attacks inside Afghanistan. We should encourage 
the Pakistani Government to reconsider this policy.

As we provide additional support to Pakistan, we must also make it 
clear that we stand with those calling for free and fair elections. The 
firing of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Muhammad Chaudhury 
raises serious questions about President Musharraf's commitment to an 
independent judiciary and the rule of law. The U.S. must make clear to 
the people of Pakistan that we support the democratic process and 
expect President Musharraf to honor his pledge to abandon his dual role 
as both head of state and head of the armed forces.

The United States has long stood as a beacon for human rights, 
democracy, and the rule of law. That beacon has been dimmed as a result 
of the Bush administration's blunders and abuses in places like Iraq 
and Guantanamo Bay. These practices have created a perception that the 
United States has a double standard when it comes to the rule of law 
and the promotion of democracy. We must speak with a clear and 
consistent voice on these issues or we will continue to lose our 
credibility, erode our ability to influence decisions, and weaken our 
national security.