---
---

# None
## `5b25641f3ac8ad399d236eb058ac2084`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I am disappointed to have to vote 
today in opposition to the conference report on H.R. 2647, the 2010 
National Defense Authorization Act. For House Democrats to bring it to 
the Floor in its current form shows that they are not above playing 
politics with our troops.

I commend the House Armed Services Committee and House conferees on 
the bill for their good work in support of our military. The conference 
report provides much-needed funding for our operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan at a time when the Administration's commitment to those 
missions is in question. We must continue to do everything in our power 
to give our troops the resources they need to succeed, and also to 
support their loved ones at home.

I applaud the important provisions of this conference report that 
authorize funding for


equipment acquisition, research and development, and reset. I am 
pleased that the legislation increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air 
Force, and Marine Corps to address current and future threats.

The conference report bars the transfer of detainees at Guantanamo 
Bay to the United States pending a review on the threats they would 
pose to Americans. I find it unconscionable that the Obama 
Administration is still contemplating bringing terrorists to American 
soil after this Congress and the American people have gone on the 
record against such a reckless move.

Most importantly, the conference report authorizes an across-the-
board military pay raise above what President Obama's defense budget 
requested. I was proud to vote to fund this pay raise in July when it 
was included in the 2010 defense appropriations bill, and look forward 
to quick action on a final version of that bill to provide this well-
deserved increase.

The extraordinary sacrifices of our men and women in uniform make it 
of utmost importance that we give them the equipment and the support 
they need to complete their mission. They deserve far more than they 
are getting today from Congress, which is cynically using this bill to 
advance social policies favored by the Left. Attached to the bill by 
Senate Democrats is a wholly unrelated and unconstitutional so-called 
hate crimes bill.

This hate crimes bill represents an unprecedented departure from the 
deeply rooted American principle of equal justice under law. Justice 
should be blind, rendered through a criminal justice system that does 
not take into consideration such issues as race, gender, and religion.

Mr. Speaker, all violent crime is rooted in hatred. All violent crime 
is deplorable and should be punished to the fullest extent. Crimes not 
aimed at certain classes of people are just as reprehensible as those 
committed for other reasons. Crimes committed against one citizen 
should not be punished any more or any less than crimes committed 
against another.

But this hate crimes bill treats senseless, random violence less 
harshly than other, less ''random'' crimes. Justice will depend on 
whether a victim is a member of a category deemed worthy of protection 
under this bill--a list, for the record, that does not include the 
unborn, pregnant women, the elderly, and others who are among society's 
most vulnerable.

In fact, when the hate crimes bill was considered in the Judiciary 
Committee earlier this year, I offered an amendment to add the unborn 
to this list. The amendment was ruled non-germane on the outrageous 
grounds that the unborn are not ''persons.'' So much for defending our 
most defenseless.

I find it intriguing that a provision offered by Republicans but 
opposed by Democrats in committee--heightening penalties for attacks on 
servicemembers--is now hailed by Democrats as a vital part of this 
legislation.

The hate crimes bill raises the very real possibility that religious 
teachers of every faith could be prosecuted based on the sermons they 
give. By permitting legal action against anyone who ''willfully 
causes'' action by another person, it is not hard to imagine charges 
being filed against a pastor if a misguided parishioner claimed that 
the pastor's message caused him to commit a violent act. Subjecting 
pastors' sermons to prosecutorial scrutiny would prove a chilling 
effect on the rights of all individuals to freely practice their 
religion.

It is beyond shameful that these hate crimes provisions have been 
stapled onto the defense authorization. They are completely irrelevant 
to the protection of our troops, and provide yet another example of how 
terrified the Democrat majority is of free and open debate. Just as the 
hate crimes bill was originally debated in the House under a closed 
rule allowing for no amendments, it is now being presented to the House 
for only one hour of debate with no opportunity to amend it.

Mr. Speaker, defense authorization bills have traditionally been free 
of politics, almost always garnering widespread bipartisan support. The 
actual defense provisions in this authorization bill are good. I would 
be proud to support this bill, absent the unrelated and 
unconstitutional hate crimes provisions included in it.

The American people have a right to be ashamed of the poisoned 
process that forces pro-defense members of Congress to vote against 
what might otherwise be a good defense bill.