---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5b2685b22b78311fa4eac77dea625195`
`Mr. McCAIN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to point out what Admiral 
Mullen at the Joint Chiefs of Staff said: Time is not on our side. We 
cannot afford to leisurely address this issue. I believe the Congress 
needs to be involved. The Commander in Chief is the Commander in Chief. 
But the Congress has a role to play because only the Congress can 
provide needed funding and develop other policies as regards the 
responsibility we all have when our government decides to send young 
Americans into harm's way.

I have watched a lot of decisions being made in my time. I have 
agreed with some and disagreed with others. One of the earliest 
decisions I was involved in was many years ago when Ronald Reagan 
decided to send marines to Beirut. At the time, I thought the mission 
was not sufficiently resourced and I thought it would unnecessarily put 
young marines in harm's way. I objected; I spoke against it. 
Unfortunately, I was correct.

History does have a tendency to repeat itself. The fact is, unless 
this effort in Afghanistan is properly resourced, as recommended by 
General McChrystal, as recommended by Admiral Mullen and supported by 
history, we are doomed to failure. To think that a month and a half 
would elapse before that decision was made, because the strategy was 
decided on last March, and then to go through a bizarre sequence of 
events--I have never seen anything like it. First, General McChrystal 
was told not to send his troop request to Washington while these 
discussions were going on. After that was revealed to be the farce it 
was, now the Secretary of Defense is not going to forward the troop 
request to the White House as they make decisions on the number of 
troops needed. How does that work?

Let's get this straight. The Secretary of Defense has said he is not 
sending over the number of troops requested by General McChrystal, 
which is known to everyone as 30,000 to 40,000 troops. Apparently, it 
will be known to everyone except the President, who is supposed to make 
the decision. We have legitimate questions about a process such as that 
to start with. No Commander in Chief can make a decision about how to 
conduct a conflict unless that Commander in Chief knows what resources


are required. Without having the recommendation for the number of 
troops being transmitted to the Commander in Chief, there is no way a 
rational decision can be made.

What is going on here is pretty obvious. It is very obvious what is 
going on. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Petraeus, General 
McChrystal--all know we need additional troops in the range of 30,000 
to 40,000, and the administration is backing off of that or trying to 
find the exit sign. It is well known. It had been broadcast all over 
television that there are individuals--including the Vice President, 
now, unfortunately, the National Security Adviser, the chief political 
adviser to the President, Mr. Rahm Emanuel--who don't want to alienate 
the left base of the Democratic Party. That is what this is all about.

The American people need to know what our military commanders, in 
their best judgment, think we need to defend this Nation. They need to 
know it within the next month and a half. Do I need to remind my 
colleagues we have 68,000 Americans there now? Just a few days ago, 
five brave young Americans died in 1 day. Admiral Mullen said in 
his testimony before the Armed Services Committee that the clock is 
ticking. We are running out of time. This is an urgent situation. This 
is not a decision as to whether to send troops into harm's way. Troops 
are already in harm's way. They are already there, and they are getting 
wounded and killed while, according to the President's National 
Security Adviser, we are considering all options. Shouldn't we consider 
seriously the option of the recommendations of military commanders? I 
am not saying they have the final say; I am saying they should be given 
great weight.


Here we are asking for testimony from those people who, again--the 
President fired the commander in the field to replace him with General 
McChrystal, and yet we are not transmitting the fundamental and most 
difficult aspect of General McChrystal's recommendations as to how to 
implement a strategy that was agreed on last March.

I fear that domestic political considerations are impacting a 
decision which has to do with the future security of the United States. 
Just recently, the former President of Pakistan, President Musharraf, 
said that American delay is being interpreted as a sign of weakness by 
countries in the region. We left Afghanistan once. We helped the brave 
Afghans drive out the Russians who were then trying to make Afghanistan 
part of the Soviet Union. We drove them out and we left. What happened? 
The Taliban took control. Al-Qaida cooperated with them, and the 
attacks on the United States of 9/11 took place by people who were 
trained in Afghanistan.

Let's have no doubt what is at stake. The American people and their 
representatives at least need to hear within the next month and a half, 
45 days, as to what the recommendations and strategy of our military 
leaders are. I emphasize, they are not the last word. The Commander in 
Chief has the last word. But the Commander in Chief, whatever decision 
he makes, also has to come to Congress for the necessary assets and 
authorization to do whatever his strategy is. So we do play a 
significant role. The American people and their elected 
representatives, as the chairman of the House Armed Services has said, 
as the majority leader of the House of Representatives has said, need 
to hear from these military leaders.

I reserve the remainder of my time.