---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5b2bcf984ff76f867dae1749b5afb87e`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today I salute a great American hero who 
has fallen in service to his country in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. Army SSG Sean M. Gaul gave his life on January 9, 2008, after 
sustaining wounds when an improvised explosive device detonated while 
he was on patrol in Sinsil, Iraq, in the Diyala Province. He was 
serving his fifth deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan. His loyalty and 
bravery will be remembered. My thoughts and prayers go out to Sean's 
family and friends, especially to his wife Jessica and their young 
daughter, his mother Christine, and his father Michael.

Sean Gaul lived in Cresco, IA, with his parents until the age of 7. 
He then moved to Reno, NV, with his mother. He attended Reed High 
School, where he was a member of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps. In 1997, he passed the GED exam. He was first deployed to 
Afghanistan shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Before 
deploying for the final time, he completed the Army's sniper school.

Staff Sergeant Gaul's wife Jessica called him a ''very good man and 
loving husband.'' She said, ''He did not waiver from his 
responsibility. He always trained hard as he led the way by example. He 
was focused and determined as he sought out more special forces 
training.'' Again, my sincerest condolences go to his family and 
friends. I ask my colleagues here in the Senate and all Americans to 
remember with gratitude and appreciation a fine man and an exemplary 
solider, Army SSG Sean M. Gaul.
