# VETERANS RETRAINING ACT OF 2009
## `5b2ce674b88765646602bb7421cd5f1d`
`Mr. STEARNS — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I also rise in support of this bill, H.R. 1168, as amended, the 
Veterans Retraining Act of 2009. It is unfortunate this wasn't part of 
the stimulus package, because I think this could have been handled 
appropriately there. We have got a CBO estimate, but it is an 
authorization bill, and it is not an appropriations bill. But I think 
this is the kind of thing that would have been very pertinent to the 
stimulus bill.

This would amend chapter 42 of title 38, United States Code, to 
provide eligible veterans with employment training assistance.

Mr. Speaker, helping our returning veterans get back into the 
workforce is of the utmost importance. I believe this legislation will 
further that cause when, because of the recession, the unemployment 
level, particularly among veterans, continues to reach unacceptable 
levels.

I will be yielding shortly to the author of the bill, Mr. Boozman, 
for a fuller explanation, but I would like to thank him for offering 
this bill, and also, as Mr. Walz had mentioned, Ms. Herseth Sandlin and 
the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity for moving this bill through 
the legislative process, and also thank the chairman and the ranking 
member for their support.

We must do more, obviously, to help our veterans today who have been 
hit especially hard by these tough economic times, particularly when 
they come back from Iraq or Afghanistan.

So I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1168, as amended.

I reserve the balance of my time.