# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `5b2d321949debc1117bdcae1d397d978`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support for this 
needed economic stimulus legislation. This bipartisan bill will provide 
timely, targeted and temporary relief to American families suffering 
from the national economic downturn and provide a shot in the arm to 
boost growth and avert a recession.

I commend Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader John Boehner, 
Treasury Secretary Harry Paulson for working together across party 
lines to find common ground. As North Carolina's only member of the 
Democratic Majority on the House Budget Committee, I have been working 
on a bipartisan basis to pass responsible legislation to respond to 
worsening economic conditions. High energy prices, mounting national 
debt, the crisis in the Nation's housing market and rising unemployment 
levels have prompted calls for emergency legislation to arrest the 
decline in the


economy and put us back on a path of sustainable growth.

First, this economic trouble serves as a reminder of the importance 
of putting our Nation's fiscal house in order to free America's future 
generations from the crushing debt burden they now face. Unfortunately, 
the record of this current Administration is the transformation of 
record budget surplus projections into record national debt and massive 
annual deficits without end. Although short-term deficits can be useful 
to correct hurtful economic downswings, the current structural budget 
problems featuring perpetual debt and deficits hamstring our ability to 
invest in the future and build broad-based prosperity for hard-working 
Americans.

This economic stimulus package will be effective because it is 
targeted, timely and temporary. It will be targeted to families that 
need the money and can be expected to spend it quickly on necessities 
like food and clothing. It will be timely to yield the economic 
benefits within the timeframe of the anticipated problem. And it will 
be temporary to prevent exacerbation of the fiscal imbalance and make 
our economic problems worse.

Specifically, H.R. 5140 will provide tax rebate checks to working 
people of up to $600 for individuals and up to $1,200 for families, as 
well as a $300 tax credit per dependent child. This immediate infusion 
of cash will provide real relief to North Carolinians struggling to pay 
their bills. Economic experts tell us this action will help stimulate 
consumer spending and spur economic growth across the board to mitigate 
the slowdown we are otherwise experiencing in the economy. Tax 
incentives to encourage business investment and help small business 
weather this economic storm should also be included in a responsible 
package. I understand Governor Easley and others have raised concerns 
about the impact of some of the business tax provisions in this bill. 
At today's Budget Committee hearing, former Treasury Secretary Lawrence 
Summers suggested slight revisions to these provisions to minimize any 
negative impact, and I support modifications that will achieve that 
goal as the process moves forward. I am hopeful the House will pass 
this bill today and Congress can get a final version to the President 
to sign into law within the next few weeks.

Over the longer term, Congress must invest in neglected priorities 
like school construction to put workers back on the job and improve our 
communities with better schools and healthier learning environments. We 
must take better care of our military families and veterans returning 
from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. We must expand quality health 
care so working families no longer face economic ruin when a loved one 
gets sick. And we must continue to support our first responders to keep 
our communities safe and secure.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support for this bipartisan 
legislation, and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to pass it.