# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5b2fdbc733fa9f19e91740269075dfba`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 5 November 2009`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I am pleased to present the fiscal year 
2010 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
appropriations bill. The bill was unanimously reported out of committee 
on July 7. It is a well balanced and bipartisan measure, and I hope all 
Senators will support it.

I thank my ranking member, Senator Hutchison, for her help and 
cooperation in crafting the bill. Senator Hutchison's dedication to 
America's veterans and to our military forces has been a tremendous 
asset in developing this bill. I also thank Chairman Inouye and Vice 
Chairman Cochran for their support and assistance in moving this bill 
forward.

The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill provides critical 
investments in capital infrastructure for our military, including 
barracks and family housing; training and operational facilities; and 
childcare and family support centers. In addition, it fulfills the 
Nation's promise to our veterans by providing the resources needed for 
the medical care and benefits that our veterans have earned through 
their service.

The bill before the Senate today provides a total of $134 billion in 
funding for fiscal year 2010. This includes $76.7 billion in 
discretionary funding--$439 million over the budget request; $1.4 
billion for overseas contingency operations to support our troops in 
Afghanistan, and $56 billion in mandatory funding for veterans 
programs.

In addition, I am pleased to report that, for the first time, the 
bill before us contains $48.2 billion in advance appropriations for 
veterans medical care for fiscal year 2011. This funding will ensure 
that the VA has a predictable stream of funding and that medical 
services will not be adversely affected should another stopgap funding 
measure be needed in the future. As an original cosponsor of the 
legislation authorizing advance appropriations for veterans health 
care, I am particularly pleased that Senator Hutchison and I were able 
to provide the funding in this bill to implement this important 
legislation.

Other funding priorities in the bill include $53 billion in 
discretionary funding for veterans programs, $150 million over the 
budget request and $3.9 billion more than last year; $45 billion for 
veterans' medical care, $4.2 billion over last year; $23 billion for 
military construction, $286 million over the President's budget 
request; $1.3 billion for Guard and reserve construction projects, $264 
million above the budget request, and $279 million for related 
agencies, including the American Battle Monuments Commission and 
Arlington National Cemetery.

For fiscal year 2010, the bill provides $53.2 billion in 
discretionary funding for veterans programs, an increase of $150 
million over the budget request and $3.9 billion over last year. This 
includes $44.7 billion for veterans medical care, an increase of $4.2 
billion over last year.

The veterans funding also includes $250 million requested by the 
President for rural health care, continuing an initiative the committee 
began last year. To further improve outreach to veterans in rural 
areas, including Native Americans, the bill provides $50 million above 
the budget request for a new rural clinic initiative to serve veterans 
in rural areas currently underserved by VA facilities.

For military construction, the bill provides $23.2 billion, $286 
million over the President's budget request. This includes nearly $1.3 
billion for Guard and Reserve projects, $264 million above the budget 
request. As so many of us know, our Reserve components have provided 
unparalleled support to their active component counterparts in 
operations around the globe. Providing quality infrastructure for the 
Guard and Reserve is only a small token of our appreciation.

In all, the military construction projects included within this bill 
are as diverse as the individuals serving our Nation--from building a 
field training facility in North Carolina, to constructing a military 
school in Europe; from developing a military health clinic in 
Washington State to providing dining halls in forward operating 
locations in Afghanistan.

For the first time since the war in Afghanistan began; the President 
has requested war-related funding as part of the regular budget 
process. This year, we have incorporated projects for Afghanistan into 
the normal budget order by providing an overseas contingency operations 
account to support war fighting operations. Within this account, we 
supported the President's budget request of $1.4 billion for military 
construction projects at 22 forward operating locations in Afghanistan.

For military family housing, the bill provides $2 billion as 
requested. The budget request for family housing is $1.5 billion below 
the fiscal year 2009 enacted level, due primarily to the nearing 
completion of the military's housing privatization initiative and 
subsequent reductions in operating expenses. The privatization of 
military family housing has been a good news story for our military 
families and the American taxpayers. Our military families will get 
first rate housing while at the same time reducing construction and 
maintenance costs to the military.

Our committee mark also includes funding to complete previous and 
ongoing base closure actions. This bill contains $7.5 billion for BRAC 
2005 as requested and $421.8 million for BRAC 1990, a $25 million 
increase above the request. The BRAC 2005 request is $1.3 billion below 
the fiscal year 2009 enacted level, reflecting reduced construction 
requirements.

The bill also includes $276.3 million as requested to fund the NATO 
Security Investment Program, NSIP. This program provides the U.S. 
funding share of joint U.S.-NATO military facilities.

Two military construction programs of particular importance to me are 
the Homeowners Assistance Program, HAP, which provides mortgage relief 
to military families required to relocate, and the Energy Conservation 
Investment Program. Building on an expansion of the HAP program that 
was funded in the stimulus bill, this bill adds $350 million to 
complete the funding requirement to temporarily extend HAP benefits to 
all eligible military families who have suffered losses on home sales 
due to the mortgage crisis. The additional funding also supports the 
permanent extension of HAP benefits to wounded warriors who must 
relocate for medical reasons and to surviving spouses of fallen 
warriors. As everyone knows, the mortgage crisis has had a devastating 
impact on many Americans, and our military families are not immune from 
the collapse in the housing market. In particular, military families 
have been adversely impacted when forced to sell their homes at a loss 
when required by the military to relocate either within the United 
Stated or overseas. In such circumstances, our military men and women 
do not have the luxury of waiting for the housing market to recover.

The Energy Conservation Investment Program--ECIP--is designed to 
promote energy conservation and efficiency, including investments in 
renewable and alternative energy resources, on our military 
installations. The subcommittee has added $135 million in funding to 
the President's budget request to provide for such innovations. Our 
bill also includes language urging the Department of Defense to develop 
a more comprehensive strategy to address energy conservation, energy 
efficiency and energy security. While I am encouraged by the efforts of 
the services at finding ways to reduce energy use on military 
installations, I worry that the Department as a whole does not have a 
single point of coordination that will ensure that innovative ideas and 
projects are shared across all of the services and within the 
Department.

This bill includes $26.9 million for projects at active duty 
installations and Guard facilities in my home State of South Dakota. 
This includes $14.5


million to expand the Deployment Center at Ellsworth Air Force Base; 
$7.89 million for the Army and Air Guard Joint Force Headquarters 
Readiness Center at Camp Rapid; $1.95 million for a National Guard 
troop medical clinic addition at Camp Rapid; $1.3 million to construct 
an above-ground magazine storage facility for the Air Guard at Joe Foss 
Field; and $1.3 million for a munitions maintenance complex addition, 
also for the Air Guard at Joe Foss Field.

Once again we have made veterans a top priority this year by 
including $53.2 billion in discretionary funding for the VA, an 
increase of $150 million over the budget request and $3.9 billion over 
last year. The Department is expecting to treat almost 6.1 million 
patients in fiscal year 2010; therefore we have targeted the bulk of 
the discretionary funding for the three medical care accounts, which 
total $44.7 billion this year. This includes a $3.7 billion increase 
over fiscal year 2009 for the medical services account.

The challenges that face the VA in the 21st century are daunting but 
not insurmountable. These include modernizing and transforming 
antiquated systems; treating combat injuries, many of which leave no 
physical scars; and adjusting services to meet changing demographics. 
The VA will have to balance the services required by aging veterans, 
such as long term care, with the needs required by a surge of new 
veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Moreover, as more and 
more women are choosing the Armed Forces as a career, the VA will need 
to transform from a culture dominated by services designed for men to 
one that includes services specific to the health care needs of women 
veterans. To that end, this bill includes $183 million to specifically 
address the unique health care needs of women veterans.

Veterans Affairs Secretary Shinseki has laid out an ambitious plan to 
transform the Department of Veterans Affairs into a 21st century 
organization. The bill before the Senate is a step in that direction by 
providing the VA with the resources needed to address these and other 
issues. For example, the bill provides $6 billion for long-term care, a 
$663 million increase from last year. The funding includes both 
institutional and home based care programs. In addition, the bill 
provides $115 million for grants for the construction of State extended 
care facilities, $30 million over the budget request. This program 
provides grants to State veterans homes to construct new facilities or 
to correct life threatening code violations.

The bill also includes $2.1 billion, $460 million above fiscal year 
2009, for medical care for veterans of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The VA has seen a surge of these veterans and expects to 
see over 419,000 this year alone, a 61 percent increase in patient load 
since 2008. Many of these veterans suffer combat specific injuries such 
as polytrauma, post traumatic stress disorder, and traumatic brain 
injury. The resources provided in the bill are essential to the VA's 
ability to treat these veterans.

As a Senator from a large, highly rural state, I have been emphatic 
that the VA must change its way of doing business when it comes to 
providing services to veterans who live well outside urban areas. Last 
year, as chairman of the subcommittee, I established a new rural health 
initiative at the VA, and provided $250 million specifically for the 
Department to address the gap in services that exists in rural areas. 
This year's bill includes an additional $250 million, as requested by 
the President, to continue this program. To further bolster the rural 
health effort, I added $50 million to the bill for a new Rural Clinic 
Initiative. This will provide the VA with additional funding to 
establish Community Based Outpatient Clinics--CBOCs--in rural areas 
that are currently underserved by VA health care facilities.

According to the VA, roughly 131,000 veterans are homeless on any 
given night. This is 131,000 too many veterans. Secretary Shinseki has 
made combating homelessness a top priority at the VA. To assist, the 
bill includes $3.2 billion for health care and support services for 
homeless veterans. This includes $500 million in direct programs to 
assist homeless veterans.

The bill also puts a priority on reducing the time it takes for 
veterans to receive the benefits they have earned. Funding is included 
which will provide the Veterans Benefits Administration with the 
resources to hire 1,200 new claims processors in fiscal year 2010. This 
will bring the compensation and pensions workforce level to 14,549 in 
2010 as compared to 7,550 in 2005. This increased workforce will be 
necessary as claims for benefits are estimated to reach almost one 
million in fiscal year 2010.

The last two issues I will highlight deal with infrastructure, both 
capital and electronic. The VA operates the Nation's largest integrated 
health care system in the United Sates. It does so through a system of 
153 hospitals and 1,002 outpatient clinics. These buildings must be 
maintained at the highest level to ensure patient safety and high 
quality medical care. Once again this year, the bill contains 
additional funding above the budget request to ensure that VA 
facilities do not become dilapidated and that the backlog of code 
violations identified in facility condition assessment reports is 
addressed. In total, this bill provides $1.3 billion, $300 million 
above the President's request, to address critical non-recurring 
maintenance at existing VA hospitals and clinics. Additionally, $1.9 
billion is provided for the construction of new VA hospitals and 
clinics. The bill also includes $685 million for minor construction 
projects, $85 million above the President's request.

Funding for bricks and mortar and recapitalization is not the only 
infrastructure investment made in the bill. In the 21st century, health 
care delivery is dependent on modern technology and robust information 
technology. Therefore, we have included $3.3 billion for the Department 
to modernize its information technology programs, including its 
electronic medical records, a new paperless claims system, and systems 
designed for seamless integration of medical and service records with 
the Department of Defense.

Finally, the bill provides $279 million for a handful of small but 
important related agencies, including the American Battle Monuments 
Commission and Arlington National Cemetery.

Next Wednesday is Veterans Day, a day on which the Nation honors all 
those who have served in the armed forces of the United States. I can 
think of no better way to express the Senate's gratitude for the 
service of our veterans and the sacrifices they have made for our 
country than to pass this bill without delay. Again, I thank my ranking 
member for her support in crafting the bill. I also thank the staff of 
the subcommittee--Christina Evans, Chad Schulken and Andy Vanlandingham 
of my staff, and Dennis Balkham and Ben Hammond of the minority staff--
for their hard work and cooperative effort to produce this bill.

Mr. President, I want to express my sorrow at the tragic events that 
unfolded at Fort Hood, TX, this afternoon. I extend my condolences to 
the troops and families at Fort Hood, and to my ranking member Senator 
Hutchison. Our thoughts and prayers are with her and with the Fort Hood 
community in this difficult time.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.