---
---

# CIA INTERROGATIONS AND ARMY FIELD MANUAL
## `5b2f2f04d864f2d92275c9da45d0c271`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 13 February 2008`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, yesterday was a big day before the 
Senate. We had the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act bill. Today is 
an even bigger day because the intelligence authorization bill is going 
to be before the Senate, and today we will grapple with something that 
I think should be major in our consciousness and major in our 
deliberations. It is central to who we are as a nation. The question is 
whether the United States should continue to go to the ''dark side,'' 
down the road of torture, and continue to allow the CIA and other 
intelligence agencies to practice or outsource state-sanctioned 
torture. To me, the answer is clear, and I hope it is to everyone. The 
answer should be no.

Today we are living in a legal limbo, where the rules are shrouded by 
ambiguity. The time has come to change this once and for all. The way 
to do it is to support the fiscal year 2008 intelligence authorization 
bill, which would prohibit all interrogation techniques by the CIA and 
place the intelligence community under the uniform standard of the Army 
Field Manual. If that bill passes, and it has passed the House of 
Representatives, if it passes here today, we have a uniform standard 
for the entire American Government with respect to coercive 
interrogation techniques.

The Army Field Manual, which looks like this, has 19 interrogation 
protocols. They are proven, they are flexible, and they are effective. 
The CIA interrogation program, on the other hand, I believe, is 
immoral, illegal, sometimes ineffective, and often counterproductive. I 
wish to simply read something which appeared in the newspapers, and 
what this says is:




 The book on interrogation has been written. We just need to 


 follow it.


And they refer to this book, Mr. President.




 Cruel and inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners 


 under American control makes us less safe, violates our 


 Nation's values, and damages America's reputation in the 


 world. That is why, in 2004, the bipartisan 9/11 Commission 


 called for humane treatment of those captured by the United 


 States Government and our allies in the struggle against 


 terrorism. Congress and the Pentagon responded with clear and 


 comprehensive new rules for the military so that 


 interrogation techniques practiced by the military today are 


 both humane and effective. But not all United States agencies 


 are following these rules. Congress should require the entire 


 U.S. Government and those acting on its behalf to follow the 


 Army Field Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations. 


 Doing so will make us safer while safeguarding our cherished 


 values and our vital national interests.


This was signed by Zbigniew Brzezinski, Warren Christopher, Lawrence 
Eagleburger, Slade Gorton, Lee Hamilton, Gary Hart, Rita Houser, Karla 
Hills, Thomas Kean, Anthony Lake, John Lehman, Richard Leon, Robert 
McFarlane, Donald McHenry, Sam Nunn, Thomas Pickering, Ted 
Sorensen, and John Whitehead. It is a bipartisan group that has come 
out with this, and I believe we should absorb it and use that 
information.


The Army Field Manual provision has the support of the Intelligence 
Committees. I offered the amendment in the conference between the House 
and the Senate on the intel authorization bill. It was passed by the 
Senate and it was passed by the House, and it is part of the bill, and 
as I said, the House has passed their bill. The amendment was the 
subject of passionate and considered debate in Congress. It has unique 
support--18 former security officials, as I have said--and this Army 
Field Manual was issued in its current form by the Department of the 
Army in September of 2006. It followed the requirements of the Detainee 
Treatment Act, and it applies uniformly across all elements of the 
military and civilian elements of the Department of Defense.

The manual was published after more than 3 years of drafting and 
coordination. This was the most scrutinized field manual the Army has 
ever produced, including reviews and comments by every relevant 
Pentagon office, every combatant commander, the White House, the DNI, 
the CIA, and the Defense Intelligence Agency. The Departments of 
Justice and State have also concurred with the manual's guidance. For 
the first time ever, the Army consulted with Congress in the persons of 
Senators McCain, Warner, and Levin in drafting the manual.

The manual complies with the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the 
Geneva Conventions, and the Detainee Treatment Act. There is perhaps no 
more authoritative figure on the manual than our commanding officer in 
Iraq, GEN David Petraeus. In a response to a survey showing that 
American troops in Iraq would consider torture in order to save their 
comrades, Petraeus wrote to the entire multinational force on May 10, 
2007, and here is some of what he said:




 Certainly, extreme physical action can make someone 


 ''talk''; however, what the individual says may be of 


 questionable value. In fact, our experience in applying the 


 interrogation standards laid out in the Army Field Manual 


 shows that the techniques in the manual work effectively and 


 humanely in eliciting information from detainees.


Now, what does the manual do? It specifically authorizes 19 
approaches--you could call them interrogation techniques--and they are 
well thought out and each one is several pages on how to apply it. One 
of them can only be used on unlawful army combatants with the prior 
approval of the combatant commander. These techniques describe ways to 
build rapport with the detainee in order to get him or her to share 
information.

GEN Michael Maples, the Director of the DIA, recently rebutted the 
contention that the Army Field Manual wouldn't have covered the 
interrogation method used by an FBI special agent to get Saddam Hussein 
to finally come clean that he had no weapons of mass destruction.

So the manual specifically prohibits eight techniques, and here is 
what they are:

Forcing a detainee to be naked, perform sexual acts, pose in a sexual 
manner; placing hoods or sacks over the


head of a detainee; using duct tape over the eyes; beatings, electric 
shock, burns, or other forms of physical pain; waterboarding--very much 
the talk of the Nation; use of military working dogs; inducing 
hypothermia or heat injury; conducting mock executions; depriving 
detainee of necessary food, water, or medical care.

Those are the eight prohibited techniques in the Army Field Manual. 
It also incorporates what is called the ''golden rule,'' and this is 
important. It is an approach to interrogation. It requires military 
personnel to ask this question: If an interrogation technique were to 
be used against an American soldier, would I believe the soldier had 
been abused?

Adopting this conference report would extend that ''golden rule'' to 
CIA interrogations, to station agents all across the globe, and make 
sure that no coercive technique could be used if we would not be 
comfortable with the same technique being used against an American 
citizen.

Now, here are some facts about the CIA program. The CIA has used 
coercive techniques on detainees since September 11, 2001, under the 
President's authorization and approval of the Department of Justice. 
The CIA has waterboarded three detainees--Abu Zubaydah, Abd al-Rahim 
al-Nashiri, and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed.

The White House believes that waterboarding could be used in the 
future, even though General Hayden has recently publicly questioned its 
legality. The CIA has used contractors for interrogations, as General 
Hayden admitted in an open, public hearing this past week. So the CIA 
has outsourced what is an inherently governmental function of 
questionable legality and morality.

More importantly, the CIA's interrogation techniques change. There is 
no uniform standard. There is no standard as to how they are to be 
combined, what the circumstances are. Think about this. Done with cold 
calculation, any interrogation technique, when applied over the course 
of hours or days or months, and in combination with other techniques, 
can cross the line into illegality. An interrogator can choose from a 
menu of coercive approaches, pick several of them, and go to work. So 
don't be fooled. Even the least coercive-sounding technique, when used 
relentlessly or in combination, can be torture.

Now, in addition to being immoral, I believe the CIA interrogation 
program is illegal.

I say this as a member of the Intelligence Committee, and I say this 
as one who has been briefed several times on these techniques. These 
techniques have violated the Convention Against Torture and the U.S. 
torture statute by inflicting severe physical or mental pain or 
suffering to others. It has violated Geneva Convention common article 
III, which prohibits outrages upon personal dignity, in particular 
humiliating and degrading treatment.

The medical research is clear. Coercive techniques cause severe pain 
and suffering. That is why both the AMA and the American Psychological 
Association have passed resolutions against their members participating 
in such interrogations.

In a letter dated September 13, 2006, retired General and former 
Secretary of State Powell wrote this:




 The world is beginning to doubt the moral basis of our 


 fight against terrorism.


I think that says it in a nutshell. As every Member knows, we will 
never win the war on terror by capturing or killing or torturing all 
our enemies. We will only win the war by our ideals and by removing any 
public support for al-Qaida's vision.

Using torture cuts away from our moral high ground. It takes America 
into the ''dark side,'' and thus it reduces our ability to win this 
war. I believe we should end this now.

The military is the segment of the U.S. population most likely to be 
captured and interrogated by our enemies. They know any technique we 
authorize can be used against them, and that is the point. If the 
United States uses waterboarding, you can be sure that waterboarding 
will be used against our station agents, against our military. It is a 
mistake to do so.

That is why 43 retired generals and admirals, including 10 four-star 
officers, have signed a letter to Congress denouncing coercive 
techniques and supporting the single unified uniform standard for the 
entire Government, the Army Field Manual.

Here is what they wrote:




 We believe that it is vital to the safety of our men and 


 women in uniform that the United States not sanction the use 


 of interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if 


 inflicted by the enemy against captured Americans. That 


 principle, embedded in the Army Field Manual, has guided 


 generations of military personnel in combat.


And the letter goes on.

I have listened to the experts such as FBI Director Mueller and DIA 
Director General Maples. They all insist that even with hardened 
terrorists you get more and better intelligence with the gloves on than 
when you take them off.

The CIA cannot show that coercive techniques are more effective than 
noncoercive techniques. And I wish I could say what I know from a 
classified setting, but I cannot. They point to the anecdotes they have 
declassified, while the counterexamples remain classified.

So I can only summarize and say this: This is the moment where the 
Senate stands up. The House has stood up. They have passed a bill. If 
we want to ban waterboarding, if we want to ban the eight techniques 
banned by the Army Field Manual, this is our moment to do so. I think 
we should stand tall. I think we should adhere to our principles. I 
think we should raise what we say internally and once again regain the 
world's credibility. I hope we maintain the Senate bill as it is.

I yield the floor.