# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `5b35b75ecd9cae65c089bab29b63111a`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, I would like to particularly commend 
the leader, Senator Reid, and the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, Senator Levin, for the work that has been done in putting 
together a resolution which, as much as possible, can meet some of the 
objectives of the Democratic majority of this body at the present time. 
That is not an easy task.

I think Members who participated in this effort took into 
consideration that in less than a week our Nation will mark 4 years in 
Iraq. We have spent nearly $400 billion. We have lost more than 3,000 
Americans. More than 140,000 of our own brave men and women find 
themselves trying to salvage a situation that simply cannot be solved 
through military force.

If I believed there was any chance the military could solve the 
problem of hundreds of years of hatred between Sunni and Shia by 
resolving what is effectively a civil war, I would believe this surge 
and more troops might solve this situation. But I do not.

The only solution rests with the Iraqi Government and the Shia 
majority. The Iraq of today is embroiled in four different wars--a 
terribly complex civil conflict that even General Petraeus, our 
commander in Iraq, says requires a political solution.

Simply put, there is no end in sight. Yet the President insists on 
escalating our troop presence there. None of this makes sense to me 
because I deeply believe we must change our course in Iraq. That is why 
I support the joint resolution before us today.

Where the administration expands our involvement in Iraq, this 
resolution sets a time limit. Where the administration sees a military 
solution, this resolution recognizes that the solution must be 
political. Where the administration calls for more money and more 
troops, this resolution says: Enough is enough. Where the 
administration fails to put demands on the Iraqi Government, this 
resolution tells them: You must take responsibility for your own 
future.

The Iraqis must realize our commitment is not open-ended and they 
must stand on their own. How can we ever expect that Iraqis will be 
able to stand up and make the political choices if we keep such a 
large, sustained American troop presence in Iraq? We become the buffer, 
then, that prevents the solution. Only the Iraqis can choose to end 
this civil war. Only the Iraqis can unify their country if, in fact, 
the Shia majority want a unified Iraq. Yet this will never happen until 
we begin to draw down our troop levels. This resolution does exactly 
that. It is a vehicle for the Congress to show leadership, to tell the 
President that he has put us on the wrong course and that a political 
solution is the key to this conflict.


This resolution sets us on that path. It spells out clear deadlines: 
The phased redeployment of our combat forces must begin within 120 days 
of the resolution's passage. A goal of March 31, 2008, would be 
established for the redeployment of our combat forces out of Iraq. This 
resolution also redefines the mission. A smaller force could remain in 
Iraq. The mission would be limited to force protection, training and 
equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counterterrorism operations.

It is, in a way, similar to the resolution I introduced last month 
which set an expiration date for the 2002 authorization for the use of 
military force in Iraq.

This resolution fills a void. It puts a long-term political, 
diplomatic, and economic strategy for Iraq at the center of our 
national policy. That is where I believe it should have been a long 
time ago. It is consistent with the views of the American people, whose 
opposition to this war and this escalation or surge remains strong and 
sustained to this very day. But instead of following the will of the 
American people, this administration is pursuing a surge in forces 
which appears to be growing. The administration has not set any limits 
on the number of troops needed or on the duration of the mission or the 
cost to the American people.

In January, the President said he would send an additional 21,500 
troops to Iraq at a projected cost of $5.6 billion. Yet just this week 
the White House asked the Congress for another $2.5 billion to pay for 
an additional 4,700 support troops for the surge in Iraq. The costs 
keep rising.

The Pentagon initially said it would be only a matter of months 
before we could assess whether the surge was a success. I believe the 
new Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates, said we should know within 4 
months whether this surge is successful. But the commanders on the 
ground now suggest we may have to sustain the escalation until well 
into next year. Yet it is clear our military is under such strain that 
the only way to maintain those 20 brigades is by extending the 
deployment of many of our soldiers in Iraq, and by making many more 
deploy overseas much earlier than planned.

We are breaking our own military in Iraq, even as it becomes 
increasingly evident that success cannot be achieved militarily.

Just consider these facts. More than 420,000 troops have been 
deployed at least twice; 420,000 men and women have been deployed 
twice. More than 50,000 troops have had their tours extended through 
''stop-loss'' orders. Troops are being rushed into the field without 
proper training and without


enough armor. We are leaning more and more heavily on the National 
Guard. Yet 90 percent of the Guard units in the United States are rated 
''not ready.''

I understand why the President may wish to talk about ''encouraging 
signs'' in Iraq. But the facts show otherwise. Even while the violence 
in Baghdad has decreased, violence outside the capital has increased. 
Two hundred Shia pilgrims have been killed in just the past week alone. 
As insurgents have left Baghdad to avoid the ongoing military 
crackdown, they have simply melted away into outlying regions, waiting 
for the pressure to ease.

What makes anybody think this will be any different by the end of 
this year, the middle of next year, or the end of next year, or any 
other time? While more American soldiers deploy to Baghdad, the Iraqis 
have yet to provide all the troops they promised.

There is no end in sight. This joint resolution changes that. It 
changes course. It redefines the mission. I urge the Senate to vote for 
it.

I thank you, and I yield the floor.