# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `5b56f4c8f0a2983163ca30f5959c6107`
`Mr. SPECTER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, thank you for the recognition. I have 
sought recognition to discuss the procedural situation which confronts 
the Senate at the present time and to discuss a proposed rule change 
which would deal with this kind of a problem.

We have pending a motion to proceed on S. 470, which proposes a 
disagreement with the President's plan to send 21,500 additional troops 
to Iraq. Under the Senate rules, a motion to proceed is debatable, and 
when we deal with an issue of the magnitude of what is happening in 
Iraq today and the President's proposal to send additional troops, it 
is obviously a matter of great moment. The eyes and ears of the country 
are focused on the Senate. The eyes and ears of the world are focused 
on the Senate.

So far, what is happening is largely misunderstood, but the starting 
point is that a motion to proceed is debatable. But before debate even 
began, the majority leader filed a motion for cloture, which means to 
cut off debate. Now, a cloture motion would be in order, but why before 
the debate has even started? The cloture motion is designed to cut off 
debate after debate has gone on too long. But what lies behind the 
current procedural status is an effort by the majority leader to do 
what is called filling the tree, which is a largely misunderstood 
concept, not understood at all by the public generally and even not 
understood fully by many Members of this body. But the Senate is unique 
from the House, and the Senate has been billed as the world's greatest 
deliberative body, because Senators have the right to offer amendments.

In the House of Representatives they established what is called a 
rule, and they preclude Members from offering amendments unless it 
satisfies the Rules Committee. In the Senate, generally a Senator 
doesn't have to satisfy anybody except his or her own conscience in 
offering an amendment. But if the majority leader, who has the right of 
recognition--and that, of course, is not understood either--but if the 
majority leader is on the floor and seeks recognition, he gets it ahead 
of everybody else. And if the majority leader offers what is called a 
first-degree amendment to the bill, which is substantively identical to 
the bill but only a technical change, and then again seeks recognition 
and gets it and offers a second-degree amendment to the bill, which is 
substantively the same but only a technical change, then no other 
Senator may offer any additional amendment. That is a practice which 
has been engaged in consistently by both parties for decades, 
undercutting the basic approach of the Senate, which enables Senators 
to offer amendments and get votes.

The Congressional Research Service has tabulated the statistics going 
back to the 99th Congress in 1985 and 1986 when Senator Dole used this 
procedure on five occasions. In the 100th Congress, Senator Byrd, then 
the majority leader, used this procedure on three occasions. In the 
103d Congress, the next majority leader, Senator Mitchell, used this 
procedure on nine occasions. When Senator Dole became leader again in 
the 104th Congress, he used this procedure on five occasions. In the 
106th Congress, Senator Lott, then the majority leader, used it nine 
times. In the 107th Congress, Senator Daschle, then the majority 
leader, used it once. He was only majority leader for about 18 months. 
In the 108th Congress, Senator Frist used it three times, and in the 
109th Congress five times.

Now, my suggestion is that the parties ought to declare a truce on 
this procedural war of filling the tree which undercuts the basic 
thrust of Senate procedure to allow Senators to offer amendments. But 
the majority leaders continue to use it, which they have a right to 
under the current rules, which is why I am suggesting a change in the 
rules. But it will take a little time to change the rules. We can't do 
it immediately for the Iraq debate. But it would be my hope that there 
would be a public understanding of what we are doing, because the most 
effective process in our governmental operations is public 
understanding and public pressure. We call it a political question. We 
call it public understanding to have transparency or an understanding 
of what we do, and then the public can say yea or nay with what is 
happening, and that is a tremendous force to lead Senators and Members 
of the House of Representatives to take action, to call it the right 
thing, or to take action consistent with sound public policy.

Now, what is happening today is that charges are being leveled on all 
sides. There has been a lot of finger-pointing with most of the 
Democrats saying the Republicans are obstructing a vote--a debate and a 
vote on the Iraqi resolutions. And Republicans are saying: Well, we are 
insisting on our right to debate the motion to proceed. We don't think 
you should file cloture before the


debate even starts, to cut off debate before you have debate, but the 
reason we are doing it is so this procedural device may not be used on 
what is called in common parlance to ''fill the tree.'' But if you ask 
virtually anybody what is filling the tree, they are going to think 
about an orchard; they are not going to think about Senate procedure. 
But it is called filling the tree. I have described it succinctly and 
briefly to outline exactly what the procedure is to stop Senators from 
offering amendments.

There is a clue here that Senator Warner--who is the principal 
proponent of the Warner resolution, the Warner-Levin resolution, which 
picks up the substance of the bill which is currently pending, S. 470--
Senator Warner votes against cloture, and he is the principal proponent 
of disagreeing with the President's plan. Well, that ought to tell us 
something: that Senator Warner is not trying to stifle debate on a vote 
on his own initiative, on his own resolution. Senator Hagel also--who 
has been characterized as the most outspoken critic of President Bush's 
plan to have a surge--voted against cloture. That ought to tell us 
something: that Senator Hagel is not trying to defeat debate on a vote 
on what he seeks to accomplish.


So it would be my hope there would be a truce. Let me say candidly 
that I think there is very little chance there is going to be a truce 
in the Senate on using this procedural rule. It has been used on both 
sides. It has been used by Democrats and Republicans when it suits the 
partisan advantage of one party or another, and suiting the partisan 
party advantage of one party or another is not consistent with sound 
public policy and the public interest.

Right now this debate is being waged in the newspapers, it is being 
waged on the talk shows, it is being waged on the Sunday shows, even 
some of it is being waged on the floor of the Senate, but by and large 
not understood.

I spoke on the subject on Monday, outlining the rules morass, and 
largely misunderstood, even by senior members of my own staff not 
understood. You have the Democrats--and I think we ought to rise above 
the partisanship, Democrats and Republicans--saying they have the high 
ground and they intend to keep it. Well, I think they are winning the 
public relations battle. Let's be candid about it. Democrats are 
winning the public relations battle. Most people think what is going 
on, because we are opposing ending debate, Republicans are opposing 
ending debate, is that we do not want to have the debate and we do not 
want to have the vote.

That is not factually correct. Senator Warner, who is proposing it, 
and Senator Hagel, who is one of the sharpest critics of the 
President's plan, and other Senators who are critics of the President's 
plan, have voted against cutting off debate because it is a big issue 
which ought to be debated, and because what is going on behind the 
scenes, under the surface, is an effort to have agreement on how many 
votes there will be to have a fair airing of the subject matter, and to 
have an opportunity for Senators to vote on a variety of resolutions or 
amendments. Ordinarily, we come to agreement on those matters. Right 
now we are up against the continuing resolution, which is about to 
expire.

I would suggest we have plenty of time to do it all if we start to 
work a little earlier. We are on morning business until 2 o'clock, 
which means we can express ourselves and it is not wasted time, but it 
is not the most productive time. We don't come to work until late on 
Monday. We don't work on Friday. Most Americans work a 5-day week. Some 
Americans work 6 and 7 days. So we have time. And we could work in the 
evenings, too, when we are facing a time limit, or we could have a 
continuing resolution which was extended, so that debate could be put 
off. But now it is in doubt what is going to happen. It is controlled 
by the majority, and by the majority leader, and that is the right of 
the majority and the right of the majority leader.

There have been pronouncements that we are not going to come back to 
this debate and that it is politically advantageous for the Democrats 
to blame the Republicans for blocking debate on the vote, and that will 
be the public posture. But it is my hope there will yet be a 
recognition of what is going on. I would be glad to debate anybody who 
cares to discuss the issue as to whether my representations are 
accurate or inaccurate; that the majority leader has the right 
exercised by majority leaders of both parties for at least the last two 
decades to preclude amendments being offered and to preclude any 
consideration by what Republicans have to say on this issue.


We have a Member of the opposite party on the Senate floor. I would 
be glad to debate that subject with him now.

Before the week is up, I will offer a resolution to change the Senate 
rules to preclude this procedure in the future, but in the public 
interest, there ought to be a truce declared on it that won't be used 
by either side to the disadvantage of the other. The real party being 
disadvantaged is the party of the American people. That is where the 
impact is.

In conclusion--the two most popular words of any presentation--I hope 
we can explain, as a starting point, discussions we have in the Senate 
and follow up with explanations in the media, which really carries the 
message to the American people. Some people are watching on C-SPAN. I 
have a family very interested in the speeches I make from time to 
time--two sisters and a brother-in-law. I talked to them Monday night, 
and they had no idea what I was saying. My staff does not understand 
what I am saying.

The essence is, the rules being exercised by the majority, by the 
Democrats today, will preclude Republican amendments if they fill the 
tree by the procedure I have described. I do not want to stop debate. 
Senator Warner, who is the principal proponent of the amendment to 
debate and vote, Senator Hagel, an outspoken critic of the President--
doesn't that say something?

I hope we can bring sufficient public clarity to the issue that the 
majority leader and the Democrats will rethink their position. As long 
as the Republicans are being blamed for not having debate and a vote, 
we are not going to have debate and a vote. If the public understands 
both parties are at fault, equal blame on both sides, then there may be 
some movement and some accommodation.

It does not take long for the American people to see the morass and 
procedural shenanigans going on and say: We don't care whether you are 
a Democrat or Republican, the American people are sick and tired of the 
bickering that goes on in this Chamber and in the House of 
Representatives. They expressed themselves in the last election. If we 
cannot do a better job in explaining ourselves and finding a way to 
work through and address the substantive problems, the enormous 
problems facing this country--and the No. 1 today is Iraq--we may all 
find ourselves seeking new employment.

I yield the floor.