---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `5b5f438306bee91ba38dd3dd889e1b43`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Altmire. Your 
veterans in your district and veterans across this country have you to 
thank, along with others, that you helped rally to the cause to make 
sure that the continuing resolution that we passed here, which is 
effectively the Act that keeps the government operating, that provides 
the resources to different agencies, including the Veterans 
Administration, you made sure that that bill had the proper resources 
in it for our veterans.

Here is the good news. We are talking about what is past and we also 
have to talk about the prologue as well. A new sheriff is in town, and 
the good news for veterans and for the American people is that we are 
going to make those investments in veterans health care. We are going 
to change things in this Congress. Mr. Altmire and I ran in part to 
make those changes, and Mr. Meek and Ms. Wasserman Schultz stood up 
here night after night after night making the case for that change.

If the American people spoke out about many things, one of them 
certainly was that part of our change in foreign policy had to be doing 
justice to those veterans. So I hope that when people hear us talk 
about some of the bad things happening within our veterans system here, 
they understand that we are only saying it because we are part of the 
movement which is going to change that.

The Disabled Veterans of America were in my office today, and they 
shared with me a pretty remarkable statistic, and I hope I get it 
right. In previous foreign conflicts, the ratio of those killed to 
those that were wounded in battle was 3 to 1 wounded to killed in 
action. In this conflict, it is 16 to 1. Now, that is great news, that 
we have made advances in protection for our soldiers, in armor, in the 
ability of our medical professionals to intervene on the battlefield 
that we are saving that many lives. It is a tragedy that one is lost, 
never mind the 3,000.

The stress, though, that that puts on our system is a great one. We 
have more and more wounded, more severely wounded coming into our 
hospitals, and it means that we have to step up to meet that new 
obligation. We are so lucky to have people coming back that can still 
go on to lead productive lives, but only if we provide them with those 
resources.

The other story that they told me was of the number of young soldiers 
just back from this war who are ending up in in-patient care in our 
State veterans hospitals, those that have been afflicted not just by 
the physical wounds, but by the mental wounds as well.

Our obligation has to be not just to treat the broken bones, the 
damaged bodies, but also to the mental stress that these brave men and 
women have come back with.

I just want to talk for a minute about who we are talking about here, 
because we have fought previous battles in a very different way. We 
have relied largely on our enlisted men and women to fight these wars, 
and I think we need to remember who we are asking to go over to Iraq 
and to Afghanistan to fight because no longer is it just our enlisted 
men.

We are treating our National Guard basically like they are our normal 
Army today. Sometimes we forget that. It is good we are the 30-
something Working Group here because sometimes young people that have 
only seen this conflict think that that is how things are, that the 
National Guard and the Reserve are sort of like everybody else and they 
get sent over there, and that is what they signed up for. Well, that is 
not what they signed up for. That is not how we have conducted our 
military interventions in the past.

We have zero active duty or Reserve brigades in the United States 
right now that are considered combat ready. We have 84,000 members of 
the National Guard and Reserve that have been deployed two times or 
more since 2001. The average mobilization for a Reserve or National 
Guard member is 18 months, and now, as we are learning that the 
President is once again going to rely on National Guard forces to be 
part of this new escalation in Iraq, we are finding out that these 
forces, as they get ready in their hometowns and their home States, are 
not even close to combat ready in terms of the equipment they need.

The Oklahoma National Guard reports that one-third of their members 
do not have the M-4 rifles.