# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `5b7531f07a71fe7be2467afe1b6d7978`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I believe our Republican colleagues are correct. This 
Congress spoke with one voice on the war on terrorism, and we continue 
to do so. Indeed, if President Bush had pursued the war on terrorism 
and the perpetrators of 9/11, instead of getting diverted to Iraq, 
which had nothing to do with 
9/11, then when he hoisted that ''Mission Accomplished'' banner four 
years ago, it would have had meaning.

Instead, we have a burn rate of $10 billion every month in Iraq, $14 
million every hour, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, every week, every 
month of the year. More importantly, the real burn rate is in the loss 
of more than 3,300 American lives, brave men and women over there 
fighting for our country; 96 percent of those deaths, almost all of 
them, lost their life after President Bush declared ''Mission 
Accomplished.''

Today, the President can veto our attempt to secure a safe, orderly, 
phased redeployment of our troops from Iraq, but he can't veto reality. 
Our troops are coming home. It's just a question of what price is paid 
in blood and money before that happens.

The President talks about listening to the commanders and the 
generals. I wonder if he was listening to General William Odom, the 
former National Security Agency Director, last Saturday when he said 
the President has let the Iraq war proceed on ''automatic pilot, making 
no corrections in the face of accumulating evidence that his strategy 
cannot be rescued.''

If the President had listened to the generals, we would never have 
gone into Iraq in the first place. It was General Schwarzkopf who said, 
we would become ''like [a] dinosaur in a tar pit.''

If he had listened to the generals like General Shinseki, if he had 
insisted on going into Iraq, he would have sent enough troops to get 
the job done and not turned over all those weapons dumps to be 
converted into IEDs.

If he had listened to the generals, he would have provided our 
veterans with the health care that they have earned and deserved 
instead of subjecting them back here to the facilities and care they 
found in the United States.

The generals who disagree with this President earn a new title: 
Retired.