# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST--EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
## `5b866fdc67cee84928d4e5db5e690f5b`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the nomination of a new Justice to the 
Supreme Court of the United States brings to our minds a core question, 
both for the Senate and the American people, and that is: What is the 
proper role of a Federal judge in our Republic?

Answering this question is not simply an academic task, it is 
fundamental to what we will be doing here. How the American people and 
their representatives and their Senators, the ones who have been 
delegated that responsibility, answer that question impacts not only 
the future of our judiciary but I think the future of our legal system 
and the American experience.

In traveling the world as part of the Armed Services Committee, I am 
more convinced than ever before that the glory of our American 
experience, our liberty, and our prosperity is based on the fact that 
we have a legal system you can count on. When you go to places such as 
Afghanistan or Iraq or Pakistan or the West Bank or Bosnia and you see 
people--and they cannot get a legal system working. It does not work, 
and people are not protected, in their persons, from attack, and their 
property is not protected, contracts often are not enforced properly. 
That just demoralizes the country. It makes it very difficult for them 
to progress.

I am so proud of the American legal system. It is something we 
inherited, we built upon. It is the bulwark for our liberty and our 
prosperity.

So we ask this question: What do judges do? Do they faithfully 
interpret our Constitution and laws as written or do they have the 
power to reinterpret those documents through the lens of their personal 
views, backgrounds, and opinions?

Is the Judiciary to be a modest one, applying the policies others 
have enacted, or can it, the Judiciary, create new policies that a 
judge may desire or think are good?

When the correct answer to a legal case is difficult to ascertain, is 
a judge then empowered to remove his or her blindfold, that Lady of 
Justice with the blindfold on holding the scales? Can they remove the 
blindfold and allow their personal feeling or other outside factors to 
sway the ultimate decision in the case?

I am going to be talking about that and addressing those questions in 
the weeks to come. But I do think we need to first begin at the source. 
We must return to the words and ideas of those who founded our Nation, 
whose foresight resulted in the greatest Republic this world has ever 
known and the greatest legal system anywhere in the world.

It is clear from reviewing these words and ideas and ideals, 
particularly as expressed in the Constitution itself, that our Founders 
desired and created a court system that was independent, impartial, 
restrained, and that, through a faithful rendering of the Constitution, 
serves as a check against the intrusion of government on the rights of 
humankind.

The Founders established a government that was modest in scope and 
limited in its authority. In order to limit the expansion of Federal 
Government power, they bounded the government by a written 
Constitution. Its powers were only those expressly granted to the 
government. As Chief Justice John Marshall famously wrote:




 This government is acknowledged by all to be one of 


 enumerated powers.


Enumerated means the government has the power it was given and only 
those powers it was given. If you will recall the Constitution starts 
out:




 We the people of the United States of America, in order to 


 establish a more perfect Union . . .


So the people established it, and they granted certain powers to the 
branches of government. But those powers were not unlimited, they were 
indeed limited. They were enumerated and set forth.

But our Founders knew these limitations, history being what it is, 
standing alone were not enough. So they created three distinct branches 
of the government, creating a system of checks and balances to prevent 
any one branch from consolidating too much power. The Constitution 
gives each branch its own responsibility.

Article I of the Constitution declares:




 All legislative powers, herein granted shall be vested in a 


 Congress of the United States.


Article II two declares:




 The executive power shall be vested in a President of the 


 United States.


And Article III declares:




 The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in 


 one Supreme Court.


And such other Courts as the Congress creates.

These words are unambiguous. The Judiciary possesses no power to make 
law or even enforce law. In Federalist No. 47, one of our Founding 
Fathers, James Madison, cites the Constitution of Massachusetts which 
states:




 The judicial shall never exercise the legislative and 


 executive powers, or either of them, to the end that it may 


 be a government of laws and not of men.


So Madison, in arguing for the Constitution, trying to convince the 
Americans to vote for it, quoted the Massachusetts Constitution--this 
provision in it, with approval stating that is essentially what we have 
in our Federal Government.

Madison was a remarkable man.

He went on to describe the separation of powers as the ''essential 
precaution in favor of liberty.'' Alexander Hamilton, in Federalist No. 
78--written to encourage Americans to support the Constitution--quotes 
the French philosopher, Montesquieu, who said:




 There is no liberty if the power of judging not be 


 separated from the legislative and executive powers.


The judicial branch, then, is limited to the interpretation and 
application of law--law that exists, not law they create. At no point 
may its judges substitute their political or personal views for that of 
elected representatives or to the people themselves--the people's will 
having been permanently expressed in the Constitution that created the 
judiciary.

To gain a deeper understanding of this role, it is instructive to 
look further in Hamilton's Federalist No. 78, widely regarded as one of 
the definitive documents on the American court system. In it Hamilton 
explains that ''the interpretation of the law is the proper and 
peculiar province of the courts. The constitution . . . must be 
regarded by the judges as a fundamental law. It therefore belongs to 
them to ascertain its meaning.''

Judges do not grant rights or remove them. They defend the rights 
that the Constitution enumerates. So it is thus no surprise that 
Hamilton says a judge must have an ''inflexible and uniform adherence 
to the rights of the Constitution.''

In order to ensure that judges would consistently display such 
adherence to the Constitution in the face of outside pressures, our 
Framers took steps to ensure that the judiciary was independent from 
the other branches and insulated from political interference. As was 
often the case, the Framers were guided by the wisdom of their own 
experience. They had a lot of common sense in the way they dealt with 
things.

In England, colonial judges were not protected from the whims of the 
King. Included in the Declaration of Independence's litany of 
grievances is the assertion, when Jefferson was setting forth the 
complaints against the King, he asserted that the King had ''made 
Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their offices . . 
.''

That was a complaint. That was one of the things we objected to in 
the way the King was handling the people in the Colonies. That was part 
of the Declaration. When the Constitution was drafted, that matter was 
fixed.

In order to shield the courts from the threat of political pressure 
or retribution, article III effectively grants judges a lifetime 
appointment, the only Federal office in America that has a lifetime 
appointment. We have to answer to the public. So does the President. It 
also specifically prohibits Congress from diminishing judicial pay or 
removing judges during times of good behavior. So Congress can't remove 
a judge or even cut their pay. Hamilton referred to this arrangement as 
''one of the most valuable of modern improvements in the practice of 
government.'' He went on to say that he saw it as the best step 
available to ''secure a steady, upright, and impartial administration 
of the laws.''

So Madison hoped the courts, set apart from the shifting tides of 
public opinion, would be better suited to act as ''faithful guardians 
of the constitution'' to stand against ''dangerous innovations in 
government.'' In other


words, courts are removed from the political process not so they are 
free to reinterpret the Constitution and set policy, but so they are 
free from the pressures of those who would encourage them to do just 
that.

The Framers also understood that the courts, as an unelected branch 
of government with a narrow mandate, would also necessarily be the 
weakest branch. Hamilton wrote that whoever looks at the ''different 
departments of power must perceive that, in a government in which they 
are separated from each other, the judiciary, from the nature of its 
functions, will always be the least dangerous to the political rights 
of the Constitution; because it will be least in a capacity to annoy or 
injure them. . . .It may truly be said to have neither force nor will, 
but merely judgment. . . .''

So in light of this narrow mandate that judges have been given, 
judges have understood from time to time that they ought not to be 
drawn into the political thicket; that they ought to decline to answer 
questions that they felt were more appropriately to be addressed by the 
political branches of government. Typically, this distant approach has 
been invoked when the Constitution has delegated decision-making on a 
particular issue to a particular branch, when the court finds a lack of 
''judicially discoverable and manageable standards'' to guide its 
decision-making, or when the court feels it best not to insert itself 
in a conflict between branches. That is what is happening. They are 
showing restraint and discipline. This is an example of judicial 
restraint because it respects the powers of the other branches and the 
role of elected representatives rather than the appointed judges in 
establishing policy.

This is not an academic exercise or an abstract hypothetical. 
Judicial activism has enormous consequences for every American because 
if judges who are given a lifetime appointment and guaranteed salaries 
are given the power to set policy, then that is an anti-democratic 
outcome because we have created someone outside the political process 
and allowed them to set policy for the country and they cease to be 
accountable to the American people.

The men and women of the Supreme Court hold extraordinary power over 
our lives. It takes only five Justices to determine what the words of 
the Constitution mean. You may think it is nine; it is really just 
five. If five of the nine agree that the Constitution means this or 
that, it is as good--hold your hats--as if three-fourths of the States 
passed a constitutional amendment along with the supermajority votes of 
the Congress. So this is a powerful thing a Supreme Court Justice 
possesses, the ability to interpret words of the Constitution.

When Justices break from the ideal of modest and restrained 
practices, as described by Hamilton, they begin creating rights and 
destroying rights based on their personal views, which they were never 
empowered to do. The temptation to reinterpret the Constitution leads 
judges, sometimes, to succumb to the siren call of using that 
opportunity they might possess to enact something they would like to 
see occur.

Maybe somebody will write in a law review that they were bold and 
courageous and did something great. We have seen some of these actions 
occur. Under the power to regulate business and commerce the government 
is given, our Supreme Court recently ruled that carbon dioxide, which 
is a naturally occurring substance in our environment--when plants 
decay, they emit carbon dioxide; when they live, they draw in from the 
air carbon dioxide; it is plant food--they ruled that it was a 
pollutant. As a result, regardless of how you see that matter, I think 
when the statute was passed they gave EPA regulation to control 
pollution in the 1970s long before global warming was ever a 
consideration; that Congress had no contemplation that it would be used 
to limit carbon dioxide some years later. But that is what the Court 
ruled.

I only say that because that was a huge economic decision of 
monumental proportions. It called on an agency of the U.S. Government 
to regulate every business in America that uses fossil fuels. It is a 
far-reaching decision. Right or wrong, I just point out what five 
members of the Court can do with a ruling, and that was five members. 
Four members dissented on that case.

At least two members of the Supreme Court concluded that the death 
penalty is unconstitutional because they believe that it is cruel and 
unusual as prohibited by the eighth amendment to the Constitution. They 
dissented on every single death penalty case and sought to get others 
to agree with them. Some thought others might agree with them. But as 
time went by, they have now left the bench and no other Judges have 
adhered to that philosophy. But I would say that it is an absolutely 
untenable position because the Constitution itself makes at least eight 
references to the death penalty. It is implicit in the Constitution 
itself. It says the government can't take life without due process. So 
that contemplates that there was a death penalty, and you could take 
life with due process.

The Constitution also refers to capital crimes and makes other 
references to the death penalty. Every single Colony, every single 
State at the founding of our government had a death penalty. It is an 
abuse of power for two Judges to assert that the eighth amendment, 
which prohibited drawing and quartering and other inhumane-type 
activities, actually should be construed to prohibit the death penalty. 
That is judicial activism. They didn't like the death penalty. They 
read through the Constitution, found these words, and tried to make it 
say what it does not.

So the question is not whether these policies are good or bad, 
whether you like the death penalty or not. That is a matter of opinion. 
And how one believes that global warming should be confronted is not 
the question. The question is whether a court comprised of nine 
unelected Judges should set policy on huge matters before the country 
that we are debating in the political arena.

Should that not be the President and the Congress who are accountable 
to the voters to openly debate these issues and vote yes or no and 
stand before the people and be accountable to them for the actions they 
took? I think the Constitution clearly dictates the latter is the 
appropriate way.

A number of groups and activists believe the Court is sort of their 
place and that social goals and agendas they believe in that are not 
likely to be won at the ballot box, they have an opportunity to get a 
judge to declare it so. We have the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals en 
banc ruling that the Pledge of Allegiance to the Constitution is 
unconstitutional because it has the words under God in it. Actually, 
that has never been reversed. It has been vacated in a sense because 
the Supreme Court rejected it on, I think, standing grounds. But at any 
rate, those are the things that are out there. It is not in the 
Constitution. This is a bad course for America.

If the judiciary heads further down that path, then I think we do 
have dangers because we are actually weakening the Constitution. How 
can we uphold the rule of law if those who weigh the scales have the 
power to tip them one way or the other based on empathy, their feelings 
or their personal views? How can we curb the excess of Federal power if 
we allow our courts to step so far beyond the limits of their 
legitimate authority? How can the least among us depend on the law to 
deliver justice, to protect them, to steadfastly protect their 
liberties, if rulings are no longer objective and if a single judge has 
the power to place his or her empathy above the law and the evidence?

So with these fundamental questions in mind, I hope the comments I 
make in the weeks to come will be of some value as we talk about the 
future of the judiciary, what the role of a judge ought to be on our 
highest court, and to uphold our sacred charter of inalienable rights.

So let me repeat, I love the American legal system. I am so much an 
admirer of the Federal legal system I practiced in for 15 years before 
fabulous judges. They were accused sometimes of thinking they were 
anointed rather than appointed. But I found most of the time--the 
prosecutor that you are--they did follow the law and they tried to be 
fair. I think the independence we give them is a factor in their 
fairness and something I will defend. But there is a responsibility 
that comes with the independence judges get. And that responsibility is 
that when they get that bench


and they assume that power, they not abuse it, they use integrity, they 
are objective, and they show restraint.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.