---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `5b9479741743a3bf67919dc4ec2af52b`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 20 July 2009`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. It is no wonder that when police departments are in 
charge of issuing concealed weapons permits, they are very conservative 
about whom they allow to have these permits. Nevertheless, the 
amendment from Senator Thune would defer to the weakest--think this 
through--would defer to the weakest concealed permit laws. So now 
untrained, amateur gun owners will be free to carry a hidden firearm in 
other States and across State lines.

Do we want to completely disregard State law enforcement officers' 
decisions or do we want criminals wandering our streets with pistols in 
their backpacks or carrying them on their sides or do we want unstable 
drivers stuck in rush hour with guns in the front seats of their cars? 
I do not.

These are critical questions, and they should not be resolved by an 
amendment tacked onto a Defense authorization bill--defense. We have 
our soldiers, and the toll keeps rising in Afghanistan. By no means is 
Iraq a safe place to be. They should not have to be further jeopardized 
or have their health threatened. We see what conditions are like. We 
see the reports from the war front. This bill ought to be moved along 
just on the Defense authorization.

On Thursday, the Judiciary Committee is going to hold hearings on 
Senator Thune's proposal. That hearing will give everyone a fair 
opportunity to get all the facts, hear from both sides of the issue, 
and learn from the testimony of experts. The hearing will include law 
enforcement officers testifying against this legislation. They deserve 
to have their voices heard. We should not shortcut the legislative 
process and the vital work of the Judiciary Committee.

Before I close, I wish to make one thing crystal clear: This 
amendment has nothing to do with individuals' rights to protect 
themselves in their own homes. A concealed weapons permit is a separate 
and special privilege that lets gun owners hide their firearms in a 
jacket or a bag as they travel in the community and go out in public. 
Whether they are riding in a bus or a car or walking down the street, 
they can have that weapon.

Why in our world is it necessary to make sure those who want to carry 
a concealed weapon can go anyplace they want with this weapon? You know 
what happens. We read about fights occurring in cafes all the time. To 
just allow people to come in there with weapons and see what happens 
after alcohol or too much celebration? Bad idea, and we should not 
allow it.

States and local communities must be allowed to choose who has earned 
this privilege, based on what is in the best interest of that 
particular State or community. Unfortunately, this amendment takes the 
power away from the local community, away from the State capitals, and 
leaves the decision about what is in the public interest to the gun 
lobby and the politicians here in town--lobbyists in many cases.

The Thune amendment poses extreme danger to our country, and it 
blatantly nullifies State laws and State rights in favor of a radical 
agenda. I strongly urge my colleagues to vote no on the Thune 
amendment.

I recently was traveling with my wife out West, and we were 
interested in seeing a particular baseball team play. We know the 
owners of the team. The hotel had a gun show.

By the way, I carried a gun. It was not concealed. I did it in a 
uniform during a war, and I loved that weapon. But it had a mission. It 
had a mission to kill somebody else before they killed me. That is not 
what we typically see with concealed weapons.

In this case, we were at this hotel gun show, and people were buying 
ammunition for their purpose. There was lots of activity. Lots of 
ammunition was being put in the back of cars. The State, though, in 
that case permitted it. There could not be any objection. The State 
decided what was best for its citizens and its communities, and they 
did just that. I do not agree with that, but I cannot object. If that 
State wants to do it that way, they are entitled to do it that way, and 
who am I, from the State of New Jersey, to tell them how they should 
conduct themselves in those moments? I have no right to do that.

So here we are. We are faced with an amendment that says nobody in 
the State knows what is better for their people than does the gun 
lobby, the NRA, the gun manufacturers. We disagree with that, and I 
hope we will show the American people we care enough about them and 
respect their intelligence--respect the fact they have their own 
structure in their States to take care of their needs as they see them. 
We do not want to see intruders carrying guns coming into those 
States--not mine, not yours, not anybody's--who do not pass the test 
that is required within that State's jurisdiction before they go around 
town with their weapons.
















 Exhibit 1





















 International Association























of Chiefs of Police,



















Alexandria, VA, July 17, 2009.


 Hon. Harry Reid,


 Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Majority Leader Reid: On behalf of the International 


 Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP), I am writing to 


 express our strong opposition to S. 845, the Respecting 


 States Rights and Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2009. 


 This bill would weaken existing state laws by allowing an 


 individual to carry concealed firearms when visiting another 


 state or the District of Columbia as long as the individual 


 was entitled to carry concealed firearms pursuant to the laws 


 of his or her home state.



 It is the IACP's belief that S. 845 would severely 


 undermine state concealed carry licensing systems by allowing 


 out of state visitors to carry concealed firearms even if 


 those visitors have not met the standards for




 carrying a concealed weapon in the state they are visiting. 


 For example, some states require a person to show that they 


 know how to use a firearm or meet minimum training standards 


 before obtaining a concealed carry license. These states 


 would be forced to allow out of state visitors to carry 


 concealed weapons even if they do not meet that state's 


 concealed licensing standards.



 It is the IACP's belief that states and localities should 


 have the right to determine who is eligible to carry firearms 


 in their communities. It is essential that state, local and 


 tribal governments maintain the ability to legislate 


 concealed carry laws that best fit the needs of their 


 communities--private citizens as well as active and former 


 law enforcement personnel.



 The IACP urges you to act quickly and take all necessary 


 steps to defeat this dangerous and unacceptable legislation.



 Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please let me 


 know how we can be of assistance.





 Sincerely,
























 Russell B. Laine,




























President.
