---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF LT. EVAN SCAGGS
## `5ba156f2e230746356592f30bfb9b47a`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Madam Speaker, it is my privilege today to rise 
in recognition of an outstanding young naval aviator from my district, 
Lt. Evan Scaggs of Sulphur, Oklahoma. As a dedicated member of the U.S. 
Navy, Lt. Scaggs was an integral part of one of the highest elevation 
rescue missions ever to occur in Iraq. Honored by his hometown 
newspaper, the Sulphur Times-Democrat, I felt that his story was so 
compelling and his commitment so sincere, that telling his story before 
you today would be but one small way of honoring such an outstanding 
young man.

Madam Speaker, when a group of American schoolteachers with Teachers 
Without Borders


disappeared from a hiking trip, Lt. Scaggs, a 64th ERQS pilot, was 
called in as the flight lead for the rescue. He and the rest of the 
crew prepared themselves in just 2 hours to go in search of the hikers. 
Traveling to the assumed location of the hikers, approximately 120 
miles north of Balad Air Base, the rescue crew was able to locate the 
hikers on the side of a mountain sitting at an 80 degree angle. The 
teachers were stranded at an altitude of 4,700 feet where they were 
surrounded by treacherous terrain. Using careful maneuvering, the 
helicopter was able to fly close enough to allow the rescuers to 
retrieve the hikers safely. Their health was immediately checked and 
they were found to be in good condition despite being dehydrated and 
cold. If it were not for the actions of Lt. Scaggs and the rest of the 
rescue team, the two lost teachers would not have likely survived 
another night in the harsh conditions.

Lt. Scaggs and all members of America's Armed Forces deserve 
appreciation and respect from those they defend. That's why I am proud 
to stand before you today to honor Lt. Evan Scaggs from Sulphur, 
Oklahoma and thank him for his bravery and his servIce.
