---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `5bc07706593d4bf6b501fa082bfec43c`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. The gentlewoman from Florida listed off a number of 
initiatives that this Democratic Congress has taken at long last to 
address the gas price crisis that we are facing in this country. We are 
going to move with great speed to address these issues. We are going to 
address the price-gouging situation. We are going to address 
alternative sources of energy. We are going to address the 
environmental impact of the choices and the long-term consequences. We 
will address the price of gas that we see at pumps every day, similar 
to the one that the gentlewoman was holding up.

But I want to remind everybody, which is obvious because we are 
having this Iraq debate now and the President has sent one bill back 
with a veto and may send a second bill back with a veto, that we, 
because of the Constitution, can't do it ourselves. This is a divided 
government that we have, and we need the assistance of the people on 
the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue down at the White House to join us 
in this effort to make a national priority of lowering the gas prices 
and addressing this issue for the first time since this President took 
office.

I don't see any indication that he is willing to do that. We can pass 
legislation, we can have committee hearings and oversight and talk all 
that we want, but if we are not joined in this effort by our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle, and especially the President, we are 
going to be unable to address this issue in a way that is satisfactory 
to the American people.

I would urge my colleagues to voice their opinion that this is a 
priority. It is important to their constituents, and we do need to have 
a bipartisan effort moving forward to do this because this is an 
important issue. These are big topics that we are trying to pursue, and 
we need a unified American people and a unified body to take the 
initiative to the President and hopefully work with him on a positive 
solution.