# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `5bc43300ce8739d753327f91a49f86e3`
`Mr. KUCINICH â€” 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank all of those who serve 
our country through the gathering of intelligence for the protection of 
the American people. I appreciate their dedication and their attention 
to the gathering facts for deliberations related to our national 
security.

Regrettably, the current administration has destroyed the credibility 
of the Intelligence Community through the fabrication of intelligence. 
The Bush administration continues a relentless pursuit of a self-
serving agenda rather than an agenda that serves the best interests of 
the American people.

No single example can more clearly illustrate this point than the 
administration's falsification and cherry-picking of intelligence to 
build a phony case for the war in Iraq. Through the manipulation of 
intelligence, the administration sold a war to the American public 
based on false statements that included a connection between Iraq and 
al Qaeda, Iraq and 9/11, as well as false claims that Iraq had weapons 
of mass destruction and intentions to attack the U.S.

As long as President Bush remains in office the intelligence budget 
will continue to be at risk for being used to support subversive 
intelligence and provide license to the administration to engage in 
criminal activity by shaping intelligence to fit corrupt policies.

Under the Bush administration there have emerged several high-profile 
classified leaks to the media that have reemphasized the need for 
reform within our intelligence agencies. From these media leaks, we not 
only became aware of the efforts to manipulate intelligence and to 
falsify a cause for war against Iraq but we also became aware of the 
illegal NSA domestic wiretapping program without a court order. We 
became aware of the rumored CIA detention centers in Eastern Europe, 
and the CIA's extraordinary rendition program, used to transport 
suspects to other nations with less restrictive torture policies. It is 
regrettable that intelligence is often reshaped to fit doctrine instead 
of doctrine being reshaped in the face of the facts of intelligence.

Furthermore, this bill will not stop unilateral covert U.S. 
intelligence operations aimed at bringing about regime change in Iran. 
As reported in a recent article in The New Yorker, the Bush 
administration is already engaged in collecting covert intelligence on 
Iran's alleged nuclear weapons program instead of engaging Iran in 
high-level diplomatic negotiations without preconditions. The 
administration has made clear their thirst for a war with Iran. The 
opportunity for unscrupulous tactics by this administration with 
respect to Iran clearly exists as long as this body stands idly by.

I strongly oppose this bill.