# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `5bc6b0f7e14355717e0d7867cda7ed7c`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, if I may respond, the Senator summed it up 
very nicely. One of the things Senator Ensign and I and our colleagues 
discussed with President Karzai and with the military leadership of 
that country and the civilian leadership of Afghanistan and with our 
own folks over there is the nature of the economy of Afghanistan. We 
heard a lot about corruption and heard a fair amount about their 
agricultural economy, which is largely dependent on raising poppies 
which feed the opium trade that provides a lot of money selling heroin 
around the world and to the Taliban and other insurgent groups.

The question on which Senator Ensign and I have gone back and forth 
with our folks over there and the Afghan leaders is, What is likely to 
be the most successful approach for us to take to eventually stop the 
addiction of the Afghan farmers to raising poppies? It was not that 
long ago that they had the ability to raise plenty of wheat and cotton 
and all sorts of fruits and nuts.

They make a fair amount of money on poppies. One problem is it is an 
illicit trade. It is an illicit and bogus way on which to base their 
economy. It subverts the government and corrupts the whole system over 
there. This is an important issue going forward. How do we help wean 
the farmers off an illicit agricultural economy to do something they 
used to do?

We sort of agree we need a tough love approach. We have to encourage 
and provide opportunities--seeds, fertilizer, advice, tactical 
assistance--on how to raise the kinds of products they used to raise.

Someone told us in one of our meetings that the people of India, not 
that far away from Afghanistan, would consume every pomegranate the 
folks in Afghanistan would raise. There are plenty of big markets and 
lots of hungry people to buy those commodities. The question is: Do we 
go out and eradicate all the poppies in the fields like, next week, or 
do we allow the poppies to be harvested but make it clear that is it? 
Then, next year we will help folks plant a different kind of crop, but 
we are not going to stand by next year and allow them to harvest 
poppies.


It is an issue that I think can be resolved, but I think it is a 
tough love approach. It is important, if we want to get rid of 
corruption in the government, in the country, we cannot avoid the 
widespread effect on it from poppies.