---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `5bcb54f26fb42b3e8805913cebcabd66`
`Mr. PAUL — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. PAUL. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution. I thank the 
gentleman from Ohio for bringing this issue up. It is late. This war 
started 9 years ago. It's about time we talked about it. It was said 
earlier on it is hard to quit a war, and we shouldn't be quitting. I 
will tell you what the real problem is, it is too easy to start a war. 
It is too easy to get involved. And that is our problem.

The founders of this country tried very hard to prevent this kind of 
a dilemma that we are in now; getting involved in no-win wars and 
nobody knowing exactly who the enemy is. The war was started and 
justified by quoting and using the war powers resolution written in 
1973. That was written after the fiasco of Vietnam to try to prevent 
the problem of slipping into war. Yet that resolution in itself was 
unconstitutional because it literally legalized war for 90 days without 
Congressional approval. It did exactly the opposite.

So here we are, the 90-day permission for war at that time now is 
close to 9 years. I am afraid that this is too little, hopefully not 
too late for us to do something about this. Are we going to do it for 
10 more years? How long are we going to stay? And the enemy is said to 
be the Taliban. Well, the Taliban, they certainly don't like us, and we 
don't like them. And the more we kill, the more Taliban we get.

But I want to quote the first line of the resolution passed back in 
2001, explaining the purpose for giving the President the power, which 
was an illegal transfer of power to the President to pursue war at 
will. It said, ''To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces 
against those responsible for the recent attacks launched against the 
United States.'' The Taliban didn't launch an attack against the United 
States. The Government of Afghanistan didn't launch it.

The best evidence is that of those 20 individuals who participated in 
the 9/11 attacks, two of them might have passed through Afghanistan. A 
lot of the planning was done in Germany and Spain, and the training was 
done here in the United States. Oh, yes, the image is that they all 
conspired, a small group of people with bin Laden, and made this 
decision. Right now the evidence is not there to prove that. But 
certainly bin Laden was very sympathetic, loved it, and wanted to take 
credit for it.

One of the reasons why he wanted to take credit was that it would do 
three things he wanted: First, it would enhance his recruitment efforts 
for al Qaeda and his attacks against western powers who have become 
overly involved in control of the Middle East and have had a plan for 
20 years to remake the Middle East. He also said that the consequence 
of 9/11 will be that we will bog the American people down in a no-win 
war and demoralize the people. There is still a lot of moral support, 
but there is a lot of people in this country now that the country is 
totally bankrupt and we are spending trillions of dollars on these 
useless wars that people will become demoralized, because history shows 
that all empires end because they expand too far and they bankrupt the 
country, just as the Soviet system came down. And that is what bin 
Laden was hoping for. He also said that the dollars spent will bankrupt 
this country. And we are bankrupt. And yet there is no hesitation to 
quit spending one cent overseas by this Congress.

We built a huge embassy in Baghdad, we built an embassy in Kabul, 
billion-dollar embassies, fortresses, and it's all unnecessary. Nobody 
is really concerned. If people were concerned about the disastrous 
effect of debt on this country, we would change our foreign policy and 
we would be safer for it. We are not safer because of our foreign 
policy. It is a policy of intervention that has been going on for a 
long time, and it will eventually end.

This war is an illegal war. This war is an immoral war. This war is 
an unconstitutional war. And the least you could say is it is 
illegitimate. There is no real purpose in this. The Taliban did not 
attack us on 9/11. You know, after we went into Afghanistan, 
immediately the concerns were shifted to remaking the Middle East. We 
went into Iraq, using 9/11 as a justification. It was nothing more than 
an excuse. Most Americans, the majority of Americans still believe that 
Saddam Hussein had something to do with 9/11. And I imagine most 
Americans believe the Taliban had something to do with 9/11. It is not 
true.

We need to change our foreign policy and come back to our senses and 
defend this country and not pretend to be the policeman of the world.