---
---

# TRIBUTE TO CURTIS MONTGOMERY
## `5bcd236889c3709e32a724c2654713f4`
`Mr. PEARCE — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Madam Speaker, it is with pride that I rise today to 
recognize the Curtis Montgomery Veterans of Foreign Wars Post #2575 on 
its 75th anniversary and its great service to the veterans of New 
Mexico.

The Curtis Montgomery VFW Post #2575 was chartered in 1932 as a 
Congressionally chartered post. Over the last 75 years this post has 
been serving the veterans in the communities of Roswell, Artesia, 
Hondo, and surrounding areas. The post has more than 200 members, which 
include 100 life members. The post will soon be merging with Post 
#11384 in Roswell and pick up an additional 100 members.

Post #2575 celebrated its 75th anniversary on September 1, 2007 with 
a ceremony. The program honored dignitaries of the City who have 
assisted veterans in the past. Special guests included members of Task 
Force Cobra from the area and veterans from all over New Mexico. 
Michael A. Trujillo, a Chaves County Commissioner and member of Task 
Force Cobra, honored the Post by presenting a flag flown over Iraq 
during Task Force Cobra's Iraq deployment to Post Commander Mike Point. 
Veterans from previous conflicts including WWII, Korea, Vietnam, and 
later conflicts displayed memorabilia, shared memories, and reflected 
on their shared service to our nation.



I wish to commend Post #2575 and all of its members for the great 
service they provide the veterans of New Mexico. Congratulations Post 
#2575 on 75 great years and keep up the good work.
