# HONORING THE LIFE OF CHIEF PETTY OFFICER GREG BILLITER
## `5bef98b4e0e155fee4d68be221246f82`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, it's the most solemn duty that I 
have to honor those who have served our Nation, those who have answered 
the call of this generation, as us in prior generations have, to answer 
to that call to be ready to serve and to deploy.

I rise today to honor a great American, Navy Chief Petty Officer Greg 
Billiter. Greg was a native of Villa Hills, Kentucky, a graduate of 
Covington Latin, and a true fan of his hometown teams, the Cincinnati 
Bengals and the Cincinnati Reds.

Greg was tragically killed in action in Northern Iraq during combat 
operations. He leaves behind his young son, Cooper, a caring wife, 
loving family and a legacy that will be honored for generations to 
come.

For Cooper, as you grow into a man, know that your dad loved you. He 
was a great American. He cared about you and he answered the call of 
this Nation.

I had the opportunity to visit with his family, and they all conveyed 
similar sentiments of a brave, dedicated and heroic sailor.

When I asked his wife, April, about Greg she told me that he truly 
loved what he was doing. April said, ''He was extremely patriotic, and 
felt that it was important for him to be part of the war and to help 
the other soldiers who were serving there.'' His bravery and ultimate 
sacrifice remind us that they were all part of a larger mission.

His parents told a local newspaper that he really felt he was helping 
to make Iraq a safer place, especially for the children. As an 
explosive ordnance demolition specialist, he made a tremendous 
difference in the lives of many, many civilians, military personnel, 
and especially those children. We wonder today how many will grow up in 
the future and have a future because of Greg's call and his willingness 
to answer that call and to go and serve. Indeed, his mother said that 
he loved what he was doing. He felt what he was doing was right, and he 
knew that he made a difference.

I stand here today to honor his heroic work in Iraq and in the United 
States Navy, and to thank him and his family for making that ultimate 
sacrifice. We've lost a great American in Greg, but his work will live 
on. Thank you, Greg. Thank you April, Cooper, Pat, and Barry, for 
sharing your husband, father, and son with our Nation. We are forever 
indebted to him.

As Jesus spoke in John 15:13, no greater love has a man than this, 
that he lay down his lives for his friends. Indeed, Greg literally did 
that every day in his work to protect other service members, to protect 
civilians, to make a difference.

Greg's reputation as a chief was quite clear. Many of his fellow 
shipmates came into the funeral and showed a strength of solidarity 
that was impressive and moving to this old soldier.

I have spent many years in uniform and been with thousands and 
thousands


of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines, and one thing spoke out 
clearly to me was that Greg epitomized the warrior ethos of the 
civilian who went into the military, who answered the call of the 
Nation, who grew in character, and was an exemplar in all that he did, 
representing the will of the founders of this Nation.

Indeed, it was clear to me, from his sailors, from his family, that 
he was a leader, that he was a mentor, that he was a friend, that he 
was a proud son, that he was a loving husband and father. He was the 
epitome of all that we call dear and great and honorable in this land.
