---
---

# None
## `5bfd51478dcfff0661358e1a7ee2f8d2`
`Mr. GONZALEZ — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. GONZALEZ. Thank you very much, Mr. Baca.

There is another individual that I want to recognize tonight, an 
extraordinary individual from an extraordinary family. This is 
Specialist Rodrigo Gonzalez-Garza. He comes from San Antonio. He died 
on February 25, 2003, when the Black Hawk helicopter in which he was 
riding crashed during a night mission 30 miles north of the Kuwaiti 
border. He was 26 years young.

Specialist Gonzalez-Garza was born in Sabinas Hidalgo, Nuevo Leon, 
Mexico and was brought to the United States by his parents as an 
infant.

He graduated from San Antonio's Fox Tech High School in 1996 and 
joined the Army in 1998. Specialist Gonzalez-Garza, like many other 
casualties of the Iraq war, did not die an American citizen. He died 
defending the United States and pursuing a dream to become a citizen of 
this country. Only in death was his goal finally achieved. After he 
gave his life, Specialist Gonzalez-Garza was awarded posthumous 
citizenship.

Specialist Gonzalez-Garza's sacrifice on our behalf is remarkable and 
perhaps only matched by the contribution that his parents have made to 
this great country. Specialist Gonzalez-Garza's parents, Ramiro and 
Orelia Gonzalez, have three other sons in the military, Staff Sergeant 
Ramiro Gonzalez, PVT Roland Gonzalez, and PVT Ricardo Gonzalez, 
Rodrigo's twin brother.

One would find it difficult to find a family more devoted to the 
United States and our American way of life than the Gonzalez family. 
Specialist Gonzalez-Garza has given his life. His three brothers 
continue to defend our security and liberty with their lives, and the 
parents, they have given not one, not two, but all four of their sons 
to the service of their adopted country.

I would like to share some of the sentiments posted on 
fallenheroesmemorial.com, a Web site devoted to the memory of soldiers 
killed in Iraq and Afghanistan during operations Iraqi Freedom and 
Enduring Freedom.

The following are postings from fellow Americans who apparently did 
not know Specialist Gonzalez-Garza, but wished to express their 
gratitude for his service.

From Grayslake, IL: ''Thank you Rodrigo Gonzalez-Garza. You will not 
be forgotten. Your bravery goes beyond words. I want to express my 
deepest gratitude for your sacrifice. To the family and friends, my 
prayers and deep condolences on your loss. May God strengthen you from 
knowing that fellow Americans and people around


the world care about you and grieve with you in your loss. God bless 
you all. Signed, a very appreciative fellow American.''

From Wells, NV: ''To the family and friends of Specialist Rodrigo 
Gonzalez-Garza, may God's grace be with you during your time of grief. 
Please know that our thoughts and prayers are with you and we feel your 
loss and share your sorrow. Bless Rodrigo for his sacrifice he has made 
to make a better life for the rest of us in this country.''

From Montrose, ME: ''Thanks for stepping forward when America needed 
you. To the family, thank you for your contribution to our liberty and 
to our freedom. I'm so sorry for your tremendous loss.''

From Houston, TX: ''Specialist Gonzalez-Garza, goodbye soldier, and 
thank you. You are my hero.''

All those individuals that didn't know Specialist Rodrigo Gonzalez-
Garza, they didn't know about his background. They didn't know about an 
undocumented family that came to this country and made the grandest 
sacrifice of all with four sons in the armed services, and one of those 
that gave his life in service of this country, their adopted country.

Did any of these individuals that posted those sentiments on that Web 
site ask is he documented or undocumented?

Had they known he was undocumented, or that the family had been 
undocumented, it would not have mattered, because we are united in 
purpose. We are united in spirit. And this is what the whole 
immigration reform debate is all about. Not what separates us. Not that 
which differentiates us, but rather, what binds us as a country, a 
country of immigrants, each making his unique contribution, wanting to 
be part of this country.

I want to join all those individuals that posted on the Web site to 
share my gratitude for Specialist Rodrigo Gonzalez-Garza's service and 
sacrifice.

Thank you, Specialist Gonzalez-Garza. Thank you also to Ramiro and 
Orelia Gonzalez, the parents, for the service of your sons. You 
emigrated from Mexico, but you have devoted yourselves and your family 
to the United States of America. We owe you comprehensive immigration 
reform. We owe you the opportunity to make your contribution in this 
country.

Before we took the floor here tonight to highlight the lives of these 
individuals, you may have heard previous speakers. One felt great pride 
that a town in the State of Texas had passed a law that will make it an 
offense to rent accommodations to undocumented individuals that may 
find themselves in that particular township.

What pride can be derived from a law of that nature? Who are you 
shutting the door to? In whose face are you slamming that door? I'll 
tell you. You are slamming it in the faces of Lance Corporal Gutierrez, 
Specialist Gonzalez-Garza, Lance Corporal Evenor Herrera, Sergeant 
Israel Devora-Garcia, SGT Henry Meraz, Corporal Douglas Jose 
Marencoreyes, and PFC Rey Cuervo. Those are the individuals.

What is it that binds us, truly? Is it the color of our skin, our 
appearance, our ethic origin? No, it's what beats within us all.

We are a Nation of laws. Our obligation as Members of Congress is to 
pass just and fair laws, and that's what we are seeking. Not those that 
will demonize, criminalize and punish individuals that are coming to 
this country at our behest. And make no mistake about that. They are 
coming because we are asking them to come and to be employed by fine, 
upstanding Americans.



And so they come, not to take but to give, to contribute.

What we are attempting to do tonight is put a human face on this 
immigrant that so often is criticized, demonized, characterized as a 
threat to our way of life. Do not be so concerned. People are so 
concerned: Is the face of America changing? That should not be our 
concern. Is the heart and the spirit and the soul of America changing? 
That should be our concern. And I am here to tell you and we give 
testament tonight that it is not.

For the next few weeks, my colleagues and I will take this floor, and 
we will demonstrate to you over and over again the contribution of the 
immigrant to this country, that their sons and daughters have donned 
this uniform. We have placed them in harm's way, and they have 
performed honorably and with great courage. There is no difference in 
that courage or the contribution that they make because of their 
ethnicity or undocumented status of a parent.

You saw the face of that young boy from Guatemala who was an orphan 
who came to the United States illegally. Now, he wasn't good enough, 
brave enough, strong enough to maybe deserve getting an apartment in a 
certain town in Texas; but he was good enough and brave enough to serve 
as a United States Marine and give his life up defending this country. 
Where is the justice and fairness?

Our soldiers are dying and protecting a way of life. And it is our 
obligation that that way of life is reflected in our laws, fair and 
just laws. That is what this debate is all about.

So I ask that my colleagues give careful thought as we debate this 
issue, and at the conclusion of this debate we will have a meeting of 
the minds and come up with a plan that doesn't accommodate those that 
are breaking the law, but rather allows them an opportunity to redeem 
themselves and to serve this country in a capacity that will utilize 
their unique talents and contributions, and I look forward to that 
time.
