---
---

# AMERICA'S FINANCIAL CRISIS
## `5bfe511a23469c3c3d41b59e977b7410`
`Mr. AKIN — 28 January 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Well, it's just a treat to have you here and to bring that 
free enterprise perspective that you have. And there is something that 
just seems kind of amazing to me in a way, the irony in a way, of the 
fact that this whole problem with the economy that we're dealing with, 
even now and for the last couple of years, is the result of people that 
were liberal Democrats unwilling to regulate Freddie and Fannie. And 
that's recorded right on the old New York Times. The President says, 
You've got to get these wild-and-woolly loans under control. They said 
we're not going to do it. And boy it hit the fan.

And it seems to me there's an ironic twist that this quote that I put 
up earlier, the chairman, the current chairman of the Financial 
Services Committee--who is now tasked with getting us out of this 
problem--there's a certain irony in the fact that this is the guy that 
makes the quote, ''These two entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are 
not facing any kind of financial crisis,'' said Representative Barney 
Franks of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services 
Committee. It seems ironic to me that he makes that statement, the 
whole top blows off everything, and now he's in charge of fixing this 
thing. The thing that concerns me is is the way he's going to fix it is 
going to make it worse. And what we've done here today is we've spent 
more money than we spent in Afghanistan and in Iraq over the last 6 and 
7 years, and we did it hardly with a blink of an eye.