---
---

# ALL ALONG HIS WATCHTOWER
## `5c0c31413fff5291388d6fde6172f04a`
`Mr. SHULER — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. SHULER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to present the following poem 
entitled All Along His Watchtower, which was written by Mr. Albert 
Carey Caswell in honor of Brent Hendricks, of the 172nd Striker Brigade 
from Forest City, North Carolina. Mr. Hendricks lost his leg when an 
IED blew up his humvee.



 Bump, bump bump bump bump . . .


 Bump, bump bump bump bump . . . bump, bump bump bump bump . . 





 .


 Whether, upon football fields of green . . . or on so Heroic 





 Battlefields of Honor Seen . . .


 All Along His Watchtower, ''They could get no relief'' . . .



 Striking Hard, Striking Fast!


 A bold heart, That is his motto, That is his path!


 Dying twice, when . . . The Dark Riders in the distance, they 





 began to approach . . .


 When Brent, began to howl . . . ''I'm not ready now!''


 The Nort Catolacki Kid,


 6'9'' . . . built for power and speed . . . 9 sacks in one 





 football game . . . a man who would not heed!


 Until, on battlefields of horror he would bleed . . . In The 





 Real Game of Life, all for our Country 'Tis a Thee!


 Giving up his fine leg, as he did . . .



 Brent Hendrick, an Army Man . . .


 A Real American Hero, who before us now stands . . .


 Strength In Honor, who respects so commands . . . cheating 





 death, as towards evil he ran . . .


 Into that dark valley of death, for our nation to so bless . 





 . . Striking Hard, Striking fast . . . all in death's 





 path!



 But, when you're 6'9'' . . . and have a 17/1/2/ shoe . . .


 You can kick some glutenous maximus too! Now isn't that true! 





 As this patriot's heart comes into view!


 Could we, would we . . . ever such magnificence find so too?



 All ready, operations . . . he's had 65!


 But, this Heroes Heart . . . will not wilt, will not die!


 Like Arnold, he'll be back . . . Back . . . Back . . . Back 





 in Iraq . . . with his brothers in arms . . . or he'll 





 resign!


 And The Wind Cries Hero!


 Do Do Do Do . . .


I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing our appreciation for 
this soldier's dedication to the United States Armed Forces and to this 
Nation. His service and sacrifice is a shining example of the quality 
of men and women who serve this great Nation at home and abroad.
