---
---

# OBJECTIONS
## `5c176a800a728195fdfc23b640baade1`
`Mr. DORGAN — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, what is happening in the Senate is going 
to give frustration a new meaning. I cannot begin to explain how 
unbelievably frustrating it is for people elected to come to this body, 
they say the greatest deliberative body, to be at parade rest day after 
day after day, unable to move because of two simple words uttered 
almost routinely every day by the minority: I object. I object to 
everything. I object. I object.

Mark Twain once was asked if he would engage in a debate. And he 
said: Of course, as long as I can take the negative side.

They said: We have not told you what the subject is.

He said: That does not matter. The negative side will take no 
preparation.

It takes no preparation to say ''I object,'' to take the negative 
side of everything. Yet that is what has happened. We have people 
posing as a set of human brake pads, determined to stop everything in 
the Senate. Maybe that would make not much difference if there were not 
things that were so urgent and in need of being done.

I sat here for a while this afternoon and saw something quite 
stunning. My colleague stood up and said, on the appropriations bill 
that passed the Senate by a wide margin, over 80 votes on 
transportation-housing and so on, she wanted to bring the conference 
report up to the Senate. There was an objection by the Republican 
leader of the Senate: I object.

Then, immediately afterwards, Senator Cornyn from Texas stood up and 
said: I do not understand what all of the problem is, the way the 
majority is running this place, why do we not get appropriations bills 
to the floor of the Senate?

This was immediately after his side had already objected to bringing 
an appropriations bill to the floor of the Senate. It is as if they 
think no one is watching. These are illusionists who provide no 
illusion. Nobody is watching, they think. This is all done in broad 
daylight. They say: We object to bringing appropriations bills to the 
floor of the Senate. Then they stand up and seek recognition and ask: 
Why are you not bringing appropriations bills to the floor of the 
Senate? Do they believe people do not watch and listen and understand?


It is absolutely beyond me. Now, let me describe this ''I object'' 
strategy. I object to appropriations bills, they say. Do you know this 
year we even had to file a cloture petition to shut off a filibuster on 
a motion to proceed to the appropriations bill that would fund homeland 
security needs.

We are in this process of waging a war on terrorism to protect our 
country, and we cannot bring a bill to the floor earlier this year on 
homeland security appropriations to fund the programs without having a 
filibuster by the other side on a motion to proceed, not even on the 
bill, but a motion to proceed to the bill. That describes what the 
other side has done all year long.

Now, in December, they come to the floor and they say: Well, where 
are the appropriations bills? Well, I will tell you where they are; you 
objected to all of them. You took all the action necessary to try to 
prohibit us from moving these appropriations bills. That is the case.

Alternative minimum tax, they call it AMT. It is a fancy way of 
describing an alternative tax system that recalculates your tax. It is 
going to affect millions more Americans. We should fix that. Why have 
we not fixed that today? Because the other side has objected. The 
Republican leader has objected. That is why we have not fixed it.

The farm bill. Why have we not finished the farm bill? Because the 
Republicans have objected. We wanted to come out here and finish it. We 
have made unanimous consent requests. We have an offer in front of them 
now with the amendments and so on, but they continue to object.

I have said often, if farmers behaved the way this Congress--and 
especially the minority--behaves, they would not have a crop to plant 
because they would not get time. They would not have a crop to harvest 
if they got it planted because they would not have time. They would 
object. They would not milk the cows when the cows were fresh. I mean 
they would not have a crop or cows. You cannot put all these things 
off, nor should the Senate put them off.

An energy bill. Well we tried to go to conference on an energy bill. 
There was an objection on the Republican side. So now we are hoping to 
try to be able to consider an energy bill that comes from the House. I 
hope we can round up the votes for it. But we never got to conference 
because of an objection on the Republican side.

Now my colleague, as I listened this afternoon, said the proposal on 
the alternative minimum tax by the Democrats was more taxes on the 
American people, a substitution of taxes and to accommodate the growth 
of Government.

Let me take both those proposals. This issue of the growth of 
Government is fascinating to me because this President has proposed 
more spending than any President in the history of this country, by 
far. We have in front of this body right now a proposal by this 
President for $196 billion, none of it paid for, to support the war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Now, $196 billion, that is $16 billion a month, $4 billion a week, 
all of it added to the Federal debt, none of it paid for. We have 
someone over there stand up and say we are the big spenders, we are the 
ones who want to spend money, after the President has asked for $196 
billion in additional spending that he wants.

He said that $22 billion we wanted to invest in this country was too 
much money. We were $22 billion apart, with respect to the President's 
budget and our bipartisan approach on the appropriations committee. He 
said: No, that is too much money, that $22 billion to invest in our 
country's roads and bridges and health care and energy. That is too 
much money to invest in our country, but I want $196 billion, none of 
it paid for, all of it outside the budget, for my priorities, the 
President said.

It is interesting to me that even as we are told by my colleague from 
Texas and others that this is growth in spending and that somehow the 
profligate spenders are on this side of the aisle, and I must say I 
have held now 12 hearings on the issue of waste, fraud, and abuse in 
the countries of Iraq and Afghanistan in the prosecution of these wars. 
Waste, fraud, and abuse by contractors, a massive amount of money 
shoveled out the door by this administration to contractors.

Let me tell you what the result has been: A blind eye. No one seems 
to care. You want some nails? I know where there are 50,000 pounds of 
nails lying in the sand. You know where it is? In the country of Iraq, 
50,000 pounds of nails lying in the sands of Iraq in a pile.

You know why? Because the contractor ordered the wrong size. But it 
did not matter, throw them away, reorder. It is a cost-plus contract. 
The American taxpayers are picking up the tab. Do you want to see 
waste, fraud, and abuse? This is a hand towel provided to American 
soldiers.

I ask unanimous consent to show the item on the floor of the Senate.