---
---

# HONORING PRIVATE FIRST CLASS OMAR E. TORRES
## `5c19740313cd2242c986671d8285f9d5`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
Private First Class Omar E. Torres, a courageous young soldier who died 
in Iraq on August 22.

Omar Torres grew up on Chicago's southwest side and played football 
at De La Salle High School. After graduating in 2005, Torres received a 
full ride scholarship to attend The Ohio State University.

During his freshman year at OSU, Torres followed his strong desire to 
serve his country and joined the U.S. Army Reserves. This decision led 
to his activation during his sophomore year, and in May of 2007, Torres 
was deployed to Iraq as part of the 2nd Battalion, 5th Cavalry 
Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, 
Texas.

Although his mission was hazardous, Private Torres bravely and 
honorably


carried out his duties. Sadly on August 22, PFC Torres was killed by an 
IED while patrolling Baghdad. He was only 20 years old.

Aside from his military service to our Nation, Omar Torres was 
interested in politics and had a strong desire to work for positive 
change in our country. While attending his wake last month, I was moved 
by the large number of lives PFC Torres had touched.

Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in mourning the loss of Private 
First Class Omar E. Torres. We will never forget his sacrifice and are 
forever indebted to him, as well as to all our soldiers. Our thoughts, 
prayers and deepest sympathies are with the Torres family and friends 
in this difficult time.
