---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `5c1f953cfdd3f7114381d13dd6ca5119`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, since the United States Air 
Force was established as an independent branch of the U.S. Armed Forces 
in 1947, it has played a major role in our national defense. Throughout 
its 60 years of valiant service, from Operation Rolling Thunder over 
the skies of Southeast Asia, to Operations Northern and Southern Watch 
in Iraq, the men and women of the United States Air Force and Air 
National Guard have defended the United States and our allies around 
the world.

Since 1947, the men and women stationed at McChord Air Force Base in 
Washington state have played a key role in supporting the mission of 
the Air Force, and I want to acknowledge their outstanding service.

''Team McChord,'' which includes the 62nd Airlift Wing, and its Air 
Force Reserve components in the 446th Airlift Wing, has flown 
continuous combat airlift operations every day since October 2001. 
These operations provide vital airlift and medical evacuation support 
to our forces as they fight to stop the spread of terrorism and as they 
respond to other contingencies. In addition to being the home of combat 
airlift, ''Team McChord'' includes the Western Air Defense Sector, the 
22nd Special Tactics Squadron, and the 262nd Information Warfare 
Aggressor Squadron. Together, day in and day out, these brave men and 
women actively support vital military operations around the world.

Today, we recognize the continued dedication of the United States Air 
Force. I congratulate them on 60 years of invaluable service to our 
county.