---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `5c2de92a3519daf29cd34fcdfe374adc`
`Mr. BAUCUS â€” 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I am concerned about the deteriorating 
situation in Iraq. We need to change course. Let me urge my colleagues 
to consider a few principles for where I believe we should go from 
here.

Like my colleagues, I have received an outpouring of letters, e-
mails, telephone calls. Montanans are split in how Americans should 
proceed, but one thing is clear: They all want to see an end to it. 
They want to see our men and women come home.

On October 20, a man from Cutbank, MT wrote me to say:




 Yesterday was a very emotional day for me. I currently have 


 a son serving in Iraq who does house-to-house raids and goes 


 out on extended missions. My other son, who just joined the 


 Army, informed me that he too will now be leaving for Iraq. 


 As native Americans, my sons will be honored when they return 


 home. We are proud of them. We are very proud of our native 


 Americans who serve as warriors, but I am deeply concerned 


 with what they face every day over there.


Amber, a military wife from Great Falls, MT writes:




 I realize that my voice is a voice of millions that call 


 for your assistance. However, I couldn't sleep at night 


 knowing I didn't at least try to do what I think is right. My 


 husband along with many others here in Montana is in Iraq 


 right now, and just recently we lost a soldier from Billings. 


 Help us bring the troops home where they belong with their 


 families who miss them.


In September, Tom Gignoux, from Missoula, MT, a Marine Corps veteran 
with a Purple Heart wrote me to say this:




 I no longer support the war in Iraq. I believe that 


 mismanagement of the occupation and reconstruction has made 


 the war unwinnable and is distracting us from the war on 


 terrorism.


Mr. President, I believe it is time for our combat troops to come 
home from Iraq. America entered into this war with motivations that 
were clearly honorable, but they were mistaken. As the 9/11 Commission 
found, there was no connection between Iraq and the attacks on 9/11. 
There were no weapons of mass destruction. And the theory that America 
could, through invading Iraq, establish democracy that would spread 
throughout the region has proven a cruel joke.

If we knew then what we know now, I would not have voted for the war. 
If we knew then what we know now, I believe the results of that vote 
would have been different. Indeed, I doubt that we would even be asked 
to take that vote.

The administration was not up front with us. They presented faulty 
intelligence and faulty information, especially about weapons of mass 
destruction. Unfortunately, the quality of congressional decisionmaking 
was no better than the quality of the information upon which we relied.

Going into Iraq was a mistake. The premise was wrong. After September 
11, 2001, we had international support to go after al-Qaida and to find 
Osama bin Laden. That is the mission we should be strongly pursuing--
more strongly. Our resources are incorrectly being exhausted in Iraq. I 
cannot go back and change that vote, but I can work in a new direction.

I first commend our troops. They are wonderful. They have shown such 
courage, such exemplary strength. They are terrific. They removed the 
tyrant Saddam Hussein. They addressed the potential threat of weapons 
of mass destruction. They have done their job well. We are all proud of 
them. Their service has been outstanding. No one can argue against 
their contribution to our national security, and their dedication to 
their missions goes unmatched.

I believe in giving our soldiers, sailors, and airmen the proper 
equipment and tools they need to stay safe and to succeed. A year ago, 
I spoke about our responsibility to get as much funding as possible for 
the troops. I have criticized spending on high-tech weapons systems at 
the expense of boots on the ground. I voted in favor of every Defense 
bill and war supplemental since the war began.

I heard of families hosting bake sales to buy body armor. I have 
tried to do everything I could to protect our troops. But it is no 
longer enough.

Now our brave troops stand in the crossfire of a civil war. We have 
lost more than 3,000 troops in the escalating conflict. Just this week, 
the Iraqi Health Ministry reported that more than 17,000 Iraqis died in 
the second half of 2006. That is more than three times as many who died 
in the first half of 2006. And now, America has spent more time 
fighting this war than we spent in World War II.

I understand and sympathize with the Americans who continue to 
support this war because they do not want their family and friends to 
have died in vain. I know what they feel. I struggled with that last 
summer when my nephew Phillip died in Iraq. On July 29, Marine Cpl 
Phillip Baucus, my brother John's son, was killed during combat 
operations in the Al Anbar province. He was just 28 years old. Phillip 
was a bright and dedicated young man. He was like a son to me. He had a 
loving wife and a bright future. His death was devastating.

I know what it is like to wait on the flight line at Dover Air Force 
Base. I know what it is like to weep over the body of a fallen soldier 
and family member. I know what it is like to escort Phillip back from 
Dover to Montana. I know what it is like to pray for a reason, and to 
become determined not to lose.

I am not the only Montanan who has grieved. We are not a large State, 
but 14 Montanans have so far lost their lives in Iraq, and we grieve 
for them all. In fact, we in Montana send more troops to Iraq on a per 
capita basis than any other State in the Nation. Those men and women 
who have lost their lives have served a noble purpose. They have taught 
us lessons in courage, and we honor that courage by speaking out. We 
honor that courage by admitting that what we are doing is not working, 
and we honor that courage by finding a new direction.

A change in strategy is not defeat. A change in strategy is a 
recognition that things are not working. Moving forward, I urge the 
President and the Congress to consider four principles. First, we must 
not escalate the conflict. Second, we must train Iraqis to stand up for 
themselves. Third, we must start bringing our troops home by the middle 
of this year. Fourth, we must engage Iraq's neighbors and the world 
community to find a more political solution.


Let me explain in greater detail. First, I do not support the 
escalation in the number of American troops. Throwing more troops at 
the problem--especially a modest number, up to 20,000--is not a 
solution. Escalating the war is not a solution. We must not launch a 
strategy which has no benchmarks for its success. How long and at what 
cost do we add troops to the conflict? It is a mistake.

The Iraq Study Group is a prestigious and well-respected group. 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates was a member. The study group said 
the current strategy in Iraq is not working. That is what this study 
says. But to this date, the President has not implemented any of the 
group's recommendations.

President Bush has stated numerous times that he listens to the 
commanders on the ground. American commanders on the ground have 
reported that al-Qaida has increasingly gained political influence 
among the Sunnis. General Abizaid told the Senate Armed Services 
Committee:




 I believe that more American forces prevent Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking responsibility for their own future.


I urge the President to listen to what General Abizaid said and not 
just replace commanders who say things he does not want to hear.



Second, we should not have an open-ended commitment in Iraq. America 
must make that clear to the Iraqi Government. The war is now costing us 
$2 billion a week. That is $2 billion a week that is not being devoted 
to health care, veterans' benefits, or education.

There must be a more specific plan. The plan needs to outline how 
long our training efforts will continue, and the plan needs to show at 
what point the Iraqis will take over security of their own country.

Last weekend, Iraq's Prime Minister, Nuri al-Maliki, reiterated the 
need and his commitment to getting the Iraqi security forces to stand 
up on their own two feet. America should support these efforts. In 
short, our forces should stand down so the Iraqi forces can stand up.

Third, with a new focus on political solutions, the United States 
should start phased redeployment of combat troops in roughly 6 months, 
with the goal of having combat forces out of Iraq as soon as possible. 
Our troops are stretched too thin to address emerging threats around 
the world. There is something called opportunity cost. It is a 
technical term. But we are so focused on Iraq that we are not paying 
attention to other trouble spots in the world as much as we should. We 
must not focus solely on Iraq in blindness to the rest of the world.

Our troops are serving their third and fourth tours in Iraq. Some 
deployments have been extended for 12 to 18 months. Some troops no 
longer have a year to spend at home between deployments. I have seen 
firsthand in Montana how the Guard and Reserves are deployed in record 
numbers. They have served honorably and with my great admiration. But 
we need them on U.S. soil for homeland defense missions. The Active-
Duty troops must not be overextended. They need to be ready to deploy 
around the world.

Finally, America must engage Iraq's neighbors more than we have. The 
Iraq Study Group named a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict 
as a major potential contributor to the stability in Iraq. I strongly 
agree with that. That will take so much of the terrorists' energy out 
of their sails, frankly, if we could find a meaningful solution to the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Iraq Study Group said:




 The United States cannot achieve its goals in the Middle 


 East unless it deals directly with the Arab-Israeli conflict 


 and regional stability.


They continue:




 There must be renewed and sustained commitment by the 


 United States to a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace on all 


 fronts.


We have taken too many steps backward in that conflict. Our invasion 
of Iraq has simply stirred up things way too much. It has caused 
problems. America's presence has opened the doors to terrorism and 
sectarian violence.

We must reengage and work toward peace and diplomatic solutions. We 
must seek increased participation of other nations both in a political 
way forward and also in reconstruction work. We should redouble our 
efforts to reach out to that nation and to our allies who also have an 
intense interest in peace in that region and work together toward a 
responsible exit.

In March of 1919, the Emir of Iraq, Feisal ibn Hussein, wrote to 
Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter. This is what he said:




 We feel that Arabs and Jews are cousins in race, having 


 suffered similar oppressions at the hands of powers stronger 


 than themselves, and by happy coincidence they have been able 


 to take the first step toward the mutual attainment of their 


 national ideals together. . . .Indeed, I think neither can be 


 a real success without the other. . . .I look forward . . . 


 to a future in which we will help you and you will help us, 


 so that the countries in which we are mutually interested may 


 once again take their places in the community of civilized 


 peoples in the world.


That is what the Emir of Iraq wrote in 1919.

America must renew its commitment to peace in the Middle East. We 
must work to regain the fleeting sense of optimism that can lead to 
political resolution. We must be positive. We must be the leaders that 
we Americans are. We must work to stop the spilling of blood in the 
land of Abraham.

I urge President Bush to listen to the Iraq Study Group. I urge him 
to listen to commanders such as General Abizaid. I urge him to listen 
to the American people. It is time for America to change its course. It 
is time for a new political effort. It is time to bring the troops 
home.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.