---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF THE 101ST AIRBORNE DIVISION
## `5c31271ba755e03954223634f2c43414`
`Mr. ROGERS of Alabama — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this resolution 
honoring the extraordinary service and exceptional sacrifice of all 
those who have served and are serving in the 101st Airborne Division 
known as the Screaming Eagles.

For more than 65 years, since its formation in 1942, the division has 
established a record of bravery, commitment, military prowess and 
excellence that marks it as one of the great military units in American 
history.

When activated, the division's first commander told his men that, 
while the division had no history, it had a ''rendezvous with 
destiny.'' And through five wars, the soldiers of that division have 
never failed that vision.

In World War II, from Normandy to Holland to Bastogne, and Hitler's 
Eagle's Nest, the division fought with great distinction. More than 
2,000 of its members died defending freedom. Deployed to Vietnam for 7 
years, the division never failed to accomplish any mission.

Though few of its battles became household names, the division's 
4,000 deaths and 17 Medals of Honor are evidence of the unhesitating 
courage and sacrifice the division has made in Southeast Asia.

Today, tens of thousands of the 101st soldiers have deployed to Iraq 
and Afghanistan, helping to secure liberty for those nations, denying a 
safe haven to terrorists, and helping to protect America's interests.

So, Mr. Speaker, it is entirely fitting that we honor the 101st 
Airborne Division as one of the great American military units. More 
importantly, we must recognize and honor the tremendous debt that we 
owe to all who have served so well in this storied and historic 
division.

I want to thank my colleague, Mr. Whitfield, for introducing this 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.