---
---

# GAS PRICES
## `5c379bc6073c4cc07bd43bbdf7920b7a`
`Mr. THUNE — 17 July 2008`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, America faces a great many challenges 
today, particularly with regard to our economy, but none greater than 
our dangerous dependence upon foreign oil.

I have come to the floor several times in the past few months to talk 
about what I call the ''terrorism tax.'' The terrorism tax is the 
transfer of wealth outside of this country to import billions of 
barrels of foreign oil. A substantial portion of American dollars spent 
on foreign oil goes to countries that wish to do us harm.

This year, with regard to oil prices, the terrorism tax will total 
$700 billion. That $700 billion could have been used to pay for health 
care, groceries, or alternative forms of domestic energy. That $700 
billion terrorism tax is more than the annual budget of the Department 
of Defense and is four times the annual cost of the war in Iraq.



The record high price of gas has been hurting American families and 
benefitting foreign adversaries for way too long. It is now the No. 1 
issue on consumers' minds, and the Senate has been debating this issue 
for months. However, the Senate has failed to act on reasonable 
provisions to address historically high energy prices.

Variable and oftentimes unpredictable forces impact cyclical gas 
prices. However, over the long run, increasing supply while decreasing 
demand will moderate, if not lower, gas prices for American consumers. 
The very simple equation is to produce more and to use less.

A comprehensive national energy policy that is focused on finding 
more energy while using less will put us on the path toward affordable 
and reliable energy.

Recently, the President made a historic announcement that he ended 
the Executive moratorium on Outer Continental Shelf energy exploration. 
Congress cannot wait another day to follow suit by lifting the 
congressional moratorium as well. This outdated moratorium is blocking 
access to offer 18 billion gallons of proven reserves in the Outer 
Continental Shelf. In addition to the proven reserves, an estimated 86 
billion gallons of undiscovered reserves exist off of our shores, 85 
percent of which is still off limits. Congress should give coastal 
States the right to explore for oil and natural gas more than 50 miles 
off their shores.

Another promising area for domestic production is the development of 
oil and natural gas in section 10-02 of the Alaska Wilderness Wildlife 
Refuge. Congress authorized production in this remote area of Alaska's 
North Slope over 12 years ago. If it hadn't been vetoed by the Clinton 
administration, the United States would have an additional 1 million 
barrels of domestic production each and every day. One of the 
objections that gets raised by those who oppose exploration on the 
North Slope of Alaska is something that has been used for a long time: 
It would take 5 or 10 years to bring that energy on line. That is an 
old and tired argument. Evidence of that is when it becomes the 
punchline on the Jay Leno show. Jay Leno himself, in a monolog, has 
made that very same observation--that the argument being used today by 
our political leaders to avoid having to deal with this issue of 
developing some of our domestic resources is that it would take 5 or 10 
years to develop. That is the very same argument that was made by 
political leaders over a decade ago.

It is important that we get past that argument, that we deal with the 
issue of our dangerous dependence upon foreign countries for our energy 
supply, and that we do so by developing the resources we have here at 
home, including the 6 to 16 billion barrels we know exist on the North 
Slope of Alaska.

In addition to the traditional sources of oil and gas, unconventional 
sources of oil are an important solution to our energy crisis as well. 
Coal to liquids and oil shale in Western States and oil sands in Canada 
are abundant supplies of fuel and should be fully developed to meet our 
growing energy needs. Unfortunately, Congress is once again standing in 
the way of domestic energy production.

The United States has an estimated 2 trillion barrels of oil shale in 
Western States--more than three times the reserves of Saudi Arabia. 
Unbelievably, politicians here in Washington are keeping this resource 
off limits.

As we continue to debate this issue, American energy companies stand 
ready to invest billions of dollars to make oil shale production 
economical and environmentally sound. This investment remains stifled 
since Congress is prohibiting the rules for such production from moving 
forward.

In addition to oil and natural gas, the Federal Government needs to 
stand by its commitment to renewable energy.

According to Merrill Lynch:




 Biofuels are making up a huge portion of oil supply growth.



 Biofuels are now the single largest contributor to world 


 oil supply growth.


As biofuel production increases, our infrastructure to transport and 
use this fuel must increase as well. Congress has to break the monopoly 
of oil on the U.S. economy by investing in renewable fuel dedicated 
pipelines, biofuel refueling stations, and by requiring the production 
of flex fuel vehicles. Approximately 7 million flex fuel vehicles are 
on the road today. This is significant progress from a few years ago, 
and American automakers deserve to be applauded for their dedication to 
biofuels. However, millions of vehicles are still being produced and 
purchased without the flex fuel option.

That means the vast majority of Americans have no choice but to pull 
up to the pump and fill up on traditional gasoline at whatever price 
the oil company wishes to charge. In this sense, there is virtually no 
competition in our transportation fuel marketplace.

Congress should also continue to promote the use of hybrid vehicles 
and create incentives for plug-in electric hybrids, which will lessen 
the use of gasoline and diesel fuel.

Finally, we should enact moderate reforms and reasonable reforms to 
limit excessive speculation. Noncommercial investors are playing a 
historically high role in all commodities, including oil futures. Many 
analysts say this is adding a premium to the price of oil, which does 
not reflect the fundamentals of supply and demand. Congress needs to 
take commonsense steps to limit excessive speculation, without 
overreacting. Any overreaction will simply move trading overseas to 
markets with less transparency and oversight.


It is important to note that regulation alone is not going to bring 
down the price of gas. We need a comprehensive plan that includes all 
promising solutions to our energy crisis.

I want to make one observation, as well, regarding this issue of 
speculation, because I know a bill has been filed, and cloture was 
filed on a motion to proceed to legislation that would be a speculation 
response, or answer, to the energy crisis in this country. Frankly, I 
may vote for it. I haven't seen all of the details of it. I understand 
from people who are close to it that a lot of it is good--about 80 
percent, and 20 percent might be things I won't like. I might be 
willing to vote for something like that, but it cannot be that alone. 
That is a minimalist solution and we don't have a minimalist problem. 
This is a problem that demands a major and comprehensive solution and 
attention from the Congress that includes not only addressing that 
issue--the narrow issue of speculation--but also the important issue of 
domestic production, increasing our supply, increasing the production 
of energy in this country, and also looking at ways to reduce our 
demand.

With regard to the issue of speculation, I want to read from an op ed 
in the Wall Street Journal by Martin Feldstein, back on July 1. This is 
what it says:




 Now here is the good news. Any policy that causes the 


 unexpected future oil price to fall can cause the current 


 price to fall, or to rise less than it would otherwise do. In 


 other words, it is possible to bring down today's price of 


 oil with policies that will have their physical impact on oil 


 demands or supply only in the future. For example, increases 


 in government subsidies to develop technology that will make 


 future cars more efficient, or tighter standards that 


 gradually improve the gas mileage of the stock of cars would 


 lower the future demand for oil and therefore the price of 


 oil today.



 Similarly, increasing the expected future supply of oil 


 would also reduce today's price. That fall in the current 


 price would induce an immediate rise in oil consumption that 


 would be matched by an increase in supply from the OPEC 


 producers and others with some current excess capacity or 


 available inventories. Any steps that can be taken now to 


 increase the future supply of oil, or reduce the future 


 demands for oil in the U.S., or elsewhere, can therefore lead 


 both to lower prices and increased consumption today.


The best thing we can be doing for American consumers is not a narrow 
minimalist response to the narrow issue of speculation but one that 
addresses the fundamental issue of supply and demand, because that 
drives marketplace prices. I believe if the world market believes we in 
the Congress are serious about addressing that issue--the fundamental 
issue of supply and demand--it will be reflected in those future 
prices. That isn't to say we should not have a solution that addresses 
the issue of speculation as well.

I am for a number of ideas being proposed. I think we need to have 
more cops on the beat. We need to authorize increased funding and staff 
for the CFTC, and I think we need to require the CFTC to gather 
information on index traders and swap dealers, to codify position 
limits and transparency for foreign boards of trade. Those are reforms 
that I think are important to address in any comprehensive energy bill.


But you cannot address the narrow issue of speculation and expect to 
impact, in the long term, the dangerous dependence we have on foreign 
sources of energy. We could address the issue of speculation, but what 
does that do to affect the basic fact that every single day we get 60 
percent of our oil from outside the United States? We use 20 million 
barrels a day in the United States, or about 24 percent of the world 
demand, and about 12 million barrels of that, or 60 percent, comes from 
outside of the United States. That is not a sustainable place to be for 
a country that is worried about the impact high gas prices are having 
on its economy, and the impact it could have on our economy in the 
future if we don't address that dependence upon foreign energy.

We have to have production, and I think the American people get this. 
I think the American people are interested in this issue of 
speculation. I think they believe there is a role that plays in the 
price of oil and the price of a gallon of gasoline. I also think they 
understand we cannot solve the problem we have in this country absent 
addressing the issue of domestic production.

Increasing our domestic supply, reducing domestic demand--that is how 
we go about solving, in the long term, an issue or addressing a problem 
I think will affect the economy for years to come and make future 
generations of Americans continue to be held over a barrel by countries 
around the world that are hostile to the United States.

We cannot address the issue of energy by this bill alone. As I said, 
I am open to supporting and voting for the bill that is going to be 
introduced that addresses speculation, but that cannot be it. If that 
is all we do, we have done very little to address the long-term problem 
we have, and that problem is that we get 60 percent of our energy from 
outside the United States. You cannot say no to domestic production. 
You cannot say no to offshore production. You cannot say no to oil 
shale. You cannot say no to coal to liquids. You cannot say no to 
nuclear or to new refineries. You cannot say no to all those things 
that would help increase our domestic supply and affect that 
calculation, that basic equation of supply and demand, which is 
absolutely disastrous for the economy of this country.

I have traveled my State, as most Members of Congress do, on a 
regular basis. I had a number of meetings over the Fourth of July break 
where I met with people who are impacted by energy. I met this morning 
with corn growers who are in town, and also with agriculture and the 
tourism industry--all of those types of small business interests, 
people who are impacted, and families who are impacted by the high cost 
of gasoline. In my view, there is probably no bigger issue in the short 
term, and no bigger issue in the long term, that impacts the American 
economy and that could do more harm to that economy than this issue of 
high gas prices and the dangerous dependence we have on foreign sources 
of energy. We cannot solve it by saying no. We have to say yes to 
additional domestic production, yes to conservation measures that will 
use less energy, yes to renewables and biofuels, and yes to addressing 
this issue of speculation.

We need a comprehensive approach, not a rifle shot that deals with 
one aspect of it but doesn't solve the fundamental problem we have, and 
that is the fact that in every single State we pay a terrorism tax to 
countries outside the United States.

There is $700 billion of wealth this year that we will shift outside 
of the United States and pay to other countries around the world--in 
many ways, petro-dictators--a ''terrorism tax,'' because we have to get 
energy from them. They set the price and we pay it.

Until we change that fundamental calculation and dynamic, we are 
going to continue to see high gas prices and high oil prices. And that 
is not something this economy can withstand. It is certainly not fair 
to the American people for us to sit by and not take serious, 
meaningful action.

When the markets recognize we are serious, I believe we will see 
relief for the American people on the price of a gallon of gasoline and 
the price for a barrel of oil. That is why we need a comprehensive 
solution.

When this debate gets joined in the next week and following week, I 
am going to do everything I can to see that it is not addressing just 
one narrow issue but addresses this issue of production, addresses the 
issue of demand. That is the only way, in my view, that we will solve 
this problem.

I look forward to that debate. I hope we have opportunities to offer 
amendments. I hope it is not going to be one of those deals where the 
tree gets filled and we do not have a chance to vote on meaningful 
solutions to our energy crisis. The Senate needs to be heard. All of us 
need to have an opportunity to offer amendments and have them voted on, 
and I hope the process will allow for that.

I yield back the remainder of my time. I yield the floor.