# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `5c4232f25a3a09f6a79a6c90d11e2c6d`
`Mr. TANNER — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. TANNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1591, the 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act, 
which sends the message to the Iraqis that we will not commit open-
endedly our blood and tax dollars if they are not willing to step up 
and take control of their own country.

We have lost more than 3,200 of our best men and women over the last 
4 years and 4 days we have been in Iraq, and more than 24,000 others 
have come home wounded. We are spending about $200,000 a minute in 
Iraq. The Iraqi people need to know that we will not continue to do all 
the work if they are unable or unwilling to put aside their religious 
differences and come together to build a civil society.

Mr. Speaker, I feel that this legislation has been mischaracterized 
as a timeline on our troops. The true intention of this measure, as I 
see it, is to put a timeline on the Iraqi people to meet the benchmarks 
that have already been established by the President. The bill we will 
vote on today will not withhold a single dollar from our men and women 
on the ground in Iraq, and it will not tie our commanders' hands but 
simply holds the Iraqis accountable for taking command of their own 
country.

As chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary 
Assembly, I have talked at length with our allies who are helping us 
fight the war on terror in Afghanistan, where we are in a very critical 
year, with the Taliban planning a new series of attacks on U.S. and 
NATO troops there. I fear we are threatening our work on that very 
important effort if we continue to focus most of our resources to a 
deteriorating sectarian conflict that General Petraeus has said cannot 
be won with military might alone if there is not timely political and 
diplomatic progress.

I served 4 years in the United States Navy and 26 years in the 
Tennessee Army National Guard. During that time, it was my duty to 
carry out the orders handed me by the civilian leadership. Now that you 
and our colleagues and I are part of that civilian leadership, it is 
our responsibility to help shape military policy and hold the civilian 
leadership at the Pentagon and elsewhere accountable for the way they 
have managed--or mismanaged--operations in Iraq.

To that end, Mr. Speaker, I am not willing to keep asking our 
military families and the American taxpayers to commit their lives and 
tax dollars forever. The only alternative to this bill is an open-ended 
bleeding of our blood and tax dollars with no end in sight and no 
pressure on the Iraqi government to make the changes necessary.