---
---

# None
## `5c48ac5467b4a204f6119af4ebb42e55`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. We're either in or we're out. Unless this Congress acts 
to claim its constitutional responsibility, we will stay in Afghanistan 
for a very, very long time at great cost to our troops and to our 
national priorities. Or we can set a date, December 31, 2010, by which 
we must leave. And this is exactly what the resolution seeks to do.



Congress has to be mindful of our responsibilities under this 
Constitution, article I, section 8, to claim responsibility for the 
true casualties, which are now close to 1,000, to claim responsibility 
for the cost, which is approaching $250 billion and together with the 
Iraq war close to $1 trillion. And this at a great cost to our 
priorities here at home for housing, for job creation, for health care, 
for education; to claim responsibility for the casualties to innocent 
civilians, the human costs of the war.

Congress must claim responsibility one way or another for challenging 
the corruption that my colleagues have talked about that has engulfed 
the Afghanistan administration. We must claim responsibility and 
understand exactly the role the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India 
pipeline has in all of this. We must claim responsibility for debating 
the wisdom of the counterinsurgency strategies which apparently have 
failed and claim responsibility for the logistics of withdrawal.

I brought this resolution to the floor of the House with the help of 
the Rules Committee and the support of the leadership, which believes 
the debate is merited, because after 8/1/2/ years it is time that this 
Congress be heard from. It is time that we claim our constitutional 
responsibility under article I, section 8.

The War Powers Resolution of 1973 was enacted to ensure that Congress 
has a role in the decision to send the United States Armed Forces into 
hostilities or the continued use of such forces and hostilities. And my 
legislation, if enacted, would require the President to bring the Armed 
Forces out of Afghanistan by December 31, 2010.

As the U.S. Armed Forces and our allies begin the first in a series 
of large military operations in Afghanistan, it is up to us to have our 
voice and our vote felt at this important moment.

Regardless of your support or opposition to the war, this resolution 
is about ensuring meaningful and open debate. And in the 3 hours ahead, 
I'm confident that this House will have the opportunity to do that so 
that people, no matter what their position is, can finally be heard 
from with respect to our constitutional responsibilities.