# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `5c490ebb188774a029c929c658f07d25`
`Mr. SESTAK — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, this is a tough bill. We found out after 
Vietnam that, instead of rotating our forces, if we had just stayed 
there with the same force, as we did in World War II, our fighting 
would have been more effective and less lives would have been lost. But 
this war is different.

We found out in World War II that, on average, a man in that combat 
did 182 days of combat, horrific combat, but 182 days on average. In 
this war, in those 15 months, our men and women are overseas in Iraq. 
Every day of those 15 months those men and women go outside the wire, 
into combat. This is a different war.

I am taken, first and foremost, by the reports that more are coming 
home with post-traumatic syndrome. I am, second, taken with our 
constitutional responsibility to make rules for the government and 
regulation of our armed services. And then third, I'm taken by the 
waiver, the national security waiver that is placed within this bill 
that our national command authorities, the President and the Secretary 
of Defense may waiver for national security reasons the requirement to 
send troops forward if they have even been home less than they were in 
combat.

Our national command authorities every day must approve every 
deployment. They must, therefore, only turn to us and say it is a 
national requirement that they must redeploy less than they have been 
over there in Iraq.



This is a different war, and I am glad to see we are taking seriously 
our responsibility to provide for the rules,


the regulation, the government of our armed services in what is truly a 
different war and yet give our President the right to ensure that the 
risks are weighed for a national security waiver.