# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `5c4aa4048251eb479d4bb87070431c50`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise today, as I did when we started 
this whole debate on children's health insurance, on behalf of the 
Nation's children and working families. I wasn't intending to come to 
the floor, but as I have listened to the debate over the last several 
days, I am amazed we have to defend a program that I cannot believe 
actually needs defending.

Today, we rise to protect the Nation's children. In this great 
Chamber, I often hear Members say our children are our greatest asset, 
and they most certainly are, but they are also our most fragile asset. 
And nothing is more important in preserving that asset than preserving 
their health so they can fulfill their God-given potential.

The issue before us today is a matter of values. It is not just about 
a law or about a program, it is also about a matter of values. Do we 
value our children sufficiently to ensure that those who otherwise do 
not have the ability to insure themselves will have the ability to have 
health care coverage so no child in America goes to sleep at night 
worried that they not get ill because their parents cannot afford to 
take care of them? That is the issue before the Senate, the issue 
before the country, and the issue that will be before the President.

If our values match our action, then this bill needs to be passed by 
the Senate and signed into law by the President.

This is common sense to me. The bill before us today will keep 6 
million children insured and will cover an additional 4 million 
children who presently go to sleep at night and, because they have no 
health care coverage, their parents worry over them; and if they get 
ill, what happens? They wait longer and their illness gets worse. What 
do they do? They go to an emergency


room, which is far more costly to their lives, as well as to our 
collective economic consequence. The deal the Senate has before it is 
to save children's lives and keep children healthy. Bottom line: It is 
a deal that will keep millions of American children and families from 
being pushed into the ranks of the uninsured.

I find it interesting that my colleagues talk about fiscal 
responsibility--now we are going to be fiscally responsible--when we 
have supplementals that keep coming here without payment for them and 
without any limitation whatsoever--a blank check. But now we are going 
to be fiscally responsible on the backs of children.

I want to take a moment to look at the families who are actually 
affected by the Children's Health Insurance Program. We are not talking 
about the poor, because if you are poor in this country, you get 
Medicaid. If you are wealthy, of course, you have the wherewithal to 
pay for the insurance. We are talking about children whose families 
work in some of the toughest jobs this country has. They work at jobs 
that offer no health care, and they certainly don't make enough money 
to afford private health care coverage. This program is their last 
resort. I have been watching the floor this week and I have noticed 
that my State of New Jersey has quite unfairly become the punching bag 
by some Members of this body for our successful Children's Health 
Insurance Program. On behalf of New Jersey families, I simply cannot 
let that go unnoticed. On behalf of the families that the opponents of 
this legislation say don't deserve to have a doctor or receive medical 
attention, I am insulted. On behalf of children who are asking for an 
eyeglass to see a blackboard or get an immunization shot to ward off 
illness, I am offended.

I will tell you about one of these families in Keyport, NJ. They earn 
just over $50,000 a year and they have a 16-year-old daughter. They 
cannot afford private health insurance coverage in New Jersey, but 
through the Children's Health Insurance Program they can provide their 
daughter with the much needed health care--health care that protected 
her when she came down with a flu that would not go away, and care that 
provides relief to her parents, who don't have to worry about medical 
bills if their child gets sick.

Even on New Jersey FamilyCare they pay a premium of $74 a month 
because they are higher on the Federal poverty level. But that is far 
less than private insurance would cost them, which they could not 
possibly afford on that $50,000 income for that family of three.

Talking about premiums, let me take a moment to talk about families 
at 350 percent of the Federal poverty level in New Jersey, since that 
is a particular point of contention in this debate. Families at 350 
percent of the Federal poverty level in New Jersey earn about $60,000 
for a family of three. These families, under New Jersey FamilyCare, are 
paying $125 each month in premiums and between $5 and $35 in copays. It 
is not a free ride. In fact, most federally elected officials, 
including my colleagues in the Senate, pay about $190 each month in 
premiums for their family coverage and their earnings are well above 
350 percent of the Federal poverty level. It is hard to see how it is 
OK for Members of this body but it is not OK for children in this 
country.

If the President made the decision, it seems he would say ''tough 
luck'' to these families, ''go ahead and roll the dice on your 
daughter's health care.'' That is not an action that I think is 
dignified by a compassionate conservative. The President doesn't want 
to cover families above 200 percent of the Federal poverty level--this 
child and so many others like her. I believe that is disgraceful and it 
should be embarrassing to even threaten a veto of this bill.

Here is my question to those who oppose this bill: Is the greatest 
Nation on the Earth going to permit its children to have no health 
coverage?

The President gets some of the best health care coverage in the 
world, paid by the taxpayers of this country. He can go, as Members of 
this body can, to Bethesda Naval Hospital, or Walter Reed, or, in the 
case of the Members of this body, to the Capitol doctor. That is 
subsidized by the taxpayer. Talk about socialized medicine. It is good 
enough for Members of this Chamber but not for these children. The 
President gets the best health care coverage in the world. He deserves 
to have it, but so do the children of this country.


When you think about using your veto pen, Mr. President, think about 
your health care coverage that we all pay for as taxpayers. Do these 
children deserve less?

In New Jersey there are 130,000 children depending on this program 
for their health coverage. They, along with 6 million children 
nationwide, depend on this program to stay healthy and, in some cases, 
stay alive. Proper coverage is often the difference between life and 
death, between health and sickness, between compassion and 
heartlessness.

I urge my colleagues to act wisely as this is not a political game, 
nor is it time to make a point. This is about one thing only: the 
health of our Nation's children.

What troubles me is that the President is prepared to turn his back 
and close the doors but, simply put, if his priorities were different, 
we could provide health care to all children in this country. If we 
were to take what we spend in Iraq in one day--$300 million--and spend 
that on children's health care, we could cover 245,000 children. In the 
past 41 days, we have spent over $12 billion on the war, and what 
changed in Iraq during that time? But I can tell you what we can do in 
the lives of children in this country.

Finally, I bristle when colleagues come to this floor and still bring 
up the red herring of immigrant children being covered who should not 
have the right. The law has been clear--the law that exists, the law we 
are renewing. Undocumented immigrants have never--I underline 
''never''--been eligible for regular Medicaid or the Children's Health 
Insurance Program. This bill maintains that prohibition. It maintains 
that. So to continue to come to the floor and bring the bogeyman of 
those who are coming because they want the health care coverage that 
this program would provide, it is not permitted under the law, has not 
been, and is not under this law, and won't be under this law.

I will tell you what is incredibly remarkable. During the immigration 
debate, we heard a great deal that we should differentiate between 
those who follow law and the rules and came here legally, and did the 
right thing and are living legally as permanent residents of the United 
States versus those who do not. Guess what. We don't even cover the 
children of those legal permanent residents of the United States who 
have obeyed the law, followed the rules, and ultimately are working 
hard in our country. Many of them, by the way--over 70,000--are serving 
in the Armed Forces of the United States. So to say that children are 
getting covered who are not legal and who are not permitted under the 
law, that is outrageous. This bill doesn't do it, but we should cover 
those children of legal permanent residents who have obeyed the law and 
the rules and are contributing to our society. But we don't do that 
either. So I hope we stop using children, whether they be those who 
cannot afford, because of their status in life and because of their 
parents' hard work but they don't make enough money, to have insurance 
and ultimately don't get it at their workplace, or those children who, 
through no fault of their own, find themselves in this country but who 
are not covered under this provision anyhow under the law--stop using 
all of these images to try to undermine the very essence of what this 
bill is all about.

You either stand with children in this country who, through no fault 
of their own, have no health care coverage whatsoever, or you stand 
against them. You stand for the proposition that no child in America 
should go to sleep at night without health care coverage; you stand for 
the proposition that it is in the societal interest of this country to 
ensure that the greatest asset we always talk about, our children--they 
are also the most fragile asset--can be protected; you stand for the 
proposition that in this great country of ours, among the high and 
mighty here, who have great health care coverage, well over 350 percent 
of the Federal poverty level, that we deserve no more than children in 
this country do.

That is what this debate and vote is all about.

Before I close, there is one part of this bill that is missing and it 
leaves


this entire bill and mission to increase children's health care 
unfulfilled. And that is the lack of language to provide health care 
for legal immigrant children and pregnant women in this bill.

I am a proud cosponsor of the bipartisan Legal Immigrant Chidren's 
Health Improvement Act, also known as ICHIA, which would have repealed 
the morally objectionable law that prohibits new legal immigrants from 
accessing Medicaid and SCHIP until they have lived in the United States 
for 5 years. This bill today should have included a provision that 
would have given States the flexibility to provide coverage to this 
population.

I am proud of my home State of New Jersey. They have taken it upon 
themselves to use 100 percent State funds to cover over 8,000 legal 
immigrant pregnant women and children--at a cost of over $22 million. 
My State has temporarily fixed the problem but it is up to Congress to 
pass the solution into law.

How can you tell a 7-year-old child with an ear infection he has to 
wait 5 years to see a doctor? We cannot bar these families from 
accessing our health care system simply because they haven't lived here 
long enough.

During the immigration debate, our colleagues emphasized the 
difference between those here legally and those here illegally, so it 
is appalling to me that a legal immigrant child, whose family waited 
their time, came here legally and obeyed the law, are still subject to 
republican criticism and are denied health care.

These fully legal, taxpaying pregnant women and their children 
deserve to be covered under our children's health program. I am 
disheartened that we could not agree to include this language but you 
have my promise that I will work to pass ICHIA in coming months. This 
is not a question of if but a question of when it will pass.

In conclusion, a great Republican, Abe Lincoln, once said:




 A child is a person who is going to carry on what you have 


 started. They are going to sit where you are sitting, and 


 when you are gone; attend to those things, which you think 


 are important. The fate of humanity is in their hands. So it 


 might be well to pay them some attention.


I ask my colleagues to now pay attention to our children and support 
this important bill. I ask this for our children, for our families and 
for the well-being of our country.