---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `5c4b72b9ba41e64af3df54a785966426`
`Mr. BROWN — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Madam President, Wall Street and international markets are 
clearly concerned or worse over a possible U.S. recession. Congress is 
formulating, as we know--the President, both parties' leadership, the 
Members of the House and Senate--an economic stimulus package, which is 
the right thing to do, but there are several pieces to this puzzle. The 
economy is faltering, to be sure, and we have those concerns about our 
economy as a whole. Equally important, I would argue more importantly, 
more Americans are losing access to basic necessities because of it.

A stimulus package should do two things. First of all, a stimulus 
package needs to stimulate the economy so we can pull ourselves more 
quickly and more vigorously, if you will, out of this recession. A 
stimulus package also, equally or more importantly, needs to help those 
people who have been most victimized by the recession.

I rise to urge this body to take responsibility for helping those who 
are


without food, without adequate heat, and without adequate housing; 
those for whom the economic crisis is not just a source of anxiety, in 
some sense it is a thief in the night who has robbed Americans of basic 
human needs.

In December, I spoke about the crisis food banks across our Nation 
face. It was the lead-up to Christmas, a time when the spirit of giving 
is at its peak. The holidays are now over and we are deep into January. 
Not surprisingly, food bank donations have fallen off precipitously. 
Yet the need for food grows as the economic crisis deepens.

Across this country more Americans are in need of food assistance and 
less food is available. The result is hunger. In the wealthiest Nation 
in the world, people are waiting in line for a subsistence level of 
food, food that runs out too often before the lines run out. People who 
live in the communities we serve are facing increasing food insecurity. 
In too many cases, people don't know from where their next meal will 
come.

Increasingly, these are families with children. Food banks in Ohio 
and Virginia and Arizona and California and in the Presiding Officer's 
home State of Missouri, in Colorado and every State in the Union are 
underfunded, overextended. The unemployed, the sick, the aged, the 
homeless, the mentally ill--these are the individuals who typically 
seek food banks and food pantries for assistance. And now more working 
families are also being forced to seek food assistance as factories 
close and as gas prices and transportation prices--the cost of 
transportation goes up for people driving to work, wages stagnate, food 
prices go up, and daily necessities become more expensive.

Five years ago, the Food Bank of Southeast Virginia reported serving 
95,000 people--95,000 people in 2002. In 2007, that food bank served 
203,000. Forty-two percent of their recipients are categorized as 
working poor, a population that is on the rise.

In Warren County, OH, a generally affluent county northeast of 
Cincinnati--the county seat is Lebanon, which I visited last week--in 
that county, 90 percent of people who go to food pantries have jobs, 90 
percent of them are working. They are working often in part-time jobs, 
often in full-time jobs without benefits, always in jobs that cannot 
pay their bills.

For many years, one of my constituents, Tim, and his wife donated 
time and money to Cleveland-area food banks and soup kitchens. But over 
time, cash for Tim and his wife became tight. They stopped giving money 
to the food bank; they continued to donate their time to the food bank. 
This year, after months of rationing food in their own household, Tim 
and his wife were forced to use the food bank themselves. It took great 
humility, Tim recalls. Tim says he used to be middle class, but he does 
not see himself as middle class anymore. He says his wages have not 
kept pace with subsistence expenses. What he gets from the food bank is 
not enough either. The groceries he receives last his household about 1 
week. Food distributions are limited to once a month.

In Ohio, 70 percent of food pantries do not have enough food to serve 
everyone in need. This problem is not unique to Ohio. It is affecting 
cities across the country, with Denver and Orlando and Phoenix 
particularly hard-hit. American's Second Harvest, the nationwide food 
bank network, projected a food shortage of 15 million pounds--11.7 
million meals--by the end of 2007.

Congress must act swiftly to alleviate the current food shortage. 
That is why I introduced last month legislation that would allocate $40 
million in emergency assistance--$40 million is all. Just to put it in 
perspective, we are spending $3 billion a week on the war in Iraq. We 
are asking for $40 million in short-term emergency funding for the 
Emergency Food Assistance Program, so-called TEFAP.

With legislators still negotiating the details of the farm bill, 
critical TEFAP funding, which provides food at no cost to low-income 
Americans in need of short-term hunger relief, has dried up at the 
worst possible time. This bill will provide the funding necessary to 
keep food banks funding intact until the farm bill is signed into law.

On a cold December morning about a month ago in southeast Ohio, in 
the town of Logan, at 3:30 in the morning--3:30 in the morning--people 
began to line up at a food bank at the Smith Chapel United Methodist 
Church pantry. By 8 o'clock, about 4/1/2/ hours later, when volunteers 
began distributing food, the line of cars stretched for more than a 
mile and a half. By early afternoon of this cold December day, more 
than 2,000 residents had received food. That is 7 percent of the local 
population in a county where people drove 20 or 30 minutes to get 
there. Seven percent of the local population in 1 day, in one church, 
came to this food pantry for food. Just 8 years ago, that pantry served 
17 families a month--17 families a month. One December day, 2,000 
families, that is a crisis.

In the Los Angeles Times yesterday, a grateful recipient of scant 
food donations said: I eat anything they give me.

In the Virginia Pilot in southeast Virginia yesterday, a recipient 
admitted: What I get here lasts all month. I kind of stretch it.

Of the shortages at the food banks, Tim from Cleveland asked: How 
hard is it to give a can of tuna?

In a nation as wealthy as ours, no one who works hard for a 
lifetime--as most of these people who have gone to food banks do and 
have worked a lifetime to provide for their families, to get along, try 
to join the middle class--no one who works hard for a lifetime should 
ever have to make statements like those statements.

This is a national crisis. In a faltering economy, more people 
descend into crisis. It is inevitable. The need for economic stimulus 
goes hand in hand with the need for a caring community. Again, the 
economic stimulus package needs to stimulate the economy. It also 
needs, equally, maybe more importantly, to help those who have been 
victimized by this recession.

Our Nation has always been a caring community. More children are 
hungry today. More elderly Americans cannot pay their heating bills. 
More middle-class families now consider themselves among the working 
poor. Americans do not turn their backs on fellow Americans in need. As 
individuals, Americans do not; as a government, we should not.

The economic stimulus package should revive the economy and reaffirm 
our bonds with each other. This economic stimulus package is an 
opportunity to demonstrate our economic and moral strength. Let us take 
that opportunity. Let us act immediately to prevent more Americans from 
going to bed hungry.

The stimulus package needs to include food banks, food pantries, 
extension of unemployment compensation, and help for those elderly 
Americans who simply cannot pay their heating bills.

I yield the floor.