---
---

# HONORING CURRENT AND FORMER FEMALE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
## `5c5c6b8fcb176196cc17e87077f22d37`
`Ms. FALLIN — 4 November 2009`

---


Ms. FALLIN. Madam Speaker, as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee and also as co-Chair of the Women's Congressional Caucus, I 
am very proud to support H. Res. 868, honoring the service and 
achievements of women in the Armed Forces and our female veterans.

With Veterans Day just around the corner, I know that many Americans 
will stop this week and will thank veterans in their families or in 
their communities. They may meet a young soldier back from a tour of 
duty in Iraq and will quietly thank God that they were born in a Nation 
where freedom is valued and where our ideals that we have fought for 
are still alive and well, or they may pause to remember a loved one who 
is no longer with us who proudly wore the uniform.

Today, it is becoming likely that a veteran may be a woman. While men 
still outnumber women in the Armed Forces, military service is no 
longer a career choice for men only. There are many to whom we must 
offer thanks who are women. We have had over 200,000 women in the 
military, serving in all five branches, in the National Guard and in 
the Reserves. These women are heroes and are role models for their 
willingness to step in harm's way. When women choose to serve their 
country, they prove that there is no profession and no honor out of the 
reach for women of America today.

As we have since the Revolution, women are playing a vital role in 
the defense of our Nation. Today, deployed in two different theaters 
and in every corner of the world, women have played a significant role 
in our victory and success; but as we remember their accomplishments, 
we must remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice. Since the 
United States went to war in Iraq and Afghanistan, over 122 women in 
uniform have lost their lives in support of our ongoing operations. 
Their sacrifice and the sacrifice of their families is very painful, 
but it is a sacrifice of freedom.

When faced with such sadness, it is easy to feel only the loss. While 
it is our duty to mourn the fallen, it is also our duty to honor those 
who have served with dignity and who have returned to take their places 
back among society. Those women today have answered that call. They 
chose to serve in the military. They did so because they believed in 
America--in freedom and in the power of our American ideals--and they 
believed in the need to protect those ideals here and abroad.

Today, there are more women than ever choosing to serve our country. 
They are pilots; they are engineers; they are commanders of ships; they 
are military police; they are nurses. These transitions, by the way, 
have not come without controversy. We have, or are working through, 
many of them and are finding that women are bringing new and vital 
skill sets to today's modern military with courage and, certainly, with 
honor.



By supporting House Resolution 868, we can send a clear message to 
our women in the military and to our women veterans in all areas that 
your service is not forgotten, that we honor and respect you and that 
we appreciate your courage, your patriotism, and your sacrifice. Today, 
we recognize that service.