---
---

# VETERANS OUTREACH IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `5c5efe6ca5c9fe97f25ccb2f9e6d410e`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 67, the 
Veterans Outreach Improvement Act of 2007. This bill directs the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish, maintain, and modify as 
necessary procedures for ensuring the effective coordination of 
outreach activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Office 
of the Secretary, the Office of Public Affairs, the Veterans Health 
Administration, the Veterans Benefits Administration, and the National 
Cemetery Administration. The bill would also direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to ensure that state, territorial and local outreach 
assistance is provided in locations that have relatively large 
concentrations of veterans or are experiencing growth in veteran 
populations. Additionally, this bill would authorize the Secretary to 
make grants to state veterans agencies for state and local outreach 
services. This legislation is supported by the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Military Officers Association of 
America, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. It represents 
another step in our effort to fulfill our promises in the GI Bill of 
Rights for the 21st Century.

It is a important that we act in manner that will help ensure that 
our government sponsors quality programs and provides quality services 
to our veterans. It is also important that we act in a manner that will 
help ensure, to the extent possible, that our veterans are able to take 
full advantage of the programs and services offered by Department of 
Veterans Affairs facilities across the country. To achieve these


goals we must, among other things, improve the outreach capabilities 
and capacities of the Department of Veterans Affairs while also 
improving its coordination with state, territorial and local 
authorities. This will help greatly in our ongoing efforts to 
disseminate information regarding veterans programs and services and 
also help improve the quality of claims for benefits submitted by our 
veterans.

I remain committed to facilitating communication between federal 
authorities, veteran service organizations, and veterans on Guam. We 
have achieved some success in this regard. But more must be done. I am 
routinely informed by federal officials that the quality of claims 
received from Guam veterans, in particular, needs to be improved. 
Efforts to improve and enhance outreach, communication, and information 
sharing between federal and local officials and veterans embodied in 
this bill will help the situation on Guam. But I also want to take this 
opportunity to again urge the veterans service organizations and 
veterans themselves to be vigorous and proactive in seeking out 
information and training on veterans programs and benefit claims 
submissions. Many veterans already are, and in many ways, we are 
witnesses to veterans helping veterans. Continued information sharing 
and collaboration among and within the greater veterans community 
across the country will continue to result in stronger programs and 
services for them.

This legislation is timely and important. On Guam, indeed across the 
country, our population of veterans grows each month. We have a moral 
obligation to serve, in the best way possible, those who have served to 
protect us and to defend our freedom and liberty. Support for this 
legislation is one way to help fulfill that obligation. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 67.