---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `5c79bce7204e7695dc8d0c50c875a70d`
`Mr. PUTNAM — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. PUTNAM. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326--the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2010:

Requesting Member: Rep. Adam Putnam (FL-12)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Operations and Maintenance (Army)

Project Funding Amount: $3,000,000

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida

Address of Requesting Entity: 3702 Spectrum Blvd Suite 175, Tampa, 
Florida 33612-9444

Description of Request: The Center for the Study of International 
Languages and Cultures (CSILC) is a resource within the University of 
South Florida that promotes global understanding through integrated 
programs of language and culture studies in critical world regions. In 
its first two years of existence, it has garnered $1.5 million in 
support of its programs above and beyond previous appropriations.

Current military doctrine provides for preparation of personnel with 
language competency together with knowledge of the relevant culture and 
expertise in the given region. At CSILC, USF has been creating a wide 
variety of integrated language and culture-based lessons designed to 
fulfill our urgent need to better understand critical world regions.

In 2007, our military commanders in the Gulf region requested that 
military personnel engaged in sensitive diplomatic work on behalf of 
the United States be afforded a much higher degree of language training 
in mid-east language dialects, S.E. Asian languages as well as Chinese 
and Korean. In an effort to meet this demand, Congress funded a unique 
project in the State of Florida, headquartered at the University of 
South Florida, to work in tandem with the Defense Language Institute 
(DLI) in Monterey, California. This project, now in its third year, has 
grown to include not only continuing distance learning education and 
training for military personnel who leave DLI after short intensive 
training in languages such as Arabic, Farsi (Persian), Dari and Pashto 
(from Afghanistan), and Urdu (from Pakistan). These programs will allow 
potential military and civilian personnel to better prepare themselves 
for assignments in these world regions.
