---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5c7f3f2464e2a43bb67befd3544ae4df`
`Mr. ROHRABACHER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this 
resolution. But, as this debate progresses, we should be proud of the 
sincere expressions of concern by our colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle and both sides of this resolution, for the lives and well-being 
of America's defenders who are now at risk in order to protect our 
country, our communities and our families.

All of us have been to heartbreaking wakes, funerals, burials; all of 
us have gone to the bases to see off our Reservists and our National 
Guardsmen and to wish them Godspeed; and all of us have been on the 
tarmac to greet them when they return, sometimes having lost comrades, 
killed or wounded. All of us want to do what is right for our defenders 
and for the future of our country.

So we need to be extraordinarily careful. Whatever we do today honors 
their efforts and their sacrifice. We should not be the authors of a 
policy that ensures the lives of these American heroes have been lost 
in vain. If at the end of this episode our country is at greater risk, 
then indeed their lives will have been lost in vain.

I am supporting this last effort, this last chance, if you will, to 
see that our commitment to Iraq will not result in failure. A failure 
now will have consequences that are worse than the price that we are 
now paying in blood and treasure. We do not have the option of walking 
away without consequences. No amount of midwest corn pressed into 
ethanol will allow us to ignore the Middle East.

Helping establish moderate democratic governments in the Middle East 
is not just a favorite of the people there, but it is an imperative to 
our own prosperity and security. Our dependency based friendships with 
oil-rich yet dictatorial regimes has set the parameters for the 
fundamental decisions American leaders have made. It has skewed our 
ability to be a force for freedom and progress. And it is freedom and 
progress that shield us from the whims of feudalistic, corrupt despots 
and religious megalomaniacs. It is the onslaught of freedom that will 
change that reality that we are now dependent upon.

That is what we had to deal with, and now we have come to this moment 
of decision. I wish it were not so. But it is a sad reality that what 
is right is usually not easy. The right course is, in the long term, 
usually frustrating and heart-wrenching. There are stalls and reverses 
to every historically significant event and undertaking.

There are always those who walk away when the road gets rough, who 
cannot see the end and when uncertainty looms. If one seeks certainty, 
bold actions will never happen. Only if we are bold to our enemies and 
steadfast will we ever succeed in any international endeavor.

The current conflict in Iraq has several dimensions; and, yes, it is 
between the Sunnis and the radical Shiite sects of Islam, a bloody 
Janus, with one face to Tehran and the other to Riyadh.

But don't be fooled, Mr. Speaker. The murderers, torturers and the 
haters on both sides revile the United States. The sword of Sadr and 
the bombs of al-Qaeda have turned on each other, but they both have a 
dream that is close to their hearts, and that dream is a nightmare to 
those who cherish freedom and to those who stand with liberty and seek 
comity among the people of the world. That macabre nightmare is the 
removal of the United States influence from the Muslim world.

You see, there is another force in Iraq and throughout that part of 
the world, where the majority of people are guided by the visions of 
the prophet Mohammed. Those of whom I speak are those Muslims who 
desire liberty and justice, who want government to be elected and 
directed by the people, who do not want to live their life in fear and 
would choose a positive relationship with the western world.

They are there, as we have witnessed in one of the most devout Muslim 
countries of the world, Afghanistan. It was not the American soldiers 
but the Afghan people themselves who drove out the Taliban and al-Qaeda 
from their country. Similarly, moderate Muslims, people of good will 
all over the Middle East, and they are there and they tremble that 
America will lose its resolve and retreat before a radical form of 
Islam.

An American retreat condemns them to suppression under the heels of 
fanatic Muslims who hate our way of life


and are willing to murder anyone who suggests that Islam and the West 
can live in peace with one another and that we can respect each other's 
faith and build a better, more peaceful and, yes, a freer world.

Mr. Speaker, if the sole superpower cannot stabilize Iraq, we are not 
a superpower. If we cannot thwart such a gang of bandits and savages as 
we face in Iraq, who will stand with us anywhere? Who will be our ally? 
We must not lose in Iraq.

But what does that mean? That means we must not leave that country 
defeated and in retreat or we and our families will lose and in the 
short run pay a horrible price. Yes, if we retreat from Iraq, these 
ghouls who kill civilians, who would kill civilians and are currently 
killing civilians by the tens of thousands, they will follow us home 
and they will be emboldened.

The sides are chosen, the game is in play. We will determine, not the 
terrorists or the radical lunatics, who stands and who falls, who 
marches forward and who retreats. All of this will be determined by our 
military capabilities, our technological advantages, but even more so 
by our will, by our desire and by our sure grit.

What we do today makes the future. We choose how it will be shaped.

I am reminded of General Petain, the French commander who fought the 
Germans at the Battle of Verdun. Some attribute the phrase ''they shall 
not pass'' to him. Well, he rallied the French people to that German 
onslaught. But, 20 years later, he capitulated to Nazi Germany almost 
without a fight, because he and the people of France viewed the Second 
World War as not worthy of the price necessary to prevent a Nazi 
victory.

Well, did that defeatism and appeasement, what did it do? The cost 
was unimaginable.

Let us today not make this severe misjudgment again about the 
magnitude of the downside of retreating before an evil force that 
threatens the West. There will be a cost with the retreat.

So let us note that what we do in Iraq will determine if the West 
will truly stand behind any ally of freedom and any enemy of radical 
Islam. Let us make sure there is hope in the Middle East and throughout 
the world.

Mr. Speaker, let us today not make this severe misjudgment again 
about the magnitude of the down side of retreating before an evil force 
that threatens the West. There will be a cost if we retreat. Many in 
this Chamber supported military interventions around the world during 
the 1990s, including numerous civil wars, situations from which they 
now claim the United States should steer clear. However, the 
consequences of withdrawal from Bosnia or Haiti pale in comparison to 
withdrawal from Iraq.

What happens in Iraq determines if the West will truly stand behind 
democratic government in the Middle East and elsewhere in the Islamic 
world. Moderate Muslims must have confidence in our ability to triumph 
over our fears, to withstand humanitarian impulses to simply disengage 
from conflict, not to give in to force and pressure when applied by an 
enemy. Otherwise, we lose. The world loses. The moderates of the 
Islamic world will never prevail against this evil unless we are with 
them and have courage and persevere, unless we are willing to hold the 
line, until the moderate forces in the Islamic world can take up the 
fight with a reasonable chance of victory.

On the flip side, only a defeat of radical Islam will bring peace to 
that troubled region. A loss of faith in America's ability to persevere 
in the Middle East would be a catalyst for catastrophe. That region in 
chaos would disrupt the entire world economy. Shifts of power would 
channel enormous resources into the hands of the enemies of Western 
civilization, enemies of the United States. It's a frightening picture 
that doesn't need to happen.

How is this different than a year ago? The difference is 1,000 
American lives lost in a distant, foreign land. America is war weary. I 
too am weary. Every story of another young person, blown apart, rips at 
my heart. Those Americans who have gone are volunteers, heroes all. We 
owe it to them not to call it off and change direction in haste. To 
withdraw quickly, without honor, that would indeed mean their lives 
were lost in vain. It would mean the next front line battle will be the 
home front.

I, then, am one who is not anxious to declare defeat and retreat from 
Iraq. I am willing to give the Iraqi people a while longer, a slot of 
time, to step forward and meet the bloody, yet historic, challenge that 
faces them. We can't do it for them, but we can, as the world's leading 
free nation, give them this chance. Otherwise, we are clearly not a 
leading nation at all. We are too weary to lead. That is not the 
America I know. Today we define ourselves, to the world, and to our 
children. We must have a commitment to our ideals and courage.

America has a crucial role to play in this world and we are America. 
Let us not fail in this our historic responsibility.