# None
## `5c8280c7a0a75fa3c49fc15d84e03686`
`Mr. ROGERS of Alabama — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 1217, as amended, 
which honors the Fort Drum soldiers of the 10th Mountain Division for 
their contribution to the security of the United States. I am honored 
to pay tribute to the current and former members of the 10th Mountain 
Division who have stood steadfastly and courageously defended and 
served this great country on our shores and in distant lands.

First activated in Colorado in 1943 during the early stages of World 
War II, the division known as the 10th Light Division prepared to join 
the fight against the Axis in Europe. When it finally entered combat in 
1945, the division broke through battle-hardened German mountain troops 
in the Italian North Apennine Mountains. Victory was won in hard-fought 
battles in places like Po Valley, where the division suffered 
tremendous casualties. It was during the campaign in Italy that the 
division's own Private First Class John D. Magrath was posthumously 
awarded the Medal of Honor.

Following World War II, the 10th Mountain Division trained soldiers 
at Fort Riley, Kansas, and was deployed to West Germany to protect 
NATO. In 1985, the division began its long and storied relationship 
with the people of the North Country when it was located on Fort Drum, 
New York. Since then, the 10th Mountain Division has participated in 
Operation Desert Storm, Operation Continue Hope in Somalia, where it 
fought through the streets of Mogadishu to assist Rangers who were 
surrounded in the city, and Operation Uphold Democracy in Haiti.

In late 2001, following the September 11 attacks, the division 
deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom to oust the Taliban 
in Afghanistan. Subsequently, the division returned to Afghanistan in 
2003, 2006, and 2009. At the same time, the 10th Mountain Division has 
played a vital role in the successes of Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
deploying to Iraq for sometimes up to 15 months in 2004, 2005, 2007, 
and 2009. Today, these incredible soldiers continue to serve in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

Sadly, the valiant service of the 10th Mountain Division has not been 
without enormous sacrifice. Throughout its history, members of the 
division have paid the ultimate price to ensure our freedom.

Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I did not also pay tribute to the 
incredible families of these brave soldiers who waited at home while 
their loved ones answered our Nation's call. The entire Nation owes the 
soldiers and veterans of the 10th Mountain Division a debt of 
gratitude. To each and every one of them I say, ''Climb to glory.'' We 
are proud of their service. And, therefore, Mr. Speaker, I strongly 
urge all Members to support this resolution.

I yield back the balance of my time.