---
---

# GENERAL SUPPORT OF VETERAN BILLS FOR WEEK OF JULY 27
## `5c87bceeb86893d7cf6c55698e68744f`
`Ms. WATERS — 31 July 2009`

---


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support for the veterans' 
bills considered on the floor this week. I am very pleased that we have 
reached a point where we can begin to address the many institutional 
problems our returning soldiers endure under the Department of Veteran 
Affairs. While some of these issues can be attributed to administrative 
deficiencies, many of the department's problems can be helped by 
increased federal support. These brave men and women deserve our 
support as they risk their lives in combat. This support should be 
reflected in appropriate legislative action to ease the burdens they 
confront upon returning home. While many of us in Congress may disagree 
on our military strategy and presence in Iraq and Afghanistan, we can 
all agree that our returning veterans deserve far more than what they 
have received upon returning home from combat.

Although the Bush Administration initiated the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, it failed to provide for critical veterans' health care 
benefits and programs that would have helped to reorient our returning 
troops into society. However, under a new administration and as 
evidenced by the bills considered this week, Congress is working 
diligently to introduce and pass critical legislation that will provide 
our veterans with long overdue support and efficient access to medical 
resources. Therefore, I am pleased to support all of the veterans' 
bills on the floor this week, and I commend my colleagues in Congress 
for their commitment to our nation's troops.

A New York Times report published last fall reported that the 
nation's newest veterans, particularly the wounded, are paying an 
exceptionally high price for their service to our country. According to 
various veterans' advocacy groups, the combination of injury and 
unemployment coupled with the long VA disability claims process has 
forced many veterans into foreclosure and other financial hardships. 
Thus, the legislation on the floor this week will provide for 
beneficial assistance through federal appropriations, employment and 
housing resources, and improved veterans' medical insurance programs.

H.R. 3219, the Veterans' Insurance and Health Care Improvements Act 
of 2009 will expand veterans' insurance and provide much needed 
healthcare improvements. Additionally, this measure establishes 
permanent VA authority to provide hospital care, medical services, and 
nursing home care to Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans and Persian 
Gulf War veterans who have insufficient medical


evidence to establish a service-connected disability. Undoubtedly, many 
of our current veterans from past and our present international 
conflicts stand to benefit a great deal from this bill.

In addition, H.R. 1293, the Disabled Veterans Home Improvement and 
Structural Alteration Grant Increase Act of 2009, will increase the 
amount of authorized grants the Department of Veterans Affairs can pay 
for improvements and structural alterations for homes of veterans with 
service-connected disabilities of 50 percent or more. Accordingly, this 
bill will provide much needed assistance for veterans to make any 
necessary improvements they are otherwise unable to fix on their own. 
As many may suffer from service-connected physical disabilities 
impeding their normal life activities, this bill would authorize the VA 
to increase their financial assistance to veterans. This measure will 
greatly supplement the bill we passed last Congress, the Homes for 
Heroes Act, H.R. 3329. Where that bill expanded the supply of permanent 
housing for veterans, H.R. 1293 will provide the grants to make 
improvements for veterans' current homes.

Moreover, H.R. 2270, the Veterans Nonprofit Research and Education 
Corporations (NREC) Enhancement Act of 2009 will amend federal 
provisions regarding the establishment at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs medical facilities of nonprofit and research and education 
corporations (NRECs) to allow an NREC to facilitate the conduct of 
research or education, or both, at more than one VA medical center. 
This will greatly benefit the VA so that they can have readily 
available resources to help them confront challenges facing our 
veterans.

And H.R. 3155, the Caregiver Assistance and Resource Enhancement Act 
will provide federal assistance to individuals providing non-
institutional extended care to disabled veterans. These valuable 
services include educational and teaching caring techniques; strategies 
and skills; nursing care, and mental and health services.

And finally, H.R. 1803, the Veterans Business Center Act of 2009 will 
amend the Small Business Act to direct the Administrator of the Small 
Business Administration (SBA) to establish within the SBA a Veterans 
Business Center program to provide entrepreneurial training and 
counseling to veterans. This will create yet another resource to 
benefit our returning veterans who may have trouble finding employment.

Madam Speaker, these are incredibly important bills, providing our 
veterans with the federal resources so they may have efficient access 
to much needed medical assistance, job, and housing support. As a 
strong advocate for veterans' rights, I am pleased to add my voice of 
support for all of these measures. Moreover, I will be working with my 
colleagues to make sure we continue to provide the necessary resources 
towards protecting our veterans' rights and ensuring fair and just 
access to their rightful benefits.
