---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5c968b7c5b48b9e729bc39a10e5f2743`
`Mr. SAXTON — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it has been said here on the floor by more than one 
speaker, or suggested at least, that the war in Iraq is not part of the 
war on terror. I disagree. I could not disagree more with that 
statement. But if you agree with that statement, and if you are casting 
your vote because you think that is a rationale upon which you can 
justify your vote, I hope you are sure.

I would say I would hope you are sure because I am in my 23rd year, 
and I know how this place works. It is a wonderful system, because we 
almost always have a chance to come back and correct our mistakes. A 
vote on tax policy? I happen to favor lower taxes. But if we make a tax 
vote that is a bad vote, we can come back next year and fix it. Or if 
we spend too much money on transportation this year, we can come back 
next year and reduce it.

This resolution takes us down a different road. This starts us down a 
road where, at some point, we won't be able to come back next year and 
just fix it.

You don't have to believe me. But listen to what our enemies say. I 
have here the text of a letter that was written on July 9, 2005, from 
Ayman al-Zawahiri, the author, the second in command in al Qaeda, to 
al-Zarqawi, the person who at that time was the leader of al Qaeda in 
Iraq. ''Our intended goal in this age is to establish a caliphate in 
the manner of the prophet.''

Now, I don't claim to be an expert in Islam, but I am told that at 
one time under this establishment of a caliphate, the caliphate 
stretched from Spain through the Middle East and Northern Africa to 
Central Asia and to India. That is a vast stretch. If that is the goal, 
then we ought to be aware of it, because it becomes a very serious 
matter.

The first stage of this process is to expel the Americans from Iraq, 
according to al-Zawahiri.

The second stage, establish an Islamic authority or an emirate, to 
develop it and support it until it achieves a level of a caliphate over 
as much territory as you can spread power in Iraq.

The third stage, he says, is to extend the jihad wave to the secular 
countries neighboring Iraq.

The fourth stage, it may coincide with what came before, he says, the 
clash with Israel, because Israel was established only to challenge any 
new Islamic entity.



So clearly, the al Qaeda leadership believes that Iraq is part of the 
global situation that we refer to as the global war on terror, and if 
that is right, and I think at least for me I have to assume that that 
is their intention, Iraq is certainly part of the global war on terror 
from a Western perspective. And so what the President has suggested is 
to take advantage of the assets that we have developed, while training 
Iraqi soldiers to provide for their own security, and send three 
brigades into the Sunni Triangle, mostly in Baghdad, to be supported by 
the 21,500 Americans who he has proposed to send. I heard yesterday 
that the Iraqi brigades are, in fact, showing up in Baghdad at a 75 
percent level, which is better than anyone expected, at least better 
than I expected. Maybe others expected better.

So I think if we are going to take on this effort to develop a 
caliphate, as one of the previous speakers said before it gets here, 
then maybe we ought to do what the commander of the national VFW 
suggests.

The commander of the national VFW put out a press release, and I have 
the text of it here. ''The national commander of the Nation's largest 
organization of combat veterans is very concerned that the ongoing 
debate in Congress about the planned troop buildup will be perceived by 
those in uniform as a sign that America's lawmakers have given up on 
them and their mission in Iraq.

''My generation,'' he said, ''learned the hard way that when military 
decisions are second-guessed by opinion polls or overruled by 
politicians, it's the common soldier and their families who pay the 
price.

''There is no question,'' he said, ''that mistakes have been made in 
the prosecution of the war in Iraq,'' but ''there is no playbook to 
fight an unconventional war against an unconventional enemy that wears 
no uniform and acts without conscience, yet our forces have adapted and 
are performing brilliantly,'' and I agree with him.

''We fully respect congressional oversight and the first amendment 
rights of all Americans to debate issues of national importance, but 
the VFW is very concerned with the tone and timing of it,'' he said. 
''We need to send the message to our troops that America wants them to 
succeed in Iraq by giving the buildup a chance to succeed.''

Mr. Speaker, I think the commander of the national VFW is absolutely 
right, and I thank the gentleman for yielding time.