# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5ca36a583dad0bac727ce89882ec350b`
`Mr. HERGER â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HERGER. Madam Speaker, I hope we all can recognize the profound 
importance of our mission in Iraq. History surely will. The mission in 
Iraq will impact our national security for decades to come.

The United States seeks a region of stability and peace to create a 
more secure world for our children and grandchildren. Al Qaeda seeks a 
region of terror and bloodshed.

The President believes victory in Iraq is key to victory on the war 
on terror. Al Qaeda believes our defeat in Iraq is key to its vision of 
violent Islamic rule. Our security is clearly at risk.

Americans are frustrated by the current situation in Iraq. We have 
witnessed the removal of a historic dictator, yet our men and women in 
uniform remain at risk. We have witnessed historic democratic 
elections, yet those elected have not yet brought security. We have 
been told about the progress we have experienced in training Iraqi 
security forces, yet violence continues to rage.

With growing uneasiness, we have watched a back and forth tug of war 
between progress and setback, and we mourn the loss of every single 
brave American who has fallen during this mission.

Madam Speaker, I share this frustration and sorrow. Yet I believe we 
must not allow our frustrations to blind us to the need for victory 
over radical jihadists. This House must work together in addressing the 
challenges in Iraq, because the outcome will be closely linked to our 
own national security for years to come.

Regrettably, the resolution before us does nothing to enhance this 
security. It does not offer a solution to the challenges in Iraq. It 
does not recognize the magnitude of the failure. And it does not 
recognize the nature of our enemies. For these reasons I strongly 
oppose it.

Madam Speaker, we know terrorists friendly to bin Laden are among the 
enemy in Iraq. Even before the fall of Saddam's regime, the terrorist 
mastermind Zarqawi had sought refuge in Iraq. His network of terror 
grew rapidly. Bin Laden's top deputy applauded his actions and 
counseled him on achieving dominance in the region. Although Zarqawi 
himself can no longer do harm, al Qaeda in Iraq remains a threat to our 
security.

An American defeat in Iraq would embolden the terrorists like no 
event before, bolstering bin Laden's view that America is weak. Al 
Qaeda would enjoy more than just a morale boost; they would have a new 
operational base to plot attacks against Americans and train new 
recruits. An American defeat in Iraq would almost certainly bring forth 
a government that turns a blind eye towards terrorism. This, Madam 
Speaker, would be catastrophic to our national security.

An American defeat in Iraq would also generate unspeakable chaos in 
the Middle East. The dangerous regime in Iran is already seeking to 
capitalize on what it perceives as our weakness. Iran is well on its 
way to developing nuclear weapons, and its fanatical president has 
publicly said that he wishes to destroy America and Israel. Syria would 
also take advantage of a power vacuum in Iraq, further destabilizing 
the Middle East. What is good for hostile regimes like Iran and Syria 
can be devastating for America's security.

In closing, Iraq is a central front in the war on terrorism, and its 
future will greatly influence our future security. An American victory 
would foster stability in a volatile region and provide a resounding 
defeat for terror.

For these reasons, we must give the President's new plan in Iraq a 
chance to succeed. Our resolve must override our frustrations. Our 
support for the remarkable members of our Armed Forces must be 
unwavering. And our determination in fighting radical jihadists who 
want to kill us and our families must never run dry. Madam Speaker, 
that determination must never run dry