# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5cae7b99f14474909346f48321ca4a03`
`Ms. LEE of California — 27 July 2010`

---


Ms. LEE of California. I thank the gentleman for yielding and for his 
leadership.

Madam Speaker, less than a month ago Congress finally began the 
debate on the war in Afghanistan that should have really been held 9 
years ago.

While evidence continues to mount that our military engagement in 
Afghanistan has become a quagmire of corruption and ill-defined 
objectives, the bill under consideration will provide, if you can 
believe this, another $37 billion for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq 
that have already cost this Nation more than $1 trillion.

Congress cannot continue to write a blank check for a war in 
Afghanistan that has ultimately made our country less safe. Our brave 
men and women in uniform have been put in an impossible situation in 
Afghanistan where there is no military solution.

It is time to provide funding for only their safe and orderly 
withdrawal. No more funding for combat operations.

It's a shame and disgrace that we cannot support justice long overdue 
for black farmers, or youth employment programs, or teachers, 
firefighters and police officers who need their jobs, or temporary 
assistance for needed families.

The Congressional Black Caucus continues to fight for jobs here in 
our own country. Let's not spend another dollar to escalate America's 
longest war. The costs of this war are too enormous in blood and 
treasure.

I urge my colleagues to stand in opposition to a policy of war 
without end, and vote against this bill, and really begin to look at 
our priorities and our own country.

Yes, we need to help continue to stabilize, actually, regionally, in 
terms of Afghanistan and the Middle East and the wars that our young 
men and women have served in so well. But, no, we cannot continue to do 
it in the way that we have done it. And so I respectfully ask for a 
''no'' vote.

It's time to change direction in Afghanistan. It's time to vote for 
jobs in our own country.

