# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `5cb67beee9402cfc79809a959b418dd4`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Tennessee, and 
I believe he is telling us correctly that the way we were taught in 
school is that Senators ought to have an opportunity to understand what 
is before them before they vote. We are dealing with an extremely 
complex piece of legislation, and the more you get into it, the more I 
have been involved in it as a member of the Judiciary Committee and in 
the floor debate last year, the more I see you have to be realistic and 
practical and thoughtful and principled if you want to make this system 
work, and we are a long way from that.

I think what Senator Bunning said earlier about the cost of this bill 
is important for us to consider. I understand some work is being done 
on a CBO score. I don't know if that is true, but I have heard that the 
Congressional Budget Office is attempting to score this, but it is 
difficult, I assume. They can't give a real score because we don't even 
have the bill in final form yet. It is still referred to as a draft and 
hasn't even been introduced. So until something is actually introduced, 
there is no way we can get a score. But I can tell you a little bit 
about the way this thing was handled last year.

Those of us who were concerned about it last year asked for a score 
on the bill from the Congressional Budget Office to find out how much 
it would actually cost. We got a troubling number, and we used that 
number a day before we had a final vote, and then a month or so later, 
we got a more complete score from the Congressional Budget Office. I 
think that bill was probably less complicated than the one we are 
dealing with today, and they scored the bill, over 10 years, to be $127 
billion in cost. Now, they excluded from that the money we spent on 
enforcement. I didn't count that. This was based on lost tax revenue, 
it was based on the welfare and other direct benefits to people who 
would be legalized under that bill and how much more they would draw 
from the Treasury than they would pay into the Treasury, and they came 
up with a cost of $127 billion over 10 years. Similar to last year's 
bill, this bill puts things off for 10 years. That is what the Budget 
Office scores normally on, a 10-year cycle. They score it on that 
basis, and that is how they came up with $127 billion.

When we asked them--I believe at a public hearing--what about the 
next 10 years, they said: Well, it would definitely escalate. It will 
definitely be higher. Okay. Why? Well, because the lineup and the 
movement of people to green cards and citizenship was delayed by the 
bill. They were legalized in our country and they could stay, but they 
didn't get a permanent resident status, which gives you many welfare 
benefits and other benefits and citizenship, until the second 10 years. 
Do you understand that? That is when the big money is out there. That 
is what Robert Rector told us today at this press conference. That is 
what his study at the Heritage Foundation points out. He convinced us 
all last year. One thing you don't hear as much as you used to--oh, we 
need this immigration flow, these hard-working, low-skilled immigrants; 
they do a good job for us, and that is going to help us with Social 
Security and Medicare because we are an aging population, and we need 
those people coming into the country. They are going to help us with 
Social Security and Medicare.


Mr. Rector demolished that argument. It is completely bogus. It is 
off the table. I hope nobody will suggest that anymore. Those were the 
people I called the masters of the universe up on Wall Street somewhere 
thinking they know: ''Oh, well, we don't want to be like Europe, we 
will just bring in this immigration and that will solve our debt 
problems for the future.''

Isn't that wonderful. But it doesn't work that way. Mr. Rector 
explained it last year and today with tremendous passion at a press 
conference. Half of the 12 million people here--at least half, maybe 
more, maybe 60 percent, there are different estimates--do not have a 
high school degree. Some of them are illiterate even in their own 
language. Mr. Rector studied the numbers on that. He used a framework 
of the National Academy of Sciences study in 1990. That study tried to 
analyze the economic impact of immigration. He took this 
disproportionate number of low-skilled and uneducated workers and he 
demonstrated, as Senator Bunning told us, that it is not this year and 
not next year the crisis will hit us, but in the outyears. Do you know 
what Mr. Rector said? He said they will begin to draw the biggest 
amount of money about the time the baby boomers are drawing the biggest 
amount of money out of the Treasury, and Medicare and Social Security 
will be damaged tremendously by this program.

It is hard to talk about that. It is painful to talk about it in 
those terms, I have to tell you. We hate to do that. But a nation like 
Canada has had to deal with it. They wrestled with it and they decided 
it makes sense for them, since they cannot accept everybody who wishes 
to come to Canada--it would overflow the country, and more people want 
to come than they can accept--that they would accept people who have 
the job skills, the education, and the language skills that will be 
successful in Canada and therefore they will pay more in taxes than 
they will take out in benefits.

Mr. Rector calculated what happens when you take the workers, the 
low-skilled workers who will be provided permanent legal status--call 
it amnesty or not--in this country, who will all be able to stay. He 
factored out a mortality rate. He was very complex and detailed in the 
analysis, following the principles of the National Academy of Sciences. 
He concludes it would cost the U.S. Treasury, over the lifetime of the 
people who will be provided amnesty, $2.3 trillion.

A trillion is 1,000 billion. I got into an argument down here about 
attorneys' fees and I talked about attorneys getting $50 million and 
$100 million. One attorney in Mississippi got a $100 million check and 
no bank in Mississippi could cash the check. I was winning the 
argument. Then we started finding out they got billion dollar fees. The 
Baltimore Orioles guy got $2 billion in legal fees. We started talking 
about billions and I lost everybody. Nobody understood what we were 
talking about. It was too big; nobody could comprehend it and the steam 
went out of the debate.

But I am telling you, $2.3 trillion is a lot of money; $2,300 billion 
is what that is. Pretty soon you are talking about real money. We have 
to think about this. I hope we will--very much.

I will raise it as a moral issue. Remember, we have a certain zero 
sum game. We will put an ultimate level on the number of people who can 
enter our country. The question is, who will enter our country? We 
know, as I noted earlier, in the year 2000, 11 million applied for the 
50,000 lottery slots. Think about that, 11 million want to come to 
America and they applied for those lottery slots. Only 50,000 names 
were drawn out of that 11 million. We can't accept everybody, and we 
should focus on what we can do for the people who will most likely 
flourish here, will pay more in taxes than they will take out in 
revenues, and who have proven themselves acceptable. Since we can't 
take everybody, let's raise this question.

Under the current law, here is the choice for the immigration 
official. You have a person who dropped out of high school, has not 
done very well, has no English skills, but has a brother in the United 
States who is a citizen. Compare that to another young man in Honduras, 
say, who finished at the top of his class, and was the valedictorian. 
He took English classes because he wanted to take English. People all 
over the world learn English today. It is an international language. 
Millions of people know English all over the world. So he knows 
English. He took the technical and college courses he could get there. 
He had a couple of years in college. They both apply to be citizens. 
Who gets in? The answer is crystal clear: The brother with no 
education, no skills, is going to get in, and the other one will have 
zero chance to get in.

We need family reunification. Everybody who becomes a citizen needs 
to be able to bring their parents. Why?


Church groups are asking that. I ask, Why? If somebody leaves their 
family, goes to the United States of America, decides to be an American 
citizen and now feels they have a constitutional right to bring their 
aging parents in to be taken care of by the American health care 
system, why is that? If that parent is brought in, it denies that young 
person in Honduras, who has worked hard, studied hard, learned English, 
and dreams of being an American and dreams of the opportunity of coming 
to this country--because we have a limit to how many people can come. 
See? If we can't accept everybody, what basis do we use to decide who 
gets to come?

I think that is an important concept. I urged and was very pleased 
when the White House and members of this group who are negotiating this 
bill said they were going to move to the Canadian point system, a 
merit-based system. That is the right thing for us to do. It only makes 
common sense. It is what Australia, New Zealand, as well as Canada, are 
doing. I understand the Brits are moving in that direction. I think 
they are moving towards it in The Netherlands and other advanced 
countries.


We ought to be moving in that direction. I am disappointed the move 
was so small, and such an incremental step. I am not even sure that is 
going to be acceptable because prominent Democratic Senators have 
said--and Senator Reid earlier today used this phrase, which made me 
nervous,--''this is a good start.''

What does a ''good start'' mean? It means, well, it may change on the 
floor of the Senate. Then it could go to Nancy Pelosi and the House of 
Representatives, and they may take out the merit-based point system. Or 
it could go to conference where the conference committee will be formed 
to work out differences between the House bill and the Senate bill, and 
who will dominate the conference? Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi. She will 
appoint a majority of the House Members and Harry Reid will appoint a 
majority of the Senate Members, and the bill then comes right out. What 
they say is going to be in it. Senator Reid a while ago indicated his 
concern about a move away from family migration.

I don't know; I am nervous about this legislation. Here we go, are we 
going to get together and hit the bait? They throw out a point system, 
a merit-based system like Canada, and this is going to be a big deal 
and we all bite it and it is not there. We get hooked.

What we do know is it is a very small step. It may be an important 
step, but a small step. According to Senator Kennedy in his press 
conference and his statements through his staff, they calculate this 
will move the merit-based system in the United States from the 22 
percent we have today to 30 percent. About 8 or 10 percent is all it is 
going to increase merit-based immigration into America. That is what he 
said.

He said it to the leftist groups that have all been hollering about 
this and objecting. He says, Don't worry, there is nothing to it, it is 
not a point system at all. His staff, I believe his press secretary, 
said flat out, ''This is a family-based immigration system.''

You tell me what it is. Canada got to 60 percent, Australia 62 
percent, on merit based. They are very happy with that. I have met with 
the director of the Canadian system. I met with an individual from 
Australia who is involved with it. I asked him how it was working, are 
they happy? Yes, they are.

They considered things such as if you are willing to go to a more 
rural province that needs workers, you get more points. Because that 
serves the Canadian or Australian interest. A lot of things such as 
that can be made part of a thoughtful bill, which we do not have here, 
I am afraid.

Why is it important we go to the merit-based system? There are 2.3 
trillion reasons why.

Look at immigration. Rector explained it to us last year. He is a 
senior fellow at Heritage. You get sort of a skewed picture. If you 
take the smaller number who come to America with any college, he said--
2 years of college or above--they tend to do fabulously well. They tend 
to be very successful. They and their children almost never go on 
welfare. They pay their medical bills. They do well and they prosper. 
Many of them are providing scientific expertise that may be the cure 
for cancer and other diseases and have other capabilities, so that has 
tremendous benefits to us.

When you add it all up and average them out, it makes the fundamental 
system look better than it is. But if you take the lower skilled 
workers, their productivity is not as great.

I do not believe we ought to create a system that denies people, 
those who come in initially on a lower skilled workforce basis, the 
right to apply and compete on a merit basis. So if you choose to come 
as a low-skilled worker, you work as a bricklayer or something of the 
kind, you take advantage of junior college courses and you learn 
English and you get a few hours or some years of credit in college, and 
then you apply. They should be very competitive. They will know English 
probably by that time. We are not creating an underclass that gives 
them no chance to apply. But the system should apply, I suggest, in 
such a way that temporary workers can apply for permanent resident 
status and compete against anybody else. I believe that will work.

We have very little increase in the bill as we see it in the high-
skilled workers. We have not made a lot of progress toward dealing with 
those, many of the highly educated people who graduate from our best 
universities. They come here, advance to the top of their class at a 
university, and we often send them straight home.

I think we have a strong feeling that we should fix that. But, so 
far, our evaluation of the bill indicates that it is not fixed very 
well at all.

Congress needs to seize the moment. We need to pass legislation that 
will improve our immigration policy, a policy that serves our national 
interests, our legitimate, just national interests, and that will 
secure our border and create a lawful system.

These goals will not be accomplished by last year's bill. That is 
what we will be voting on in a few minutes, cloture on last year's 
bill, which I have a great deal of concern with and could delineate a 
host of reasons it is a total disaster. And they won't be accomplished 
with a new bill that we are forcing through today.

So that is a concern for us. I do believe the principles set forth in 
the PowerPoint presentation attracted my attention, got my interest up 
because I thought it would move from a framework that last year's bill 
had, which was a failed framework, to a framework that could actually 
be effective to accomplish what we want.

I am disappointed, almost heartbroken, because we made some progress 
toward getting to this new framework, but the political wheeling and 
dealing and compromising and splitting the baby has resulted in a 
circumstance that--we just did not get far enough. I wish we could do 
better. We have got to do better. This is a historic opportunity.

If we do not grab the bull by the horns now, we are going to be 
sorry. I would suggest that my colleagues say now is the time to pass a 
bill. I agree. But what I would say in addition is, let's pass a good 
bill.

Mr. President, I see my colleague from Nebraska, Senator Nelson. I 
believe he wanted to share some remarks. I would be glad to yield to 
him in a moment and just say that I appreciate his service to the 
country on the Armed Services Committee. I was a member of his 
delegation. We got back a few weeks ago from Iraq.

Senator Nelson, thank you for your leadership of that delegation. It 
was a meaningful visit to Fallujah and other places. Thank you for your 
principled and effective leadership on immigration. I yield to you at 
this time.