---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5cbce629961da1d2537c27837f088ba6`
`Mr. FLAKE — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. FLAKE. Mr. Chairman, I want to respond a little to what the 
chairman of the Defense Subcommittee said.

He mentioned some of the horrible things that are happening in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. I have attended funerals myself of members who were 
killed by an IED or some other measure out there that they need greater 
protection from. But that is not what we are talking about here.

The reason we are here and the reason I offered the last amendment is 
it is going to a firm that, according to press reports, doesn't have 
the expertise to do what they intend to do and in the past have not 
delivered on the promises that were made before.

We see stories again and again and again on that same theme, that 
earmarks go to such companies. In fact, there is a trial going on, I 
believe, right now in Florida where an earmark recipient has pled 
guilty, I believe, to distributing earmark money to contractors who had 
no intention of following through and delivering on the contract. That 
is why we are here.

So we can talk all we want about the needs of our troops in the 
field, and that is why I am offering these, because this money should 
be going to our troops in the field. Instead, it is being bled off, in 
some cases, according to press reports, to companies who don't know 
enough about what they are doing to receive the earmark. But they are 
getting an earmark and getting around competition despite the language 
in this year's bill which claims that these will be subject to free and 
open competition.

This particular amendment, Mr. Chairman, would remove $3 million from 
funding for a Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation Capability project. 
Again, I am here not knowing the specifics of the technology here, but 
I would submit that there are people in the Defense Department that 
perhaps might know better than some Members. And in this case, I would 
think that the chairman of the Defense Subcommittee would concede that 
we shouldn't be giving money to companies that have been implicated, at 
least it has been alleged, that they are under investigation.

The Wall Street Journal reviewed real estate records and reported 
that many of the facilities that ProLogic, the recipient of this 
earmark, uses are partly owned by the family of the CEO, and ProLogic 
pays the CEO monthly rent that is higher than prevailing local rates. 
ProLogic was also subpoenaed in a broader Federal investigation into 
earmarks going to West Virginia, where ProLogic is headquartered.

The Wall Street Journal also noted that four of ProLogic's six 
facilities were located in the congressional districts of senior 
members of the House Appropriations Committee. CBS News reported that 
ProLogic has spent more than $880,000 lobbying and contributed more 
than $400,000 to congressional campaigns.

I should note this company has denied allegations of wrongdoing and 
the status of the investigation is currently unknown.



But here we have a company that press reports say is either under 
investigation or cooperating with an investigation, and we are still 
giving it an earmark, a no-bid contract. Despite what is said about 
this will be open to free and open competition, we are giving them an 
earmark and saying this company at this address should get this money.

I just don't see where this connects with the speech about the needs 
of our men and women in the military. Again, I will stipulate, we need 
to make sure that our men and women are armed, that they have force 
protection, that they have the arms and everything else they need. And 
that is why I am so against this process that we have here, because we 
bleed off money that should be going to our military into companies, 
through no-bid contracts, who in too many cases simply aren't doing the 
work that they were contracted to do.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.