---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE SOUTH RIVER RURITAN CLUB
## `5cbf931f34dd4cbec9ba05e088d4da93`
`Mr. HOYER — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to offer my congratulations to 
the South River


Ruritan Club in Edgewater, Maryland. This weekend they are hosting an 
event to mark their 50th anniversary.

The South River Ruritan Club, a community service organization, was 
chartered on March 13, 1957, and for 50 years has been providing much 
needed services to the citizens of Edgewater, Annapolis and southern 
Maryland.

The club, whose members are all volunteers, have contributed well in 
excess of half a million dollars in direct financial aid, and countless 
hours of time, to numerous community service projects.

The club awards local students scholastic and vocational scholarships 
and provides assistance to local Scout Troops, youth athletics, and 
other youth-related programs. They conduct an annual essay contest for 
5th grade students, and have sponsored students to the National 
Association of Student Council Conference and Exchange Student 
programs.

They contribute annually to the local fire and rescue departments, 
the Maryland and Anne Arundel County police departments, and support 
environmental programs, including efforts to protect the Chesapeake 
Bay.

Our active duty military, retired and disabled military, and veterans 
organizations also benefit from the volunteer efforts of the club. They 
have sent direct aid to our troops in Iraq, and provide additional 
financial assistance through the military's Morale and Welfare 
assistance programs.

Their work also includes assistance in such areas as financial aid to 
needy families, victims of violent crimes, families displaced by 
catastrophes such as fires, and hurricanes, and assistance through 
Habitat for Humanity. They contribute annually to St. Jude Children's 
Research Hospital and Johns Hopkins Hospital Children's Center and they 
loan wheelchairs, walkers and other medical assistance equipment to 
members of the community.

Madam Speaker, I congratulate the South River Ruritan Club on their 
wonderful record of community service over the last 50 years, and wish 
them enormous success as they continue their commitment to improving 
the overall quality of life of the residents of Anne Arundel County and 
the State of Maryland.
