# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5cc2b2b0d57fb78e20544868913d0052`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would ask the last speaker if he could remain for a moment. I have 
such great respect for my colleague, Mr. Michaud of Maine. We have 
worked together on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. We deal with the 
consequences of war. And so out of my respect for Mr. Michaud, I would 
like for us to clarify what may be a potential contradiction.

The gentleman said that, and correct me if I am wrong here, 
unanimously commanders did not ask for an increase in troops. According 
to General Peter Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and this was 
in his testimony before the House Armed Services Committee on January 
11, 2007: ''So, collectively, the military commanders, both U.S. and 
Iraqi, have asked for this increase. And those of us in advisory 
positions agree with their request.

''General Casey and his Iraqi counterparts have determined that there 
are more forces needed . . .

''To do this, we're going to need additional U.S. forces. General 
Casey and General Abizaid have asked for those additional forces, as 
have the commanders below them.

''In addition, to reinforce success at Anbar province, the Marine 
commander out there has asked for, and General Casey and General 
Abizaid have asked for, an increase of about 4,000 troops out there . . 
.

''So, collectively, the military commanders, both U.S. and Iraqi, 
have asked for this increase.''

That was our testimony of our Chairman of the Joints Chiefs before 
the Armed Services Committee. So I will yield to the gentleman and ask 
if he was aware of General Pace's comments before the Armed Services 
Committee because it appears contradictory to the gentleman's 
statement.