# None
## `5cd346e9bed35a0298e93d033594ec1e`
`Mr. KYL — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, there is only about 17 minutes before voting 
starts. I have an amendment I would like to speak to for 4 or 5 
minutes. If there is not somebody else who needs that time right now, 
let me do that.

This relates to an amendment that will be, I believe, the last one we 
vote on in this next tranche that simply reinserts into the code the 
very minimum wage tax provisions the Senate voted on and approved. It 
was--if not unanimous, it was a very strong vote in favor of those 
provisions.

Recall that when the minimum wage bill was dealt with in the House, 
they originally had a bill, but they ended up putting it in the Iraq 
supplemental appropriation because that was a must-pass bill. So the 
minimum wage provisions were attached to that bill, and they passed but 
without all of the Senate-passed tax provisions.

The bill we are literally debating tonight came from the House of 
Representatives and is that tax bill. Now, we have amended it to 
include the SCHIP provisions, but what we need to do is to use that 
House shell bill for its original purpose, also, and that is to add 
back the exact provisions we passed in this body to help small 
businesses offset the costs of the minimum wage requirements we imposed 
upon them. They have to do with depreciation for leaseholds, 
restaurants, and for some retail construction. I will explain what each 
of them is.

Under the leasehold restaurant renovation provision, under current 
law, leasehold and restaurant improvements and renovations are 
depreciated over a 15-year period, but that only applies through the 
end of this year. What we did here in the Senate was to extend that 
treatment through the end of 2008--very reasonable.

New restaurant construction. Current law requires that components of 
a new restaurant be depreciated over as long as 39 years, if you can 
believe it. It doesn't make sense to depreciate restaurant renovations 
over 15 years but new construction over 39. So what the Senate did was 
to fix this inconsistency and provide for the same appreciation, a 15-
year period, and to extend that again through the end of the year 2008. 
This applies to things such as convenience stores. A direct competitor 
of a quick-service restaurant can use the 15-year depreciation schedule 
for all construction, and it is permanent in our Tax Code. If you have 
a different kind of restaurant, you don't have that same tax treatment. 
The Senate recognized that inconsistency and put that into the law and 
extended it until 2008.

Finally, an owner-occupied retail. Improvements made to that were 
depreciated for as long as 39 years. The Senate recognized that owner-
occupied retail space is not renovated and maintained as often as 
leased space. So our minimum wage bill provided a 15-year recovery 
period for improvements made to owner-occupied retail spaces. We 
extended that same treatment through the end of the year 2008.

My point is those three provisions, which we passed in this body--I 
think they are all supported by members of the Finance Committee--are 
not law only because they got dropped in the very bill we are debating 
today that came over from the House. It is, therefore, the perfect 
opportunity for us to put them back in.

I am sure my friend, the chairman of the committee, will say this is 
the wrong bill to do it; this is the SCHIP bill. Well, I say we should 
not have put the SCHIP bill on the tax bill. We should use that tax 
bill for its original purpose--to have the House have to pass the same 
tax provisions we passed. We have to deal with these expiring 
provisions sometime this year. Right now, they expire at the end of 
this year. We have to do it. We might as well do it in the very bill it 
was intended to be done on right now.

There may be a commitment to do all of these so-called extender 
provisions sometime before the end of the year. When we come back in 
September, things are going to get pretty dicey with the issues 
relating to foreign policy and, ultimately, probably tax bills such as 
AMT relief. We have the FAA reauthorization and all these other things, 
with time running out.

There is no reason we cannot do it now. I suggest that we do it. All 
this amendment does is extend the current law provisions for 
restaurants and leaseholds through the end of 2008--the same thing we 
would be doing with the usual extender package--and adding the new 
restaurants construction and owner-occupied retail space to the 15-year 
depreciation category, as we already did when we passed the minimum 
wage bill in the Senate.

Remember, we have now imposed the minimum wage burden on small 
businesses, and they are going to expect some relief so they don't have 
to bear all of the expense of it. They expected that relief. They are 
not going to get it if we are not able to extend it before the end of 
this year. This is the place to do it. I hope my colleagues, when they 
get to this last amendment, No. 2562, relating to depreciation for 
retail and restaurants and construction, will recall that they have 
already supported this once before. We have this commitment to our 
small business constituency, and I think this is the perfect vehicle 
for us to ensure that that relief actually gets to them and that they, 
therefore, can take advantage of it beyond the end of this current 
year.