# IN MEMORY OF STAFF SERGEANT MATTHEW N. INGHAM, USMC
## `5cd8ea47ee970e87713df0f2803beec0`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, I attended the funeral service 
of a constituent, Staff Sergeant Matthew Ingham, United States Marine 
Corps, who was killed in action in southern Afghanistan on January 11, 
2010. I rise today to recognize his life and his extraordinary service 
and sacrifice for our country.

Matt's parents, Gary and Tammi Ingham of Altoona, Pennsylvania, and


his wife, Yasmin Ingham, mourn the loss of a remarkable young man and a 
brave Marine. They are in my thoughts and prayers, and I pass on my 
sincere condolences.

Sergeant Ingham was awarded the Bronze Star with Valor for the heroic 
actions that ultimately led to his death. He was responsible for saving 
the lives of nine Marines by crawling to a radio to call in air support 
after his unit was ambushed. Although apparently wounded, Sergeant 
Ingham exposed himself to more enemy fire, and put the lives of his 
fellow Marines above his own.

Sergeant Ingham was a 2002 Altoona High School graduate. He enlisted 
in the Marine Corps in July 2002, and was promoted to staff sergeant in 
April. He served two tours in Iraq and went to Afghanistan in the fall 
as part of a reconnaissance outfit assigned to the 3rd Marine Division 
in Okinawa, Japan.

The Ninth District of Pennsylvania and our entire Nation owes a great 
debt of gratitude to Sergeant Matthew N. Ingham, his family, and all 
those who have sacrificed their lives in the pursuit of freedom.
