# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO  SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 1586, EDUCATION JOBS AND MEDICAID ASSISTANCE  ACT
## `5ce5e9c3c6e9120eda6591e60b92a455`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise in 
support of the rule and the underlying bill.

Madam Speaker, our communities are struggling. Forty-seven States are 
facing budget shortfalls, and at least 34 States will cut both jobs and 
services in this fiscal year unless there's an additional 6-month 
extension of the FMAP program.

All of us are hearing from our Governors. In June, a bipartisan group 
of Governors wrote to Congress pleading for an extension of FMAP money 
because they believe it is the most efficient way to avoid further 
layoffs and health care cuts that will slow the recovery. At a time 
when States like Massachusetts are starting to see unemployment rates 
decrease, now is not the time to pull the rug from under them.

If we were to fail our States and not enact this extension, 2,900 
teaching, police, and firefighter jobs in Massachusetts would be at 
risk. What would that mean for classroom size, cops on the streets, and 
firefighter response? To put it mildly, it wouldn't be good.

This is exactly the type of Nation-building we should be focusing on 
here at home, and I wish that my friends on the other side of the aisle 
and the other Chamber could realize that.


It is important to note that this bill is not only essential; it is 
paid for. In fact, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office finds 
that this bill will cut the deficit by $1.4 billion over the next 
decade. If only the Bush tax cuts for the rich, the Medicare 
prescription drug benefit, or the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were 
paid for we would not be facing the deficit issues we are


today. So we don't need any lectures by Republicans about deficits. 
They created this mess that we're in, and Democrats once again have the 
responsibility of cleaning it up. They should be ashamed of what they 
did to this economy.

Madam Speaker, I would be remiss if I didn't express my deep concern 
with one of the offsets in this bill. Specifically, I think it is just 
plain awful that the Senate has sent us a bill that cuts future funding 
for the SNAP program, formerly known as food stamps.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act rightfully included 
significant funding for SNAP. Economists from the right and the left 
argue that SNAP is the most effective stimulus available today, and we 
rightfully included funding for increased SNAP benefits in the Recovery 
Act; yet, the Senate has included a cut in these SNAP benefits that 
will result in $59 less per month for a family of four starting in 
2014.

The choice then is to provide critical aid to the States and protect 
jobs for teachers, firefighters, and police officers today or protect 
future benefits for those hungry Americans who struggle to put food on 
their tables. It is not a choice that we should be forced to make.

It frustrates me to no end, and quite frankly, I'm outraged, that 
this is one of the offsets. I would ask my friends in the Senate: Why 
do the most vulnerable in our country always have to pay more than 
their fair share? This practice of robbing Peter to pay Paul must come 
to an end. Yet here we are.

Madam Speaker, I will support this bill because it will help the 
people of Massachusetts and the people of this country. This bill will 
do good things, and it will do them immediately, but I'm casting this 
vote because we have time to fix the SNAP issue in the future. I 
continue to believe that we can properly fund the SNAP program, as well 
as other domestic anti-hunger programs and ensure that no person in 
America goes hungry. And by not dealing with the issue of hunger more 
aggressively, we are not saving money, Madam Speaker. We are costing 
the country much more in terms of everything from increased health care 
costs to lost productivity. I believe that in the richest, most 
powerful Nation in the world people shouldn't go hungry. Millions of 
our fellow citizens sadly don't have enough to eat, and that, quite 
frankly, is a national disgrace.

Let's approve this bill. Let's help keep teachers in the classrooms, 
cops on the streets, and more firefighters in our cities and towns, and 
then when we come back after recess, let's do what's right and restore 
the SNAP cuts. Let's find another offset that doesn't make a bad 
situation worse. For America's hungry and food insecure, let's for once 
make them a priority.