# HONORING SERGEANT MATTHEW THOMAS ABBATE
## `5cf38acb36eab179dad261f3953eeb30`
`Ms. LEE of California — 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
extraordinary life of Matthew Abbate, Sergeant of the United States 
Marine Corps. Loved and respected by his family, friends and fellow 
Marines, Sergeant Abbate was killed in the line of duty in Afghanistan 
on December 2, 2010. It was his second tour of duty.

At just 26 years of age, Sergeant Abbate had already accomplished 
many things--including his life-long dream of joining the Marine Corps. 
He had traveled the world, started a family, and achieved satisfaction 
and recognition in his military career.

Sergeant Abbate grew up in Piedmont, California with his father Sal 
Abbate, a local business owner, and his stepmother Jane


Whitfield. He attended Beach Elementary School, Piedmont Middle School 
and Piedmont High School for his freshman year, before residing with 
his mother and stepfather, Karen and James Binion, in Fresno, 
California. As a youth, Matthew Abbate was charming, athletic, 
independent and free-spirited. After graduating from high school in 
2002, he moved to Hawaii in search of work that would support his 
interest in world travel.

As an employee on the Norwegian Star cruise ship, he enjoyed 
adventures throughout Asia and the Pacific, including Thailand, 
Australia, Fiji and the Panama Canal. Following those travels, he 
attained his goal of enlisting in the Marine Corps, and, by the age of 
20, was training for his first 10-month tour of duty in Iraq.

Sergeant Abbate's passion and steadfast dedication to the Corps led 
him to re-enlist after finishing his first tour, and to spend a year in 
sniper training. Just three months into his mission in Afghanistan, 
Sergeant Abbate's commitment to service resulted in the ultimate 
sacrifice.

Among the many sources of pride Sergeant Abbate found in being a 
Marine, the brotherhood he had with his fellow troops was foremost. He 
was a stalwart team member and a leader who inspired his peers to vote 
him as the Marine they'd most like to be.

As we gather in remembrance, we celebrate the life of a man who took 
great pride in being a loving father, a good person and a brave Marine. 
Sergeant Abbate leaves behind an extended network of loved ones, 
including his wife, Stacie Rigall, his two-year-old son, Carson, his 
parents, stepparents and four siblings.

His contributions to our nation will be remembered for generations to 
come, and his legacy continues in the hearts of those whose lives he 
touched in remarkable ways.

Today, California's 9th Congressional District salutes and honors 
United States Marine Corps Sergeant Matthew Thomas Abbate. His 
exemplary spirit and sense of public duty will continue to guide others 
toward courage, fortitude, selflessness and service. Sergeant Matt 
Abbate was truly a great man and he will be deeply missed. May his soul 
rest in peace.
