---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `5cfce56c7f0a8f1102171694fd845115`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. I want to thank Mrs. Tauscher for this very important 
legislation, and I support it wholeheartedly.

I want to say to the last gentleman that spoke, it is because we 
support our troops, because we care about them and their families, that 
we support this legislation. 159,000 of our troops are currently 
deployed in battle to stabilize Iraq.



On Tuesday, the United States Department of Defense reported that 
another 20,000 will be sent to Iraq for rotation duty.

In the meantime, our servicemembers continue to suffer through 
multiple deployments with little time for rest or to retrain. The DOD 
has continuously failed to meet the goal of deploying active duty 
troops for 1 year and allowing them to rest for 2, along with ensuring 
that Reservists are deployed for 1 year and rest for 5. This failure 
has often been called a backdoor draft.

Not only has ongoing multiple deployments had a detrimental physical 
and emotional impact on our troops and their families, but it also has 
hindered the Armed Forces' ability to reach its retention and 
recruitment goals. Namely, both the Army and Air Force have failed to 
reach their retention goals for the mid-career and career personnel. At 
the current rate, there will be few officers and enlisted soldiers left 
to lead. Who will be our next generation of soldiers? I urge all of my 
colleagues to vote in support of this legislation.