---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `5d00b36a36c909f838e5abaa7b909ce3`
`Mr. DODD — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, the emergency supplemental appropriations 
legislation which passed the Senate today, the U.S. Troop Readiness, 
Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, provides $625 
million in security funding to better protect the millions of Americans 
who ride public transportation. I thank Senator Shelby, who as both the 
ranking member on the Banking Committee and a member of the 
Appropriations Committee has been a tireless advocate on behalf of mass 
transit and specifically on the issue of transit security. I commend 
Senators Byrd and Cochran who serve, respectively, as both chairman and 
ranking member of the full Appropriations Committee and the Homeland 
Security Subcommittee. They were instrumental in deciding to increase 
our investment in securing our public transportation systems. The issue 
of transit security requires coordination between both homeland 
security agencies and committees and those transportation agencies and 
committees. Thus, I also commend Senators Murray and Bond who serve as 
chair and ranking member on the Appropriations Transportation, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.

Our Nation's public transit systems are inadequately prepared to 
minimize the threat and impact of potential terrorist attacks. Since 
the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Federal Government has 
invested nearly $24 billion in aviation security--protecting the 1.8 
million people who fly on an average day. At the same time, our 
National Government has invested only $386 million, before the 110th 
Congress began, in transit security to protect the 14 million people 
who ride transit on an average workday. Put another way, since 2001, 
our Nation has spent over $7.50 per passenger on aviation security, but 
less than one penny per transit rider on transit security. I am not 
suggesting that we ought to be investing equally, but clearly this is 
not the appropriate balance.

As chairman of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
Committee, I have made improving our national security a top priority. 
The very first hearing that I held as chairman focused on increasing 
the security of our Nation's 14 million daily transit passengers. The 
very first legislation that the committee considered during my 
Chairmanship was the Public Transit Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, 
which was passed by the Banking Committee unanimously on February 8. 
The legislation authorizes the distribution of $3.5 billion in security 
funds, over the next 3 fiscal years, on the basis of risk directly to 
transit agencies.

The Public Transit Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007 was included as 
title XV of the 9/11 bill, which the Senate passed on March 13. Senator 
Shelby and I worked with Senator Byrd and Senator Cochran to include 
language in the legislation to allow for such sums as necessary to be 
appropriated in this fiscal year to address the critical needs of our 
Nation's transit systems. The $625 million included in this 
appropriations act is a significant investment towards our goal of 
better securing our Nation's rail and transit systems. This investment 
builds on the $175 million that was included in the fiscal year 2007 
continuing resolution. Combined, these investments are greater than all 
of the investments that were made between the terrorist attacks of 
September 11 and the beginning of this new Congress.

We must make sure that we use these funds wisely. It is my desire 
that the Congress quickly reconcile both the transit security 
legislation and the supplemental funding that has passed each Chamber 
so that this supplemental funding will be distributed in accordance 
with the new authorization. I once again thank all of the members of 
the Banking and Appropriations Committees who have worked so hard to 
advance us to where we are today.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.