# COMMENDING STAFF SERGEANT JEFFREY CAMACHO AND HIS FAMILY FOR THEIR  ASSISTANCE TO SERVICEMEMBERS
## `5d1188e36afd090fecb30d9f1d32fe87`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 30 October 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
outstanding service to our community provided by Staff Sergeant Jeffrey 
Camacho, his wife Erika and their children to wounded United States 
servicemen and women receiving medical care at Landstuhl Regional 
Medical Center, Germany.

The Camacho family resides on Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany and 
has assumed the task of welcoming the servicemen and women from Guam 
who are receiving medical care at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center. 
They extend their care to the families of the injured servicemembers 
and have become a focal point for our Guam community's efforts to 
provide assistance to our men and women who have been wounded. The 
Camachos are volunteers at Landstuhl and at Fisher House. They also 
open their home to the servicemembers and their families. Many times, 
the families of injured soldiers need a place to feel normal, to share 
dinner, and to enjoy Chamorro hospitality. Sometimes it is the simplest 
gestures, such as making kadu or sharing a disc of the latest Chamorro 
songs that make recuperation easier for the soldiers and their 
families. The Camacho family, through their gracious hospitality, has 
touched the lives of so many people from Guam and we want them to know 
that we appreciate their efforts.

I met with Jeffrey and Erika Camacho last month during a 
Congressional Delegation visit to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Germany. I was 
honored to visit with them and to hear their story of their care and 
compassion for injured servicemembers and their families. Jeffrey and 
Erika are performing a great service for our country. Recently, they 
opened their home and provided comfort to the parents of a soldier who 
was evacuated from Iraq to Germany. I commend them for their care and 
concern for their fellow Guamanians.

Jeffrey Camacho was born in Agana Heights, Guam and is a 1999 
graduate of George Washington High School in Mangilao. He is assigned 
to the Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Division of the 603rd 
Air and Space Operations Center at Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany. 
His wife, Erika Arceo Camacho was born in Tamuning, Guam and graduated 
from George Washington High School in Mangilao in 1995. The Camachos 
have two children, Kalena Arceo Camacho, age 9, and Kaleb Camacho, age 
3.

Staff Sergeant Jeffrey Camacho and his wife Erika are great Americans 
whose concern for their fellow citizens and their home island of Guam 
has led them to open their hearts and their home to the families of our 
wounded soldiers. The families who have been touched by their 
graciousness are grateful for their warm hospitality. For our families 
from Guam, they have provided a home away from home. I commend them for 
all that they have done and for the sacrifices that they make to help 
others. They are an inspiration to us all.
