# IRAQ AND RELATED ISSUES
## `5d135e3222884be3469b0349416e7c84`
`Mr. BOND — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, one of the big questions that is being 
discussed today is what the President's plans are in Iraq and whether 
we should submit a resolution condemning the troop increases. I find it 
passing strange that many of the people pushing for a resolution to say 
we shouldn't send troops just adopted by a unanimous vote the 
confirmation of General Petraeus, who has said he believes he can do 
the job if he has the additional troops. He says the number is 21,000. 
Who are we to second-guess an experienced general who knows what the 
needs of his men and women in service are?

I have listened to many of the persuasive arguments on the other side 
about their concerns about the Iraq war. There are some who want to cut 
off completely our involvement--cut and run. They have an argument; 
they make a legitimate point. I hope we have a chance to vote on it 
because the intelligence community leaders from DNI to the military 
intelligence head to the CIA said cutting and running now would be a 
disaster resulting in chaos, in additional killing of Iraqi citizens, 
and giving the entire area over to al-Qaida and probably bringing in a 
region-wide conflict. So that is at


least a position that I understand how they take it, but I will fight 
very hard against it.

What I don't understand is the people who say they want to do several 
things: They want to see a change in policy in Iraq. They want to see 
more Iraqi responsibility. They want to change the rules of engagement 
so we can go after Shia death squads and there won't be any political 
restrictions on it. And they want to adopt the strategy of the Baker-
Hamilton report. Many of these same people who are now urging the 
adoption of a resolution said we need to send more troops. Well, when 
you look at it, the President is sending some more troops for a new 
strategy which involves the Iraqi leadership, Prime Minister al-Maliki, 
the Shia, as well as the Sunni and Kurdish leaders. They are now 
fighting without limitations on the rules of engagement. Our additional 
forces will be there at the request of al-Maliki to help him stabilize 
the country. This is the last best chance. This is the chance to leave 
a stable Iraq which will not become a terrorist ground for al-Qaida.

Sunday, I had the opportunity to talk to Jim Baker, the lead name on 
the Baker-Hamilton report. I said: Jim, is the President's surge what 
you recommend militarily? He said yes. That is precisely what the 
Baker-Hamilton commission recommended. He also recommended additional 
diplomatic efforts. But in terms of the military effort, he said: This 
is what we recommended.

Now, how do we send troops over and then think maybe we can get some 
political cover back home by saying we don't really agree with it? I 
don't think that does anything of real significance. There are some 
things a resolution passed by this Congress expressing disapproval of 
the President's plan would do, and I think they are significant and 
serious.

No. 1, it would send a message to those we fight against--al-Qaida, 
the Baathists, Sunni insurgents--that we are not serious; we don't 
intend to support our men who are supporting the Iraqi military. It 
gives them cause to fight harder and stay longer.

No. 2, it sends a message to our friends whom Secretary Rice is 
trying to bring in to help rebuild the economy of Iraq and provide jobs 
for unemployed young Iraqis--essential if we want to win 80 percent of 
the battle against radical Islam, which is ideological. It would tell 
them: you probably better not put too much money on the Iraqis because 
the U.S. Congress is going to pull the plug and then it will descend 
into chaos and any dollars we invest will be gone.

Third, I would ask my colleagues to think about the message it sends 
to the troops who are there, to the troops who will be going there. 
They are over there fighting. They are risking their lives every day. 
They are willing to take on the fight because they believe it is an 
important fight. They believe it is a fight we can and we must win 
militarily. What message does it send to the families back home? I 
think you can guess what that answer is.

I saw a very interesting article in the Washington Post on Sunday. 
Robert Kagan at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and a 
Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, has written a book. 
He said:




 Grand Delusion: Politicians in Both Parties Act as if They 


 Can Make the War Go Away Soon. It Won't.


He warns about all we are doing when we have laid out a plan and 
reinforcements for the Iraqi troops. He said:




 Back in Washington, however, Democratic and Republican 


 Members of Congress are looking for a different kind of 


 political solution: The solution to their problems in 


 presidential primaries and elections almost two years off. 


 Resolutions disapproving the troop increase have proliferated 


 on both sides of the aisle. Many of their proponents frankly, 


 even proudly, admit they are responding to current public 


 mood. Those who think they were elected sometimes to lead 


 rather than to follow seem to be in the minority.


And he goes on to say that those who call for an end to the war don't 
want to talk about the fact that the war in Iraq and in the region will 
not end but will only grow more dangerous if and when we walk away.

As I said, our intelligence community leaders, in open testimony a 
couple of weeks ago before the Senate Intelligence Committee, said if 
we walk away, leaving Iraq without an army and a security force 
adequate to sustain general order, peace and order in that country, not 
only will innocent Iraqis be slaughtered, there will be an open 
invitation for others to come in. How long can the Shias oppress the 
Sunnis without having the Jordanians and the Saudis and maybe the 
Egyptians come in to support them? We have already heard they would do 
that, to protect the Sunnis. And if the Sunni supporters came in, it 
would take about a New York minute for Iran to come in on behalf of the 
Shia. What kind of conflagration would ensue? It would take a lot more 
American troops to protect our ally Israel and to try to stop the 
killing.

In addition, we know that al-Qaida would have a safe haven. And al-
Qaida is not mad because we are in Iraq; they just want to win in Iraq. 
Muqtada al-Sadr, the No. 2 man, has been very eloquent, and he has been 
backed up by his boss, Osama bin Laden, who says: We have to win. Al-
Qaida needs to restore chaos to Iraq so they will have a safe haven in 
which to operate, train their suicide bombers, their jihadists, develop 
means of command and control once again, perhaps get weapons of mass 
destruction. Well, that is what happens if we walk away and leave Iraq 
in chaos.

Back to Robert Kagan's piece:




 Some people assume that if we can get the troops withdrawn, 


 then it won't be a problem for all of our Senators running 


 for President in 2008. Should any one of them win, they think 


 by getting out of Iraq now, it won't be a problem.


Bob Kagan says that:




 That is a delusion. Not only a democratic delusion, but 


 some conservatives and Republicans have thrown up their 


 hands. And they think that if we walk away, somehow the whole 


 mess will simply solve itself and fade away.


He said:




 Talk about a fantasy. The fact is the United States cannot 


 escape the Iraq crisis or the Middle East crisis of which it 


 is a part and will not be able to escape it for years. And if 


 Iraq does collapse, it will not be the end of our problems, 


 but the beginning of a new and much bigger set of problems.


Well, Mr. President, I think that sets it up very well. I hope our 
colleagues will think about that. I hope they will consider that when 
they are talking about passing a resolution. It sends the wrong message 
to the enemies, to our allies, and to our troops and their families at 
home.

This war radical Islam has declared on us is a generational war, as 
the President said. We best be laying plans to do our best to protect 
our country from repeated attacks such as September 11 by al-Qaida. 
That is at stake. By being in Iraq, by having good intelligence at 
home, we have been fortunate to avoid another September 11 attack. If 
al-Qaida had planned and regrouped, we would be much more likely to 
have another.

I ask unanimous consent a copy of the article by Mr. Kagan be printed 
in the Record after my remarks on Iraq.