---
---

# IRAN
## `5d1ca36fd7e9ea2e379f7d62e16eaa26`
`Mr. ELLISON — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. ELLISON. I would like to thank you, Congressman Waters and 
Congressman Lee. Before I got to Congress I thought both of you just 
were towering heroes of peace. Now that I have been here and had the 
chance to get to know both of you, I am certain that I was right from 
the very first impression I had of you. Thank you for standing up and 
calling this special order tonight.

The point I would like to make is simply this. We see in Iran a 
country we have not had any open diplomatic relationships with since 
1979, except for brief moments around IEDs last summer. The meetings 
have not been continued, and, in essence, we have had no real 
diplomatic relationships with Iran in many, many years.

Many Americans don't remember the day when we did have relationships 
with Iran. Yet, despite all these years of having no diplomatic ties to 
Iran, no open communications, channels of communications, it really has 
not solved any of the problems. Not talking has not helped.

I want to join with Representative Waters and Representative Lee in 
calling for an open dialogue, unconditional bilateral dialogue. 
Dialogue is not a gift, dialogue is not a present, dialogue is not a 
reward.

Dialogue is a tool that can help us stabilize the world, bring peace 
to millions and millions of people all over the world. Dialogues should 
not be used as some sort of a gift. It doesn't make sense for any 
nation to say capitulate to our demands, and then we will talk to you. 
The very purpose of negotiation is to say, let's talk, and the first 
agenda item could be serious problems we have with one another.

But the start is talking, unconditional talking, talking with a clear 
agenda in mind, talking with no illusions about differences. But 
talking, nonetheless, is something that I think we need, and we need it 
now.

I want to say that our effort to isolate Iran by not talking to Iran, 
reminds me of our effort of trying to isolate Cuba by not talking to 
Cuba. Now everybody in the world does business with Cuba except the 
United States. American farmers wanting to sell grain, Cubans want to 
buy stuff from the U.S., people wanting to see family, those things are 
hampered because we are the only ones in the world maintaining this 
policy of nondialogue. I fear that we could end up in the same way with 
Iran.

Let me just point out an article in the Times online from March 3, 
2008. The headline is, ''Four kisses, then the band played: the day 
former foes became friends.''

It starts out describing a meeting between Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and 
Nouri al-Maliki. It goes on to talk about how a young girl dressed in a 
white dress clutched a bouquet of flowers as she waited with a small 
boy in a smart suit to greet President Ahmadinejad of Iran, who began a 
historic visit to Iraq.

Earlier today, we heard a speaker who I won't name say that, oh, the 
United States needs to get with China and Russia to isolate Iran. China 
and Russia, we can't even get Iraq to isolate Iran.

We can't even get Iraq, a country we have invaded and essentially 
have taken over, though it does operate under the guise of sovereignty, 
we can't even get them to say don't talk to Iran. They have open 
relationships with Iran and are building them more and stronger every 
day. It doesn't make any sense.

Now, it's not just Iraq that has a welcome mat for Iran. But let me 
just say that when Americans, Members of Congress go to Iraq, all of us 
know we go into military aircraft that takes evasive maneuvers into 
Baghdad, because we are concerned about our safety.

This is a fact. So much for isolating Iran from Iraq. Okay, well, 
then, what about another country, Pakistan. We send a lot of money to 
Pakistan. Yet Pakistan announced in a March 5, 2008 article, the Times 
of India, Iran, on Wednesday, said it was ''ready to sign the India-
Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline deal,'' but technical issues between the two 
are hindering the process.

''We are ready to sign the agreement as soon as possible,'' Iranian 
Deputy Foreign Minister for Economic Affairs said. ''Everything is okay 
from our side. There are some technical issues between India and 
Pakistan,'' he said.

''The India-Pakistan-Iran pipeline, which is dubbed as the 'Peace 
Pipeline,' is stuck over issues such as price and transition fees.''

So much for isolating Iran from Pakistan and India. All right, so 
Iraq, they are talking to them, Iran, Pakistan and India are talking, 
but, okay, maybe we can still get Russia and China, countries that have 
militaries, countries that have economies, countries that have been 
freestanding and independent for many, many, many, many, many years.

Okay, what about Afghanistan? Isn't that country essentially a failed 
state which we invaded and kicked out the Taliban and now are trying to 
reconstruct today?

''In the electricity substation just outside of Herat, western 
Afghanistan, there's the loud hum of power--Iranian power,'' that's 
right. ''More electricity reaches Herat than the city can use, but the 
industrial park just across the road from the NATO military base is 
putting it to good use.

''Small plastic bottles of fizzy orange juice shuffle along the 
conveyor belt to be labeled and packed--the building is noticeably 
Iranian in design and the markings on the machinery show exactly which 
country helped these Afghan businessmen.

''The camels grazing outside cautiously cross the fast, straight, 
asphalt road--one of the best roads in Afghanistan stretching 120km to 
the border.

''Soon a railway will link Afghanistan to Europe, or so boasts the 
Iranian government.''

I would just mention, with a quick Google search, Iraq, India, 
Pakistan and, now, Afghanistan are all coalescing economically with 
Iran. We are not talking to Iran. We don't talk to Iran. We don't want 
to try to get into that market of 70 million people. We don't want to 
try to open up diplomatic ties and work on issues.

We are not trying to solve this nuclear conflict with dialogue, 
discussion and open conversation. We are just trying to isolate them, 
but nothing suggested we are being successful at doing that.

The fact is maybe isolation of Iran is not the right tactic. Maybe 
the right tactic is to try to talk to them, to try to build a better 
relationship, to try to have cultural exchange, try to have exchange of 
views, different though they may be, with an eye toward a more peaceful 
world, with an eye toward a world in which people can have security and 
in which an eye toward which the world can rest and feel their children 
are safe at night.



The fact is this saber rattling, I remember that it was about maybe 
16 months ago that I sat in my first meeting that I ever had with the 
President, with, I believe, Representative Lee and Representative 
Waters. I think it was Representative Lee who said, are you, Mr. 
President, planning on hitting Iran? He gave us a sure statement that 
he was not.

Yet ever since that time, all we have been hearing, time and time 
again is that Iran is the problem.

I don't know how Iran could be the problem in Iraq without the 
complicity of the Iraqi government. I mean, I need somebody to correct 
me on this point because I just don't get it. How can Iran be an issue 
in Iraq unless Iraq wants them in the country. It just doesn't make any 
other kind of sense to me, and I need somebody to explain that, because 
maybe I have just not been in Congress long enough to get it.


Let me just say, I want to move aside now, and I want to thank the 
two Members who have been leading the charge, along with Congresswoman 
Woolsey, who is recovering from back surgery. I know if she was feeling 
better she would be right better with you, the triad, the triad for 
peace. I admire you so much.