---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MARINE SGT. GLEN MARTINEZ
## `5d1e295bddd7f1cbf9a1a39e14ff83a2`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 7 May 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of 
Marine Sgt. Glen Martinez, a great American who gave his life in 
service to our Nation. Born in Alamosa, Colorado, and raised in Monte 
Vista, Colorado, Sergeant Martinez was a born leader who inspired 
everyone he met throughout his life. His family describes him as a 
strong and highly driven individual. His desire to work hard, ability 
to see the best in others and motivate them allowed him to excel at 
school, sports and as a marine.

Sergeant Martinez was very involved in his school and community. 
After his passing, many people have contacted the family thanking them 
and sharing memories. His family remembers him always trying to get 
everyone involved, especially his most quiet and reserved peers. He 
also dedicated himself to his studies. His father, Ron Martinez, 
remembers his son studying early in the morning while listening to Bach 
and Beethoven.

Sports and school activities were also a major part of his life. In 
high school he took part in the State Marching Band, earning the Louis 
Armstrong Jazz Award. During his junior year he helped lead his 
football team to the semi-finals. Over the 4 years that he competed on 
the wrestling team, he held a record of 111 wins and 29 losses. He 
realized these accomplishments while earning an academic honorable 
mention. When preparing for college, Sergeant Martinez was offered 
scholarships for football, wrestling and baseball.

Sergeant Martinez accepted a scholarship to play baseball while 
earning a degree in surveying from Westwood College and later a 
master's degree in hydro engineering at the University of Colorado. His 
advanced degrees would have exempted him from having to go through 
basic training. Out of respect for his fellow marines, Sergeant 
Martinez chose to attend basic training even though he was not required 
to. He refused to ask people to do what he had not done himself.

When asked why he would give up his lifestyle to join the Marines he 
responded, ''I am tired of people cutting down my country.'' Of 700 
recruits, Sergeant Martinez was one of seven honored upon graduation. 
''His drill sergeant singled him out as one of the best he'd ever 
had,'' said his father.

On Friday, May 2, 2008 at 11:10 p.m., while on his second tour in 
Iraq, Sergeant Martinez gave his life in service to our Nation. He was 
31 years old when a roadside bomb took his life along with that of 
three fellow marines.

I send my deepest condolences to the family of Sergeant Martinez. My 
thoughts go out to them in this difficult time. I hope they may find 
comfort in the knowledge that Sergeant Martinez gave his life to defend 
an ideal he believed in. Sergeant Martinez joins 57 other heroes from 
Colorado who have given their lives while serving their country.
