---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `5d24a60a473ecd70d6c4aeb62931c84e`
`Mr. WYDEN — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today Senator Chambliss and I are 
introducing legislation that could have a far-reaching impact on the 
national security of the United States. As every American knows, one of 
the most important elements of our national security infrastructure is 
the collection of agencies that make up our national intelligence 
community. But when most Americans think about the CIA, the FBI, or the 
NSA, they tend to think of agencies that are focused on a small handful 
of James Bond-style issues, such as missile stockpiles, new weapons 
technologies, and coups in foreign lands. These issues are still 
important, but in the modem world it is essential to recognize that 
protecting national security is a lot more complicated than it was 
during the Cold War, and there are many other issues that require 
attention and action.

Thankfully, the men and women of the intelligence community already 
recognize this crucial fact, and are working hard to address the wide 
variety of threats and challenges that face America in the 21st 
century. Unfortunately, many policymakers still think of intelligence 
in 20th century terms, and as a result many of our national 
intelligence capabilities are underused and underappreciated.

The best example of this is unquestionably in the field of energy 
security. American dependence on foreign oil has made our Nation less 
safe. Oil revenues have provided income for dangerous rogue states, 
they have sparked bloody civil wars, and they have even provided 
funding for terrorism. In a sickening phenomenon that I call the terror 
tax, every time that Americans drive their cars down to the gas station 
and fill up at the pump, the reality is that a portion of that money is 
then turned over to foreign governments that ''backdoor'' it over to 
Islamist extremists, who use that money to perpetuate terrorism and 
hate. As the GAO has pointed out, while talking about the oil-rich 
nation of Saudi Arabia:




 Saudi Arabia's multibillion-dollar petroleum industry, 


 although largely owned by the government, has fostered the 


 creation of large private fortunes, enabling many wealthy 


 Saudis to sponsor charities and educational foundations whose 


 operations extend to many countries. U.S. government and 


 other expert reports have linked some Saudi donations to the 


 global propagation of religious intolerance, hatred of 


 Western values, and support to terrorist activities.





Furthermore, by allowing our national energy security to depend on 
foreign oil, we are leaving the American economy vulnerable to external 
shocks and disruptions. Recent American history is full of examples of 
events overseas jolting U.S. energy supplies, and just a couple decades 
ago the oil cartel known as OPEC declared an embargo which sent the 
U.S. economy into a tailspin.

There are many other challenges out there that have the potential to 
affect U.S. national security and energy security. For example, it 
seems clear that the Middle East will remain in turmoil for years to 
come, and policmakers will have to consider the potential impact of 
events such as a terrorist attack on a major oil facility, or a change 
in government in an oil-producing state, or the further deterioration 
of the situation in Iraq. Outside of the Middle East there are other 
challenges to face, including the continued growth of major energy 
consuming countries like India and China, the policies of less-
predictable governments such as Russia and Venezuela, and the emergence 
of new energy producers in unstable areas of the world.


As policymakers attempt to grapple with these challenges, it is vital 
for them to be informed by the best thinking available, and as I said, 
the men and women of our national intelligence agencies are already 
performing quality analysis on many topics relevant to national 
security. This expertise is spread throughout the intelligence 
community, and includes professionals at the National Intelligence 
Council, the CIA's Office of Transnational Issues, and the Office of 
Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the Department of Energy.

Unfortunately, this expertise is rarely used to inform energy policy 
debates, primarily because these agencies generally use it to produce 
classified assessments. This means that I can discuss them in closed 
sessions of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, but not at 
hearings of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, even though 
I am a member of both committees. This legislation would address this 
problem by requiring the Director of National Intelligence to 
coordinate the production of an unclassified report on the intelligence 
community's assessments of key energy issues that have implications for 
the national security of the United States. It will be up to the 
intelligence agencies to determine what information can safely be 
discussed in public, but I am confident that the Director will be able 
to provide Congress with a report that includes thoughtful, insightful 
discussion of these issues, without revealing any sensitive information 
or compromising any sources and methods.

This legislation is entitled the Weighing Intelligence for Smarter 
Energy Act, or the WISE Act for short. I think that my colleagues and 
the American public would agree that when it comes to protecting our 
national energy security, it certainly wouldn't hurt for Congress to be 
a little bit wiser.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.