# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `5d2e70b0930c0271df58cb54796ca549`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Iraq 
Redeployment Act which sets forth a realistic strategy for the 
responsible redeployment of our combat troops in Iraq. The Bush 
Administration has requested another $200 billion dollar blank check 
for the war in Iraq to pursue a flawed strategy that has no end in 
sight and which continually puts our brave men and women in the armed 
services in the middle of Iraq's civil war.

The indefinite presence of American forces in Iraq has allowed the 
different factions there to postpone making the difficult compromises 
necessary to achieve stability and political reconciliation. Our 
intelligence community has publicly concluded that the political 
situation in Iraq is getting worse, not better. We cannot ask our 
troops to remain in Iraq when the different Iraqi factions have refused 
to take the steps necessary to achieve a greater stability.

We must embark on a new direction in Iraq. That's what this 
legislation will do. It allocates $50 billion for the purpose of 
beginning to responsibly redeploy our combat forces out of Iraq by the 
target date of December 15, 2008. The troops that would remain in Iraq 
beyond that date would focus on the more limited missions of training 
Iraqi security forces, providing logistical and intelligence support 
for the Iraqi security forces, and engaging in targeted counter-
terrorist operations against Al-Qaeda and affiliated groups.

As the legislation states, ''the primary purpose of funds made 
available by the Act should be to transition the mission of the United 
States Armed Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not 
to extend or prolong the war.'' This bill also states that the 
reduction of our armed forces in Iraq ''shall be implemented in 
conjunction with a comprehensive diplomatic, political and economic 
strategy that includes sustained engagement with Iraq's neighbors and 
the international community for the purpose of working collectively to 
bring stability to Iraq''--a strategy recommended by the bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group that the Administration has failed to pursue with any 
vigor or urgency.

This legislation also prohibits the deployment of any troops not 
fully equipped or trained, and extends to all U.S. Government agencies 
and personnel the limitations in the U.S. Army Field Manual on 
permissible interrogation techniques. We must send a strong message to 
the world that we do not support or condone torture.

We are on the wrong path in Iraq. This bill provides a much needed 
change in direction that will strengthen our national security, improve 
our position in the region and bring our men and women safely home.