---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `5d345094f83b0a4bdbbd569c75da8e78`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The Merida initiative is funding for this 
horrible drug war between Mexico and its own citizens that's spilling 
over into the United States. I am appreciative of these dollars, but, 
my friends, we have got to stop the utilization of drugs here in the 
United States.

It looks like it's McDonald's where they send these various drugs. 
When I say that, I am not talking about McDonald's, but I am suggesting 
that the pinpoints of where these drugs are dropped off in the United 
States, it is tragic. As we send more money and more money to Mexico, 
we have got to begin to devise a new policy for drug opposition here in 
the United States.

Vote against the funding for the war. The underlying other amendments 
are very good.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1197, Rule 
providing for the consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642--
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008. While I offer my support for 
amendments No. 2 and No. 3, I must oppose amendment No. 1. While 
amendments 2 and 3 contain provisions beneficial to the American 
people, designed to improve our economy and protect our young men and 
women, amendment 1 continues a disastrous policy of providing 
unrestricted funding to continue the Bush administration's war in Iraq.

I oppose amendment No. 1 because I stand with the American taxpayers 
who have paid over $600 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I 
stand with the 4076 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death 
because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. 
Last May, I was proud to vote for H.R. 1591, a supplemental spending 
bill that would have provided funds for our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, which included a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. 
troops. Though this bill passed the House by a clear majority, the 
President opted to veto this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I must oppose amendment No. 1. This amendment provides 
a total of $162.9 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and 
FY 2009, funds that are handed over without any strings. The amendment 
does not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my 
colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans 
now support. The amendment does not require that war funds can only be 
used for the responsible redeployment of American troop's home from 
Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am 
proud of that vote. I have consistently voted against the 
administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding 
through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular 
appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more 
rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing 
national priorities. I cannot support legislation that provides the 
President with the resources to prolong his ill-advised war effort 
unrestrained.

I rise today in strong support of amendment No. 2. This amendment 
lays out a responsible U.S. policy toward Iraq, requiring that troops 
begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 days, with a goal of completing 
the withdrawal of combat troops by December 2009. As a Member of both 
the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for 
legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins 
the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq.

In addition, Madam Speaker this legislation specifically requires 
that any agreement between the United States and the government of Iraq 
committing future U.S. forces must be specifically authorized by 
Congress. The governments of Iraq and the United States announced their 
intention to forge a ''strategic framework agreement,'' a long-term, 
bilateral pact, to be completed by July 31, 2008. This negotiated 
agreement is to be based on the ''Declaration of Principles for a Long-
Term Relationship of Cooperation and Friendship Between the Republic of 
Iraq and the United States of America,'' signed November 26, 2007, by 
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Bush.

Under the Declaration of Principles, the parties will negotiate a 
security agreement, under which the United States will support the 
Iraqi government and security forces in providing security and 
stability and fighting al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The 
Declaration of Principles envisions an agreement setting forth a wide-
ranging set of commitments, which will cover issues including politics, 
economics, and security. In hearings before the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs, administration officials have indicated that the President 
intends to negotiate this agreement as an executive agreement, not 
subject to Congressional approval. It is essential that any agreement 
which commits future U.S. troops to the defense of Iraq is outside the 
purview of existing authorizations, and such an agreement must be 
submitted to the Congress for approval. This legislation also prohibits 
the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, amendment No. 2 requires that the Iraqi government 
step up and pay its share of Iraqi reconstruction efforts. I am 
concerned that the United States has paid and continues to pay a 
disproportionate amount for Iraq reconstruction, especially when the 
Iraqi government reportedly has a $25-30 billion budget surplus this 
year. To date the United States has appropriated more than $45 billion 
for Iraq reconstruction. American funded reconstruction programs have 
included: the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces.

Iraq is a resource-rich nation. Though still facing problems 
including a lack of technology, damage from previous mismanagement, the 
effects of looting, and water intrusion, Iraqi oil production is 
currently at around 2 million barrels per day. The price of oil has 
skyrocketed to over $100 a barrel and Iraqi oil exports are generating 
an estimated $56.4 billion this year alone, according to the GAO, yet 
it is U.S. taxpayers who continue to foot the bill for Iraqi 
reconstruction. The government of Iraq is stashing its money in global 
banks, including a reported $30 billion in the U.S., instead of 
investing this money in the development of crucial Iraqi 
infrastructure. This legislation requires the Iraqi government to take 
responsibility for the future of its own nation.

There are a number of other key provisions in this amendment. It 
requires the President to reach an agreement with Iraq to subsidize 
fuel costs for U.S. Armed Forces operating in Iraq so that our military 
pays what Iraqis pay. It requires that troop's meet the Pentagon's 
definition of ''combat ready'' before they are deployed to Iraq; 
Prohibits troops from being deployed longer than Pentagon guidelines 
recommend; and requires that troops spend adequate time at home between 
deployments. This legislation makes substantial strides toward cleaning 
up contracting in Iraq, expanding current law to make all contractors 
working in war zones subject to prosecution for offenses that would 
otherwise be in violation of U.S. law; extending the statute of 
limitations for fraud cases during wartime; and amending the Federal 
criminal code to prohibit profiteering and fraud involving contractors 
overseas. In addition, it prohibits interrogation techniques not 
authorized in the Army Field Manual, a provision necessary in 
eliminating torture.
















Amendment No. 3


Madam Speaker, the third amendment to H.R. 2642 provides over $21.2 
billion for much needed domestic programs and foreign aid. By extending 
unemployment benefits, expanding veterans' education benefits, and 
placing a moratorium on the Bush administration's seven Medicaid 
regulations; this amendment gets us closer to where the Economic 
Stimulus package should have taken us.



This amendment will provide increased funds for food aid, military 
hospitals, and the reconstruction of the Louisiana levees.














 international food aid


As many of you know, we are facing an international food crisis. 
According to the International Monetary Fund, IMF, global food prices 
have increased an average of 43 percent. In fact since March 2007, 
wheat has increased by 146 percent, soybean has increased by 71 
percent, corn by 41 percent, and rice prices have increased by 29 
percent, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Many factors have played into this crisis. In China, India, and other 
emerging markets experiencing rapid economic growth, consumers are 
increasing their demand for food, oil, and energy supplies. Rising 
energy costs have directly raised the cost of agricultural production. 
Adverse weather-related events have lowered crop yields, particularly 
affecting wheat harvests. Depreciation of the U.S. dollar accounts for 
part of the increase in U.S. food prices, while increased production of 
biofuel has raised the price of corn.

Sadly, approximately 1 billion people--or one sixth of the world's 
population--subsist on less than $1 per day. Of this population, 162 
million survive on less than $0.50 per day. Overall, increased food 
prices particularly affect developing countries, and the poorest people 
within those countries, where populations spend a larger proportional 
share of income on basic food commodities.

That is why I, along with other Hunger Caucus members hosted a forum 
on the food crisis and what it is doing to our children. We met with 
leaders of the international aid community to come up with pragmatic 
solutions to the global hunger crisis, both in the short-term and the 
long-term.

In my district I submitted an appropriations request for the Houston 
Food Bank to expand their collection and distribution of food to the 
good people of Houston. We each have to do our part, not only in our 
district by supporting much needed programs and organizations, but 
across this great Nation and the rest of the world.

This amendment would give $9.9 billion, $496 million above the 
President's request for the State Department, USAID and International 
Food Assistance. It is simply unacceptable in this day and age that 
children are going hungry. We have millions of dollars to bailout Bear 
Stearns, let's find that same money to help our families and our 
children.









Expanded GI Benefits for Veterans Education


As champion for veterans, I am especially pleased to see the 
expansion of education benefits to veterans under the GI bill.











 Extended Unemployment Compensation


The number of Americans looking for work has grown by 800,000 over 
the last year, and the number of American jobs has declined by 260,000 
since the beginning of 2008. This supplemental would extend 
unemployment benefits for workers who have exhausted their benefits by 
up to 13 weeks in every state as well as an additional 13 weeks in 
states with high unemployment.





 protecting the medicaid safety net act of 2008 (h.r. 5613)


The Bush administration sought to cut services and payments to 
American families by adding seven different Medicaid regulations to the 
stimulus. This amendment places a much needed moratorium on those 
regulations giving back to our seniors, families, and those with 
disabilities as well as cut payments to safety net providers.















 refugee assistance


$675 million, $454 million above the President's request, to address 
the refugee crisis in Iraq and elsewhere.


















 Merida


This amendment would give $461.5 million, $88.5 million below the 
President's request for the initiative to provide counter narcotics and 
law enforcement assistance in Mexico, $400 million, and Central 
America, $61.5 million.














 Military Construction


The $4.6 billion for military construction, $2.2 billion over the 
President's request, including $939 million for BRAC, over $210 million 
for the military child care centers that the President announced in the 
State of the Union but never funded, and $992 million for military 
hospitals to prevent the types of problems that faced Walter Reed.















 bureau of prisons


This $178 million urgently needed to meet rising incarceration costs 
and growing inmate population. The administration would have paid for 
these costs with cuts to state and local law enforcement funding.







 Cleaning up Contracting (H.R. 3928 and H.R. 5712)


Increases accountability and transparency in Federal contracting by 
requiring companies that receive more than 80 percent of their revenue 
from the Federal Government to disclose the names and salaries of their 
top officers, and requires Federal contractors to report violations of 
Federal criminal law and overpayments on contracts over $5 million.