---
---

# None
## `5d4de6249e33e3ffba96d48d34e53925`
`Mr. THUNE — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I appreciate the opportunity to speak on 
this very important issue. We are here in this wee hour of the morning. 
There have been a lot of accusations flying back and forth today, this 
evening, about why we are here and what this is about. But I do want to 
remind my colleagues of what this is about. The underlying legislation, 
the Defense authorization bill, H.R. 1585, says it very clearly here. 
It is:







 To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2008 for 


 military activities of the Department of Defense, for 


 military construction, and for defense activities of the 


 Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 


 strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


That is what we are here for. We are here to do something we do every 
year, or that we have done every year for the past 45 years, and that 
is pass the Defense authorization bill. What that Defense authorization 
bill does is it authorizes a 3.5-percent across-the-board pay raise for 
all military personnel. It increases Army and Marine end strength to 
525,400 and 189,000, respectively. It also approves $2.7 billion for 
items on the Army Chief of Staff's unfunded requirement list, including 
$775 million for reactive armor and other Stryker requirements, $207 
million for aviation survivability equipment, $102 million for combat 
training centers and funding for explosive ordnance disposal equipment, 
night vision devices, and machineguns.

The bill also authorizes $4.1 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected Vehicles, known as MRAP vehicles, for all of the services' 
known requirements.


That is what the underlying bill would do. That is what this debate 
should be about. It ought to be about taking care of the needs of our 
men and women in uniform who we have asked, day in and day out, to do a 
very difficult task, and that is to protect America's freedoms around 
the world. We have lots of them deployed in different places around the 
world.

What is interesting to me, as I have listened to the debate about 
this particular amendment, the Levin-Reed amendment, throughout the 
course of the day, is I keep hearing this distinction between 
Afghanistan and Iraq, and how somehow Afghanistan is a good war and 
Iraq is a bad war. The reason is in Afghanistan we aren't having as 
many casualties as we are in Iraq. We are taking on a lot of casualties 
in Iraq. That is where they are killing our soldiers, and the reason we 
are taking on casualties in Iraq is because that is where our soldiers 
are. If we move troops to Afghanistan, they will starting killing our 
troops there because that is what they are and that is what they do; 
they are killers whose goal is to kill Americans and they are going to 
keep coming at us.

I do not think sometimes our colleagues on the other side see this 
for what it is, a titanic struggle between good and evil, between 
radical Islam and nations that cherish freedom.

I have to say I believe the men and women in uniform understand that 
when they are fighting al-Qaida, it doesn't matter where they are 
fighting them. They are our enemy, they are our adversary, they are the 
people who are out to kill and destroy us, whether that is in 
Afghanistan or in Iraq. They are a global terrorist network intent on 
destroying us and our allies.

Our young men and women in uniform deserve to have this Defense 
authorization bill passed so they have the funding and the equipment 
and the weapons and the training and everything that is necessary for 
them to succeed and to achieve their mission, which is to protect us 
from terrorist organizations and terrorist threats, such as al-Qaida.

I have also heard it said that al-Qaida is--there were a lot of 
quotes today from the National Intelligence Estimate about where the 
real threats are around the world, but I have to read for you what some 
of the judgements and findings were of the National Intelligence 
Estimate. It says:




 We assess the greatly increased worldwide counterterrorism 


 efforts over the past 5 years have constrained the ability of 


 al-Qaida to attack the U.S. homeland again and have led 


 terrorist groups to perceive the homeland as a harder target 


 to strike than before 9/11. These measures have helped 


 disrupt known plots against the United States since 9/11.


That is the good news.

But it goes on to say:




 We assess that al-Qaida will continue to advance its 


 capabilities to attack the homeland through greater 


 cooperation with regional terrorist groups. Of note: We 


 assess that al-Qaida will probably seek to leverage the 


 contacts and capabilities of al-Qaida in Iraq, its most 


 visible and capable affiliate and the only one known to have 


 expressed a desire to attack the homeland.



 In addition, we assess that its association with al-Qaida 


 in Iraq helps al-Qaida to energize the broader Sunni 


 extremist community, raise resources, and to recruit and 


 indoctrinate operatives, including for homeland attacks.



 We assess that al-Qaida will continue to try to acquire and 


 employ chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear 


 material in attacks and would not hesitate to use them if it 


 develops what it deems to be sufficient capability.


That is what the National Intelligence Estimate has to say about our 
enemy and what their capabilities are. And again, I have to reiterate 
that I think, as I have listened to this debate throughout the course 
of the day, that people continue to make a discrepancy between 
Afghanistan, the good war, and Iraq, the bad war. The problem is, it is 
the same enemy, it is the same al-Qaida, intent on the same objective 
to kill and destroy Americans. We have to fight al-Qaida every place we 
can to make sure they do not take that war right here and those attacks 
of the United States to our homeland.

Debating a change in policy in Iraq, particularly given what we just 
did last May, is premature, and that is why I am going to oppose the 
Levin-Reed amendment.

This past May, the Senate passed the 2007 Iraq supplemental which 
required two reports by the President. The first was released just days 
ago, and the second will be released in September. These reports will 
assess whether the Iraqi Government is making sufficient progress with 
respect to the 18 benchmarks. The interim July report stated that we 
are making satisfactory progress toward meeting 8 of the 18 benchmarks. 
While there is much work that remains to be done, the new strategy is 
still in its early stages.

We need to make sure our forces can set the conditions for that 
progress to continue and to succeed. There have been some encouraging 
signs, but we will not see the full effect of this new strategy until 
General Petraeus's September report. This assessment will provide a 
clearer picture of how the new strategy is unfolding and what, if any, 
adjustments should be made.

But I reiterate, that was in May. This Senate acted on an Iraq 
supplemental in May requiring those two reports. We just received the 
first report. The final report we will get in September, and yet here 
we are today once again debating withdrawal resolutions before we have 
even given our commanders and our troops an opportunity to succeed in 
this new strategy.

The surge operation is intended to clear insurgent opposition so that 
we can protect the Iraqi population and provide the Iraqi Government a 
stable environment in which to conduct their business. I have said on 
several occasions that my support for this war is not open-ended. But 
we have to give General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker a chance.

We have a viable plan in place to gauge the surge operation, success 
of the Iraqi Government, and I cannot support a plan such as this, the 
Levin-Reed amendment, to abandon the legislative provisions we have 
already enacted. Congress cannot legislate the war strategy, nor do we 
have the expertise, the staff, or the constitutional authority to 
micromanage the war. American generals in Iraq, not politicians in 
Washington, should decide how to fight wars. What we are doing as 
legislators right now is trying to get into the middle of that very 
important chain of command.

As legislators, our actions on this war have not been consistent. On 
the one hand, we unanimously confirmed General Petraeus with the hopes 
that he could bring stability to Iraq; then, on the other hand, we at 
every turn consider Iraq withdrawal language here on the floor of the 
Senate. So we keep sending conflicting signals.

I would remind my colleagues that back in March, the vote to confirm 
General Petraeus was 81 to 0. Eighty-one Senators--no Senators 
objecting--voted to give him this new responsibility, to entrust him 
with this very difficult task. Then, in May, we said we would give him 
at least until September, when he would report back to us about the 
progress he has made. No one said the progress was going to take place 
quickly. We have to be realistic about the pace and scope of change in 
Iraq. But mandating timelines for withdrawal or other amendments like 
reauthorizations of the war are not the answer. We are too eager to 
declare the surge a failure before it has even been fully implemented.

This debate should not be about how quickly we can withdraw but how


quickly we can succeed in Iraq so that our troops can come home. Now, 
sadly, many of the provisions we have been discussing here on the floor 
of the Senate are politically motivated by legislators thousands of 
miles away from the battlefield.

During the course of the endless Iraq policy debate, there have been 
statements from the Democratic leadership such as:




 We are going to pick up Senate seats because of this war.


And:




 We will break them, the Republicans, because they are 


 looking extinction in the eye.


Those are direct quotes. These are not legitimate policy statements 
but the sad politicization of the war on terror.

I would add to those some other statements that have been made more 
recently. Someone said today, earlier this evening, that this has been 
characterized as a publicity stunt, keeping the Senate in all night. 
Members on the other side have gotten up and reacted to this and said 
this is not a publicity stunt. Well, you have a senior Democratic aide 
on FOX News who said: Is this a publicity stunt? Yes. You have the 
majority leader saying: I do not know if we will get 60 votes, but I 
will tell you, there are 21 Republicans up for reelection this time. 
You have other statements by the majority leader saying: We are going 
to pick up Senate seats as a result of this war. Senator Schumer has 
shown me numbers that are compelling and astounding.

I do not condemn my colleagues for their legitimate Iraq policy 
positions. As Senators, we have a right to offer amendments. But I 
would again stress that I believe this is not the time to debate this 
question. We have made it very clear in previous legislation that the 
time for that debate will be in September of this year. I fear that the 
current Iraq policy debate taking place on the Defense authorization 
bill will endanger its passage. This is a bill which, as I said 
earlier, specifically is designed to increase the size of the Army and 
the Marine Corps, provide increased authorization to purchase more MRAP 
vehicles, provide a 3.5-percent pay increase across the board for our 
troops, and further empower the Army and Air Force National Guard. We 
should not endanger this bill when we can have a full and comprehensive 
debate on Iraq in September, which is what this body, this Congress 
specifically directed as recently as May.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am committed to seeing 
this bill pass on the floor of the Senate. I believe it would be a 
complete failure of leadership on our part if we failed to pass this 
very vital measure, while our men and women are engaged in a difficult 
conflict.

I will not support amendments to mandate a strategic military shift 
by force of law. As I have said multiple times, Congress should not, 
Congress must not get into the habit of interjecting itself into the 
military chain of command. To do so invites disaster and moves our 
country through the premise of conducting wars and military operations 
with one commander in chief to fighting wars by committee. And history 
has proven and shown that fighting wars by committee does not work.

Last week, I attended the funeral of SSG Robb Rolfing. Sergeant 
Rolfing was an Army green beret killed in action by insurgents in 
Baghdad. And I have to say that, again, he was a young man who was 
incredibly skilled and gifted, someone who had tremendous success in 
academics, in athletics, was an inventor, was a very gifted young man, 
someone who had demonstrated great leadership abilities, someone with a 
big heart, someone who always gave all to everything he had no matter 
what he did.

After September 11, he was compelled to the service of his country. 
As he did with everything, he wanted to do the best, and he became the 
best, he was the best of the best. He was a green beret. Before his 
tragic death, Sergeant Rolfing expressed to his family that he believed 
in what he was doing and there were good things happening in Iraq, that 
the whole story was not being told.

Well, Sergeant Rolfing's voice may be silent, but his message is not. 
I will honor Sergeant Rolfing's sacrifice in my own way--by allowing 
our troops, led by General Petraeus, to continue the work they believe 
in and work that I believe in.

Our obligation to the troops and our efforts in Iraq extend far 
beyond these benchmarks. We all want our troops to begin coming home, 
but we must first set the conditions for that to happen, without 
risking a humanitarian disaster in Iraq, sanctuaries for terrorists, or 
a broader regional conflict. If you do not believe what I say, there 
are a lot of people who know a lot more about this subject than I do 
who have come to the very same conclusion.

You can look at the comments of GEN Anthony Zinni, who has said:




 We cannot simply pull out of Iraq, as much as we may want 


 to. The consequences of a destabilized and chaotic Iraq, 


 sitting in the center of a critical region of the world, 


 could have catastrophic implications. There is no short-term 


 solution. It will take years to stabilize Iraq. How many? I 


 believe at least 5 to 7.


Well, I hope he is wrong. I hope it does not take 5 to 7 years. It is 
very clear from the experts in this region of the world who have 
repeatedly stated the great risk and danger we put our troops and we 
put the region and we put the United States in if we abandon this 
important mission without finishing it.

The Iraq Study Group--the Baker-Hamilton report--has been quoted a 
lot on the floor during the course of this debate, sometimes 
selectively. But I also wish to quote for you what that particular 
report said.

It said:




 Because of the importance of Iraq, the potential for 


 catastrophe in the role and the commitments of the United 


 States in initiating events that have led to the current 


 situation, we believe it would be wrong for the United States 


 to abandon the country through a precipitous withdrawal of 


 troops and support.



 A premature American departure from Iraq would almost 


 certainly produce greater sectarian violence and further 


 deterioration of conditions leading to a number of adverse 


 consequences outlined above. The near-term result would be a 


 significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, regional 


 destabilization and a threat to the global economy.



 Al-Qaida would depict our withdrawal as a historic victory. 


 If we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, the long-range 


 consequences could eventually require the United States to 


 return.


That is the Iraq Study Group Baker-Hamilton report, which I think 
also points out the very serious and disastrous risks we face, the 
consequences we face of quitting before this job is done.


Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said:




 Precipitous withdrawal would produce a disaster, one that 


 would not end the war but shift it to other areas like 


 Lebanon, or Jordan or Saudi Arabia, produce greater violence 


 among Iraqi factions and embolden radical Islamists around 


 the world.


Those are people who, as I said, are incredibly knowledgeable, people 
who have great experience in this region of the world.

But I would like to share with you too, if I might, a letter or an e-
mail I received from a soldier who has spent a good amount of time in 
Iraq. Here is what he said:




 I hope that you do not defect from the current policy on 


 Iraq.


And this came into my office in the last couple of days.




 Having served there for over 7 months, I know first-hand 


 that this is a fight that is worth fighting and winning. To 


 admit defeat and pull out now would be dishonorable to those 


 that have served. Please allow the military to conduct the 


 war in Iraq and not the politicians. The military commanders 


 are professional soldiers. How many of the members of the 


 Senate have ever served in the military or even know the 


 sacrifices that are endured each and every day? Watching the 


 news, listening to briefings, or going and visiting for a 


 couple of days to the war-torn nation is not ''experience.'' 


 When the commanders say it is time to leave, it is time to 


 leave. Please respect the input of one Marine who has seen 


 the sacrifice and lived the sacrifice and knows what is at 


 stake if we abandon our post.


I think his sentiments capture very effectively the way a lot of our 
soldiers view these events.

I cannot speak from personal experience as this soldier can. I have 
visited Iraq on three different occasions. I will tell you that having 
been there basically three different times a year apart, there has been 
significant progress in some areas of the country. When I went the last 
time, I went to Ramadi, Fallujah, and Al Anbar Province.



In the Washington Post, one of the headlines the week before we went 
over there said, ''Armed and Ready in Ramadi.'' Well, if you look at 
what has happened in Al Anbar Province--and John Burns from the New 
York times recently characterized that the capital city of Anbar, 
Ramadi, has ''gone from being one of the most dangerous places in Iraq 
to being one of the least dangerous places.''