---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `5d51196f2ab64825bf49424443e5ee6b`
`Mr. CORNYN — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. Bensman, in this article, found the following in his 
investigation, and I will summarize. More than 5,700 illegal immigrants 
from 43 countries with majority Muslim populations, including state 
sponsors of terror, have been caught while traveling over the Canadian 
and Mexican border along well-established underground smuggling routes 
since 9/11, a traffic that continues today. Mr. Bensman estimates 
between 20,000 and 60,000 of these so-called special interest aliens, 
by virtue of their country of origin being countries where terrorism 
is, unfortunately, alive and well or because they are state sponsors of 
international terrorism, have gotten through without being caught since 
9/11. These migrants, although relatively small in total numbers, are 
high risk because they hail from countries where American troops are 
actively battling Islamic insurgents, nations where radical Islamic 
organizations have bombed U.S. interests or murdered Americans. 
Unguarded U.S. borders are most certainly in the terrorists' playbooks 
as a means of entering the country. Since the late 1990s, at least a 
dozen confirmed terrorists have sneaked over U.S. borders, including 
operatives from Hezbollah, Hamas, Tamil Tigers, and one al-Qaida 
terrorist once No. 27 on the FBI's most wanted terrorist list.

On the U.S. side of the border, the FBI is supposed to interrogate 
and conduct a threat assessment and interrogations on every captured 
special interest alien, but the process is severely flawed and open to 
error. Often, the FBI signs off on captured special interest aliens, 
allowing them access to the political asylum process without 
conclusively knowing whether they are or are not associated with 
terrorist organizations. Furthermore, Border Patrol agents are simply 
using expedited removal processes to kick special interest aliens back 
over the border into Mexico, where they will certainly try to cross 
again, with no investigation and no FBI referral whatsoever.

This series of articles published in the San Antonio Express News 
will be an eye-opener for the people of this country.

Frankly, those of us who are Members of the Senate have the privilege 
of having classified briefings from time to time. Of course, we cannot 
talk about that intelligence information on which we are briefed behind 
closed doors. But here in the public domain are the results of Mr. 
Bensman's investigation in chilling detail, chronicling the movement of 
an individual from Damascus, Syria, to Detroit, MI, via Moscow, Havana, 
into Guatemala, and then up through Mexico's southern border and into 
the United States.



I have met with Border Patrol agents. Perhaps the current occupant of 
the chair and others have had the same experience I have. I asked them, 
out of the 1.1 or the 1.3 million people we actually detain coming 
across our southern border, for every person we detain, how many people 
do you think get across? I have heard estimates ranging from detaining 
maybe one out of every three to one out of every four. The truth is, 
nobody knows for sure who gets away. We do know that people who are 
detained and returned across the border likely try again. So it is hard 
to get good information.

This is not a matter of solely economic migrants coming from Mexico 
or Central or South America into the United States. The truth is, 
Central America and Mexico are a land bridge into the United States for 
anybody anywhere around the world who wants to come here, anybody who 
has the money to pay the human smugglers to get them here. Obviously, 
these could be individuals who want to work and who want nothing but a 
better life--what we all have and want in America--but it can also be 
very dangerous people who want to do us harm. That is the reason this 
funding, this emergency funding for border security, is so important.

It is also important that we begin to regain the lost public 
confidence that the Federal Government can actually deliver on its 
promises. We have been telling people for a long time how important it 
is in a post-9/11 world to know who is coming into our country and why 
people are coming here. Recognizing that if there is a way to separate 
the economic migrants and to create an immigration system that would 
give people an opportunity through legal immigration to come to the 
United States on a controlled basis, it will then allow law enforcement 
agencies an effort to target those who are common criminals, drug 
dealers or, indeed, terrorists or special interest aliens from state 
sponsors of terrorism.


We were reminded again about the dangers from our porous borders 
when, on Monday, officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
announced that they had arrested more than 100 gang members in Texas. 
These 121 suspects represent 27 different gangs, including the 
notorious Mexican Mafia and MS-13. Of course, MS-13 is the ultraviolent 
Central American gang that has come into the United States through our 
broken borders. More than half of these gang members had criminal 
charges against them, and nearly half of them were arrested on 
administrative and immigration-related charges. So we see time and time 
again, as most recently as the daily newspaper, what the threat is. Yet 
Congress continues to do not nearly enough to fix it.

This amendment gives us an opportunity to fix the problem at the 
border. It is not just at the border. We need to deal with our broken 
immigration system because roughly 45 percent of the people who are 
illegally present in the country today in violation of our immigration 
laws came in on a legal visa but simply overstayed and melted into the 
vast American landscape. So we have to, as this amendment does, make 
sure we find ways to police visa overstayers. We need to make sure we 
continue to work on document fraud and identity theft that makes it 
hard for even good faith employers to determine the legal eligibility 
of prospective employees to work in America. This amendment is the 
first big step toward regaining the public's confidence again and 
demonstrating that we are actually serious about delivering on our 
promises, not engaged in overpromising but underdelivering, as we have 
in the past.

I will be offering at a later time some amendments myself. Coming 
from a border State with 1,600 miles of common border with Mexico, this 
is a personal issue to many of my constituents, particularly. While 
some, such as the Senator from Alabama, Mr. Sessions, believe strongly 
in the need for more fencing along the border, it is controversial 
along the border in south Texas. I have worked with those local 
officials and property owners. We have two amendments I will be talking 
more about later. The consultations we have conducted have been useful 
in coming up with creative ways to accomplish the nonnegotiable goal of 
border security.

I noticed most of the property abutting the Rio Grande River is 
private property. I am not sure the Border Patrol or the Department of 
Homeland Security has really thought through the fencing idea and what 
it would mean to condemn through eminent domain proceedings private 
property along the border in Texas. I am informed that in Arizona and 
other places, much of the property along the border is already owned by 
the Federal Government, so we don't have that issue. But I have found 
in Texas, this is a controversial issue.

I have been pleased to work with my colleague, Senator Hutchison, to 
make sure that in this amendment and in every opportunity, we have 
insisted upon consultation with local elected officials and property 
owners to achieve the most effective means of border security, 
recognizing that result is nonnegotiable but how we get there should be 
the subject of consultation and negotiation.

Getting back to the private property issue, one of my amendments will 
ask the Department of Homeland Security to produce a report talking 
about the impact on border security due to the fact that much of the 
property, for example, in Texas is private property and asking them to 
come back and tell Congress so we can make more intelligent decisions 
about how to effectively use the taxpayers' money to accomplish that 
nonnegotiable goal of border security, given the fact that a lot of 
that property is private property and would require, if fencing was 
going to be built on it, that some sort of eminent domain proceeding 
would go forward. Obviously, the ranking member of the Appropriations 
Committee, the Senator from Mississippi, and the chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee would want to know whether the Federal 
taxpayer is going to be asked to pay just compensation for eminent 
domain proceedings if, in fact, those were contemplated.

There is a lot of beneficial discussion going on as we talk about 
this with local officials and others. For example, on my many visits to 
the U.S.-Mexico border in Texas, I have heard local law enforcement 
officials and the Border Patrol talk about the problems caused by an 
invasive plant commonly called Carrizo cane. Carrizo cane, as it turns 
out, grows so big and so fast that not even the night-vision technology 
used by Border Patrol agents can penetrate the Carrizo cane. It serves 
as a safe haven for human smugglers and common criminals along the 
border. If the Federal Government could work with local officials and 
local property owners to eradicate Carrizo cane, this robust perennial 
grass that can grow to a height of 20 to 30 feet, multistemmed clumps 
that resemble bamboo and forms large colonies, it would enhance the 
natural barrier the Rio Grande River already provides in many places 
along the border. Thus, it would also assist the local Border Patrol 
agents by providing a clear line of sight and ready access to areas 
that are currently not available to them because of the dense growth of 
this Carrizo cane.


I am pleased to say the Border Patrol has taken the suggestion and is 
talking to local officials and property owners. This shows some real 
promise. But it demonstrates what happens when you have local officials 
and people who live in the community talking to Federal officials 
trying to come up with a solution to a common problem.

Now, when the Federal Government--folks operating in the Beltway--
decide they have a better idea, and they do not care what local and 
State officials think about it, well, usually that creates a lot of 
conflict and it also creates a less perfect solution and maybe not a 
solution at all.

So I will be offering that Carrizo cane amendment as well as another 
amendment which would require a report by the Department of Homeland 
Security on the impact of border security measures on private property 
owners along the Rio Grande River a little later on.

But I close by saying the threat posed by common criminals--as a 
result of our broken borders--to drug dealers is very real. As Mr. 
Bensman's article points out, the access through our broken borders to 
virtually anybody in the world who has enough money to pay the 
smugglers to get them in is an open door to people whom we prefer not 
come here; namely, people who come from countries


that are state sponsors of international terror and, perhaps, people 
with the goals of harming innocent Americans, taking advantage of the 
same broken borders that yield access to economic migrants.
















 Exhibit 1










[From the San Antonio Express-News]








Breaching America: War Refugees or Threats?














 (By Todd Bensman)




 Damascus, Syria.--Al Nawateer restaurant is a place where 


 dreams are bartered and secrets are kept.



 Dining areas partitioned by thickets of crawling vines and 


 knee-high concrete fountains offer privacy from informants 


 and agents of the Mukhabarat secret police.



 The Mukhabarat try to monitor the hundreds of thousands of 


 Iraq war refugees in this ancient city, where clandestine 


 human smuggling rings have sprung up to help refugees move 


 on--often to the United States.



 But the refugees who frequent Al Nawateer, gathering around 


 Table 75 or sitting alone in a corner, are undaunted, willing 


 to risk everything to meet a smuggler. They come to be 


 solicited by someone who, for the right price, will help them 


 obtain visas from the sometimes bribery-greased consulates of 


 nations adversarial or indifferent to American security 


 concerns.



 The deals cut at places like Al Nawateer could affect you. 


 Americans from San Antonio to Detroit might find themselves 


 living among immigrants from Islamic countries who have come 


 to America with darker pursuits than escaping war or starting 


 a new life.



 U.S.-bound illicit travel from Islamic countries, which 


 started long before 9-11 and includes some reputed 


 terrorists, has gained momentum and worried counterterrorism 


 officials as smugglers exploit 2 million Iraq war refugees. 


 The irony is that the war America started to make itself 


 safer has forced more people regarded as security threats 


 toward its borders.



 A stark reminder of U.S. vulnerability at home came this 


 month when six foreign-born Muslims, three of whom had 


 entered the country illegally, were arrested and accused of 


 plotting to attack the Army's Fort Dix in New Jersey.



 What might have happened there is sure to stoke the debate 


 in Congress, which this week will take up border security and 


 immigration reform. But the Iraqi refugee problem provides a 


 twist on the question of what assurances America owes itself 


 in uncertain times: What do we owe Iraqis thrown into chaos 


 by the war?



 Politically, immigration can be a faceless issue. But 


 beyond the rhetoric, the lives of real people hang in the 


 balance. A relatively small but politically significant 


 number are from Islamic countries, raising the specter, some 


 officials say, of terrorists at the gate.



 For those few, the long journey to America starts at places 


 like Al Nawateer.



 The restaurant's reputation as a meeting place is what drew 


 Aamr Bahnan Boles.



 Night after night, Boles, a lanky 24-year-old, sat alone 


 eating grilled chicken and tabouli in shadows cast by Al 


 Nawateer's profusion of hanging lanterns: Boles always came 


 packing the $5,000 stake his father had given him when he 


 fled Iraq.



 Boles was ordering his meal after another backbreaking day 


 working a steam iron at one of the area's many basement-level 


 garment shops when he noticed a Syrian man loitering near his 


 table. The Syrian appeared to be listening intently. He was 


 of average build and wearing a collared shirt. Boles guessed, 


 he was about 35 years old.



 When the waiter walked away, the Syrian approached Boles, 


 leaned over the cheap plastic table and spoke softly. He 


 introduced himself as Abu Nabil, a common street nickname 


 revealing nothing.



 ''I noticed your accent,'' the Syrian said politely. ''Are 


 you from Iraq?''



 Boles nodded.



 ''I could help you if you want to leave,'' the Syrian said. 


 ''Just tell me when and where. I can get you wherever you 


 want to go.''



 For an instant, Boles hesitated. Was the Syrian a 


 Mukhabarat agent plotting to take his money and send him back 


 to Iraq? Was he a con artist who would deliver nothing in 


 return for a man's money?



 ''I want to go to the USA,'' Boles blurted.



 ''It can be done,'' said the Syrian. But it wouldn't be 


 cheap, he warned. The cost might be as high as $10,000.



 Hedging against a con, Boles said he didn't have that kind 


 of money.



 The Syrian told him there was a bargain-basement way of 


 getting to America. For $750, he could get Boles a visitor's 


 visa from the government of Guatemala in neighboring Jordan.



 ''After that you're on your own,'' the Syrian said. ''But 


 it's easy. You fly to Moscow, then Cuba and from there to 


 Guatemala.''



 The implication was obvious. The Syrian would help Boles 


 get within striking distance of the U.S. border. The rest was 


 up to him.



 Boles knew it wouldn't be easy or quick: Not until a year 


 later in-fact, in the-darkness just before dawn on April 29, 


 2006, would he finally swim across the Rio Grande on an inner 


 tube and clamber up the Texas riverbank 40 miles west of 


 Brownsville.



 But Boles was undaunted. He cut a deal with the Syrian, 


 setting in motion a journey into the vortex of a little-known 


 American strategy in the war on terror: stopping people like 


 him from stealing over the border.















River of immigrants




 Near the tiny Texas community of Los Indios, the Rio Grande 


 is deep, placid and seemingly of little consequence.



 But its northern bank is rigged with motion sensors that 


 U.S. Border Patrol agents monitor closely, swarming whenever 


 the sensors are tripped:



 Here and all along the river, an abstract concept becomes 


 real. America's border with Mexico isn't simply a political 


 issue or security concern. It is a living body of water, 


 surprisingly narrow, with one nation abutting its greenish-


 brown waters from the north and another from the south.



 Since 9-11, the U.S. government has made guarding the 


 1,952-mile Mexican border a top priority. One million 


 undocumented immigrants are caught each year trying to cross 


 the southern and northern U.S. borders.



 Because all but a tiny fraction of those arrested crossing 


 the southern border are Mexican or Central American, issues 


 of border security get framed accordingly and cast in the 


 image of America's neighbors to the south. Right or wrong, in 


 this country the public face of illegal immigration has 


 Latino features.



 But there are others coming across the Rio Grande, and many 


 are in Boles' image.



 People from 43 so-called ''countries of interest'' in the 


 Middle East, South Asia and North Africa are sneaking into 


 the United States, many by way of Texas, forming a human 


 pipeline that exists largely outside the public consciousness 


 but that has worried counterterrorism authorities since 9-11.



 These immigrants are known as ''special-interest aliens.'' 


 When caught, they can be subjected to FBI interrogation, 


 detention holds that can last for months and, in rare 


 instances, federal prison terms.



 The perceived danger is that they can evade being screened 


 through terror-watch lists.



 The 43 countries of interest are singled out because 


 terrorist groups operate there. Special-interest immigrants 


 are coming all the time, from countries where U.S. military 


 personnel are battling radical Islamist movements, such as 


 Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and the Philippines. They come 


 from countries where organized Islamic extremists have bombed 


 U.S. interests, such as Kenya, Tanzania and Lebanon. They 


 come from U.S.-designated state sponsors of terror, such as 


 Iran, Syria and Sudan.



 And they come from Saudi Arabia, the nation that spawned 


 most of the 9-11 hijackers.



 Iraq war refugees, trapped in neighboring countries with no 


 way out, are finding their way into the pipeline.



 Zigzagging wildly across the globe on their own or more 


 often with well-paid smugglers, their disparate routes 


 determined by the availability of bogus travel documents and 


 relative laxity of customs-enforcement practices, special-


 interest immigrants often converge in Latin America.



 And, there, a northward flow begins.











Nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick
