# MARINE GUNNERY SGT. JOHN D. FRY POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `5d627703770be00cb4304a3c64e50456`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I join with Representative Chet Edwards and his 
fellow colleagues from the State of Texas in considering H.R. 3721, 
which renames the postal facility in Lorena, Texas, after Marine 
Gunnery Sergeant John D. Fry.

As stated, the measure at hand was first introduced by Congressman 
Chet Edwards on October 2, 2007, and is cosponsored by all members of 
the Texas congressional delegation. The measure was referred to the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, where it was passed by 
voice vote on December 12, 2007.

H.R. 3721 would help to remember the life, service and legacy of 
Marine Gunnery Sergeant John D. Fry by renaming the Lorena Post Office 
on Lorena Road in his honor. Assigned to the 8th Engineer Support 
Battalion, 2nd Marine Logistics Group from Camp Lejeune, North 
Carolina, Marine Gunnery Sergeant Fry was working to disarm an 
improvised explosive device in the Anbar Province of Iraq when he was 
killed at the young age of 28.

A graduate of Waco Christian Academy, Sergeant Fry will always be 
remembered by his family, friends, fellow marines, and, of course, by 
his country, for his bravery and unselfish service in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that we pay tribute to the sacrifice made by this 
great American hero and pass H.R. 3721.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.