---
---

# GRANTING A FEDERAL CHARTER TO KOREAN WAR VETERANS ASSOCIATION,  INCORPORATED
## `5d79109d51b9c438fe013f2eb6a98d34`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as 
I might consume.

Madam Speaker, let me rise in appreciation to the chairman of the 
House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Conyers, and the ranking member, Mr. 
Smith, in working with the Senate and working with the staff on this 
very important initiative. And I would like to acknowledge both former 
Senator Sarbanes, Senator Cardin, and of course our very, very able and 
distinguished and dedicated Majority Leader Hoyer in collaboration with 
Congressman Sarbanes to have this legislation, S. 1692, move, which is 
to create the Korean War Veterans Association to become a Federally 
tax-exempt organization. It was a Federally tax-exempt corporation that 
was incorporated in the State of New York on June 25, 1985. And now 
this bill will grant a Federal charter to the Korean War Veterans 
Association.

The veterans association is an association of persons who have seen 
honorable service during the Korean War at any time between June 25, 
1950 and January 31, 1955, both dates inclusive, and of certain other 
persons, the particular qualifications for membership to be set forth 
in the bylaws of the Korean War Veterans Association.

Over the years, the organization has established a strong record of 
service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans ranging from the 
efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to a successful effort to 
construct a national Korean War veterans memorial on the National Mall.

I certainly personally want to thank my friend and colleague from 
Texas, Congressman Sam Johnson, who has never wavered from his 
commitment and dedication to the men and women of the United States 
military, to his love of Texas, and certainly to his particular love of 
those who served in the Korean War as he did, along with his service in 
the Vietnam War.

He made mention of our friends and colleagues, Congressman John 
Conyers and Congressman Charlie Rangel. So today we honor them as we 
honor many, many of those who served. The Korean War, often overlooked 
in American history, is anything but forgotten by the nearly 1.2 
million American veterans of the Korean War still alive today. And 
during the 3-year course of the war, some 5.7 million Americans were 
called to serve.



And by the time the Korean War Armistice Agreement was signed in July 
1953, more than 36,000 Americans sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were 
wounded, 7,140 were captured and 664 were missing. And so we know it 
was, in fact, a war that saw a painful time in American history but yet 
saw the valiant effort of our American soldiers.

American troops fought to protect our freedom as we know it today and 
paved the way for the United States to vanguard the movement for global 
democracy and liberty, a movement that afforded many countries the 
opportunity to shift to democratic regimes.

And so it is a special honor to me to able to stand today and join my 
colleagues, to be able to support this legislation, S. 1692. I would 
ask my colleagues to support this legislation and be reminded that no 
war should ever be forgotten. We stand here today to acknowledge that 
the Korean War is not forgotten, and as well, that we will have the 
opportunity to celebrate in the passing of this legislation.

With that, Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote for S. 1692.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S.1692, a bill to grant a 
Federal charter to the Korean War Veterans Association. This 
legislation honors the sacrifice and courage of our soldiers who served 
in the Korean War. My distinguished colleague from Maryland, Senator 
Benjamin L. Cardin and the Majority Leader Steny Hoyer seek to 
recognize the heroic deeds of Korean War veterans by granting the 
Korean War Veterans Association Incorporated a Federal Charter.

The Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA) is a federally-tax exempt 
organization that was incorporated in the State of New York on June 25, 
1985. Its original founder was Mr. William T. Norris, of New York, a 
member of F Company, 27th Infantry Regiment (Wolfhounds), 25th Infantry 
Division, when he served as a sergeant in the Korean War.

This legislation provides an opportunity for each of us, regardless 
of political views, religion, ethnicity, gender, or background to come 
together, and to recognize and honor our nation's heroes. We gather 
here today, in the midst of ongoing conflict and warfare, honoring the 
dedication of our men and women in uniform. Though we may be divided by 
our positions on the war in Iraq, we stand together to support all of 
our veterans, highlighting in this particular legislation those who 
fought in the Korean War.

Our nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the 
men and women who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We 
must be united in seeing to it that every soldier, sailor, airman, and 
marine is welcomed back with all the care and compassion this grateful 
nation can bestow. S.1692 assists us in these endeavors by extending a 
small gesture of gratitude that grants a federal charter to an 
organization that promotes and maintains benevolent and charitable 
endeavors. The Korean War Veterans Association is an association of 
persons who have seen honorable service during the Korean War at any 
time between June 25, 1950 and 31 January 1955, both dates inclusive, 
and of certain other persons, the particular qualifications for 
membership to be set forth in the by-laws of the Korean War Veterans 
Association. Over the years, the organization has established a strong 
record of service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans, ranging 
from efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to its successful effort to 
construct a national Korean War Veterans Memorial on the National Mall.

The Korean War, often overlooked in American history, is anything but 
forgotten by the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War 
still alive today. During the three year course of the war, some 5.7 
million Americans were called to serve, and by the time the Korean 
Armistice Agreement was signed in July 1953, more than 36,000 Americans 
sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were wounded, 7,140 were captured and 
664 were missing.

American troops fought to protect our freedom as we know it today and 
paved the way for the United States to vanguard the movement for global 
democracy and liberty; a movement that afforded many countries the 
opportunity to shift to democratic regimes.

Sadly, all too many of our veterans are left without the help and 
support they need to transition from the horrors they bravely faced on 
the front lines of battle to a successful civilian life. According to 
the Veteran's Affairs Department, as of 2006, on any given night, 
196,000 veterans of all ages were homeless. As we work to curb this 
formidable reality, let us demonstrate our support for the veterans of 
the Korean War by supporting this legislation. This should encourage us 
to continue to honor this nation's troops who are fighting and who have 
fought for the rights of all of us in places we do not dare to go, 
under environments we cannot fully appreciate from this comfortable 
position.

I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans after every 
conflict, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to both 
meeting the needs of veterans of previous wars, and to provide a 
fitting welcome home to those who are now serving. Veterans have kept 
their promise to serve our nation; they have willingly risked their 
lives to protect the country we all love.

I have always been a strong supporter of our country's troops, male 
and female. That is why I introduced the House Concurrent Resolution 
320 which celebrates one of our heroic daughters of Texas, Specialist 
Monica L. Brown of the United States Army with for her efforts earlier 
this year.

Spec. Brown was the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second 
female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the 
nation's third-highest medal for valor. This soldier from Lake Jackson, 
Texas was only 20-years-old.

On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy 
patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 
25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the Humvees.

When Spec. Brown saw her fellow soldiers were injured, she grabbed 
her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as 
insurgents opened fire. All five wounded soldiers from her platoon 
scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and 
moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving 
incoming fire.

Other veteran's legislation that I am pursuing entails guaranteeing 
that our VA hospitals have the capacity to efficiently and effectively 
meet the needs of our troops. The Riverside Hospital in Houston, Texas 
is a historic medical center that has served the needs of veterans in 
the Houston area for a long time. However, currently, the hospital is 
lacking the tools necessary to treat the augmenting number of troops 
who suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other common 
problems associated with fighting in battle. Today, at this very second 
let us take a united stand for the well being of our veterans; to say 
the very least, they deserve it and to say the most; we've promised it.

This attests to the fact that we must now ensure that we keep our 
promises to our veterans by extending our gratitude and appreciation. 
Currently, there are over 25 million veterans in the United States. 
There are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 
32,000 veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I hope we 
will all take the time to show appreciation to those who have answered 
the call to duty. As the Winston Churchill famously stated, ''Never in 
the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' 
This recognition for our nation's Korean War Veterans is long overdue, 
and it is a small expression of appreciation our nation can offer to 
these men and women, and it will enable them to ensure that the 
''Forgotten War'' is forgotten no more.

Madam Speaker, as we approach the 55th anniversary of the Korean War 
Armistice, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting and 
serving those who have served this nation.