---
---

# None
## `5d8115d746d1979fe2876333750fb568`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 10 July 2009`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

House Resolution 622 provides for consideration of H.R. 3082, the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2010, 
under a structured rule.

For the past 8 years, our country has been engaged in two conflicts 
halfway around the world. The number of wounded military personnel in 
Iraq and Afghanistan has put a financial strain on the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. The Veterans Health Administration estimates that 
they will treat more than 6 million patients in 2010, including over 
400,000 veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, the consistent 
training, deployment, and redeployment of our troops have put a 
significant burden on our military.

H.R. 3082 appropriates over $133 billion in fiscal year 2010 for 
military construction, veterans programs, and four related agencies. 
The bill provides $24.6 billion for construction and improvements to 
military bases, facilities, and housing units. The bill provides $450 
million to accelerate the modernization of trainee housing and $2 
billion to construct and maintain houses for military families.

The bill also provides $200 million in additional funding for the 
Guard and Reserves to address critical unfunded requirements as a 
result of prolonged and repeated deployments. Maine is home to 
thousands of Guard and Reservists who have made an invaluable 
contribution to our national defense, and I am proud to see funding 
included in this bill for them.

H.R. 3082 also renews our commitment to redevelop closed military 
bases and their surrounding communities. The bill provides $7.5 billion 
to implement the 2005 BRAC and $537 million to address an enormous 
backlog of environmental cleanup projects from the previous BRAC 
rounds. This funding is essential to communities across the country, 
including the town of Brunswick in my district, which is already 
experiencing economic difficulties from the closing of Naval Air 
Station Brunswick.

While the investments in military construction are vital, they are 
only a small portion of this bill. More than 80 percent of the bill's 
funding in this legislation is devoted to veterans programs. The bill 
provides over $108 billion for veterans' medical care, claims 
processors, and facility improvements. H.R. 3082 increases 
appropriations by 14 percent or $12.9 billion over the current level. 
This bill includes $45 billion for the Veterans Health Administration, 
with increased funding for mental health services, assistance programs 
for homeless veterans, and innovative services for veterans in rural 
areas.


The bill also provides $85 million for States to build and renovate 
extended care facilities and $3 billion to fund new technological 
initiatives which will increase processing time and improve electronic 
record keeping.

Perhaps most importantly, the bill provides for a significant and 
historic change in the way we fund health care of our veterans. H.R. 
3082 provides $48.2 billion in advance appropriations for fiscal year 
2011 for the medical services, medical facilities, and medical 
administration accounts.

While the Congress has always taken on the challenges of this 
country, these issues have not always been shielded from partisan 
battles and political delays. This Congress in the past few weeks has 
been no exception, but there are some issues which should not be 
subject to politics and doubt. There is no doubt that the men and women 
of the armed services have bravely served our country. They have fought 
without question and without debate, and in doing so, they have 
sacrificed time with their families, risked their own well-being, and 
all too often they have sacrificed their lives. By providing advance 
appropriations for the health care of our veterans, we can take the 
steps to ensure that these benefits are not subject to politics as 
usual.

I strongly support this rule, which provides for consideration of 
this essential and important bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.