---
---

# RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT COLONEL BRIAN E. ALBERT
## `5d84e547d562c0822fa5d85d4e3e2704`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 7 November 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the contributions and achievements of Lieutenant Colonel 
(LTC) Brian E. Albert, and his 21 years of service to this country as a 
decorated officer in the United States Army.

LTC Albert began his noteworthy military career in the Ohio National 
Guard in June 1983. In 1986, he enrolled in the Reserve Officer 
Training Corps (ROTC) program at Ohio University. He was commissioned a 
Second Lieutenant on January 15, 1987, then was assigned to the Army 
Chemical Corps and began training at the Chemical Officer Basic Course 
(COBC). Always striving for advancement, he completed the COBC training 
and applied for, competed and won an active duty appointment with the 
Commandant's program.

Upon graduation from COBC, LTC Albert was assigned to the 1st 
Battalion, 32nd Field Artillery, in Hanau, Germany. During this 
assignment, he served as the Battalion Chemical Officer, HHB Executive 
Officer, and the Battalion S-1.

Within 2 short years, LTC Albert had already completed three rigorous 
training programs and won a prestigious appointment setting the tone 
for numerous awards and accolades including the Bronze Star Medal, 
Meritorious Service Achievement Medal (w/two OLCs), Army Commendation 
Medal (ARCOM), Army Achievement Medal (w/two OLCs), National Defense 
Service Medal (NDSM), Global War on Terrorism Service Medal (GWOTSM), 
Army Reserve Commendation Medal (ARCOM), and the Parachutist Badge. He 
is a distinguished member of the Order of Saint Barber (Field 
Artillery) and the Order of the Dragon (Chemical) military societies.

LTC Albert continued to enhance his portfolio completing the Chemical 
Advanced Course in March 1992. Over the next several years LTC Albert 
would continue his education completing a masters degree in human 
resource management from Central Michigan University in June 1999. LTC 
Albert's distinctive service also extends beyond the classroom. After 
completing the Army's Command and General Staff College (CGSC) in June 
2000, he was assigned to the 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Stewart, GA. 
While serving as a Brigade Operations officer, his Division was 
deployed in December 2002 to Kuwait in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom. He would go on to serve in subsequent combat operations in the 
gulf as his Division fought with distinction during Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

After returning from Iraq, LTC Albert was assigned to the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense (OSD), Counter Proliferation Policy 
office. He continued to excel coordinating key changes to research and 
development legislation for critical chemical and biological defense 
programs. He also made invaluable contributions in the establishment of 
NATO's first multinational nuclear, biological, and chemical defense 
battalion.

Throughout his illustrious career, LTC Albert served in several 
integral command and leadership roles such as Company Commander for the 
91st Chemical Company, Field Grade Assignments Officer, Assistant 
Division Chemical Officer, Battalion Training Officer (S-3) for the 
703rd Main Support Battalion, Brigade S-3 for the Division Support 
Command (DISCOM), and Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for counter 
proliferation policy.

LTC Albert concludes his distinguished military career with his final 
assignment to the U.S. Army Special Activity Management Unit located in 
Dunn Loring, VA. He contributes the success of his career to a merciful 
God and the loving support of his wife of 20 years, Tonya, and two 
children, 17-year-old Brandon and 11-year-old Kristen.

LTC Brian Albert, I stand in solidarity with your comrades, family, 
and friends as we salute you for your service and your excellence in 
the United States Army. May the Lord guide your steps as you transition 
into civilian life and continue to inspire new achievements.



