---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5d90f5464f4a661bfe97109fabb75a25`
`Mr. BENNET — 19 November 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of Specialist Dale J. Kridlo. 
Specialist Kridlo, assigned to the 27th Engineer Battalion, based in 
Fort Bragg, NC, died on November 7, 2010, of injuries sustained when 
his dismounted patrol encountered small arms fire. Specialist Kridlo 
was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Kunar Province, 
Afghanistan. He was 33 years old.

A native of Pittston, PA, Specialist Kridlo graduated from Pittston 
Area High School. After managing his own painting business for several 
years, Specialist Kridlo enlisted in the Army and served a tour of duty 
in Afghanistan with decoration. He followed in the footsteps of his 
father and grandfather, both of whom served in the Armed Forces.

During almost 2 years of service, Specialist Kridlo distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and the high standards 
to which he held his fellow soldiers. Family members recall his 
overwhelming pride when he used to describe the accomplishments of his 
combat unit in Afghanistan. Commanders recognized Specialist Kridlo's 
extraordinary bravery and talent, promoting him one week before his 
passing.

Specialist Kridlo worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who knew 
him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son, husband, and 
loving father to two young daughters. In his free time, Specialist 
Kridlo enjoyed fishing. He was also an avid Philadelphia sports fan.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' 
Specialist Kridlo's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by 
selflessly putting country


first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a sense of the 
highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Specialist Kridlo will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Specialist Kridlo's entire family--I cannot imagine the sorrow you 
must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be 
eased by your pride in Dale's service and by your knowledge that his 
country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and his 
sacrifice.











 Second Lieutenant Robert M. Kelly
