---
---

# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `5d91293371699e7e1c761c59dbec3b29`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I can assure my good 
friend from Georgia that I will not bore the folks for 35 minutes in 
this House Chamber, nor will I bore you that much, but it is certainly 
an honor to be with you here in this House Chamber, this historic 
Chamber.

I asked one of the freshmen Members as we traveled from the Chamber 
after voting recently through the tunnel going to the Cannon Building, 
and I said, well, your first 6 weeks, how does it feel? He said, 
Lincoln, I want to be honest with you. He said, I never knew how it 
felt to work in a museum, but I do now.

Working here in this Capitol, where those statues of the tremendous 
leaders of the past, inside the House Chamber where many decisions have 
been made, where on December 8 we declared war on Japan in 1941 and 
then two or 3 days later, after being declared war on by the Axis 
Nations, Germany and Italy, and that declaration occurred here, 
declaration of war, really the last declaration of war that has been 
held inside this House Chamber and declaration of war that only 
Congress, quite frankly, can declare.

So, being here at this time of history and being on the floor with 
you and other members of the Blue Dogs certainly is an honor, not a 
privilege, but an honor that the folks back in my district have given 
me, and I believe that they expect us to come here and be bipartisan in 
our efforts, that we are not here to be demagoguing the other side or 
critical, but you have to try to work in a harmonious way to find 
solutions to whatever difficulties we have in this Nation.

I had a Member ask me when I first came here, Lincoln, what did you 
want to change when you came up here? And I thought real hard, and it 
really did not take a lot of thought. My answer was I did not want to 
change America. No country in the world has reached the level of 
helping its citizens the way that this government of the United States 
of America has. I do not want to change it, but there are problems. We 
need to fix those, and we can do it by working together.

So, for me, my challenge to my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle and colleagues here on this side of the aisle, let us start being 
a little more civil with each other.

I left from this House Chamber after the debate we had on whether or 
not to agree with the President's plan for a surge in Iraq is something 
we wanted to do in this Chamber, and it got to the point where the 
questions of someone's patriotism became a part of that debate and 
dialogue. Of course, some may obviously follow suit with that, but we 
had a debate about whether or not we supported the troops. The 
resolution said we do. We had a debate about whether we agreed with the 
strategy, apparently the new strategy of this President to engage an 
additional numbers of troops in Iraq.

Now I want to talk a moment about that budget we looked at and at the 
deficit. I remember I was elected in 1980 to the State House in 
Tennessee. As I was travelling from my home of Byrdstown in Pall Mall 
to Nashville to the State capital, it came across the radio that we had 
just increased the national debt ceiling to a trillion dollars. That 
frightened me. A trillion dollars in the early 1980s. I remember that 
as we talked about increasing that debt ceiling by $20 billion or $15 
billion how difficult it was in this House Chamber. Now we increase it 
by hundreds of billions of dollars without even really having an up-or-
down vote on that particular debt ceiling increase.

I thought how ironic it was that in 1980 how difficult it was for a 
debt ceiling to be increased, and now it just seems to be as if a snap 
of the finger and all of the sudden, we reach that level.

Then I watched for the next 8 years, the next 12 years, as that debt 
not gradually, but very rapidly rose in the 3 and 4 trillions of 
dollars. I am thinking in a 12-year period of time, how is that 
possible. If we look back basically almost 200 years, we reached a 
trillion, and suddenly we had doubled and quadrupled what we had in 
that period of time.

Since 2001, even with the surpluses that were applied to reduce the 
debt that this country owed, for a period of almost 4 years, out 4 
years of surplus budgets where we had more than we spent, we took in 
more than we spent, and started paying down the debt, I am surprised 
that almost $3 trillion in the last 5 years has been added to that 
figure down there.

I often hear people talk about the first thing a baby does--my chief 
of staff just recently had a newborn son in early December, and they 
nicknamed him Willis, a pretty little thing, handsome little fellow. He 
came to one of my open meetings with him. On Saturday, we had 24 
throughout the district. I represent 24 counties. The first thing 
little Willis did when he came to this earth, he started crying. I know 
now why he was crying. He realizes that this country, that these 
leaders in this Chamber, that this Nation has handed him a $29,000-plus 
debt, that he does not even have a job yet to pay off, and if we 
continue to go as we are going, before he gets his first job, he will 
owe more money than five times the first house cost me that I bought 
for our family in the late 1960s.


I want to talk now about Iraq for a moment. I hear people in this 
Chamber talk about cut and run being the policy of Democrats and 
staying the course being the policy of the White House. Both of those 
are wrong. I do not think standing the course is going to get it done, 
and cut and run is something, quite frankly, that I go back in history, 
and I cannot find that example, except some folks might say Vietnam.

But I saw Vice President Cheney in Japan early last week thanking our 
troops, and it dawned upon me that, let me say now we have troops in 
Japan after World War II. We have troops in Germany after World War II. 
I went back and looked at the tens of thousands of troops we have in 
Korea and South Korea after the Korean War; I go to Kosovo and in 
Bosnia and in Serbia and in the Balkans, and I realize that we have 
forces there from the late 1990s, although there were those in this 
Chamber on the other side of the aisle that called that Nation building 
and wanted to know when then-President Clinton was going to give us a 
time certain, even I think the presidential candidate at that time as 
well who later became the President in 2001, even he was talking about 
Nation building and a time certain that our troops should be pulled 
out.



As we debate this issue, it is ironic to me that anyone would accuse 
someone else of asking for some of the same considerations that they 
asked for a certainty of. But we are still in Bosnia and Kosovo and, 
quite frankly, this President that is here now and this Congress saw 
fit to stay there, that we should keep the peace with our friends of 
NATO.

But I look at other parts of the world. We are in Turkey. Our ally in 
NATO, the Turks, we still have bases there. But then I got to thinking, 
well, now, we had a war in the Middle East, a U.N.-sanctioned, totally 
supported, my understanding is we probably had three or four times the 
number of troops that went in 1991 to remove Saddam Hussein from his 
aggressive actions in Kuwait, and we forced him back into his country. 
Then we had north and south no-fly zones, had him pretty much 
contained. But we still have troops in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. We still 
have troops in Kuwait. We still have troops in places like United Arab 
Emirates. Are we going to have troops in Iraq when this is over? This 
is never going to be over.