# ADDRESSES OF SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES NANCY PELOSI AND  SPEAKER OF KNESSET AND ACTING PRESIDENT OF ISRAEL DALIA ITZIK AT U.S.- ISRAEL FRIENDSHIP EVENT IN JERUSALEM
## `5d9a38d5f0744da23b8503d28d194eba`
`Mr. LANTOS â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. LANTOS. Madam Speaker, earlier this year in Jerusalem in the 
Israeli Knesset, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, was 
honored at one of the most moving and significant ceremonies that I 
have witnessed as a Member of the United States Congress.

The distinguished Speaker of the House, our colleague Nancy Pelosi of 
California, and the congressional delegation with her as well as other 
Members of Congress were guests at a state dinner held in the Chagall 
State Hall of the Knesset in Jerusalem, the capital of Israel. I was 
honored to join five of our colleagues in the bipartisan delegation 
that accompanied our Speaker on this very special occasion.

The hall, as you know, Madam Speaker, is dominated by the magnificent 
tapestry designed by Jewish artist Marc Chagall. It is hard not to be 
touched emotionally to see in Chagall's tapestry the symbols of Jewish 
identity and Israeli statehood--Moses holding the tablets of the Ten 
Commandments, David wearing his crown and dancing as he plays the harp, 
the seven-branched candelabrum which was the symbol of the Temple of 
Solomon and today is the symbol of the modern State of Israel.

On this very special occasion Speaker Pelosi was welcomed to Israel 
by the Speaker of the Knesset Dalia Itzik, who at the time was also the 
Acting President of Israel. Following her warm and friendly welcoming 
remarks, Speaker Pelosi gave a moving statement on the strong and 
enduring ties that have linked the United States of America and the 
State of Israel since the day Israel was founded in 1948.

Madam Speaker, I ask that the welcoming address of Speaker Itzik and 
the outstanding address in response of Speaker Pelosi be placed in the 
Record, and I strongly urge my colleagues in the Congress to give these 
statements the thoughtful attention they deserve as important documents 
on the warm friendship between our two nations.


Address of Speaker of Knesset and Acting President of Israel Dalia 
















 Itzik




 Madam Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United 


 States, Ms. Nancy Pelosi; Members of the Delegation from the 


 House of Representatives, Welcome to our House.



 Madam Speaker, More than two hundred years have passed, and 


 the impossible has now become possible. The United States 


 House of Representatives elected a woman Speaker. It is true 


 that there have been precedents in American democracy where 


 women have held very high positions, but this is the first 


 time that the House of Representatives has elected a woman to 


 serve as Speaker. And it was you who achieved this high 


 honor. (It took you over 230 years; it took us 58 years.)



 Ms. Pelosi and members of the distinguished delegation, in 


 less than 24 hours, tomorrow evening, the Jewish People will 


 be enveloped in the sanctity of the Passover Festival. 


 Millions of Jews--in Washington and in Jerusalem, in Tashkent 


 and in Buenos Aires, in Sydney and in Budapest--will sit down 


 together at their family Seder table. The Passover Festival 


 is for us Jews our first and most ancient festival in our 


 history, we have been remembering and celebrating this 


 festival for some three thousand two hundred years. It was 


 then that we became a nation. We went out from slavery to 


 freedom. This was a formative event in our lives.



 Another name for the Festival of Passover is the Festival 


 of Freedom. Freedom and liberty form the chain that links us, 


 the invisible chain that crosses continents and oceans from 


 Jerusalem to Washington and back.



 Madam Speaker, after two hundred and thirty years of 


 independence, liberty is for you a dream that has already 


 been realized. For us, after thousands of years, the dream is 


 still being realized. We are an ancient People, whose roots 


 are in the Bible and whose values are those of the Biblical 


 prophets, while you are, so to speak, a relatively young 


 nation and country. But we share the dream of liberty that 


 ties us together with bonds of love.



 We Israelis love the United States of America, not only 


 because of your economic, military and political support and 


 help. We love you because of that shared dream of liberty and 


 the desire for peace. The Bible tells us ''Seek peace and 


 pursue it'' (Psalms 34, 15), and you are our loyal partners 


 in that unceasing search that has not yet ended.



 Madam Speaker, the Members of the Knesset have just begun 


 their Spring Recess. Nevertheless, many of them are here with 


 us. Because of the Recess, we shall not be able to present to 


 you, during your current visit, a day of normal parliamentary 


 routine.



 The Knesset is the location where decisions concerning the 


 nation are taken. The Knesset reflects the unique nature of 


 Israeli society in all its diversity. This is a society where 


 Jews, Arabs, Druze and Circassians, veteran Israelis and new 


 immigrants all live together. There are serious disputes 


 between us.



 There are disputes, and--although it may be difficult to 


 believe--also points of agreement! And all this happens with 


 complete




 freedom of expression for all. The one thing that unites all 


 the members of this multi-party and divided House is the hope 


 for peace. In the State of Israel lives a nation that yearns 


 for peace, wants peace and is ready to pay a heavy price for 


 peace. At the same time, we remain aware of every danger. 


 Israel does not have the luxury of allowing itself weakness, 


 even for one moment.



 Madam Speaker, you have come to a tiny country. We have 


 only seven million citizens. A tiny country that has not 


 known a single day of quiet since its establishment. A tiny 


 country that appreciates, perhaps more than any other country 


 in the world, the efforts of your country to put an end to 


 terrorism.



 You have come to a country that observes with both pain and 


 great hope, the efforts of the great United States of America 


 to eradicate the terrorist bases in Iraq, in Afghanistan and 


 in other places.



 We, who wake up each morning fearing for our children, we 


 know how difficult it is for you in this just war, and from 


 here, from Jerusalem, we send you our heartfelt blessing for 


 your success and for the success of the free world.



 When I met you in Washington a month ago, I invited you to 


 come to visit Israel, and I am glad that you accepted my 


 invitation. During that visit I invited Karnit Goldwasser to 


 join me at our meeting. I saw how moved you were listening to 


 Karnit. I saw how moved you were by the story of our 


 kidnapped soldiers, Gilad Shalit, Eldad Regev, and Ehud 


 Goldwasser.



 I am proud to be the daughter of a nation whose ethical 


 code sanctifies the principle that every soldier is 


 everyone's soldier. Every missing soldier is greatly missed 


 by us all and every prisoner of war is a prisoner who it is 


 our duty to bring back home.



 The commitment of the Bush administration to the Peace 


 Process in our region is very important and precious for us. 


 As also is the President's deep friendship for Israel. The 


 intensive activity by the Secretary of State, in the spirit 


 of President Bush's policy, is most important, and is part of 


 an ongoing effort by generations of American Administrations.



 This is an opportunity to say a big thank you, through you, 


 to Israel's friends in Congress, and to express our 


 appreciation to you and to them for all their many efforts on 


 behalf of Israel and on behalf of regional stability. We are 


 pleased to discover anew each time, that the support for 


 Israel rises above any inter-party dispute in the United 


 States.



 Madam Speaker, distinguished Representatives, during your 


 visit here in Israel you will have the opportunity to see 


 personally the exceptional achievements of Israel during its 


 fifty-eight years. Despite no less than ten wars, between 


 which we experienced many horrifying acts of terrorism, we 


 have set up a model country, with a flourishing modem 


 economy, with ground-breaking research centers, dynamic 


 culture and advanced education, welfare and health systems.



 Madam Speaker, You bring here to our region a refreshing 


 breeze of hope. Your upcoming visit to Damascus arouses, 


 naturally, a political debate in your country and of course 


 here too.



 I believe in your worthy intentions. Perhaps this step--


 that may at this stage seem unpopular--that you intend to 


 take when you leave here, will make it clear to the Syrian 


 people and to the Syrian leadership, that they must abandon 


 the axis of evil, that they must stop supporting terrorism 


 and giving shelter to the terrorist's command posts, that 


 they must make a real strategic choice that will bring hope 


 to the citizens of Syria and to the citizens of the whole 


 region.



 Israel seeks peace; anyone who speaks of peace and displays 


 an honest intention to seek peace will find an ear in Israel.



 Sitting with us here this evening is Mrs. Nadia Cohen, 


 whose husband, Eli Cohen, was executed by hanging in Damascus 


 42 years ago (in 1965). Nadia, and all of Israel, has been 


 asking the Syrian Government for many long years, to allow 


 the removal of Eli Cohen's bones for burial here in Israel. 


 This would be an elementary human gesture. I hope that your 


 visit will enable the President of Syria to finally take the 


 decision that seems so necessary. By this act the Syrian 


 President could indicate to the world and to us that 


 something can nevertheless change.



 Madam Speaker, and our distinguished guests, the members of 


 your delegation, you have come here to a small country. We 


 number only seven million citizens, but fourteen million arms 


 are stretched wide open to receive you with a blessing of 


 Shalom [peace] and with the traditional greeting of welcome--


 ''B'ruchim HaBa'im'' [Blessed be those who arrive]. Please 


 look upon this House, the Knesset, the principal and primary 


 institution of Israeli democracy, as though it were your 


 House too.



 You are our brothers in the legislature and we see you and 


 your fellow Americans as true friends of Israel. We 


 appreciate your contribution to the strengthening of the 


 security and strength of the State of Israel, and feel 


 gratitude to all the American governments over the years.



 B'ruchim atem bevo'achem'' [May you be blessed on your 


 arrival]. And to all our other guests, who have come here to 


 the Knesset today, I would like to take this opportunity to 


 wish you a Happy Passover--Festival of Freedom--in the 


 embrace of your families.