---
---

# None
## `5da6398993146a827e577f7ebba453ac`
`Mr. GINGREY — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank the gentleman for yielding. My good friend, my 
subcommittee Chair on the Science Committee, made a comment. He said, 
the reason for the skyrocketing price of gasoline is because of what is 
going on in the Middle East; this war that we are waging in Iraq.

Well, I would like to point out to him that the production of oil 
from Iraq today is exactly what it was prior to the war 5 years ago 
commencing. And that is about 2.5 million gallons a day from Iraq. So 
the price of oil has nothing to do with that. It absolutely has nothing 
to do with it. We are going to control this with some of the ideas, the 
coal-to-liquid idea that Mr. Shimkus, the gentleman from Illinois, just 
talked about. We are going to help solve this problem by licensing some 
new nuclear power plants.

As the former chairman of the Rules Committee, Mr. Dreier, the 
gentleman from California, talked about, yes, we are going to look at 
solar, we are going to look at wind. We certainly, as our minority 
party, now former majority party, have tried so hard to get us to 
explore for more oil and gas in this country. ANWR could produce 
another 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, and drilling on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, why are those things blocked?

It's time for us to do something about it, and I am glad that the 
gentleman from Washington is going to ask all Members to vote against 
the previous question and let's give an opportunity for Members to come 
down and give their ideas.