# None
## `5dae496fb9e2346e5a22ebac9e2d96cf`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 20 May 2008`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Madam Speaker, I also would like to thank the chairman 
of our full committee, Mr. Filner, for being so supportive, and the 
chairman of our subcommittee, Mr. Michaud, for helping to make this 
legislation a reality today. I'm very grateful for the opportunity to 
be part of this important piece of legislation.

Nationally, one in five veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan 
suffer from PTSD. Twenty-three percent of members of the Armed Forces 
on active duty acknowledge that they have a significant problem with 
alcohol. Veterans must receive the help they need to deal with these 
conditions.

The effects of substance abuse are devastating, including 
significantly increased risk of suicide, exacerbation of mental and 
physical health disorders, breakdown of family support, and increased 
risk of unemployment and homelessness. Veterans suffering from mental 
health problems are at increased risk for developing a substance abuse 
disorder.

A constituent of mine, Lance Corporal Justin Bailey, was a 1998 
graduate of Las Vegas High School. Upon returning from a tour of duty 
in Iraq, he was diagnosed with PTSD and was discharged from the Marines 
in 2004. He developed a substance abuse disorder, and with the 
encouragement of his parents, checked himself into a VA facility in 
west Los Angeles to get the treatment that he needed and recognized 
that he needed.

He sought treatment for a drug abuse problem, and yet he was given 
five additional medications on a self-medication program. With those 
five additional medications in his system, Justin overdosed and died on 
January 26, 2007.

The loss of a child is devastating enough, but what made matters 
worse is the way that Justin's parents were treated by the VA. They 
were treated with indifference and apathy at the West L.A. facility 
that their son died at. They were handed Justin's belongings in a trash 
bag.

Last August, 8 months after Justin's death, the Baileys returned to 
Los Angeles to meet with the Chief of Staff at the West L.A. facility. 
They came away from the meeting feeling that the Chief of Staff had 
been completely unprepared and seemed out of touch with the needs of 
the veterans. The Chief of Staff went so far as to state that his staff 
didn't know how to treat veterans of the Iraq and Afghan war because 
they were young, and the staff was not tough enough on these younger 
veterans, they tended to give them anything they asked for.

I'm very pleased that the committee included my amendment to require 
the VA to conduct a review of all residential mental health care 
facilities, including domiciliary facilities, and agree to rename the 
bill in Justin's honor. I know this means a great deal to Justin's 
family.

Passage of the Justin Bailey Substance Use Disorder Treatment and 
Prevention Act will help to ensure that we have the mental health 
resources and substance abuse treatment programs needed to care for our 
veterans. The assessments of residential mental health facilities 
required will help us to learn how well the VA is performing and what 
we can do to improve these services, including expanded availability at 
VA hospitals.

The availability of treatment for PTSD, including substance abuse 
disorder counseling, will save many lives. This must remain a top 
priority.

A review of the services provided to our veterans is needed to ensure 
that what happened to Justin does not happen to anyone else ever again.

It's imperative that we provide adequate mental health services for 
those who have sacrificed for our great Nation and those who continue 
to serve.

I wholeheartedly support H.R. 5554 and urge my colleagues to do the 
same.