# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `5dca14d263849de83e268444f9d5eaf9`
`Ms. NORTON â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman for 
yielding and for his ceaseless fight for the District's rights. During 
the rule, I thanked the many others who are responsible for this 
historic day.

Today's vote will allow the House to erase many deep historic wrongs 
from the Nation's conscience. As the House votes, District's residents 
are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan in a shooting war, as they have in 
every war, including the war that established our Republic.

Andy Shallal, a District resident, said it best: ''People like me of 
Iraqi ancestry and even my son, who was born in the United States, are 
entitled to vote in Iraq elections due in large part to the service of 
the citizens of the District of Columbia and other Americans who have 
fought and died in Iraq.''

And today's vote will erase the slander that the Founders of our 
country who staged the revolution for representation would then deny it 
to the residents of their own capital.

Professor Viet Dinh, President Bush's former point man on 
constitutional matters, has wiped away the major argument that because 
the District is not a State its American citizens cannot vote in the 
people's House, by detailing the many ways in which ''since 1805 the 
Supreme Court has recognized that Congress has the authority to treat 
the District as a State, and Congress has repeatedly exercised that 
authority.'' My favorite is the sixteenth amendment, which requires 
only that citizens of States pay Federal income taxes. Why then have 
District residents continuously been taxed without representation?

And today's vote will relieve the House of the shameful racial burden 
that has been at the core of the denial of the rights of D.C. citizens. 
Congress required the same racial segregation here as in the Southern 
States, in schools and in public accommodations, until the 1954 Brown 
decision. As one Southern Senator put it: ''The Negroes flocked in, and 
there was only one way out, and that was to deny suffrage entirely to 
every human being in the district.''

Former Republican Senator Edward Brooke, a native Washingtonian and 
the Nation's first popularly elected black Senator, wrote: ''The 
experience of living in a segregated city and of serving in our 
segregated Army perhaps explains why my party's work on the Voting 
Rights Act reauthorization last year and on the pending D.C. House 
Voting Rights Act has been so important to me personally. The irony, of 
course, is that I had to leave my hometown to get representation in 
Congress and to become a Member.''

Today, I ask the House to abolish that irony and the tragedy for the 
many who have come to the Nation's Capital seeking freedom for 206 
years, among them my great grandfather, Richard Holmes, a slave who ran 
away from a Virginia plantation in the 1850s and settled our family 
here. I appeal to your conscience and ask for your vote so that finally 
there also will be a vote for your fellow Americans here who have paid 
for this precious right many times over in blood and in treasure.

I thank the gentleman for yielding.