---
---

# PRESERVING UNITED STATES ATTORNEY INDEPENDENCE ACT OF 2007
## `5dd2aad4d2c48a58cf21305615b6fdae`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 19 March 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, first, I have had the opportunity to 
listen to my colleague from the great State of Iowa, and I want to tell 
Senator Grassley that I couldn't agree with him more in the speech he 
just gave concerning the leadership of the Smithsonian museum. I find 
it is not dissimilar to some of the problems we found from time to time 
with college presidents of public universities, that somehow we get off 
the beaten path in terms of taxpayer funding. I certainly commend him 
for the work he is doing in that area.

I rise this afternoon, however, to talk a little bit about something 
that is so close to the heart of our democracy, and that is the rule of 
law. As a very young lawyer out of law school, I was very blessed to 
have the opportunity to begin my legal career as an assistant 
prosecuting attorney in the courtrooms of Jackson County, in Kansas 
City, MO. I learned so much in those first few years that I toiled as 
an assistant prosecutor. I had a felony docket, and I was learning from 
great prosecutors. It is inspiring when I think back on the quality of 
legal work that was going on in those courtrooms on behalf of the 
public by the prosecuting attorneys who worked there for very little 
money.

I was mentored on the rules of evidence and on courtroom strategy, 
but, most importantly, I was mentored on the rules as they relate to 
the ethics of a prosecutor. Where is that line and how do you draw it? 
How does a prosecutor make the decision as to whether this is justice 
in terms of a sentence or this is not justice, and it must be put in 
the hands of a jury when you are trying to decide plea bargains. 
Charging decisions: how do you decide when someone is charged with a 
felony or whether you let it go with a misdemeanor, or perhaps not 
charge at all?

Those lessons were so fundamental to the work that was done. It was 
from that experience that I began to revere--revere the rule of law in 
the United States of America. It is fundamental to our democracy. It is 
the engine that runs our democracy. It is the envy of the rest of the 
world.

As I have traveled from time to time in other countries, I have seen 
this firsthand. I will never forget a time when I was in a foreign 
country and we got pulled over by a police officer. We asked the native 
who was helping us around the country that day: What is this? He said 
we have to pay him. I remember thinking to myself how fortunate we are 
in America that there isn't an ingrained system of bribery on the 
streets of our cities because we have this rule of law.

What is the heart of the rule of law? At its very essence, if you 
strip away everything else, what is core and central to the rule of 
law? It is the independent prosecutor. It doesn't matter if you become 
a prosecutor by election or selection. Once you take that oath, once 
you raise your hand and swear to the job that you are about to take, 
you must become blindfolded to any political considerations. You must 
see all lawbreakers as equal whether the lawbreaker is a Congressman, a 
police officer, or a high school dropout who is unemployed.

What is so offensive about the e-mail traffic that has been 
discovered at the Department of Justice surrounding the firing of eight 
prosecutors in the Federal criminal justice system has been their 
reference to loyalty--''loyal Bushies''--loyalty to the President and, 
by implication, to his party.

Prosecutors I have known, and I am lucky that I have known hundreds, 
have loyalty to only one thing, and that is to the law. Good American 
prosecutors are slaves to the facts of the case and loyal only to the 
law of this great country. They have great power, prosecutors in our 
country. The decisions they make, as they apply those facts to our law, 
can achieve justice. Those same decisions can also ruin lives.

What is happening right now in the United States as it relates to 
these eight U.S. attorneys, frankly, isn't that important in the grand 
scheme of things to those eight U.S. attorneys, or those eight 
prosecutors. Am I sorry that they have been caught up in what appears 
to be a political scandal as it relates to their firing? Am I sorry 
that they have been maligned, and it was said that they were 
underperforming when, in reality, this was about being a ''loyal 
Bushie''?

By the way, I am quoting the e-mail when I say ''loyal Bushie.'' That 
is the only reason I would use that term on the floor of the Senate, 
quoting that document.

What really is happening is very important to all the other 
prosecutors across the United States of America, particularly those 
prosecutors in the Federal system because, frankly, what the Justice 
Department is implying is if you still have your job as U.S. attorney, 
you are loyal to the President of the United States and that is why you 
kept your job; not that you were loyal to the law. The Attorney 
General's action implies they kept their jobs because they were loyal 
to the President.

It is not OK to judge a prosecutor through a prism of political 
loyalty. The facts show that these decisions included discussions of 
the prosecutor's loyalty to the President, and because of that fact, 
and that fact alone, the Attorney General owes them and the rest of 
America much more than an apology. He owes them his resignation.










 Tribute To Former Senator Tom Eagleton


Also, as a young prosecutor, I was very fortunate to have a man who 
was a mentor to me and continued to be a mentor until, very sadly, the 
end of his life just a few days ago. He was a great politician, and 
there is no place he would prefer to be called that than on the floor 
of the Senate.

There is a hole in the heart of Missouri with the death of Senator 
Tom Eagleton. He was a giant among leaders and leaves a legacy that 
should guide public servants and Senators for generations to come.

Beginning in 1956, at the age of 27, he also became a prosecutor. He 
was elected the prosecutor of St. Louis city, a circuit attorney. In a 
brief 12-year span, he became elected prosecutor of St. Louis, went on 
to be elected to the attorney general's position and then on to 
Lieutenant Governor and on to U.S. Senate--a whirling dervish of 
energy, intellect, and ambition.

In 1968, when Missourians sent our ''boy wonder'' to Washington, we 
knew he would achieve greatness, and he certainly didn't disappoint us. 
Within his first term, he had already begun to turn the tide on the 
environmental damage that had ensued within the


half century after the industrial revolution by helping craft the Clean 
Air Act of 1970 and the Clean Water Act of 1972. He was a strong 
advocate for children with disabilities and created the National 
Institute on Aging.

While much of what Senator Eagleton did in the Senate made a true 
impact on America and the world, no action may have been as great as 
his handwritten amendment that stopped the bombing in Cambodia. This 
courageous act changed the course of history by subsequently ending the 
Vietnam war. His complete grasp of the complexities of foreign policy 
continued until his death.

As he talked to me in February of 2005 and tried to convince me to 
run for the Senate, he said to me: Claire, this war in Iraq is a 
disaster and, believe me, it is going to get much worse before it gets 
better.

Even in the later years of his life, he was a virtual fountain of 
information about foreign policy across the world. Despite the fact 
that Senator Eagleton was a scholar at Amherst College in Massachusetts 
and Oxford and a cum laude graduate from Harvard Law School and 
prominent attorney and politician, he could relate to anybody. ''Just 
call me Tom,'' he would always say, with a warm grin and a firm 
handshake. That was his style--plainspoken, genuine, and usually the 
funniest man in the room.

His ability to be the voice of everyday Americans was the reason he 
was elected to three terms in the U.S. Senate and the same reason it 
was so hard for him to leave public service in 1986. But, 
characteristically, he left office with very modest words. He said:




 There is no sadness in leaving public life while you still 


 have something worthwhile to do and the time and motivation 


 to do it.


And that he certainly did. In the famous style and personality that 
was Tom Eagleton, he went from public office but not from public life. 
A university lecturer, political commentator, writer, philanthropic 
fundraiser, community advocate, sports enthusiast, Tom continued to 
pursue dreams of a different kind.

While Tom shied away from claiming due credit, his good friend and 
colleague from the other side of the aisle, Senator John Danforth, 
summed up his amazing political career by saying:




 What has set Tom Eagleton apart from the rest of us is not 


 his intellect and his energy, as impressive as they are. It 


 is his moral passion, his capacity for outrage, his 


 insistence that justice be done, that wrongs be made right.


More than what Americans gained from his victories, achievements, 
degrees, and accolades is the lessons we find in his words that we can 
take into the future:




 Be civil and modest. Act with courage and integrity. Pursue 


 your dreams and do right by your neighbors. And most of all, 


 don't take yourself too seriously.


His memorial service was a wonderful tribute to Tom Eagleton. We all 
laughed and we cried. Some giants from the Senate were in attendance, 
and some Democratic ward workers from a nearby political ward who had 
been working the phones and putting up yard signs for 30, 40 years--all 
sat together and listened to great stories about a great man.

We all appreciated the fact that Senator Tom Eagleton wanted the last 
word. So, a year before his death, he wrote a letter--I would like to 
make it part of the Record today--that everyone who attended the 
memorial service was lucky enough to receive. It talks about his life, 
it talks about his service in the Senate, it talks about the things 
that were important to him, and about his family--which was most 
important to him. But you got the sense of the man even from his 
farewell address, and I will close today by using the last line he used 
in the letter he wrote that he wanted distributed at his memorial 
service:




 So go forth in love and peace--be kind to dogs--and vote 


 Democratic.


I ask unanimous consent the letter be printed in the Record.