# ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW MIDDLE EAST INITIATIVE
## `5dd997ae0a30d769af3271254bed45c9`
`Mr. WOLF — 30 March 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I would like to share with our colleagues 
additional information on the new initiative for the Middle East that I 
announced at a press conference on March 22. I submit for the Record 
the remarks of former Ambassador David Abshire, who in his capacity at 
the Center for the Study of the Presidency will be administering this 
initiative. I also submit observations on the Middle East from Dr. 
Robert Cooley, President Emeritus of Gordon-Conwell Theological 
Seminary.



Remarks From Dr. David Abshire Before the March 22, 2007 Press 








Conference on New Middle East Initiative




 We are grateful to Congressman Wolf for his leadership, and 


 encouragement of this initiative facilitated by the non-


 partisan Center for the Study of the Presidency. This 


 initiative on Israel and Palestine is based on 


 recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, which Congressman 


 Wolf also helped launch: ''The United States will not be able 


 to achieve its goals in the Middle East unless the United 


 States deals directly with the Arab-Israeli conflict.'' The 


 Secretary of State, when in Ramallah, said ''I have heard a 


 clear call for deeper American engagement, and we are 


 absolutely committed.''



 The current effort that we are announcing today, which 


 Secretary Rice supports, observes this recommendation, and we 


 are honored that our Center, which examines the American 


 Presidency, has been asked to contribute to such an important 


 initiative. Eleven U.S. Presidents have had to deal with this 


 challenge. We are therefore delighted that Ambassador Dennis 


 Ross of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy will 


 serve as a Senior Advisor at the Center, and bring his 


 extensive experience to this endeavor.



 In terms of exchanges, health is essential to the economy, 


 well-being, national security, and future of the Middle East 


 region. The goal of this part of the initiative is to foster 


 collaboration and facilitate interactions between medical and 


 scientific experts in Israel and Palestine to improve health. 


 Our Center has the advantage of the leadership and experience 


 of Senior Advisor, Rear Admiral Susan Blumenthal, M.D., who 


 is an expert on a broad range of public health and medical 


 issues. She served as Assistant Surgeon General in the US 


 Department of Health and Human Services, where her work in 


 global health included fostering a Middle East health 


 initiative with Israel, Palestine, Egypt and Jordan.



 We also will encourage more academic and scientific 


 exchange and cooperative efforts in the model of the Israeli-


 Palestinian Science Organization--a non-political, nonprofit 


 organization which is dedicated to nurturing and supporting 


 cooperation between Israeli and Palestinian scientists and 


 scholars in joint research ventures. In doing so, IPSO brings 


 about dialogue between the two sides, even in these highly 


 explosive times.



 On a separate track, we enthusiastically welcome the 


 leadership of former Democratic Congressman Tony Hall, also 


 former Ambassador to the UN Agencies for Food and 


 Agriculture. Tony has written a truly remarkable book on his 


 experiences here--Changing the Face of Hunger. Ambassador 


 Hall and his team of diverse lay and religious leaders will 


 seek to build better understanding between religious leaders. 


 The Holy Land is common to the three religions that find 


 their beginning in Abraham, and this initiative is indeed 


 appropriate at the time when we seek peace and understanding 


 throughout the Middle East.

Remarks on the Middle East From Dr. Robert Cooley, President Emeritus, 









Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary




 First, a little background on my experience in the Land and 


 at home, as well. My doctoral studies were in the fields of 


 the Ancient and Modern Near East with special interest in 


 Hebrew Studies and Syro-Palestinian Archaeology. I have 


 excavated at five buried sites in the three countries of 


 Jordan, Egypt and Israel. During these past 48 years, I have 


 had the privilege of working with Palestinian Moslems, 


 Palestinian Christians and Israelis in a variety of roles, 


 most notably as the director of 75 study tours and as an 


 archaeologist. Further, I have served as the Annual 


 Professor, William Foxwell Albright Institute of Archaeology 


 and Visiting Professor at the Jerusalem University College. 


 Many of the citizens of the Land have become personal friends 


 over these many years




 and we continue to communicate and visit with each other. In 


 all of these associations, I have sustained an apolitical 


 stance, having personal values and feelings for all of the 


 people based upon my own faith commitment and understanding 


 of their own aspirations and vision.



 In the USA, I have been a professor at Wheaton College, 


 Evangel University, Dropsie University, Missouri State 


 University where I served as the Director of the Center for 


 Archaeological Research. Most recently, I served as president 


 of Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary until my retirement in 


 1997.



 I join Congressman Wolf in underscoring the strategic role 


 that people of faith have in creating the mood for meaningful 


 dialog toward a lasting peace. It is time that such persons 


 have a voice in framing the peace conversation and the 


 solution that will allow all to have lives of dignity, 


 freedom and tranquility. The roots of religion run very deep 


 into the region's antiquity and cannot be separated from 


 matters that we in the West would call secular or merely 


 political. After all, the three major groups in the Land are 


 Sons of Abraham and share a common understood relationship 


 that serves as a basis for living together in harmony today. 


 The past 50 years of failed politics have undermined communal 


 harmony and allowed outside forces to enter and to modify 


 relationships. Now, differences in a culture of hatred are 


 about to fragment the greater society and turn the region 


 into a quagmire of despair. An approach that takes seriously 


 the Abrahamic factor can bring the parties back to his tent 


 for conversation and where participants can look each in the 


 eye and see each other's humanity and aspirations. The God of 


 Abraham unifies through His promises and mercy.



 It is true that religion can divide a society. This is no 


 more true than in the Holy Land and the Middle East. 


 Religious differences are sharp and numerous. The majority of 


 the people are Muslims. But, within Islam, there are at least 


 72 sects with the Sunni and the Shi'a being the most 


 populated. Christians tend to be identified along four lines: 


 Eastern Orthodox Churches, Oriental Churches, Roman 


 Catholics, and Protestants. Judaism has its own deep 


 divides--Orthodox, Conservative and Reformed, along with 


 other lesser groups. Of course, there are several other 


 religious groups, due to the history of the region and they 


 represent a variety of mixtures, such as, The Druzes, The 


 Yazidis, The Sabeans and The Bahais. Superimposed over these 


 religious groups are the interests of politics and geo-


 economics.



 One cannot speak about peace on the political level without 


 taking into account the religious roots of the people. The 


 veneration of holy sites and places is fundamental to 


 identities, and they are multiple. The only solution is an 


 open and free society that must be the goal of peace.
