# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5def3155c7cc5b219d13c1ee9b6df09f`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise on behalf of my constituents in Illinois to say, 
as strongly as possible for myself and for them, that we reject 
President Bush's decision to deploy more than 20,000 additional United 
States combat troops to Iraq.

Tragically, the President and his administration are dealing with an 
Iraq that exists only in their imagination. Bob Herbert said it well in 
Monday's New York Times: ''We need to stop pretending that there is 
something sane about continued U.S. involvement in this ruinous war. We 
keep sending troops into the combat zone, and they keep sinking ever 
deeper into the ancient Middle East sand. To keep sending young people 
off to die in a war that everybody knows is pointless is criminal.''

Each time that the Bush administration has proclaimed that we must 
stay the course because the war has just reached a turning point, that 
turn has led to a dead end.

May 2003, President Bush declared ''Mission Accomplished.'' By the 
end of 2003, 486 of our troops were dead and 2,408 were wounded. And 
yet we stayed the course in Iraq.

In June 2004, President Bush said, ''We're handing over authority to 
a sovereign Iraqi Government . . . a turning point will come in less 
than 2 weeks.''

By the end of 2004, 1,334 of our troops were killed and 10,408 were 
wounded. And yet we stayed the course in Iraq.

In June 2005, Vice President Cheney said, ''I think they are in the 
last throes, if you will, of the insurgency.'' And in December 2005, 
President Bush said '' . . . the year 2005 will be recorded as a 
turning point in the history of Iraq, the history of the Middle East, 
and the history of freedom.''

By the end of 2005, 2,180 of our troops were killed and 16,354 were 
wounded. And yet we stayed the course in Iraq.

In May 2006, President Bush called the formation of a new Iraqi 
Government ''a turning point.'' By the end of 2006, 3,001 of our troops 
were killed and 22,736 were wounded. And yet we stayed the course in 
Iraq.

And just last month, Vice President Cheney proclaimed, ''Well, I 
think if you look at what's transpired in Iraq . . . we have, in fact, 
made enormous progress.'' And President Bush told us that his new 
strategy to escalate the war in Iraq ''will change America's course in 
Iraq and help us succeed in the fight against terror.''

Since those remarks made just days ago, more than 120 troops are 
dead, and yet once again we are being asked to stay the course in Iraq.

My colleagues across the aisle want to characterize this troop 
increase, the fourth escalation, as a new direction. But the American 
people know better. They recognize ''stay the course'' when they see 
it, and they are saying no. And the administration continues the 
charade that if you don't support this war and this escalation, then 
you don't support the troops.

Shame on them. It is they who have failed to serve the troops who 
have served us so well. From day one our troops were sent into the war 
theater without the proper equipment to maximize their safety. Families 
have bake sales to buy their loved ones better vests and helmets. Just 
last month the Pentagon's Inspector General found that the Defense 
Department hasn't been able to properly equip the troops it already has 
with enough guns and ammunition to ''effectively complete their 
missions.'' That is a quote. Soldiers are short body armor, armored 
vehicles, and communication equipment. Imagine this war is costing $12 
million every hour, 24/7 for 4 years, nearly half a trillion dollars, 
and our soldiers don't have enough body armor, ammunition, 
communications equipment?



If our troops aren't the priority, who is? Halliburton, Blackwater, 
other corporate chums of the President? Don't lecture us about caring 
for the troops.

The Executive Director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America 
recently said of our returning soldiers and marines, ''And when they 
come home, there aren't nearly enough transitional care services, job 
placement, transitional housing. It is just not there.'' Twelve million 
dollars an hour to wage this war, and our veterans are returning home 
without the proper care they need?

Our support for the troops compels us to oppose this war and this 
escalation. Of the terrible options the President has left us after 4 
years, the absolute worst is to continue to send our young men and 
women in uniform to die in the meat grinder that is Iraq and to put 
them in the cross-hairs of a civil war.

Speaker Pelosi has said that our goal is to end this war. We can 
begin right here, right now, by passing this resolution.