# RECOGNIZING FLOYD OLESEN OF ELK RIVER, MINNESOTA
## `5df18a3cc7253943691205941705b85b`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 27 June 2007`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Mr. Speaker, there are so many great Americans in this 
country, especially unsung heroes and Americans who rise up to be a 
part of the solution of the greatness of this country. In Minnesota, we 
have so many people like that, and it is such an honor, Mr. Speaker, to 
be able to talk about one unsung hero. He is a wonderful man from the 
center part of the Sixth District of Minnesota. His name is Mr. Floyd 
Olesen, from an unassuming town named Elk River, Minnesota.

Floyd and his wife, Dilly, have done so much for the people of our 
Nation and for the people of our State. They started a program called 
''Operation Minnesota Nice,'' Mr. Speaker, where they send care 
packages to area troops from Minnesota who are currently serving both 
in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

Recently Floyd stepped down from that position so that he and Dilly 
could focus on a few other service-related activities. One is 
''Operation Help Support Our Troops & Families.'' Another is 
''Operation Military Kids.'' This provides educational opportunities 
for the children of active service personnel.

Recently Mr. Olesen received the American Legion 6th District Service 
Officer of the Year award. He is a wonderful American.

And, Mr. Speaker, it is so important that we encourage all Americans 
to do what they can, where they can, when they can, while they can to 
serve their fellow man. Mr. Olesen has done that and more.

Thank you, Floyd Olesen and Dilly, for what you do for American 
servicemen and women.
