# CLARIFICATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT ON SANTA ROSA ISLAND
## `5df163e96f1c7226da99e2eb853b0e24`
`Mr. HUNTER — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, after reading an opinion from the 
Department of the Interior Solicitor, I feel compelled to clarify the 
intent of Section 1077 (c) of P.L. 109-364. While others may 
misinterpret and even distort the actual impact of this language upon 
the healthy Kaibab Mule Deer and Roosevelt Elk herds that are currently 
living on Santa Rosa island, I want to make clear this section's intent 
is to protect both herds from extermination. It is just that simple and 
it does not do anything more narrow or broad. Nothing could emphasize 
this intent more clearly than Conference Report 109-702's explanation 
that Section 1077 was intended to ''prohibit the Secretary of the 
Interior from exterminating or nearly exterminating the deer and elk on 
the island.''

Clearly, when this provision became law, it directed the National 
Park Service (NPS) to allow the deer and elk that have thrived on Santa 
Rosa Island to remain on the Island beyond 2011--the last year of the 
term within the settlement agreement. The use of helicopters is 
included within the settlement agreement and referenced by Section 
1077(c) as it is likely the most effective way to conduct an 
extermination program. Section 1077(c) was not intended to prohibit 
only that method of extermination. These beautiful and healthy animals 
should remain on the island for visitors to enjoy. They should not be 
ruthlessly and systematically destroyed for some ill-conceived notion 
of native versus non-native, as others advocate.

The Solicitor has acted inappropriately by pulling a theory of 
congressional intent out of the air. Clearly, the intent of the 
language was not to ''preclude the Department of the Interior from 
participating in any plan approved in the settlement agreement.'' In 
fact, the language, which is now law, was intended to do what it 
clearly states: (1) vitiate the settlement agreement with respect to 
the deer and elk draw-down and eradication plan and (2) allow the elk 
and deer to remain on Santa Rosa Island indefinitely. I want to 
highlight the intent of allowing the deer to remain on the Island and 
make it clear that means these herds must be left to live on Santa Rosa 
Island. The congressional intent of this section was not to protect 
them only from slaughter, but also to protect them from relocation.


I must add, I find it deeply troubling that the administration, when 
testifying against the same provision before the Senate Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources on May 16, 2006, testified that this 
provision would, ''. . . require the Secretary of the Interior to stop 
the plan to remove the deer and elk from the island as required by a 
court-ordered settlement agreement. This provision would effectively 
overturn the 1998 settlement agreement, that the NPS is legally bound 
to, that requires the phase-out of non-native deer and elk over several 
years and their complete removal from the Island by the end of 2011.'' 
I am bewildered why such an about-face has been made on a provision 
that is identical to the current law provision, having just passed the 
House of Representatives.

In closing, I hope this statement clarifies the intent of both P.L. 
109-364 and the accompanying Conference Report 109-702. Both are clear 
on their face, but as the lead House negotiator of the Conference 
Committee of H.R. 5122, I felt it important to clear up any uncertainty 
brought forward by interpretations following a short-sighted agenda. 
This important conservation provision must stand and be properly 
interpreted so that the elk and deer are not slaughtered. Simply 
restated, it would be a tragedy to have these healthy populations of 
elk and mule deer exterminated from public lands to forward a misguided 
agenda of what belongs on Santa Rosa Island. Section 1077(c) is 
intended to prevent such eradication carried out by NPS or other 
parties to the settlement agreement.

My intent was clearly for the elk and deer herds to remain on Santa 
Rosa. This intent was clearly manifested in my numerous floor and 
committee statements in which I described my intent that wounded 
veterans are to be allowed to hunt these animals following the transfer 
of Santa Rosa from private ownership. My committee and floor statements 
regarding Santa Rosa Island, particularly floor statements made on 
December 16, 2005, and May 10, 2006, demonstrate this intent.

I also discussed the Santa Rosa provision with CNN's Anderson Cooper 
on June 13, 2006. A transcript of the interview follows:




 Joe Johns, CNN Correspondent: 25 miles off the coast of 


 Santa Barbara, more than triple the size of Manhattan, the 


 crown jewel of the Channel Islands National Park. The remote 


 and largely untouched Santa Rosa Island. Canyons, coastline, 


 chaparral and pines and you own it. Taxpayers pay $30 million 


 for Santa Rosa Island. A treasure trove of ancient artifacts.



 Torrey Rick, Archaeologist: It's incredible. I mean you 


 don't get this kind of stuff anywhere else in the world, 


 really.



 Johns: Human bones found here date back 13,000 years. It's 


 also unique for its inhabitants. The little island fox, 


 endangered but so far not extinct. With all this at stake and 


 more, the question before Congress is whether this park 


 should be protected and open to all Americans year-round. Or 


 should it also be used as a place where disabled veterans can 


 come to hunt deer and elk? Which means tourists have to be 


 kept safely out of the crossfire. Congressman Duncan 


 Hunter, the powerful chairman of the House Armed Services 


 Committee, has been pushing for months to give the vets 


 special privileges on Santa Rosa.



 Rep. Duncan Hunter, (R) California: I was driving south 


 with a bunch of marines, some guys fresh back from Iraq and 


 one of them said, there's Santa Rosa Island and they're going 


 to close it and they're going to wipe out the entire deer and 


 elk herd.



 Johns: But the idea of handing over hunting rights on an 


 island that's supposed to be for everybody has infuriated 


 some Democrats from California, who say it's like telling the 


 public you bought it, now keep out.



 Rep. Lois Capps, (D) California: It's outrageous and I told 


 him so. This is a Republican leadership that wants to kick 


 taxpayers off a national park that they paid $30 million for. 


 Makes you wonder, first it's Channel Islands National Park, 


 is it going to be Yellowstone, is it going to be the 


 Shenandoah's?



 Johns: It's not that disabled veterans aren't important. 


 It's just that there are plenty of good hunting spots that 


 aren't in national parks. For instance, military bases in 


 remote areas. It's a battle playing out allover America but 


 especially in the west, over how best to use national parks. 


 In this case whether to restore the park to its pristine 


 condition or to allow other uses.



 Much of this is about the animals. The park service only 


 wants animals here that are native to Santa Rosa. So the deer 


 and elk shipped in nearly a century ago by the family that 


 used to own the land must now go. So what about a compromise? 


 Why not allow both hunting and tourists full-time? Well 


 hikers and bullets are not a great trail mix. So long as 


 there's hunting here, the park service has to keep the public 


 out. The park service says the game needs to go.



 Russell Gallipeau, U.S. Park Service: I'm not against 


 providing access to anybody. I just think that hunting and 


 public use of this island are not compatible. And it's not a 


 purpose for which this park was set aside.



 Johns: So as taxpayers you paid for a remote national park, 


 but now a powerful congressman says it should be managed as a 


 place for disabled war vets to hunt deer and elk. For $30 


 million, Santa Rosa may well be the biggest game trophy out 


 there. Joe Johns, CNN, Santa Rosa Island, California.



 Cooper: Well as Joe just mentioned Congressman Duncan 


 Hunter is the force behind the move to keep the elk and deer 


 on the island for hunting. We spoke earlier.



 Cooper: So Congressman Hunter, you know your critics say 


 look, taxpayers spent $30 million to buy Santa Rosa Island. 


 But as long as there's hunting there, 90 percent of it's 


 closed to non-hunters for about half of the year. They say 


 that's unfair.



 Hunter: Well, let me--let's put this in context. My son, 


 who's a marine, did a couple of tours in Iraq and when he 


 came back, he and I started taking wounded marines and 


 soldiers hunting. We went to Arizona, Colorado, lots of good 


 places. We had one hunt we took a person with a spinal 


 disability. That is, a paralyzed veteran into Colorado, into 


 the big national forest. And it's very difficult for them to 


 have a real quality experience. Now, this island, Santa Rosa 


 Island, which is off the California coast, which is 52,000 


 acres, has a very small number of public visitors. About 15 a 


 day from the statistics I've seen.



 Cooper: But the reason that there are only 15, the national 


 park says about 5,000 people a year visit Santa Rosa Island. 


 The reason more people aren't able to do it is because they 


 can only visit about 10 percent of the island for half the 


 year because of this hunting. If you close down the hunting, 


 then the whole island basically would be open to visitors and 


 to taxpayers who paid for it.



 Hunter: Listen, here's all we want. All we want is about 


 two weeks a year for the paralyzed veterans to come over. I 


 would be happy to stipulate that no congressman come over, no 


 VIPs. Only people who are paralyzed veterans, who are very 


 disabled veterans. And actually the reason most people don't 


 go over to Santa Rosa Island is because it's a major boat 


 trip or a plane trip. And tourists who are driving down the 


 coast of California don't want to take a plane or a boat to 


 simply get to another island. So we could easily accommodate 


 the paralyzed veterans, they could have a great time. They 


 could have the adventure of a lifetime.



 And you know something, they may be wheelchair-bound but 


 their spirits are free, they like adventure. This is a great 


 place to take your family. And this could be a special niche 


 for those people. And you know something else, the people of 


 the United States, if the taxpayers knew that this was going 


 to be used by paralyzed veterans, they'd say fine.




 This is the park service that says, we want to wipe out this 


 deer and elk herd because they're not native. They just want 


 to do it because they've got the power to do it. They could 


 easily accommodate our veterans.



 Cooper: Is this the role of a national park? The national 


 park service which runs this, basically would be subsidizing 


 a hunting program. They say and critics say, look, there are 


 other places for people with disabilities to hunt. We talked 


 to the Paralyzed Veterans Association they say you know some 


 states even allow those with disabilities to hunt from their 


 cars.



 Hunter: Listen, the reason the national park people have 


 their nice jobs and the reasons we as members of the American 


 public get to enjoy national parks is because of people who 


 wear uniforms who go out in dangerous parts of the world and 


 secure our freedom. So let in some paralyzed veterans, many 


 of whom have been injured in combat, to come have a small 


 piece of this island that almost nobody goes to anyway, is a 


 small repayment for their service to our country. I think the 


 taxpayers would appreciate that.



 Cooper: Congressman Hunter, appreciate you joining us, 


 thanks.


Lastly, a letter provided by the Wounded Warrior Project reaffirms 
discussions and the intent to allow wounded and disabled veterans to 
enjoy Santa Rosa Island. The letter follows:


























August 28, 2006.


 Hon. Duncan L. Hunter,


 Chairman, House Committee on Armed Services,


 House of Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Hunter: On behalf of the Wounded Warrior 


 Project (WWP), I am responding to your legislation that will 


 cease the elimination of all elk and deer on Santa Rosa 


 Island in California and could provide unrivaled hunting 


 opportunities for severely wounded veterans.



 The Wounded Warrior Project applauds any effort that 


 supports our endeavors to assist severely injured military 


 personnel. WWP has reached thousands of wounded service men 


 and women, providing assistance in the transition from a 


 hospital bed to an independent and productive life and we 


 believe that Santa Rosa could offer the wounded another 


 chance to participate in meaningful and enriching 


 recreational activities such as fishing, hunting and camping.



 This legislation is consistent with Wounded Warrior 


 Project's adaptive sports and outdoors programs like hunting 


 and fishing, snow and water skiing, canoeing and diving. For 


 that reason we encourage the House of Representatives to pass 


 this provision to potentially allow the use of the island for 


 disabled service members.



 We hope that together with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 


 Service and other federal organizations, a viable and 


 sustainable daily operations system for the management of 


 Santa Rosa Island can be developed and that our nation's 


 wounded warriors will be able to enjoy the world class 


 hunting that the island has to offer.



 Thank you.





 Sincerely,



























 John Melia,


 Executive Director.
