# None
## `5df124f8d91f4da2763cf6e7150b333f`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is an honor 
to come before the House once again. We have finished our work for the 
week, and a lot has happened, a lot has been said. As you know, the 30-
Something Working Group, Mr. Murphy, and I are here today, my good 
friend from Connecticut. We are going to talk about some of the issues 
that have been discussed over the last 24 hours on the floor, some of 
the votes that we have taken, even as it relates to last week, some of 
the challenges that are facing the country.

I know there will be other Members of the 30-Something Working Group


that may be joining us this afternoon. I can tell you as we continue to 
move forward in this 110th Congress, there is a lot that the American 
people have to be proud of at some level of accomplishment as it 
relates to issues that are truly facing the American people.

Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, we had an opportunity to hear from the 
President of the United States. Some say that there was some issues 
that he brought to the table that are not new. He has mentioned some of 
these issues before. Alternative fuel, the issue of Iraq, talking about 
health care, still holding onto the issue of savings accounts that have 
been proposed in past State of the Unions but haven't been acted upon 
to even bring about real changes as relates to health care.

The President talked about earmarks last night, Mr. Speaker. But it 
is interesting under the Republican-controlled Congress, that is when 
the earmarks were out of control. And it was under his watch and his 
party's watch. And now the President wants to be the chief, I guess, 
the chief person who says who gets an earmark and who does not get an 
earmark. Earmark reform was a part of the Democratic reform package, 
and was not even really given serious consideration until the Democrats 
took control of the Congress.

The glaring issue as it relates to Iraq, and Mr. Murphy and I and Mr. 
Ryan were talking about this just yesterday, it is obvious that the 
American people voted for change in the last election, and that the 
President continues to march in the opposite direction of the American 
people. The American people are ready to go in a new direction. The 
President seems like he is ready to go and continue to keep going in 
the old direction.

The new direction, redeployment of troops, working in a diplomatic 
way, following some of the Iraq Study Group recommendations of talking 
with Iran and Syria, and I would even add Turkey if we want to look at 
a diplomatic resolution to what is happening in the Middle East, making 
sure that our troops are safe, making sure that we take the training 
wheels off the Iraqi Government train, redeploy, diplomatic mission.

The President seems to think that the answer is to have an escalation 
in troops. The American people are looking for escalation in the truth, 
not the troops. And also the President has spoken of giving him a 
chance for his plan to work. Well, I can tell you that the American 
people have given the President a lot of latitude as it relates to 
Iraq. I think it is important, I take from Senator Warner's, and I can 
talk, I have a number of quotes here on the escalation of troops from 
Senator Warner, the former chairman, who is a Republican, the former 
chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

I can also take from our colleagues who spoke after the President 
spoke yesterday and prior to his speech yesterday, that contradict or 
are going in a new direction as it relates to Iraq and what the 
American people called for, versus what they did not call for, more of 
the same.



So hopefully, Mr. Murphy, we will talk a little bit about some of 
this today.

There are some other issues, as it relates to the State of the Union 
speech, that we can get into, but I think it is important, we spent a 
lot of time yesterday talking about bipartisanship, we spent a lot of 
time yesterday saying the President had an opportunity, and we hoped 
that he would come and share with us, hold up issues such as the 
minimum wage that we passed overwhelmingly on this floor that he is 
ready to sign. We thought that he would come to the floor saying, I 
want to work with the leaders here in the House on the minority and 
majority side on passing real health care on behalf of millions of 
Americans that are without health care. Those things did not come out.

I can say that the Americans, Mr. Speaker, that were pointed out 
yesterday in the gallery by the President, well-noted heroes and ''she-
roes'' that were sitting up there, this State of the Union was about a 
state of the Union, and I can tell you, hearing last night's speech, we 
have a lot of work ahead of us, Democrats and Republicans. So I am 
excited about that opportunity.

I yield to my good friend, Mr. Murphy of Connecticut.