# None
## `5df3781549f1daa901e8d1208a23f7bd`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. I am nothing if not a 
fan of New England etiquette. I would let the gentleman speak for as 
long as he wishes, but he makes great points.

The American people sent this new Congress in order to set a new 
direction. They didn't imagine on election day that new direction was 
putting more troops in harm's way in the middle of a civil war. The 
word ''escalation'' was not in their vocabulary when they conceived of 
what that new direction would be.

They believed it was about time to start listening to the bipartisan 
foreign policy community as represented by the Iraq Study Group Report, 
of the record number of generals coming back and telling us we needed 
to start setting a new course. They believed that new direction was 
about redeploying our forces and bringing the National Guard home.

I hope tonight we will talk about how stressed the National Guard is, 
bringing the troops back home to protect ourselves on our homefront, 
and being able to respond to the natural disasters and emergencies that 
are all too frequent on our own shore, and begin to focus on places 
where we can still win.

Afghanistan, a fight that is taking it right to the insurgency that 
attacked this country, taking it right to the training ground of al 
Qaeda, the place where Osama bin Laden trained and prepared his forces 
to attack this country. Certainly we can win there, but it is time we 
start recognizing what that new direction has to be.

It was amazing when I listened to the Republican leader say a week or 
so ago, and I am paraphrasing, but the thought was that the Republicans 
were willing to hear out the President's plan to escalate the war for a 
period of time. But, say, by the fall or later this year if it wasn't 
working, it was time for the President to propose plan B.

I am not sure how anyone who has been watching this play out for the 
last 4 years could still believe we are on plan A. We are not plan A or 
B, we are on like plan triple R right now. We have tried everything. 
And guess what, every new strategy, every new approach that we take 
based solely on military might alone, which has been essentially our 
practice so far, has made the situation even more chaotic and has 
plunged Baghdad and its environs into greatest chaos.

Why? Guess what, because the rest of us, the American public and the 
Democratic Caucus, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, retired generals 
from every stripe, have realized that we cannot win this conflict. And 
everyone's definition of win is different, I understand, but we cannot 
prove victorious there on the force of our military might alone.

I got to spend a couple of days on the ground in Baghdad with those 
soldiers. If anyone can fulfill the mission they have been given, it is 
the men and women in the Armed Forces that we have put on the ground. 
They are the bravest and most capable people I have ever been around. 
But the fact is that we have given them a mission which is nearly 
impossible.

We are forcing them one day to be soldiers, the next day to be 
diplomats, and the next day to be civil engineers. The reason why plan 
A through Z has not worked yet is because it doesn't recognize the very 
fact that if we can solve this, if we can somehow bring some resolution 
to Iraq, it will be through diplomatic and political might, not sheer 
military force.