---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `5e09f458b1886359b7119355b48033c9`
`Mr. PAUL — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2956 which, while 
a well-intended attempt to reduce our nation's seemingly unlimited 
military commitment in Iraq, is in so many respects deeply flawed.

I have been one of the strongest opponents of military action against 
Iraq. I voted against the initial authorization in 2002 and I have 
voted against every supplemental appropriations bill to fund the war. I 
even voted against the initial ''Iraq regime change'' legislation back 
in 1998. I believe our troops should be brought back to the United 
States without delay. Unfortunately, one of the reasons I oppose this 
legislation is that it masquerades as a troop withdrawal measure but in 
reality may well end up increasing U.S. commitments in the Middle East

Mr. Speaker, this is precisely the debate we should have had four 
years ago, before Congress voted to abrogate its Constitutional 
obligation to declare war and transfer that authority to the president. 
Some in this body were rather glib in declaring the constitution 
antiquated while voting to cede the ability to initiate hostilities to 
the President. Now we see the result of ignoring the Constitution, and 
we are bringing even more mayhem to the process with this legislation.

To those who believe this act would somehow end the war, I simply 
point to the title for Section 3 of the bill, which states, 
''Requirement to reduce the number of armed forces in Iraq and 
transition to a limited presence of the Armed Forces in Iraq.'' However 
the number of troops are limited, this legislation nevertheless will 
permit an ongoing American military presence in Iraq with our soldiers 
continuing to be engaged in hostilities.

I also wish to draw attention to Section 4(b)(1), which mandates the 
President to submit a ''Strategy for Iraq'' by the beginning of next 
year. This ''strategy'' is to include:




 A discussion of United States national security interests 


 in Iraq and the broader Middle East region and the 


 diplomatic, political, economic, and military components of a 


 comprehensive strategy to maintain and advance such interests 


 as the Armed Forces are redeployed from Iraq pursuant to 


 section 3 of this Act.


In other words, far from extricating ourselves from the debacle in 
Iraq, this bill would set in motion a policy that could lead to a wider 
regional commitment, both financially and militarily. Such a policy 
would be disastrous for both our overextended national security forces 
and beleaguered taxpayers. This could, in fact, amount to an 
authorization for a region-wide ''surge.''

Congress' job is to change the policy on Iraq, not to tell the 
military leaders how many troops they should have. I have attempted to 
do this with H.R. 2605, a bill to sunset after a six month period the 
authorization for military activity in Iraq. During this period a new 
plan for Iraq could be discussed and agreed. Plan first, authorization 
next, execution afterward. That is what we should be doing in Iraq.

In summary, Mr. Speaker, this legislation brings us no closer to 
ending the war in Iraq. It brings us no closer to bringing our troops 
home. It says nothing about withdrawal, only about redeployment. It 
says nothing about reducing U.S. presence in the Middle East, and may 
actually lead to an expanded U.S. presence in the region. We have no 
guarantee the new strategy demanded by this legislation would not 
actually expand our military activities to Iran and Syria and beyond. I 
urge my colleagues to reject this legislation and put forth an 
effective strategy to end the war in Iraq and to bring our troops home.