---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `5e0e01b8d11c8b8edbaa3e837c7388f0`
`Mr. DORGAN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, this has been an interesting debate. I 
have had the opportunity to watch some of it and listen to more of it. 
I think we are finally debating a very important subject.

From time to time, there is a tendency to treat the serious too 
lightly and the light too seriously here on the floor of the Senate. 
This is a serious matter being treated seriously. Our country is at 
war. Today, we have young men and women in America's military uniforms 
walking down alleyways and streets in Baghdad and other dangerous 
places in Iraq, risking their lives. Some, perhaps today, will give 
their lives. War is a serious subject, the most serious subject for our 
country.

I wish to talk a little about the history of how we have gotten to 
this place and what I think we should do.

I recall Memorial Day, shortly after 9/11. I believe it was the first 
Memorial Day after 9/11--perhaps the second--when a young man whom I 
had previously appointed to West Point came back. He was missing an 
arm, from combat.

We had, of course, gone to Afghanistan, waging a war against the 
Taliban that had housed and harbored al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden, and 
then shortly thereafter we went to the country of Iraq.

This young man, who came from a small town in North Dakota and whom I 
was privileged to send to the West Point Academy, came back missing an 
arm but enormously proud of having served his country. I recall 
speaking at the outdoor event at the veterans cemetery. He was there. 
He spoke. I was enormously proud of him. He was proud of serving his 
country.

I guess I described a verse I heard some long while ago--I don't even 
know the author--that:




 When the drums are heard and the lightning is seen and the 


 knives are out,



 The patriots are always there, ready to fight and die for 


 their country if necessary.


We can name many patriots in this country who serve today and who 
have served this country--in world wars, conflicts--who serve today 
because our country asks them to serve. It is always the case that old 
men send young men and women to war. Wars might be different if the 
ages were reversed, but they are not.

The question for me today is, What are our goals? My guess is every 
person serving in this Chamber, every man and woman, every Republican 
and Democrat, every conservative and liberal, wants the same thing for 
this country. We want our country to succeed. We are on our side, we 
are on the side of right, we are on the side supporting the greatest 
country that exists on this Earth.

We made some serious mistakes. We went to Afghanistan. That was the 
right thing to do. It was, after all, Afghanistan that housed Osama bin 
Laden, who boasted about committing the terrorist acts of 9/11, 
murdering thousands of innocent Americans. They boasted about that. 
They said, ''We did it.'' Al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden, al-Zarqawi--''We 
did it,'' they said. They were in Afghanistan, so we went to 
Afghanistan and toppled the Taliban government of Afghanistan, and the 
leadership of al-Qaida escaped. The leadership of al-Qaida went, 
apparently, to the hills in northern Pakistan.

Then, with President Bush's direction, went to Iraq.

A great deal of top-secret information was disclosed to those of us 
in Congress and some to the American people. The Secretary of State 
made a lengthy presentation with charts and slides to the United 
Nations, a presentation to the world. It turns out much of the 
intelligence upon which that was based was fundamentally wrong, some of 
it embarrassingly inaccurate.

One single source, someone who we now know the Germans thought to 
have been a drunk and a fabricator, was used by the administration to 
suggest that Iraq threatened our country because it had mobile chemical 
weapons labs. This source, called ''Curveball,'' whom we now know to 
have been a single source and a source who lied, was the basis for 
substantial allegations to the Congress and the American people about 
evidence of a weapon of mass destruction program in Iraq. The source 
for yellow cake from Niger turns out to have been forged papers. 
Equipment to recreate a nuclear weapons program in the form of aluminum 
tubes--the Secretary of State and others gave us information about 
that, information that is now public but was imparted to us in top-
secret sessions without disclosing something she was responsible to 
disclose: There were other parts of the Government that said no, these 
are not aluminum tubes to reconstitute a nuclear program, they are not 
that at all. They are thought to be for use in rocketry, and that is 
exactly what we found out later to be the case. Very substantial 
mistakes were made but, nonetheless, we cannot turn back the clock. 
American soldiers were committed.

As a result of that, a number of things have happened in the country 
of Iraq. While the terrorists fled to Pakistan and Osama bin Laden and 
al-Zarqawi and the other leadership of the al-Qaida organization hid in 
northern Pakistan, now some over 2,000 days since they boasted about 
murdering thousands of Americans--while that was the case, we went to 
Iraq.

Saddam Hussein was deposed. This man was a butcher. We have unearthed 
mass graves in Iraq that housed hundreds of thousands of skeletons of 
people murdered by the Saddam Hussein regime. Is it a worthy thing to 
have deposed a leader of Iraq with that kind of record? Yes. Saddam 
Hussein is gone. He was executed. The Iraqi people have now voted for 
their own Constitution. They wrote it and supported it. The Iraqi 
people have now elected their own government by their own hand. So 
there is no dictator, they have a Constitution, and they have a new 
government.

The problem at the moment is they are not able to provide for their 
own security. In fact, there is a civil war occurring in the country of 
Iraq. We have just received the latest National Intelligence Estimate--
the latest National Intelligence Estimate, which is a compilation of 
whatever is said by the best minds that exist in the intelligence 
community.

This is unclassified:




 Iraq has become a self-sustaining intersectarian struggle.


If you take those words as part of what the National Intelligence 
Estimate says, this is a civil war. Now we end up with American 
soldiers right smack dab in the middle of a civil war in Iraq while 
Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaida leadership exists in northern Pakistan 
directing al-Qaida's terrorist activities.

Now why does this matter? Let me describe why that is important. On 
January 11, 2007, Mr. Negroponte who was then the Director of National 
Intelligence testified before Congress. He said:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that possesses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to our Homeland.


Let me say that again. What is the greatest threat to our country's 
interests? Al-Qaida. That is not me; that is the head of American 
intelligence, Mr. Negroponte. This was reaffirmed 3 weeks ago by the 
current head of U.S. intelligence. The greatest threat to our country, 
the greatest terrorist threat to our country, is al-Qaida. They pose 
the greatest threat to our interests and to our homeland.

Now an additional statement by Mr. Negroponte says this:




 [Al Qaeda] continues to plot attacks against our homeland 


 and other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections 


 and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' 


 secure hideout in Pakistan to affiliates throughout the 


 Middle East, northern Africa and Europe.


All of this is a direct quote from the unclassified testimony of the 
head of intelligence in our country. Al-Qaida is the greatest terrorist 
threat to our country, No. 1; No. 2, they continue to plot attacks 
against our homeland from their leaders' secure hideout in Pakistan.

Now let me ask the question: What is the goal here? What is the goal 
for this country? We were attacked on 9/11. Thousands of Americans were 
murdered by airplanes full of fuel, used as


guided missiles to fly into office buildings, to the Pentagon. We were 
attacked on 9/11 by al-Qaida. They boasted about it. They said: We did 
it. Give us credit. We murdered innocent Americans.

Where are they now, over 2,000 days later? They are, according to our 
top intelligence experts, in a secure hideout in Pakistan with the 
objective of inflicting mass casualties by continuing to plot attacks 
against our homeland.

So what are we doing today? We are in Iraq going house to house, in 
Baghdad, in the middle of a civil war.

What is the goal? Is our goal to fight terrorism? To take on the 
terrorists? To eliminate the terrorists? To eliminate the leadership of 
al-Qaida? Is it our goal to go after those who attacked our country and 
murdered thousands of innocent Americans?

If that is our goal, let me ask this question: Why are they in a 
secure hideaway in northern Pakistan and our soldiers are going house 
to house in a civil war in Iraq, in Baghdad? Why? Maybe it is not our 
goal to fight the terrorists. Is it not our goal to take them on where 
they are? Yes, there are some al-Qaida in Anbar Province in Iraq. This 
resolution, by the way, will allow us to redeploy in Iraq to make an 
even greater effort against that al-Qaida organization that exists in 
Anbar Province. But our National Intelligence Estimate is quite clear: 
What is happening in Iraq, in the main, outside of Anbar Province has 
very little to do with al-Qaida and with terrorism. It has everything 
to do with a civil war and sectarian violence.

So the question is: What should be our goal? I very strongly believe 
we should redeploy our troops and understand that our obligation is to 
take on those interests that want to attack us in our homeland, those 
interests that attacked us previously, those interests that represent 
the greatest threat to our country as described by the head of U.S. 
intelligence.

Why on Earth on this day, Wednesday--2,010 days, nearly, following 9/
11, after Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida boasted about launching attacks 
in our homeland and murdering the American people, murdering thousands 
of Americans--why on Earth would we not be in a full-court press to 
prosecute the war against terrorists? No, this situation in Iraq is not 
a proxy against the war on terrorism. It is not. It cannot be described 
that way.

The National Intelligence Estimate tells us it is sectarian violence, 
by and large. The head of national intelligence tells us where the head 
of the greatest threat to our country is in northern Pakistan, the 
leadership of al-Qaida. We are going door to door in Baghdad in the 
middle of a civil war, and they are in northern Pakistan promoting 
continued attacks against our homeland.

Is that a disconnect? It seems to me it is. Anybody in this Chamber 
who stands up and has a strong passion and opinion about these issues, 
I respect. The last thing I would ever do is suggest they are not 
patriotic, they don't love their country, they do not support soldiers. 
All nonsense. Every man and woman who aspires to come and serve, who is 
here in this Chamber, I know loves this country, supports our soldiers, 
and wants our country to succeed. That is a fact. This is not about 
anybody having bad motives. It is about our country trying to make a 
decision: Are we on the right path or the wrong path? Do we think the 
experience we have had in Iraq--now that this has become a civil war, 
in which we have made very little progress but seen many Americans 
killed and far more wounded--do we think that kind of situation can and 
should continue, or should we say to the Iraqi people the following: We 
want what is best for you as well. We have, with the blood and treasury 
of American soldiers and the American people, given you the following 
opportunities: You were able to get rid of Saddam Hussein. He does not 
exist anymore. He has been executed. You were able to write yourself a 
new constitution and you were able to cast your votes for a new 
government.


The question now is this: This is your country, not ours. Do you have 
the will and the capability to provide for your own security? Iraq 
belongs to you, not us. If you cannot provide for your own security, 
the American taxpayer and the American soldiers cannot do that for a 
long period of time and should not be asked to do that year after year 
after year.

We ought to redeploy, and that redeployment ought to be so our 
country can wage war against terrorists. We know where they are. Our 
National Intelligence Estimate and the head of the national 
intelligence organizations have told us. They are the greatest threat. 
We know where they are. Yet my guess is they do not feel terribly 
threatened today.

What is the goal? What is our goal here? I would hope our goal as a 
country is to decide to go after and eliminate those terrorists who 
plot attacks against our country.

Now there are many ways for us to manifest our love of country and 
our passion about these issues. But I think there is one other issue 
most of us would agree upon. One of the concerns I have had about what 
is happening these days with respect to the Iraq war is we have sent 
soldiers to war, but we have not asked our country to make a similar 
commitment. Just this morning I asked the Chief of Staff of the Army at 
a hearing, an Appropriations hearing, about a new personnel carrier we 
have developed. They say it will reduce deaths from improvised 
explosive devices by two-thirds in a country such as Iraq--new design, 
stronger, more capable. I asked: Were we ordering a lot of them? No, 
not really. At today's pace it will take about 6 years to replace the 
existing vehicles.

I chaired a democratic policy committee hearing last year, and 
retired Marine Colonel Hammes came to the hearing. He said: You know, 
in the Second World War, at the end we were producing 50,000 warplanes 
a year.

Do you know why? Because our country, by God, decided the whole 
country was going to make an effort to go to war, to commit and to 
produce and do everything there was to give our soldiers the 
opportunity to fight and win. We have not done that.

The Army has ordered 2,500 of those new armored personnel carriers 
some estimate will save two-thirds of the lives that are now being lost 
to IEDs. Our country is told we are at war, you go ahead and go to the 
mall, go shopping. The soldiers will go to war. In fact, we won't ask 
you to pay for anything either. We have now spent $450 billion, plus or 
minus. We are on the way to spending over $650 billion in Afghanistan 
and Iraq and the war on terrorism without asking the taxpayer to pay 
one cent; add it to the debt. The country has not been asked to go with 
the soldiers. There is no sacrifice. It is just the soldiers.

We have a resolution on the floor of the Senate. The resolution is 
S.J. Res. 9. I heard some of the debate a bit earlier. Some have 
suggested this resolution is about cutting and running. People will 
think we have left. I think most of the people in this world would take 
a look at us and say this is the strongest country in the world. It has 
got the biggest military in the world. We spend more money than any 
other country, any other series of countries, on defense. We spend more 
money than the top 30 countries combined on defense. Unbelievable.

We were attacked by the leadership of al-Qaida and their operatives 
on 
9/11/2001. It is now 2007. They are still alive. Our national 
intelligence chief tells us where they are. They are still the greatest 
threat to this country. They are still plotting attacks against our 
country. And we are this behemoth military Nation that has such 
capability. Why are we not using that capability for the goal I think 
is preeminent, and that is the goal of protecting our country and 
eliminating those who are plotting attacks against our country, the 
leadership of al-Qaida? The way to do that will not be to wait for 
President Bush to decide he wants to change course. He does not want to 
change course. He wants to keep doing what we have been doing. But the 
way to change course is to pass the piece of legislation that says: Let 
us redeploy our troops.

Speaking only for me, I believe the redeployment ought to be to go 
after the greatest threat that exists to this country's future, the 
greatest threat described by our National Intelligence Estimate and the 
national intelligence chief. It is not a surprise, not a secret. We all 
understand where that threat is. And yet we reduced our forces in 
Afghanistan early so we could invade


Iraq. Now we have got problems in Afghanistan. We have got bogged down 
in Iraq. We are now in the middle of a civil war in Iraq.

The greatest threat to our country's interests is in a secure 
hideaway in Pakistan; a secure hideaway. That ought never happen. The 
head of intelligence in this country ought never be telling us there is 
a secure hideaway for the organization that wants to destroy our 
country, to launch attacks against innocent Americans. There ought not 
be a place that is secure on this planet for people who are doing that.

What is the goal? Is not the goal to fight terrorism, to take on the 
terrorists? If that is the case, then let's heed the words of the head 
of intelligence, to know where they are, what they are doing, who they 
are, and find a way to bring them to justice. The sooner the better. 
After nearly 5/1/2/ years, it is past time, long past time for us to 
set our sights on those who represent the greatest threat to our 
country. That is the reason I will support this resolution. This is 
about redeployment. This is about establishing the goals we ought to 
have as a country.

Finally, let me say this: I have enormous respect for the men and 
women serving in the military. They are an unbelievable bunch of young 
men and women. I recall speaking to a helicopter crew in Afghanistan. 
They were young men and women, average age 19, 20, 21, 22 years of age 
who were keeping those helicopters in the air.

The officer said these are kids, but they are highly trained kids, 
highly motivated kids, these young people. You go in the field and 
watch what they do, and it is unbelievable. They love their country. 
When their country asks them to serve, they serve. But their country, 
it seems to me, owes them something too. Their country owes them the 
responsibility of clear, thoughtful policies, the ability to address 
what is important to our country.

When we use military force, we ought to use military force not in the 
middle of a civil war some place, but instead use military force to 
confront the terrorists who threaten America. That is what military 
force ought to be used for at this point. We understand terrorism is 
awful. Most of us have never before understood there are plenty of 
people out there who are willing to die themselves if they can kill a 
few innocent people in order to make their point. That is something we 
have never before understood very well. That is modern terrorism. We 
have to confront that. We owe it to our soldiers to have a set of goals 
that represent the best interests of this country.


So my hope, in short, is for us to be able to tell the Iraqis: This 
is your country, not ours. You need to provide for your own security. 
We are going to give you a sufficient time to do that, but we cannot 
keep American soldiers in the middle of a civil war for a great length 
of time. We intend to turn our attention to where it should have been 
all along; and that is, to confront the greatest threat that exists to 
our country, which is al-Qaida, its network around the world, and its 
plans to try to create terrorist acts in our homeland.

That ought to be our goal. The way to achieve that goal is through 
the redeployment that would come with this legislation.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.