---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5e1dc356b4a83a46dd32ac2349ae3eb0`
`Mr. SKELTON — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

As my friend, Mr. Hunter, the gentleman from California knows, both 
the House version of the Defense Authorization Act and the Senate 
version authorized supplemental funding for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I say ''authorized.''

The Armed Services Committee has collectively supported authorizing 
this funding to ensure the continued relevance of the committee and to 
make sure that the specific purposes for which the President has 
requested funds are actually related to the wars.

In both the House and Senate versions of the bill, we have authorized 
this funding in a way that provides maximum flexibility for the 
leadership as well as for the appropriators. While we authorize 
funding, as my friend from California knows, nothing can happen without 
further action on an appropriations bill, and it is those 
appropriations bills that have served as the vehicles for the Iraq 
debate.

The House recently passed a bridge supplemental fund that would 
change our policy in Iraq. We may very well have similar debates in the 
future, and I would hope that my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle would be forthcoming with their suggestions on how to address the 
strategic risk we incur by pursuing the President's failed policy. In 
the Defense Authorization Act, our committee, I expect, will act in 
conference to ensure that those debates can occur and that the House 
can work its will on future appropriations bills to restrain the 
President's Iraq war policy.

We all acknowledge that our troops have done a great job in Iraq. We 
owe them our thanks, our gratitude and our congratulations for their 
work as well as for their sacrifices. Their sweat and their blood have 
helped to reduce the level of violence in Iraq from the horrific levels 
of late 2006 and early 2007.

The original purpose of this surge was to reduce violence to provide 
the Iraqis with a chance for political reconciliation. Violence is 
down. It is time for the Iraqis to step up and take the hard steps 
toward reconciliation that will finish the job our wonderful troops 
have started. Yet they have refused to do this.

In response to this refusal, the House recently voted to begin to 
redeploy most of our troops out of Iraq and to change the nature of our 
involvement there. This policy is supported by a large majority of the 
American people who do not believe that we should continue to police a 
civil war when the Iraqis themselves refuse to take the hard steps to 
bring it to an end.

Well, we are not having the Iraq debate on the defense authorization 
bill. The supplemental authorization is intended to set the stage for 
that debate. That is an appropriations bill as all of us know. That is 
why the House and the Senate versions of the Defense Authorization Act, 
which is before us, included a supplemental authorization and why I 
suspect that the conference will do the same.

I reserve the balance of my time.