# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `5e2bc3cad75d332cd942c3b86130d41a`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida â€” 18 March 2009`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Chairman, Members, I rise in strong support of this amendment and 
the underlying bill. Congressman Teague and I introduced this amendment 
in order to clarify the services that could be formed by Veterans' 
Corps volunteers anywhere.

I represent Palm Beach and Broward Counties in south Florida, home to 
many of our Nation's veterans. We all agree that when Americans who 
wear the military uniform return from service, they deserve to be 
treated with the highest level of respect and dignity that they have 
earned. This includes making sure they receive the benefits they are 
entitled to, and I know we all share that commitment.

While the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and military 
staff work hard to ensure that every veteran gets full advantage of the 
benefits they have earned, some veterans still have difficulty 
navigating the system and coming up with all the necessary documents. 
By allowing trained Veterans' Corps volunteers to guide them through 
this process, we can ensure more veterans obtain the benefits they were 
promised.

With thousands of new servicemembers returning from Afghanistan and 
Iraq, the job of the Veterans' Corps is more critical than ever. As of 
September 2008, 330,000 Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans have filed 
disability claims with the VA; yet, 54,000 are still waiting for 
confirmation that the VA even received their claims. The average wait 
for a disability claim is more than 6 months. This amendment could help 
these veterans access the services they need.

I can think of few priorities greater or more urgent than providing 
basic services such as these to our brave men and women who serve to 
protect our country, secure our peace, and safeguard our way of life.

I would like to thank my colleague, Congressman Teague, for working 
with me on this amendment, and particularly Chairman Miller for 
introducing this important piece of legislation, which will enable 
hundreds of thousands of Americans to dedicate their time to a cause 
that is bigger than themselves through volunteerism and community 
service. I urge adoption of


this amendment and a ''yes'' vote on the underlying legislation for the 
betterment of our community and our country as a whole.