---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `5e395bf73a2f89bcb171e021696e9cea`
`Mr. KERRY — 12 January 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, this week Cpl Jason Dunham was posthumously 
recognized for his bravery in Iraq with the Congressional Medal of 
Honor. Corporal Dunham exemplified the valor and selflessness of an 
American service member. As a leader of his Marine Corps rifle squad 
Corporal Dunham encountered an Iraqi insurgent along the Iraq/Syria 
border. Corporal Dunham wrestled the insurgent to the ground when he 
become aware that he was about to throw a grenade he had been hiding. 
Without a moment's hesitation, Corporal Dunham sacrificed himself and 
threw himself on the grenade, using his body as a shield for the rest 
of his unit. He died from the wounds he sustained from the blast--but 
his act of heroism saved two Marine lives.

Today I reintroduce a bill that would ensure that this Nation more 
appropriately honors our veterans and soldiers like Corporal Dunham. 
This bill requires the use of 90 percent gold in the Congressional 
Medal of Honor instead of gold-plated brass, as is currently used.

The Medal of Honor is the highest award our country bestows for valor 
in action against an enemy force. These are ordinary soldiers who 
performed extraordinary deeds in battle, often giving what President 
Lincoln termed ''the final full measure'' in doing so.

Corporal Dunham in receiving this honor joins many other noble 
service members. This is the medal won by Marine Corps pilot, CPT Joe 
Foss, who in less than 30 days of combat over Guadalcanal, shot down 23 
enemy planes, three in one engagement, and is credited with turning-
back an entire Japanese bombing mission before it could drop a single 
bomb.

This is the medal won by Army PVT Edward Moskala who set aside his 
personal safety one night on the island of Okinawa to assault two 
machine gun nests, provide cover for his unit as it withdrew, and 
rescue fallen comrades amidst a hail of enemy fire before finally 
suffering a mortal wound.

This is the medal won by PMFC Francis Pierce, Jr., who on the island 
of Iwo Jima exposed himself repeatedly to enemy fire to save the lives 
of Marines he accompanied, traversing open terrain to rescue comrades 
and assaulting enemy positions that endangered his wounded comrades.

This is the medal won by Air Force CPT Hilliard A. Wilbanks who made 
repeated strafing runs over an advancing enemy element near Dalat, 
Republic of Vietnam on February 24, 1967. Captain Wilbanks' aircraft, 
it should be noted, was neither armed nor armored. He made the assaults 
by sticking his rifle out the window and flying low over the enemy. His 
action saved the lives of friendly forces, but it cost him his own.

Corporal Dunham has now been added to this esteemed group of heroes. 
Their brave acts are more than just inspirational stories, they are 
sacrifices made by real men and women that serve their country with 
pride.

This is a time in history when we are asking more and more from our 
men and women in uniform. They answer this call every time with honor 
and sacrifice. We should make the medals we award them for these acts 
commensurate with their dedication.

Regrettably, the medal itself, though gold in color, is actually 
brass plated with gold. It costs only about $30 to craft the award 
itself. As a veteran I recognize the value of the Medal does not lie in 
its composition but the sacrifices and service that merited it. 
However, this is a small way that we can express our gratitude to these 
heroes by giving them a medal that shows the depth of our appreciation.

Compared with other medals, the Congressional Medal of Honor, which 
is meant to be one of the country's highest honors, falls woefully 
short. Congress awards foreign dignitaries, famous singers, and other 
civilians, with medals that cost up to $30,000. For our


veterans that give so much of themselves to this country you will agree 
that we can do better.

Put simply, this legislation will forge a medal more worthy of the 
esteem with which the nation holds those few who have earned the 
Congressional Medal of Honor through valor and heroism beyond compare.