---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5e398bfae4ffe28701528894abb9f245`
`Mr. MERKLEY — 10 November 2009`

---


Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I rise today in support of our Nation's 
veterans and in support of their families.

Ninety years ago tomorrow, our Nation marked the very first Armistice 
Day in recognition of the end of World War I. In 1954, Armistice Day 
became Veterans Day, and every year since, we have marked the occasion 
through ceremonies, pageants, parades, and other events designed to 
honor the men and women who have served this Nation so selflessly in 
the Armed Forces. I encourage all Americans to use the opportunity of 
Veterans Day to let those around you who have served our Nation, those 
in your community, know how thankful we are for their contributions.

I know that across our Nation there will be remembrances of those we 
have lost and honors to those who have served in the past or who are 
serving today, but we can and should do more to honor our Nation's 
veterans. We should make sure they have access to the health care we 
have promised. We should make sure their caregivers are given the 
support they need to assist our wounded warriors. We should expand 
health services for female veterans. We should do more for veterans in 
hard-to-reach rural areas. We should increase our mental health 
services for veterans because injuries to the brain deserve the same 
attention as injuries to the body.

These programs--access to health care, support to caregivers, 
services for female veterans, services to rural veterans, improved 
mental health services--are all included in the bills that have been 
put into the veterans package, the Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus 
Health Services Act of 2009. I have cosponsored a number of these bills 
and will passionately support this package. Our servicemembers stand up 
for America when on duty. America must stand up for our servicemembers 
when they return home.

The legislation before us has wide bipartisan support. It has been 
endorsed by organizations, including the Disabled American Veterans and 
the Paralyzed Veterans of America. It has been endorsed by the American 
Legion. It has been endorsed by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of 
America. It has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars. It has 
been endorsed by the Wounded Warrior Project. Each of these groups 
wants to see a vote on this omnibus package of support for our veterans 
and to see that vote happen now. But we in the Senate are not here 
debating this package, we are not here preparing to vote on this bill 
because a single Senator has objected to having an up-or-down vote. Our 
veterans deserve to have this Chamber debate this bill. They deserve to 
have this Chamber vote up or down on this bill.

Tomorrow we will honor our veterans through ceremonies across this 
Nation. But we should do more than simply honor our veterans; we should 
act to stand up for our veterans. We need to stand with them and their 
families as they have stood up for us when on duty. We should move 
expeditiously, and I encourage all Senators to support the effort to 
quickly have this bill before us for a debate and an up-or-down vote.

Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.