# COMMEMORATING ASIAN PACIFIC AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
## `5e3f92ae9229ffa80cc691a9345fc339`
`Ms. HIRONO â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. HIRONO. I thank my colleague for yielding me such time as I might 
use.

Aloha. I rise today to join my fellow congressional Asian Pacific 
Islander American Caucus members in celebrating Asian Pacific Islander 
American Heritage Month. Of course, I'd like to thank Congressman Honda 
for organizing this Special Order tonight and for his continuing 
leadership throughout the year and his service as the chair of CAPAC.

In 1978, a joint congressional resolution established Asian Pacific 
American Heritage Week. The first 10 days of May were chosen to 
coincide with two key anniversaries: The U.S. arrival of the first 
Japanese immigrant on May 7, 1843, and the completion of the 
transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869. In 1992, Congress expanded 
the week to a full monthlong celebration of the Asian and Pacific 
Islander American community.

We certainly have added to the diversity and the cultural richness of 
our country. As a first generation immigrant myself, having come to 
this country when I was about eight years old, this country has 
afforded not just me, but the millions of immigrants, the first 
generation we call issei and nisei, opportunities that we never would 
have had in our home countries.

With 16.2 million residents, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders 
are one of the fastest growing populations in the United States. In 
fact, the Census Bureau estimates that by the year 2050, more than 33.4 
million Asian Americans will call the United States home.

Asian and Pacific Islander Americans have made valuable contributions 
to every aspect of American life--from business to education to 
politics to the arts to the military. For example, there are 
approximately 1.1 million APIA-owned small businesses all across the 
country that employ 2.2 million workers. There are also hundreds of 
thousands of APIA servicemembers and veterans, including more than 
53,500 brave men and women who have been deployed to Iraq and 
Afghanistan since 2001.


Today, I was glad to join my colleagues in supporting passage of H.R. 
347, which appropriately awards a Congressional Gold Medal to the 100th 
Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team in honor of 
their extraordinary and dedicated service during World War II.

Comprised predominantly of nisei, the American-born sons of Japanese 
immigrants, members of the University of Hawaii's Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps, the ROTC, aided the wounded, buried the fallen, and 
helped defend vulnerable areas in Hawaii after the attack at Pearl 
Harbor.

In spite of these acts of courage, the U.S. Army discharged all nisei 
in the ROTC unit, changed their draft status to ineligible, and 
segregated all Japanese American in the military on the mainland out of 
their units. In the meantime, more than 100,000 Japanese Americans were 
forcibly relocated from their homes to internment camps.

Undaunted, members of the Hawaii Provisional Infantry Battalion 
joined the 100th Infantry Battalion in California to train as soldiers. 
The sheer determination and pursuit of excellence displayed by this 
battalion in


training contributed to President Roosevelt's decision to allow nisei 
volunteers to serve in the U.S. military again, leading to their 
incorporation into the 442nd.

Members of the 100th and 442nd risked their lives to fight for our 
country and allies in Europe. The 442nd ''Go for Broke'' unit became 
the most decorated in U.S. military history for its size and length of 
service, with its component, the 100th Infantry Battalion, earning the 
nickname ''The Purple Heart Battalion.''

I'd like to thank Congressman Schiff, the chief sponsor of H.R. 347, 
for providing us with the opportunity to bestow this body's most 
distinguished honor, the Congressional Gold Medal, to these brave 
soldiers on the behalf of a grateful Nation.

I would be remiss if I did not mention one of Hawaii's favorite sons 
as we celebrate this month, and that is President Barack Obama. While 
not ethnically Asian American or Pacific Islander himself, his ties to 
our community are strong ones, and his support on our issues could not 
be more heartfelt.

He has appointed, as mentioned earlier, Asian Americans to key 
cabinet positions: Steven Chu, Secretary of Energy; Gary Locke, 
Secretary of Commerce. By the way, Gary Locke is the first Asian 
American to be elected Governor outside of Hawaii. And Kauai's own 
General Eric Shinseki, Secretary of Veteran Affairs.

One of the issues that President Obama has supported is self-
determination for the indigenous people of our State of Hawaii--native 
Hawaiians who deserve to have the same right to self-determination 
enjoyed by other indigenous groups such as the American Indians and the 
Alaskan natives.

H.R. 2314, the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act, would 
set up a process for native Hawaiians to organize a governmental 
entity. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and 
our President in passing this important bill.

I would also be remiss if I did not pay tribute to my predecessor, 
Congresswoman Patsy T. Mink of Hawaii, a trailblazer in every sense of 
the word. I thank my colleague, Congresswoman Richardson, for 
mentioning Patsy Mink, for whom title IX was renamed the Patsy T. Mink 
Equal Opportunity in Education Act.

Title IX changed the lives of women and girls across our country. In 
fact, a couple of years ago, several of the high schools in my district 
were given a special recognition for really promoting title IX and 
participation of high school girls in sports. When I attended one of 
these high schools to present them with a special recognition, one of 
the girls asked me a question that totally floored me. That question 
was, If you could pick a sport, what sport would you have participated 
in? And it floored me because it was a question that had never been 
asked when I was in high school.

That's the kind of difference that title IX is making. In fact, 
Patsy's own daughter, when she applied to a particular school and did 
not get accepted, the reason for that was, they told her, We have 
enough women in our university. This all preceded title IX. Literally 
thousands and thousands of lives have been change by title IX.

In closing, I'd like to also once again thank Chairman Honda for 
allowing us this opportunity to reflect upon how far our APIA community 
has come, and yet we must remember how much further our community has 
to go.

As we say in Hawaii, mahalo nui loa.