# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `5e850b19a3266fa25a592873a97c411b`
`Mr. ROGERS of Alabama — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I rise today to oppose this 
resolution. In doing so, I want to say I understand and share in some 
of the frustrations of those who are disappointed in the course of this 
conflict.

Over the past few days we have heard passionate debate on both sides 
of the issue from Democrats and Republicans alike. But I would say to 
my colleagues, passing this resolution is not the answer to their 
frustration. Not only is it purely symbolic and offers no productive 
solution for helping our military succeed, it sends the wrong message 
to our troops.

Instead of debating a resolution that says what we should not do in 
Iraq, it seems to me a more reasonable question should be, how should 
we go forward from here?

In January, the President put forth a plan to send reinforcements to 
help secure key areas in and around Baghdad and Anbar province in order 
to achieve a level of security to allow the Iraqi Government and 
security forces to assume control. As we all know, it may work and it 
may not.

But if the President, as Commander in Chief, and General Pace truly 
believe this plan will succeed, then I believe it should be given a 
chance to work.

Having listened to proponents and critics of the plan, it seems to me 
its success or failure is dependent on some key factors, including, 
first, whether our soldiers will be given the latitude to fully perform 
their duties without political interference; secondly, whether the 
Iraqi Government will be held accountable to live up to its 
commitments; and, third, whether the Iraqis will finally take 
responsibility for their own affairs.

Madam Speaker, the stakes in this debate are high. Iraq, indeed, is 
now the primary battlefront in the global war on terror, and there are 
no easy answers.

The House may pass this resolution this week, but in doing so, we 
will have missed an opportunity for a better and more balanced debate, 
including the chance to vote on a substitute bill.

Given the sacrifices our Nation has made, I agree the time to see 
real progress in Iraq is now. We all want our troops to come home 
safely and as soon as possible. But we also need for them to be 
successful in order for our Nation to remain secure.

Though our patience is being tested, our men and women in uniform 
deserve better from us than this purely symbolic resolution. They need 
our complete and unqualified support.