# None
## `5e8a4522ece9aec7f8976e1cf106dc78`
`Mr. REID — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, during the recess we had, I was in Nevada. 
People all across the State of Nevada, just like people all across this 
country, are committed to ending the war in Iraq.

These are the facts. We need to end the worst foreign policy blunder 
in our Nation's history, which started with the invasion of Iraq. What 
has 5 years of war brought to America, to the Middle East, to the 
world? It has brought thousands of deaths, almost a trillion dollars in 
debt, catastrophic failure of diplomacy. What has 5 years of war 
brought to America, to the Middle East, and the world? Debt, 
depression, and death.

My Republican colleagues, think what this war has done to our 
Nation's fiscal soundness. It has destroyed it. In less than a year 
borrowed money for Iraq will be $1 trillion--soon $1 trillion of 
borrowed money, with the likely Republican nominee for President saying 
we may need to be in Iraq for another 100 years. We are nearing the 
tragic milestone of 4,000 dead Americans, more than 30,000 wounded 
Americans, many gravely wounded, amputations, blindness, hearing loss, 
untold thousands with head trauma, making life after the war most 
difficult. This week brings news from the Pentagon that there will be 
140,000 American troops in Iraq still in July, 8,000 more than when the 
surge began in January of 2007.

In Iraq a civil war rages, with the past 2 days bringing us the news 
of Sunni attacks on Shias while the Shias observe a religious holiday, 
attacks that killed at least threescore, wounded more than 100. And, of 
course, the Shias will reciprocate; and just in an off place that you 
have to search hard in the newspaper, three more dead American 
soldiers. These are the facts.

In Israel we find the Bush administration has been too preoccupied to 
be concerned with the volatility of the Palestinian-Israeli situation. 
Now we have a raging civil war in the Palestinian territory, Hamas 
versus Fatah. A government can't be formed in Lebanon where some say is 
also a civil war. Iran is thumbing its nose at us and the world 
community. Torture, Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo, warrantless spying on 
American citizens--all as a result of this misplaced war. These are the 
facts.

In an op-ed published in today's Washington Post, three noted writers 
and foreign policy experts said this:




 Republicans will claim that after four years of disastrous 


 mistakes, the Bush administration finally got it right with 


 its troop ''surge.'' Yet despite the loss of nearly 1,000 


 American lives and the expenditure of $150 billion, the surge 


 has failed in its stated purpose: providing the Iraqi 


 government with the breathing space to pass the 18 


 legislative benchmarks the Bush administration called vital 


 to political reconciliation.



 To date it has passed only four.


And some say the four passed are for show; they have no substance.




 Moreover, as part of the surge, the administration has 


 further undermined Iraq's government by providing arms and 


 money to Sunni insurgent groups even though they have not 


 pledged loyalty to Baghdad.


My high school pal, my buddy, I named one of my boys after him, he 
named one of his boys after me. I am proud of my namesake. He is a 
heroic helicopter pilot, having served a very difficult tour in 
Afghanistan and now Iraq. We exchanged regular e-mails during his time 
overseas. These e-mails were wonderful. Before going to Iraq, we had 
the opportunity to meet in Las Vegas for dinner. He was on his way. It 
was a nice dinner. He proudly told me of his war stories, stories of 
real-life valor. Now the e-mails have stopped. I had the good fortune 
of meeting my friend at my home in Searchlight last week, last Monday, 
a week ago yesterday.

I said: Why don't I get e-mails anymore. His dad told me that his son 
said: They need to get us out of here. He wants to come home with the 
rest of our gallant, even heroic troops. These are the facts.

The mission has not been accomplished. We have not been met as 
liberators. After 5 years of war, we are still an occupying force. 
Iraq, with untold wealth because of its oil supply, must take care of 
its own citizens. Americans need to start taking care of Americans. We 
cannot spend a half billion dollars every day in Iraq. These are the 
facts.

We will soon vote on two amendments that will begin to change course 
in the bloody Iraq civil war. Our first vote is on a bill to 
responsibly begin to redeploy our troops so we can refocus on other 
threats and challenges around the world. Do we have them? General Casey 
testified today in a building a short distance from here that the Army 
is in a state of distress. We heard on the media this morning about 
what is going on in the Pacific. The admiral in charge there doesn't 
have the necessary force to do even intelligence. It has been shipped 
to Iraq.

We need to begin to redeploy our troops. That is what this amendment 
is about. We can refocus on other threats and challenges, and there are 
many, and limit the troops to counterterrorism, force training, and 
protecting our assets.

The other bill we will vote on later is also extremely important. It 
calls for a report from the administration on the status of the fight 
against al-Qaida, the fight against terrorism. As the war in Iraq 
rages, bin Laden remains free, and his terrorist network is gaining 
power worldwide. This legislation will shine the spotlight on this 
unmet challenge of fighting terrorism and keeping America safe--today, 
tomorrow, and beyond.

I urge my colleagues to seek common ground toward a new American 
foreign policy that strengthens our security, supports our troops, and 
begins to restore our Nation's ability to once again lead in the way we 
have in generations past.
















 cloture motion
