---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5e9203618ddd9d21dc1c0421b6c244b2`
`Mr. PRYOR — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, it is with great sadness that I come to the 
floor today to talk about SGT Vincent L.C. Owens from Fort Smith, AR. 
His life of service to our Nation is a shining example of a true 
American patriot.

Sergeant Owens lost his life while serving in eastern Afghanistan 
after his transport vehicle came under fire by enemy forces. He was a 
part of the 3rd Battalion, 187th Infantry Regimen, 101st Airborne 
Division in Fort Campbell, KY. Previously, Sergeant Owens spent 14 
months in Iraq serving with the A Battery, 1st Battalion, 56th Air 
Defense Artillery from Fort Bliss, TX. Sergeant Owens served both tours 
with honor and distinction, earning numerous medals and awards, 
including two Army Commendation Medals, two Army Achievement Medals, a 
Valorous Unit Award, the National Defense Service Medal, the Iraq 
Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Army 
Service Ribbon, and the Combat Action Badge.

An ardent athlete, talented student, and motorcycle aficionado, 
Sergeant Owens lived his life of only 21 years with passion and 
dedication. Those who knew him describe him as a kind and easygoing man 
who always had high standards for himself. He was the oldest of five 
children. He had been married to his wife Kaitlyn for just 6 weeks. 
Despite being a newlywed, Sergeant Owens did not hesitate to answer the 
call of duty.



Sergeant Owens' family and friends said he joined the Army out of a 
sense of patriotism and took pride in serving his Nation. He devoted 
his life to defending America and gave the ultimate sacrifice for the 
country he so deeply loved.


After this tremendous loss, Fort Smith, AK, is in the process of 
waving off 200 airmen from the Air National Guard's 188th Fighter Wing 
as they head to Afghanistan, joining about 75 members of the 188th 
already serving there. This will be the unit's first deployment with 
the A-10 Thunderbolt II--also known as ''The Warthog''--since the 188th 
received the aircraft in April of 2007. Also, many of these guardsmen 
are part of the agribusiness development team. This unit will teach 
Afghans better farming, crop storage, and marketing practices in an 
effort to draw them away from poppy production and build a strong 
economy. These Arkansans are picking up Sergeant Owens' mantle in the 
fight to create a more secure and stable Afghanistan and together their 
efforts will endure.

Today, I join all Arkansans in lifting up Sergeant Owens' wife 
Kaitlyn, his parents Sheila and Keith and his siblings and friends and 
extended family and community of Fort Smith during this very difficult 
time. Sergeant Owens may be gone, but his courage, valor, and 
patriotism will never be forgotten.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.