---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `5e9a690e0ced15000fc504b94b2b305f`
`Mr. INSLEE — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, we cannot, we should not, and we must not 
give President George Bush a blank check to squander the lives of our 
children and the dollars of our constituents in Iraq. We should not 
give him a blank check today, we should not give him a blank check next 
week, and we should not give him a blank check ever. The days of giving 
him a blank check to make repeated incompetent decisions in Iraq must 
be stopped and they should be stopped today by voting ''no'' on this 
supplemental.

And the inspiration for doing that should come from our proud men who 
are serving in Iraq. I heard a story a few weeks ago about a fellow who 
had his buddy shot by a sniper, he was being shot up by automatic 
weapons fire, and his buddy ran out into the field of fire to rescue 
his friend. We should look at our duty today as rescuing our children, 
brothers, sisters, husbands and wives in Iraq. And if we take hostile 
political fire in doing so, so be it. That tiny act of standing up to 
George Bush does not end up in the same league of courage of those who 
are serving in Iraq who take real hostile fire, that need to be rescued 
from the incompetence of the executive branch of the United States 
Government. And it is solely the power of the U.S. Congress to do that.

The people who established this institution had a very wise 
knowledge. They knew someday there could be a President who might make 
bad decisions on occasion, who might make bad decisions in the course 
of a war, and that is why in article I, section 8, they vested in the 
U.S. Congress the power of the purse to be used in exactly these 
circumstances, to rein in a rogue President who cannot seem to 
understand the reality on the ground in Iraq and has a hallucinatory 
policy that is exposing our children to harm. This power in section 8, 
the power of the purse, is one that is designed by the framers of 
democracy for exactly these circumstances. And the reason the framers 
put the power of the purse to rein in a rogue President is because they 
understood that this is the institution closer to the American people. 
This is the People's House.

And I know there's a lot of problems that none of us are geniuses on 
in Iraq, but there is one thing we know: In difficult times in America, 
there is one will, one sense of absolute genius that all of us should 
follow, and that is the will of the American people, the joint, 
commonsense consensus. From the cornfields of the Midwest to the 
coastlines, there is a common consensus that we need a change in policy 
in Iraq, and the only way we will get it, the only way that common 
sense of the American people will be followed is to vote ''no'' on this 
today. We can be united in understanding that. And when we do so, we 
will follow the Congresses of the past who on at least five occasions 
have used the constitutional power of the purse to insist on a change.

And I will say this. In the Constitution, this organization here is 
given the power to declare war. And we also have the power to end a 
war. Presidents do not have the authority to fight wars in perpetuity. 
There is no way that Congress would ever give that authority. And today 
using the power of the purse, a constitutional tool, we should stand up 
for the will of the American people and fulfill our rescue mission for 
our sons and daughters in Iraq and vote ''no'' on this supplemental 
bill.