# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `5eab899d72fa415c8c6fd28b115c8401`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. I would also like to point out that this really is a 
national security issue for the United States of America. General Peter 
Pace was asked if he was comfortable with the ability of our Nation to 
respond to an emerging world threat. He paused and he said, ''No, I am 
not comfortable.''

We have our troops bogged down in Iraq. We do have enemies around the 
world, no question about it, but our military is strained. We know that 
the troops could not stay at this pace past March anyway, so it is 
natural that the President would call to bring back some of the troops 
in March. It is not really progress. It is just acknowledging that we 
have to have them back. But here is the issue: If you know there is a 
burglar in your neighborhood, the first thing you do is you lock your 
own door. We didn't do that. We went to Iraq instead of locking our own 
door. We didn't even pass the 9/11 recommendations. The 110th Congress 
had to take care of that business. So, finally, we are going to be 
inspecting cargo from airplanes, and we are going to be inspecting 
cargo that comes from overseas, and we are going to inspect 100 percent 
of it after a period of time. That should have been done immediately. 
We should have beefed up homeland security, locked our doors, so to 
speak, and then worked with other nations to catch terrorists. They 
were ready.

On 9/12/01, we had the world's sympathy and empathy. They were ready 
to work with us to catch these horrible terrorists. Instead, we went to 
Iraq, and now our brave troops are bogged down there. The Iraqis have 
suffered enough. It is time to bring them home responsibly and to start 
looking at building up our troop strength again so that we can respond 
to anyplace around the world that we might need to be.