# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `5eb4c9b7de99b62b3a304886cea899e5`
`Mrs. GILLIBRAND â€” 9 May 2007`

---


Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Speaker, I was not present to vote on 
Wednesday, May 2, 2007, because I was in my upstate New York district, 
attending the funeral of State Trooper David Brinkerhoff, a State 
trooper killed in the line of duty.

Had I been present, I would have voted in the following way:

(1) Democratic Motion on Ordering the Previous Question on the Head 
Start Rule--''yea.''

(2) H. Res. 348--Rule providing for consideration of the Head Start 
bill--''yea.''

(3) H. Res. 350--Rule providing for consideration of the NIST bill--
''yea.''

(4) Will the House, on reconsideration, pass the Iraq Supplemental, 
the objections of the President to the contrary notwithstanding?--
''yea.''

(5) Price (GA) Amendment. Establishes an 8-state Block Grant 
demonstration of Head Start program which would eliminate Head Start 
program standards, weaken oversight and accountability, remove local 
control, and end Head Start as we know it.--''nay.''

(6) Sestak/Tierney/Courtney Amendment. Authorizes a loan forgiveness 
program for Head Start teachers to support better teacher quality in 
Head Start programs.--''yea.''

(7) Hirono Amendment. Improves the Early Head Start program by making 
needed improvements to the training and technical assistance system in 
Early Head Start.--''yea.''

(8) Mica Amendment. Moves the deadline up by 2 years for when Head 
Start teachers must have B.A.'s, without providing additional resources 
to ensure programs would not have to reduce other core services.--
''nay.''

(9) Putnam Amendment. Removes the bill's improved accountability 
measures that include a system of program quality review by requiring 
all Head Start programs to be re-competed every 5 years regardless 
oftheir quality; draws funding away from the classroom for greater 
federal bureaucracy.--''nay.''

(10) Carnahan Amendment. Ensures programs can maintain quality 
services by allowing grantees to negotiate enrollment levels when 
appropriations are insufficient to cover COLA.--''yea.''

(11) Shuler/Ellsworth/Loebsack Amendment. Affirms eligibility of 
faith-based organizations as Head Start grantees and applauds role of 
community and faith based organizations in the Head Start program.--
''yea.''
