---
---

# WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, JR.
## `5ebaff06ea0f26fb02cc2b7980afa4a5`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I stand to present H. Res. 1016, which was introduced by 
Representative Tom Feeney of Florida on March 4 of this year, and 
enjoys the cosponsorship of over 90 Members of Congress. The measure 
was considered by and voted out of the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee on March 13, 2008, after having been amended.

William F. Buckley was born on November 24, 1925, in New York City, 
and even as a young child he displayed a remarkable level of 
intelligence and awareness. Along with English, Mr. Buckley was fluent 
in Spanish and French, and was an avid musician and outdoorsman.

After attending the National Autonomous University in Mexico in 1943, 
Buckley was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the United States 
Army. During his tenure, he served as a member of Franklin Roosevelt's 
Honor Guard until the President passed away. After his military 
service, Buckley went on to attend Yale, where he was a member of the 
Skull and Bones Society, a master debater, and editor in chief of the 
Yale Daily News. He studied political science, history, and economics, 
graduating with honors in 1950.

In 1950, Buckley married Patricia Alden Austin Taylor, and as a major 
proponent of marriage, Mr. Buckley practiced what he preached, having 
been married himself for 57 years. In 1951, he was recruited by the CIA 
while publishing his first book, God and Man at Yale. He would later go 
on to write a volume of novels, over 50 more, featuring topics ranging 
from history to sailing. Most everyone knows him for his hosting of the 
PBS show, Firing Line, where he displayed a scholarly, light-hearted 
style.

In February of 2008, Bill Buckley was found dead at his home in 
Stamford, Connecticut. Let us remember him for his great oratory 
skills, his admirable journalism, and his overall commitment to social 
activism. Mr. Buckley is known for a number of views, ranging from drug 
legalization to opposition of the Iraq war, and whether you agreed or 
disagreed with him, you must recognize him for being a spirited man, 
well thought in his opinions, and loyal to his country.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.