---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `5ebffa29503490001b372164c43b70ff`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Kentucky for his valued insight 
into H.R. 97, which is the Blue Dog-endorsed House resolution to demand 
accountability and fiscal responsibility in how tax money is being 
spent in Iraq, some $9 billion a month; put another way, some $12 
million an hour.

Let me be clear that as members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we support 
our troops 110, 120, 130 percent. We can't do enough for our troops. 
And as long as we have troops in harm's way, we are going to be there 
to ensure they have what they need to get the job done and to get it 
done as safely as possible, and hopefully get on back home to their 
families.

This has impacted every family in America in one way or another. My 
brother-in-law is in Kyrgyzstan now, which is the entry point for 
Afghanistan, just as Kuwait is oftentimes the entry point for Iraq. My 
first cousin was in Iraq when his wife gave birth to their first child.

Before coming down here today, I visited with a Ms. Watson in Pine 
Bluff, Arkansas, whose son, and she is so very proud of him and I am 
too, Lt. Colonel Watson, continues to serve us today in Baghdad. We 
thank him. We thank all soldiers for their dedicated service to our 
country.

This is about accountability. This is about having responsibility and 
oversight on how our tax money is being spent in Iraq.

Not only that, but this hour is dedicated to talking about this new 
Bush budget that was delivered to Capitol Hill yesterday. Thank 
goodness that, as Members of Congress, we get a vote on this budget, 
that we can ensure that funding is there for education and for our 
veterans. And, yes, we are creating a new generation of veterans in 
Afghanistan and Iraq today. And we have got to be there for them.

I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee, a former cochair of the Blue 
Dogs for policy, Mr. Cooper.