# None
## `5edf0217ee535164216466fa9c1ac1e1`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, it is time to stop discrimination. It is 
time to repeal don't ask, don't tell. This is a policy that should have 
been repealed long ago--long ago. It should have been repealed for its 
discriminatory nature. It should have been repealed because the Defense 
Department's own report makes it clear that those who pointlessly cling 
to this discriminatory, wrongheaded, shortsighted policy, by claiming 
the mantle of national security, have absolutely no ground--no ground--
to stand on.

Don't ask, don't tell is a ridiculous notion, a bad policy, and a 
relic of a bygone era. It is keeping brave, able, educated, technically 
skilled, multilingual, trained soldiers, men and women who want nothing 
more than to defend their country from doing so.

We are preventing them from making our military even stronger, making 
it better, and contributing to what we need in a modern military force. 
In my view, a vote to repeal this antiquated policy is a smart vote. It 
is the right vote. It is the fair vote. It is a just vote. It is a vote 
to keep our military strong, keep good people in the military, who want 
to serve.

Americans who now must remain anonymous, such as an anonymous marine 
currently serving in Afghanistan says:




 So far the military has been my source of work and income 


 for the last 6 years. I don't want that all taken away from 


 me and me being discharged anything but honorably.


He says:




 We face the same challenges as all other marines or 


 soldiers but with an extra burden.


Or another anonymous servicemember--a decorated Midwesterner, a 
shining example of an American marine, with a chest full of ribbons--
like others, he risked his life, but, like other marines denying who 
they are, he was deeply apprehensive about seeking the medical care he 
needed when he got home for fear of being ousted and losing everything 
he had worked and sacrificed for, everything he had served for.

He suffered in silence, careful in whom he confided, saying:




 You never know who you can trust.


An Arabic linguist--someone whose talents we sorely need against some 
of the enemies we have today--named Bleu Copas was discharged under 
don't ask, don't tell, even though he was never identified as gay and 
his accuser never revealed himself. Imagine that, in a country that 
values the rule of law and justice, that your accuser never has to 
reveal themselves, never be subject to cross-examination, never testing 
the veracity, the truthfulness of what they are saying, and yet have 
this person be discharged.

This is no way to run a military. We are talking about patriots. We 
are talking about men and women who want to serve, who are serving, who 
yearn to serve, who put their lives on the line.

When a C-17 from the 436th Airlift Wing flies into Dover, DE, when 
rows of flag-draped coffins fill a hangar and the solemn dignity of 
fallen heroes brings silence and tears to all of us as a nation, do we 
ask the faith, the color, the sexual preference under those flags? I 
think not.

Listen to the arguments and rationale of those military leaders who 
know best.

Former Secretary of the Army Clifford Alexander said:




 The policy is an absurdity and borderlines on being an 


 obscenity. What it does is cause people to ask of themselves 


 that they lie to themselves, that they pretend to be 


 something that they are not. There is no empirical evidence 


 that would indicate that it affects military cohesion.


Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Shalikashvili, 
said:




 Within the military, the climate has changed dramatically 


 since 1993. . . .



 Conversations I've held with servicemembers make clear 


 that, while the military remains a traditional culture, that 


 tradition no longer requires banning open service by gays.


Three-star Retired LTG Claudia Kennedy said:




 Army values are taught to soldiers from their earliest days 


 in the Army. Those values are: Loyalty, duty, mutual respect, 


 selfless service, honor, integrity and personal courage. We 


 teach our soldiers that these are the values we expect them 


 to live up to.


She goes on to say:




 I believe that as an institution, our military needs to 


 live up to the values we demand of the servicemembers. . . .



 Military leaders need to respect all servicemembers. We 


 need to recognize that loyalty and selfless service are 


 exhibited equally, by servicemembers of every color, gender 


 and sexual orientation.


I think about her words ''selfless service.'' When you voluntarily, 
in an all-volunteer military, come forth as an American and say: I want 
to serve my country, I am willing to put my life in harm's way in 
behalf of the defense of the Nation and my fellow Americans, does that 
somehow get diminished--that selfless service get diminished--because 
you are gay?

I think about personal courage. When you are on the battlefield, and 
you are being shot at, and when you are protecting those who are in 
your company, and when you are injured, and when you are bleeding, does 
that personal courage get diminished because you are gay?

Certainly not. Certainly not.

And most convincingly, and to the point, Retired Navy VADM and U.S. 
Congressman Joe Sestak said this:




 We have to correct this. It's just not right. I can 


 remember being out there in command, and someone would come 


 up to you and start to tell you--and you just want to say, 


 no, I don't want to lose you, you're too good, [too 


 valuable].


Let's take the advice of these military leaders who know that this is 
a bad policy and it should be repealed. It is a policy that the 
Pentagon report itself says, if repealed, presents little risk to 
military readiness and cohesion, and little effect on morale.

In fact, 62 percent of servicemembers responded to the Pentagon's own 
survey that repeal of don't ask, don't tell would have a positive or no 
effect on morale.