# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `5ee0b839703190cf8fc47e463d323256`
`Mr. ROSS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Tennessee. He 
raises an excellent point. All this started after 9/11, and we all know 
Osama bin Laden was responsible for 9/11. We now have some 25,000 
troops in the Afghanistan region. Contrast that to be a quarter million 
troops in the Iraq region. Eighty-something percent of the people in 
Afghanistan want us there. Contrast that with Iraq. 71 percent of the 
Iraqi people don't want us there, and 60 percent of them think it is 
okay to kill a U.S. soldier. I believe it is time for a new direction 
in Iraq. Three times this year I have voted for a new direction in 
Iraq.

Let me be perfectly clear: As long as we have got troops in harm's 
way, I am going to support them. As I indicated, my brother-in-law is 
in the Air Force. He has been in the region. My first cousin is in the 
U.S. Army and is back for the second time in Iraq right now.

Back home in Arkansas, young people I have taught in Sunday school 
and duck hunted with will soon be going back for a second tour of duty 
in Iraq. I will be there every step of the way to support them. But I 
also want this administration and this Congress to give them a mission 
that is obtainable, one that will take them out of harm's way.

I have had too many soldiers from my district die in Iraq. Just in 
the last few weeks, Specialist Donovan Witham from Malvern, Arkansas, 
gave his life in Iraq. Just a few days ago, I was able to spend some 
time with his family in their living room letting them know that his 
service to this country will not be forgotten. I will make sure of 
that. His family remains in my heart and in my prayers, as do all the 
family members of the nearly 4,000 troops that we have lost in Iraq.