---
---

# ESTABLISHING PROGRAM TO MAKE GRANTS REGARDING BACKUP PAPER BALLOTS
## `5ee1dd43e50b7aa9f58e30e6c9e8188a`
`Mr. ELLISON — 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the chairlady for this 
excellent piece of legislation which I urge all of our colleagues to 
support.

Imagine, Mr. Speaker, a young person voting for the first time, 
freshly 18 years old getting a chance to vote, waiting in line and 
finding out that there are no more ballots because of one reason or 
another. Or imagine the person is a senior citizen who has plowed so 
much into our country, forged a way for us in this society, but yet 
they stand in line, no backup ballots, they can't vote because the 
machine broke down. Or what about a veteran, Mr. Speaker, a veteran who 
has served in Iraq or Afghanistan who stands in line trying to cast a 
ballot to select a leader of their choice in their community and the 
machine breaks down, no ballots, and they're not able to cast a vote.

This is a very commonsense, reasonable and responsible piece of 
legislation that goes to the very heart of what we are here to do in 
this Capitol today as the United States Congress which is to make sure 
that democracy marches forward. This is prudent. This is wise. This is 
smart. This is a dollar very, very well spent because it ensures that 
our country continue to reflect the rich diversity in this body so 
people can vote and pick their leaders.

Mr. Speaker, I can't imagine why anyone wouldn't want to support this 
excellent legislation.

I urge a ''yes'' vote.