# NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND ACT OF 2007
## `5ee12625a1e0cfbfac73a6f46ea1c05f`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, this is an unusual 
amendment. The actual author offered it, and the Member rising in 
opposition actually opposes it for the first time today. And I 
appreciate the cooperation we've had.

I want to say that I appreciate, not just that, but the gentleman 
from Texas, who has been a very constructive member of the committee. 
We have some differences. That's why we have different parties. But we 
have a great deal in agreement. And the gentleman's expertise in the 
homebuilding field has been very helpful as our committee has gone 
forward. And here is, perhaps, a philosophical difference between us.

The main difference here is that the gentleman's amendment, 
recognizing, as he does from his own experience, the value of 
additional housing construction, would do away with our two funding 
sources. Now, we chose to go in addition to the HOME program, which is 
the one program where there is a parallel, for a couple of reasons. 
First of all, the HOME program is, of course, subject to annual 
appropriations, and that's appropriate for most government work. But we 
did want to have in the government a program for housing construction 
that had a little bit more assurance for people than an annual 
appropriation. Appropriations get caught up in omnibus issues, CR 
issues. The trust fund will be outside of the kind of deadlock that we 
have had in the past and may, we hope not, but may have in the future. 
If you're trying to build housing, the notion that your funding has 
been slowed down because there has been a fight over some unrelated 
issue, like the debate about the Iraq war funding, could slow you down, 
we want to avoid that, so we keep the HOME program. But we have an 
additional program, and again, it's for the construction of affordable 
housing, unlike any other program, except HOME, and we want to give it 
some assurance to operate in a trust fund. And this is, to some extent, 
modeled after the highway trust fund. It is a trust fund that will 
still be subject to work by the Appropriations Committee, but it won't 
be bogged down as the rest of the government gets bogged down, and 
that's important when you are doing construction when you have an 
ongoing situation.

Secondly, we do have two additional funding sources. Now, there is 
some debate about that. I do want to stress, in the FHA bill, which was 
already voted on by the House, we say in the first place that if any 
question arises about the solvency of the fund, if the FHA fund should 
appear to be in trouble, not a penny can go into the affordable housing 
fund that year. Only after the HUD Secretary has certified that the 
money won't be needed to hold down premiums or prevent insolvency will 
this go forward.

We have said that by the creation of a new funding stream, namely, 
allowing an unlimited amount of home equity and mortgages, we get a lot 
of money that CBO made available. And I should note, by the way, that 
some of that money, as the gentleman from Texas, among others, have 
suggested, has gone to upgrade the computer system of the FHA. Some of 
it will go for a great increase in counseling to homeowners, which is, 
again, supported on both sides. A good chunk will be left over, we're 
not sure exactly how much, we hope it will be $200 million a year. But 
it only goes to the housing trust fund if it would otherwise have gone 
to the Treasury. There is zero chance, the way this bill is written, 
for it to force that kind of an increase. That, by the way, is why CBO 
gives us a flat score on this. There is no budget deficit situation 
here at all.

Similarly, with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and here I have to say 
some of my Republican colleagues have been a little inconsistent, the 
administration, some of them, they've been critical of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. They've said, you know, we give all these advantages to 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a line of credit, some people think they're 
government-run, there used to be government members on the board, 
although we will not have that if our bill passes, and here they are, 
they're making all these profits and they're not doing enough for 
public purposes. Well, in our Fannie and Freddie bill, we amend that to 
some extent by increasing the housing goals they have by dropping the 
credit they get from 100 percent to 80 percent immediately. But we also 
say, you know what? You've been doing pretty well, you're making a lot 
of money and your sales are doing well, so without in any way impinging 
on your mortgage functioning, we are going to take some of the profit 
you've made and put it in the affordable housing trust fund.

By the way, I find it a little odd that people who have said that we 
should basically reduce the portfolio of Fannie and Freddie and make 
them securitize more, which they believe will do more damage to their 
ability to function


than anything else, that now they become very concerned when we talk 
about a housing trust fund. I should be clear that that does not 
describe the gentleman from Texas, who understands very well how best 
to help Fannie and Freddie. And I think we put through a bill that will 
enhance their ability to function while better regulating them.

So, in other words, we have 800 or $900 million, we hope, in the 
first year, and we hope it will go up. And this is the main difference 
between us, it doesn't come from appropriated funds. And I believe we 
have written it so it will not interfere with either Fannie and Freddie 
or FHA's ability to function. And we do not create a new bureaucracy. 
We distribute it to the State and local housing funds. Indeed, many of 
the amendments that we've adopted here in agreement by both sides, and 
some that we adopted in committee, I was looking it over, in committee 
we adopted a number of amendments, more from the Republican side than 
the Democratic side because I don't have to worry about other people 
telling me where we are on that. We have, in every one of these 
amendments, increased the flexibility for the local housing trust 
funds.

So with that, I hope that the substitute is defeated and that we will 
continue to improve this bill.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.