# RECOGNIZING USO MARINE OF THE YEAR--SGT. JUSTIN CLOUGH
## `5ee4d69d2021ef1d396c03fc36a590d0`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the military 
service of Sgt Justin Clough, the most recent recipient of the USO's 
Marine of the Year award.

Although Justin is only 22, he has demonstrated bravery and 
leadership beyond his years. Since joining the U.S. Marine Corps, 
Justin has served two tours of duty and led more than 100 combat 
missions in Iraq as the squad leader of the 2nd Battalion, 8th Marine 
Regiment. During these missions, his squad was frequently attacked by 
direct and indirect fire. His dedication to leadership and training 
would ensure the safety of his fellow marines and ultimately prove to 
save his own life. On December 26, 2006, Justin was wounded by an 
insurgent sniper while on a routine patrol in Fallujah. Following the 
attack, his comrades, which included Justin's twin brother Nathaniel 
Clough, swiftly brought him to safety.

On September 20, the usa recognized Justin with one of its most 
prestigious honors, the Marine of the Year award at the 66th annual USO 
World Gala. In addition to the Marine of the Year award, Justin was 
chosen as the top marine in his company and battalion, awarded with the 
Purple Heart, and recommended for the Bronze Star with Combat ''V'' for 
valor.

Since returning to Stonington, CT, Justin has balanced physical 
therapy and volunteer work with the local high school football team. 
Upon receiving his medical discharge papers, he hopes to attend a 
university or work on a military base as a civilian.

While his presence will certainly be missed in the 2nd Battalion, 8th 
Marine Regiment, his leadership will undoubtedly yield success in 
future academic and work endeavors. I ask my colleagues to join with me 
and my constituents in saluting Justin's service to the Marines and our 
Nation.
