---
---

# TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL JOHN F. KELLY
## `5eee57827aa85d6c9f035fcd2318be9d`
`Mr. SKELTON — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, let me take this opportunity to recognize 
Brigadier General John F. Kelly, United States Marine Corps. From 
August 2004 to June 2007, Brigadier General Kelly admirably served as 
the Legislative Assistant to the Commandant of the Marine Corps.

During his time in this position, Brigadier General Kelly created 
numerous successes for the Marine Corps mission. His keen knowledge and 
experience in Congressional affairs, combined with an increased 
emphasis on Congressional relationships, propelled the Commandant's 
strategy and vision. His leadership has enabled the Marine Corps to 
make tremendous progress during a period of sustained high operational 
tempo and unprecedented interest in Marine Corps activities.

Brigadier General Kelly is a graduate of the University of 
Massachusetts, the Marine Corps Command and Staff College, the School 
for Advanced Warfare, and the National War College. He has served in 
numerous command and staff positions over his 31 years as an officer in 
the Marine Corps and is a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

I wish Brigadier General Kelly and his family the best as he 
continues his distinguished service to our Nation in his next 
assignment as the Deputy Commanding General of the 1st Marine 
Expeditionary Force. I am confident he will continue to exemplify the 
best that the Marine Corps has to offer and will superbly command our 
troops in the field.
