---
---

# None
## `5ef2313a9027196e1f8e7f289c974723`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise on behalf of the entire Women's 
Caucus, Co-Chairs Lois Capps and Cathy McMorris Rodgers and my co-Vice 
Chair, Mary Fallin, to honor four women who have served our Nation with 
honor and distinction. Today, the 10th Annual Women in Military Wreath 
Laying Ceremony hosted by the Caucus, was held at Arlington Cemetery. 
The purpose is to honor our Nation's servicewomen and women veterans 
for their courage and achievements, and to remember the women who have 
died in service to the United States of America.

SFC Barbara Clavijo, United States Army, distinguished herself by 
exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding 
service to the United States as the Multi-National Division Baghdad 
Force Protection Vulnerability Assessment Team NCOIC, 4th Infantry 
Division, Camp Liberty, Iraq from December 2, 2005-November 15, 2006 in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

While assigned as the Multi-National Division Baghdad Vulnerability 
Assessment Team NCOIC, SFC Clavijo was directly responsible for the 
development and execution of the Division's force protection program. 
Without hesitation and with great enthusiasm, and despite the inherent 
threats and dangers, she continuously navigated the MND-B's battle 
space to conduct vulnerability assessments. These assessments required 
SFC Clavijo to plan, coordinate, and participate in over 125 ground and 
air movements in support of these missions. During the course of these 
assessments she was forced to travel many routes known to be covered 
with Improvised Explosive Devices, IEDs. During one of these 
assessments she had the unlucky fortune to have her vehicle targeted by 
an IED. For this reason she was awarded the Combat Action Badge. Her 
awards also include the Bronze Service Medal, Meritorious Service 
Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, Army Good 
Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Drill Sergeant Badge, 
and Combat Action Badge. I am truly pleased to honor SFC Barbara 
Clavijo for her service and dedication.

Master Chief Ann L. Tubbs began her career with the U.S. Coast Guard 
in July 1980 when she graduated from the Coast Guard Training Center in 
Cape May, New Jersey and was assigned to Coast Guard Station Jonesport 
in West Jonesport, ME. Later, she was assigned aboard the Coast Guard 
icebreaker Glacier where she made 2 trips to Antarctica as part of 
Operation Deep Freeze. After leaving Glacier, Master Chief Tubbs spent 
2 years in Mobile, AL., as a small boat engineer running search and 
rescue boats in the Gulf of Mexico.

In August 2001, she accepted an active duty position in the Office of 
Reserve Affairs at Coast Guard Headquarters in Washington, DC. In 2002, 
she advanced to Senior Chief Petty Officer and was assigned as the 
Enlisted Gender Policy Advisor to the Commandant. She advanced to 
Master Chief Petty Officer on January 1, 2005. She assumed her current 
job as Special Assistant to the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Coast 
Guard in October of 2006. Master Chief Tubbs' military awards include 
the Coast Guard Commendation Medal, the Coast Guard Achievement Medal 
with Operational Distinguishing Device, the Commandant's Letter of 
Commendation, the Coast Guard Good Conduct Medal and the Reserve Good 
Conduct Medal, and the Antarctic Service Medal. I am so pleased to 
recognize Master Chief Tubb's today.


SSGT Cassie L. Lucero began her career with the Marines in 1998. 
During her career in the Marines, she has been decorated with numerous 
medals, including the Joint Service Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine 
Corps Commendation Medal, three Navy Marine Corps Achievement Medals, 
two Joint Meritorious Unit Awards, Navy Unit Commendation, Navy 
Meritorious Unit Commendation, two Good Conduct Medals, National 
Defense Service Medal, Iraqi Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism 
Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Korean 
Defense Medal, Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal, and three 
Sea Service Deployment Awards. It is my pleasure to honor SSGT. Cassie 
L. Lucero for her service.

CMSGT and Barbara S. Taylor is the Chief of Supply for the United 
States Air Force Band, Bolling Air Force Base, Washington, D.C. 
Originally from Kingsport, TN, her military career began in 1982. CMSGT 
Barbara S. Taylor was assigned to the United States Air Force Heritage 
of America Band at Langley Air Force Base, Virginia. There, she was 
both a euphonium and vocal soloist. She was the band's Director of 
Operations from October 1995 until her reassignment to the United 
States Air Force Band in January 1997. In 1993 and 1996, Chief Taylor 
was named the Air Combat Command Band's Noncommissioned Officer of the 
Year, and in February 1997 she was named the Air Combat Command 
Noncommissioned Officer of the Year for the band career field. Chief 
Taylor was also awarded the Commandant's Award at both the Airman 
Leadership School and the Noncommissioned Officers Academy. I am so 
honored to recognize Chief Taylor for her dedication to the United 
States.

Madam Speaker, it is with great admiration and pride that the 
Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues honors these four servicewomen 
and their extraordinary accomplishments. In a time when our military 
faces especially difficult challenges both at home and abroad, these 
four women have shown exceptional courage, ability and loyalty to the 
Armed Services of the United States of America. They are true shining 
examples of the numerous women serving in our military today.
