---
---

# None
## `5ef9baa03cb0547336f1081cc2839663`
`Mr. REID — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. That is somewhat unusual. It appears the changes as have 
been suggested by my friend--I wanted to be cooperative and say that is 
a good idea.

You can flip open any newspaper, tune in to any news program, tune in 
to any radio show, and you are bound to hear from professors, 
economists, analysts, and pundits debating about the state of our 
economy. It used to be a lot of them were asking: Are we in a recession 
now? Not too many are asking that now. They believe we are in a 
recession. But they do ask continually how deep will it be; how long 
will it last.

Those questions are valid and appropriate. But they are asked by 
those who spend their lives thinking about the economy, not by those 
who spend their lives working in the economy or building the economy, 
to those Americans working harder than ever who end up with less.

There is no doubt the state of the economy is not good. Millions of 
working families are trying to make their paycheck stretch until the 
next paycheck, as their gasoline, heating, and grocery bills skyrocket, 
of course, medical bills are never able to be paid.

They know how our economy struggles. Millions of senior citizens are 
living on incomes that are fixed but face living costs that are 
anything but fixed. They know how our economy struggles. Small business 
owners are facing rising health care costs for their employees and 
greater difficulty finding capital to grow. They know how our economy 
struggles.

Millions of homeowners are in foreclose or face it soon; 37 million 
people. In California, foreclosure rates have gone up more than 300 
percent; Florida, 250 percent. We could go through a long list of 
problems. But they are difficult. The housing market is in big trouble 
as these people watch their dreams and their security come crashing 
down. They, too, know how our economy struggles. It affects everyone.


I did a TV show down here with the mayor of the city of Fernley, NV.

Mayor, how is the economy?

He said: It is tough.

They just had a levee break and a Bureau of Reclamation project has 
been there for a long time. You know, the water came and covered homes 
for 2 miles. Some of it was 8 feet deep. With the state of the housing 
market so bad, a lot of people are saying: I don't think it is going to 
do any good to rebuild my home. I don't think I can borrow the money to 
fix it up or I can't make the payments.

It is fair to say that President Bush will not be remembered as a 
good steward of our economy. When he took office, there was a surplus 
over the next


10 years of some $7 trillion. As Senator Conrad mentioned at a 
presentation earlier today, in his 7 years, he has run up the debt. 
That is gone. The surplus is gone. He has run up the debt by more than 
$3 trillion. We have now spent about $750 billion in Iraq. Every penny 
of it has been borrowed. But even this President understands the urgent 
need for action, and we need to do that.

To his credit, President Bush called on Congress to pass an economic 
stimulus plan. House leaders, Democrats and Republicans, working with 
the White House, came together to craft a bill that serves certainly as 
a good starting point. That was always what it was supposed to be. But 
notably the House plan sends rebate checks out to the American people 
some time in probably May or maybe even June. They can't do anything 
with the rebate checks until the income tax returns are filed. 
Americans will use that money to pay their bills, to buy books and 
clothing for their children, or perhaps to make a long overdue repair 
of homes or cars or pay a doctor bill. Democrats, Republicans, we all 
agree, if we give the American people the money, they will spend it.

Last week the House sent the bill over here. In the Finance 
Committee, Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley put their heads 
together, one Democrat and one Republican, and made a good bill far 
stronger.

Here are some of the things they did that we are going to be voting 
on in a little while. Through bipartisanship, this Finance Committee 
package sends stimulus checks to 21.5 million senior citizens who would 
get nothing from the House bill. The bipartisan Finance Committee 
package sends checks to 250,000 wounded, disabled veterans who were 
left out of the House plan, veterans unable to work because of the 
sacrifice they made for our country. The bipartisan Finance Committee 
package extends unemployment benefits for those whose jobs have fallen 
victim to this economy which is on this down spin.

The Department of Labor recently told us that the economy lost 
thousands of jobs in January, on top of the millions who are already 
unemployed. The House bill doesn't extend unemployment benefits, and 
economists tell us that is one of the most effective ways to stimulate 
the economy.

The bipartisan Finance Committee plan helps both small and large 
businesses. Small businesses will have a greater ability to immediately 
write off purchases of machinery and equipment, and large business will 
receive bonus depreciation, an extended carryback period for past 
losses to recoup cash for future investments. The bipartisan Finance 
Committee package addresses the housing crisis by adding $10 billion in 
mortgage revenue bonds that can be used by States to refinance 
mortgages. The reason I focus on this is the President of the United 
States in his State of the Union Message said:





. . . and allow state housing agents to issue tax-free 


 bonds to help homeowners refinance their mortgages. 


 (Applause.)


We stood and applauded when he said this. That was the right thing 
for him to say. It is the right thing for us to do. That is what we 
have in our Senate Finance package, something the President called for 
in his State of the Union Message. Why should we be criticized for 
trying to improve the House plan because the President asked for it and 
we agree with what the President asked for?

The bipartisan Finance Committee package includes an extension of 
energy efficiency and renewable energy incentives to create jobs, lower 
energy bills, and help begin to stem the tide of global warming.

The Arizona Republic Newspaper, a newspaper not known for being 
leftwing, said in an editorial recently: The economic stimulus package 
from Congress needs some power, renewable power. The plan should 
include an extension of tax credits for renewable energy sources such 
as wind, solar, geothermal. We get a 3-for-1 impact: creating jobs, 
diversifying our energy supply, and reducing pollution. These aren't 
new tax credits. They are existing ones that are serving us well. Last 
year nearly 6,000 megawatts of renewable energy came on line. That 
injected $20 billion into the economy. That is what we have in this 
legislation. It is good legislation. It is important legislation.

The amendment I have submitted adds two bipartisan measures to the 
committee's bill. One is an amendment to increase loan limits for 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well as FHA-backed mortgages which will 
help more homeowners refinance and reduce mortgage interest rates. The 
other provides funds for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, 
LIHEAP. These funds will help low-income families--and there are lots 
of them--afford their heating bills which are skyrocketing even as big 
oil reports record profits. Shouldn't we do this? Last quarter Exxon 
made more money than any company in the history of the world. They had 
a net profit of over $40 billion in one quarter. This effort to get 
individuals and companies investing in renewable energy is important. 
That is what is in this bill. We should not be criticized for this.


What the bipartisan Finance Committee accomplished, they took a good 
plan and made one much better--better for seniors, for veterans, for 
working families, for business, for our economy. They did it in a 
bipartisan manner. This isn't a Democratic package. It is a bipartisan 
package. They did it quickly. They did exactly what the Senate is 
supposed to do.

The stimulus plan before us tonight is smart, targeted, and it is 
effective. That is why it is supported by the AARP, Families USA, 
Alliance for Retired Americans, National Association of Manufacturers, 
American Home Builders Association, National Council on Aging, union 
groups, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Easter 
Seals, and on and on. There is lots of support from lots of different 
organizations, scores of them. I have only hit a few of them.

The Republican leader and members of his caucus should have come to 
the Senate floor to congratulate Senators Baucus and Grassley, as these 
groups did. After this was done, these groups made hundreds and 
thousands of phone calls to thank the Finance Committee for doing this. 
It was the right thing to do. This is not a partisan measure, and that 
is why these groups--many of these groups traditionally don't support 
Democrats--like this. It is bipartisan.

I am happy that a majority--and we will find out if there are 60--of 
this Senate approves of this package, a significant majority. We hope 
we will get 60, 61 votes. Time will tell. But the Record should reflect 
that a majority of the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, supports this 
bipartisan measure we got from the Senate. And it is interesting to 
note that as to this perfect plan we got from the House, the Republican 
leader said he would like to change it. So the House plan obviously 
needs to be improved. It needs to be improved because of language 
dealing with undocumented people. It needs to be improved because of 
seniors and veterans, which the Republicans admit. The House plan 
couldn't have been that great if they accept those changes.

This is a good piece of legislation. That is why I am happy and 
satisfied that a majority of the Senate approves what the Senate 
Finance Committee did. Secretary Paulson, whom I have enjoyed working 
with, said this morning that the Senate Finance Committee bill is 
''coming to the trough.'' My friend the Republican leader said these 
are pet projects. The majority of the Senate, Democrats and 
Republicans, disagrees with that. They do not think that seniors and 
veterans are pet projects. And if they are pet projects, I plead 
guilty, because they are my pet projects. Seniors are my pet project. 
Veterans are my pet project.

I have not served in the U.S. military. But during my entire career 
as a Member of Congress, I have bent over backward because of the 
sacrifices made by people such as Dan Inouye and Chuck Hagel and many 
others in this body and around the country. I do everything I can to 
have veterans as my pet project. And they are. And the vast majority of 
the Senate agrees with that.

So I think Secretary Paulson should retract what he said. This is not 
coming to the trough. We are coming to help people. We are coming to 
help veterans, seniors, people who are unemployed. Maybe my friend, the 
Secretary of the Treasury, has never been unemployed. Maybe he thinks 
those checks are not worth anything. We know the Secretary of the 
Treasury is a very


wealthy man. People who are on unemployment benefits, without 
exception, are not wealthy. They are people who were depending on a 
check to come when payday came. Payday came, and they had no job. The 
unemployed are a pet project of mine. I would say that the unemployed 
don't have the advocates, the lobbyists that a lot of other groups 
have, but they are as important.

Is it a pet project to help businesses weather the storm of this 
downturn? I don't think so. Is it a pet project to help people pay for 
their heating bills? And if there is something negative about that 
term, I plead guilty. Is it a pet project to help families avoid 
foreclosure? If the answer is yes, we know that a majority of the 
Senate is in favor of these pet projects. We know that a majority of 
the Senate supports these pet projects and will defend these projects.

I hope there are enough of my friends on the other side of the aisle 
who will step forward and do the right thing and support this 
bipartisan plan that will help stimulate the economy.

I am not naive enough not to know that when this bill leaves here, 
whatever shape it is, it goes to a conference with the House. The 
President will be heavily involved in that. It will have the stamp of 
approval of the House and the Senate. But pressure is building, and 
that is why a majority of the Senate of the United States believes that 
this Senate stimulus package is a good piece of legislation. We have 
already established tonight, through the words of the Republican 
leader, that the House package is far from perfect, because he has 
acknowledged that he wants to change that. If we stand together on this 
bill--and Senators Baucus and Grassley have stood together--we can 
achieve something today that will make our economy stronger and make 
the American people proud that we have not forgotten the unemployed, 
that we have not forgotten the military folks who have given so much, 
and the seniors.

I still often want to call my mother. I used to call my mother every 
day. She was a Social Security recipient. I know I can't call my 
mother, even though I want to on many occasions. But I do know that if 
she got this check like we are trying to give her and others similarly 
situated, she would spend that money if she were alive. She would have 
that money spent in a matter of a few days. So this is the right thing 
to do.

The Senate should feel good that right now a bipartisan group of 
Senators, Democrats and Republicans, reported a bill out of the Senate 
Finance Committee and, after having done so, a bipartisan group of 
Democratic Senators and Republican Senators have joined together to 
say: Let's give the economy a boost. That is what this legislation will 
do.

Our time has expired, or it will in a minute or so.

Mr. President, as usual, we have people who want to get out of here 
and people who want to stay here. So we are going to wait until the 
time expires. So I will ask that we have a quorum call. There is just a 
minute or so left.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.