# None
## `5efcaa95142032726532e88ae310764b`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, will you yield for a moment?

I was kind of paying attention to the room last night when the 
President said, ''Give my plan a chance to work.'' Now, if you kind of 
look on the gauge of who stands up for that or who claps for it, I can 
tell you that it was lukewarm on the Republican side, and definitely 
over here on the Democratic side it was more of the same.

I mean, you made it to Congress, I made it back to Congress with a 
message that we were going to move in a new direction. And I believe 
that we will have a majority, and I am not just talking about a 
Democratic majority, if it comes down to a question, I know they had 
some action on the other side of the Capitol dome today, on this very 
issue of the escalation of the troops, and we have quotes here that 
will be on the 30-Something Web site I know, hopefully, by the end of 
the week of Senators, Representatives and others that have said just 
the contrary to what the President said last night. So I believe that 
there is some hope on the Iraq issue.

Now, the Republican leadership is not necessarily there where we need 
them to be. And you heard me say once before that I am not upset with 
certain Members that are not following the will and the desire of the 
American people. The good thing about the U.S. House of Representatives 
is we are all up for reelection in 23, 24 months from now, and we have 
to be accountable. And if Members want to follow leadership, or whoever 
they think that is going to share with them how they should vote and 
what they should stand for on all these different issues, then I think 
it is important that they realize that we are going to have an 
election, and that you have got to go home, you have to explain why you 
voted for more of the same.

I believe that we are getting to a head here. And the good thing 
about being in the majority is that we have the opportunity, we used to 
give speeches on this floor, Mr. Murphy, saying if we are blessed 
enough to have the opportunity to be in the majority to lead the 
American agenda, the American people, everyday Americans who wants 
accountability and who pray and look for bipartisanship, look for 
leadership, we will give it to them, and that is what we are going to 
have a chance to do.

Thank you for yielding. I just wanted to point that out because that 
was an observation. And while I am speaking, if you want, I will yield 
to you so that we can drive this home, because we want to break this 
down because we don't want Members to go back to their districts and 
say, you know, I didn't understand that. We want individuals to be able 
to pull the Congressional Record and say, wow, how couldn't you 
understand it; it was mentioned 10 or 12 times in a given day on the 
reason why we were doing what we did.