---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `5f01f5842a9f5cbc5886c1741c09fb07`
`Mr. INHOFE — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, there is a vote coming up on the 
resolution. We already had one vote on a cloture motion. I have to say 
publicly one more time the reason I have so vigorously opposed this 
whole concept, and it is because in a very partisan way, in a very 
partisan manner, the Democrats were successful in taking out the money 
that would have implemented the fifth and last BRAC round.

BRAC is the Base Closure and Realignment Commission. In this BRAC 
round, we would have saved $20 billion by 2012, but by delaying it a 
year, the costs are going to be far greater. There is $5.7 billion to 
implement BRAC, and the Democrats took out effectively $4.1 billion and 
then put $1 billion back--$3.1 billion out. That means we cannot 
implement these BRAC policies and actually effect the savings.

The problem I have with this is they say this is going to come out of 
the emergency supplemental, we will get it all taken out of that. That 
means it comes out of money that otherwise would have gone to our 
fighting troops in Iraq. This is not what I want to happen. Right now, 
we are underfunded over there. We have great needs in armored vehicles, 
operating costs, and training costs for Iraqi security forces, and this 
translates into American lives.

To have $3.1 billion come out of this BRAC process to me is 
unconscionable when we are at war. This means the units that were 
planning to return stateside will have to remain abroad. It means the 
temporary and old housing will continue to be used, further increasing 
the upkeep in costs. And it means it is going to cost a lot more to 
implement it. Each week that goes by, each time it is delayed, it is 
going to cost additional money.

Here is the other problem we have, if we stop and think. All the 
communities that are surrounding our various military establishments 
have participated in the BRAC process and have said: If you will do 
this and expand this base, we will put in free housing, we will do 
health care for the children of our military people. All these very 
generous contributions which are made by the private sector very likely 
will not even be made.

It is not too late to change our mind. I just wish I could reach a 
number of people here to convince the leadership, such as my good 
friend from North Dakota. I know he is interested in accommodating the 
BRAC needs. If we could just get this one amendment in to allow us to 
do the military construction and to pull that out of the continuing 
resolution, it would be appreciated very much by our troops who are 
fighting a very difficult battle.

I will make my one last appeal. We cannot take the $3.1 billion out 
and adequately support the military operation.

I yield the floor.













 Funding For Iraq: Refugees
