---
---

# IN HONOR OF OUR FALLEN HEROES IN THE ARMED FORCES
## `5f0e670f268b2c86ac557693a78cb8dd`
`Mr. SHAYS — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, on May 28, 2007, millions of Americans 
across the country recognized the brave men and women who made the 
ultimate sacrifice while fighting to protect the citizens and freedom 
of our great Nation.

In recognition of Memorial Day, LT. Zach Alessi-Friedlander gave an 
address at a Memorial Day Ceremony at Hillside Cemetery in Wilton, 
Connecticut. I submit the text of LT. Alessi-Friedlander's remarks to 
be entered into the Record.




 We come together on this solemn occasion to commemorate the 


 sacrifice and celebrate the legacy of those Soldiers, 


 Marines, Sailors, and Airmen who have lost their lives while 


 serving our great Nation.



 When the leaders of the Wilton Memorial Day parade 


 committee--especially Mr. Toothaker and Mr. Brautigam as well 


 as Mr. Dartley of the VFW--invited me to speak at this 


 ceremony, I embraced the opportunity because it would give me 


 a forum through which to speak with you all about service--a 


 truly timeless value that is integral to the vibrancy of our 


 society. My purpose here today is to provide a Soldiers'-eye-


 view on the value of service--drawn not only from my own 


 experiences but from those of the extraordinary Soldiers with 


 whom I have had the great privilege of serving alongside.



 Nine years ago, I was 17 years old and a week from my high 


 school graduation. To me, the world seemed pregnant with 


 opportunity and possibility. Over much of these last nine 


 years, my personal journey has been largely defined by 


 abstract intellectual pursuits--college, internships, and 


 even a semester of graduate school. But in early 2004, I felt 


 a growing sense of discomfort. So much was unfolding outside 


 the classrooms and libraries in which I spent so much of my 


 time. I was almost 23 and I felt the need to be a part of 


 something that was larger and more important than me. I then 


 made the decision to pursue a commission in the Army. At the 


 time, in response to the queries of friends and family, I 


 could only describe my motivations in an abstract sense. But 


 over the last two and half years, the reasons for my decision 


 to serve have been made clearer through the crucible of 


 experience.



 After attending Basic Training and Officer Candidate 


 School, I was commissioned as a Field Artillery lieutenant. 


 Sixty-five years ago, on the conventional battlefields of 


 World War II, I would have been responsible for planning and 


 coordinating the artillery, mortars, aerial firepower, and 


 naval gunfire needed to support my troop commander's scheme 


 of maneuver. However, the battlefields of Iraq are--at this 


 stage of the war--decidedly different from their World War II 


 counterparts. Conventional schemes of maneuver have been 


 replaced with the unconventional strategies and tactics 


 needed to manage an elusive and adaptive enemy within an 


 asymmetric and three-dimensional battlefield. Coalition 


 Forces are grappling with a multi-faceted insurgency--divided 


 along different ethno-sectarian and ideological lines. The 


 fight for key terrain and the push to force the enemy to 


 formally surrender have been replaced with the fight for the 


 hearts and minds of the Iraqi local nationals--the people 


 upon whom the burden of a free and secure Iraq will 


 ultimately rest.



 What I'm talking about is our effort to diversify the scope 


 of the ''fight'' in order to create a foundation upon which 


 the Iraqi people can rebuild a society less vulnerable to 


 virulent strands of militant Islam and sectarian antipathy. 


 More specifically, we now complement our combat operations 


 with four additional lines of operation: training Iraqi 


 Security Forces; promoting local governance; restoring 


 essential services; and developing the economy. This is a 


 long, tough, unpredictable process that is at times 


 frustrating and at other times exhilarating. Over the last 


 nine months, my troop has been able to develop our sector 


 through a strategy that depends fundamentally upon earning 


 the genuine trust of the local nationals living within our 


 sector. Many of you, I am sure, have heard about many of 


 these new emphases--especially after the recent 


 appointment of General David Petreaus as the new theater 


 commander in Iraq. However, experiencing it on the ground 


 is a truly perspective-altering experience. My unit's 


 progress--especially over the past 5 months--has been 


 startling. In this period, we have poured several million 


 dollars worth of projects into the small villages dotting 


 our sector--providing services like trash collection and 


 replacing dilapidated infrastructure such as a drinking-


 water tower and power-line transformers. But our most 


 successful-civil military initiatives have been those 


 which have integrated our Soldiers, members of either the 


 Iraqi Army or Iraqi National Police, and the local 


 nationals into combined community projects. Examples of 


 such initiatives include: two medical-assistance visits 


 during which our medics and doctors were able to provide 


 medicine, care, diagnoses, and treatment advice to almost 


 400 local nationals; as well as something called a ''VET 


 CAP'' during which an Army veterinarian was able to treat 


 and de-worm 150 sheep and 20 cows.



 But, the civil-military initiatives of which I am most 


 proud are the efforts that have enabled us to promote truly 


 indigenous forms of self-government. In December, when we 


 recognized that local nationals residing in our sector were 


 unwilling to participate in the regional branches of the 


 Iraqi government--called Nahia and Qada councils--we decided 


 to host a series of village-level town-hall meetings. At 


 these meetings, we were able to identify community leaders 


 with the initiative, technical expertise, and will to 


 represent the other members of the villages. These town-hall 


 meetings served as jumping-off points for two major 


 developments. A group of local nationals in our largest 


 village now regularly attend the Nahia council meetings, 


 which allows them to interface with the Iraqi government. 


 But, perhaps more impressively, this same group created a 


 Farmers' Cooperative, whose leaders now represent farmers 


 from throughout our entire area of operations.



 But, make no mistake, our unit has been forced to combat an 


 adaptive, innovative, patient, and committed insurgent threat 


 intent on disrupting our efforts through a series of 


 persistent attacks against us and--perhaps more ominously--by 


 casting a specter of fear over the local-national population 


 whom we are attempting to secure and whose trust we are 


 working to earn. Our military has been largely built and 


 trained to fight high-intensity conflicts using technological 


 superiority and mobility to combat nation states. My unit is 


 a cavalry troop composed of field artilleryman, cavalry 


 scouts, and infantrymen--all of whom were initially trained 


 to play specific roles in a conventional fight. But, every 


 day, I am amazed at how our Soldiers have been able to adapt 


 to the changing nature of the fight.



 My preceding remarks were an effort to provide the context 


 necessary for you all to appreciate the service of the 


 Soldiers alongside whom I proudly serve. General Robert E. 


 Lee once described duty--the close cousin of service--as the 


 most sublime word in the English language. I would argue that 


 he was trying to explain that duty and service as concepts 


 are impossible to understand in an abstract intellectual 


 sense; rather, in order to wrap our minds around this simple 


 but crucial civic value, we need to discuss specific 


 examples--and that will be the intent of the balance of my 


 remarks.



 The key to the success that my unit has experienced has 


 been the influence of our extraordinary non-commissioned 


 officers. For those of you with prior military experience, 


 you know that at troop or company levels, NCOs have 


 dramatically more time in service--and thus experience--than 


 their commissioned-officer counterparts. Therefore, the key 


 to a successful unit is to develop a synergy between the NCO 


 and Officer Corps. Each officer-NCO pair must understand the 


 role that the other plays in training, planning, and 


 operations and must then work to complement their counterpart 


 in every phase of mission preparation and execution. In my 


 troop, the only Soldiers with previous combat experience are 


 the NCOs. Two in particular come to mind: SFC Richardson and 


 SSG Mont-Eton, the platoon sergeant and senior scout for our 


 2nd platoon--the element whom I would argue has helped to 


 establish the model by which a counterinsurgency must be 


 fought. Perhaps the most illuminating parts of my deployment 


 have come while riding alongside SSG Monty in his truck. Over 


 the course of any given patrol, he spends time instructing 


 his gunner on how to more effectively scan the key pieces of 


 terrain with his optics; teaching his driver on how to scan 


 the road for the command-wire-IED initiators that are 


 carefully concealed alongside the routes in our sector; and 


 positioning his dismount on where he must stand to establish 


 the most effective security when the platoon gets out of the 


 trucks. But SSG Monty's true gift is his uncanny ability to 


 establish rapport with the local nationals upon whose trust 


 the entire troop depends in order to rebuild the communities 


 and counter the insurgent threats. Smoking cigarettes and 


 drinking coffee constantly, SSG Monty can approach any 


 individual in our sector, and, within a matter of minutes, 


 they are exchanging stories about their children or talking 


 about how to improve water flow in a nearby irrigation canal. 


 Never in my life, not at Columbia nor at Harvard, have I ever 


 encountered an individual with more practical intelligence--


 with the ability to adapt doctrine or theory to a real-world 


 operating environment, which, in our case, carries life and 


 death significance. As for SFC Richardson, he is simply a 


 force of nature. He is the tactical expert upon whom his 


 platoon leader relies to carefully plan any deliberate 


 operation. Riding in the 4-truck, the platoon's trail 


 vehicle, he has managed the evacuation of all Soldiers 


 injured on patrol with a sense of calm and poise that has 


 allowed the platoon to address potentially catastrophic 


 situations with the speed and efficiency needed to ensure the 


 safety of all involved. The Soldiers in his platoon trust him 


 implicitly and would literally follow him wherever he decided 


 to go. He is the most senior Soldier in the entire troop, 


 with even more years in service than our first sergeant; he 


 has used this seniority to be the forceful and articulate 


 voice on all Soldier issues. When his guys are smoked, he 


 goes to my commander and first sergeant, and tells them the 


 platoon needs a day of refit . . . and they listen. SFC 


 Richardson was the one who insisted upon explaining to the 


 local-national children, who gathered to receive their soccer




 balls, why Nick's name had been inscribed on each of their 


 gifts. Into his leadership style, SFC Richardson has managed 


 to fold toughness, moral authority, compassion, and 


 intelligence--or, more specifically, the ability to think 


 critically about and to respond swiftly to unpredictable and 


 challenging situations. And then there's the amazing 


 symbiosis that my commander and first sergeant have been able 


 to establish. They are the only command pair in my entire 


 squadron not to have previously deployed to either 


 Afghanistan or Iraq since combat operations began in those 


 places in 2001 and 2003, respectively. However, they have not 


 allowed this relative inexperience to adversely affect our 


 troop's operations. Rather, they have approached our 


 campaign plan with a refreshing open-mindedness, rigorous 


 planning process, and strict attention to detail that have 


 helped to keep our Soldiers safe and our unit mission 


 effective.



 I have still only spoken in relatively general terms thus 


 far, but I want to share with you a specific example from our 


 deployment that I believe demonstrates the courage and 


 discipline of our Soldiers and, more generally, illuminates 


 the value of service. In mid-October, after only a month in 


 our sector, our infantry platoon was conducting dismounted 


 night-time reconnaissance of a piece of key terrain. The 8-


 man dismounted element had just embarked on their patrol when 


 their senior scout, SSG Hurlbutt, stepped on an anti-tank 


 mine. He was blown off the ground and sent hurtling 15 feet 


 through the air into a reed-choked and half-filled irrigation 


 canal. Without hesitating, the dismounted team leader, SGT 


 Love, and one of the other members of the patrol, SPC 


 Conolly, immediately jumped into the canal and extracted--up 


 its steep and slippery banks--their severely injured platoon 


 mate--who, between the weight of his body, protective armor, 


 weapon, and gear weighed more than 300 pounds. While they 


 administered first aid, the platoon leader, lLT Kimes, who 


 was the trail man in the patrol, positioned the balance of 


 the element in a security perimeter and coordinated for the 


 MEDEVAC. (And, this provides me with an opportunity to praise 


 again the technical skill and courage of Chief Reeves and the 


 other MEDEVAC pilots upon us guys on the ground constantly 


 rely.) Some people may be inclined to attribute the way in 


 which the ''rock lizards'' were able to handle this situation 


 to their training, but I am more inclined to attribute it to 


 their courage and commitment to one another. As for SSG 


 Hurlbutt, he is an extraordinary Soldier among many 


 extraordinary Soldiers. Just prior to the deployment, he was 


 given. the option of deploying late or not deploying at all 


 in order to care for his wife, who had only recently 


 recovered from a very serious illness. Despite his concern 


 for his wife, he declined the offer, understanding that his 


 previous combat experience and deep knowledge were essential 


 to helping his platoon transition to operations in theater. 


 And then, in January, when my commander returned to Fort 


 Drum, where my unit is based, for his mid-tour leave, he 


 visited SSG Hurlbutt, who is still recovering from his 


 injuries. In the months between sustaining the injury and my 


 commander's visit, SSG Hurlbutt had received skin grafts to 


 replace the skin and tissue destroyed by the mine's intense 


 heat and he was undergoing excruciating physical therapy to 


 recover from the chunk of flesh and muscle that he lost from 


 his left thigh. Despite all this and despite the fact that he 


 was barely ambulatory at the time of my commander's visit, he 


 amazingly started campaigning to return to sector before we 


 redeployed.



 And then there's SPC Jonathan Cadavero. SPC Cadavero was my 


 good friend and we were in the same company at Officer 


 Candidate School. Throughout the first half of the course, he 


 began to have reservations about continuing his pursuit of an 


 officer's commission--but never once questioned his desire to 


 serve. After successfully completing the land-navigation 


 course and receiving top marks on his academic testing and 


 leadership evaluations, he recognized that he had met and 


 exceeded the standards required to become an officer. He then 


 felt that he could leave Officer Candidate School without 


 feeling that he was dodging a challenge. He decided that he 


 preferred to fulfill his obligations to the Army as an 


 enlisted medic rather than as an officer, which meant less 


 pay and decision-making authority; but, he did not care 


 about that; he simply wanted to serve his country in Iraq. 


 I remember having long conversations with him about his 


 decision in our barracks at Ft Benning. I told him that he 


 needed to make the decision with which he felt most 


 comfortable; either way, he would have the opportunity to 


 serve--a motivation we both proudly shared and embraced. 


 The next time we met was at Bradley's, the tailor shop 


 just outside of Ft Drum; we were both having nametapes 


 sewn on our boonie caps, assault packs, and ruck sacks in 


 preparation for the deployment of our brigade. We talked 


 informally about our families; about finally being in the 


 regular Army after more than a year in various Army 


 schools; about the long and challenging deployment that 


 hovered on the horizon. Over the next 6 months, we met 


 randomly on Camp Striker--at the gym, at the chow hall, 


 around our living quarters--each time sharing warm 


 conversation, sometimes about the Army, but usually just 


 about baseball. On February 27th, while acting as the 


 platoon medic for a route-clearance element operating in 


 support of my unit's sister troop, he was killed when an 


 IED detonated under the truck in which he was riding. This 


 device was buried deep under the paved surface of the road 


 on which he was traveling, and, when it detonated, it 


 completely destroyed his truck and killed all of the 


 occupants. I remember seeing his name listed among the 


 casualties. At first, everything seemed to collapse with 


 the pain I felt for his loss, for his family, friends, and 


 fellow Soldiers. And then everything seemed to explode in 


 a rush of memories--wandering through the woods of Ft 


 Benning in our desperate attempts to find our points on 


 the land-navigation course or cracking jokes before the 


 dreaded arrival of our supervisors at the ridiculous 


 light-out ritual each night. I remember his distinctive 


 New York accent, his infectious smile, his wit, his 


 intelligence, his unwavering desire to serve his country 


 as a Soldier during wartime. His sacrifice and sense of 


 duty should be an inspiration to his fellow Soldiers and 


 to the country he proudly served, but these are no comfort 


 to his family and friends. The memory of his loss is still 


 too fresh. The loss of each service member sends ripples 


 of pain throughout communities; those closest to him are 


 touched in a way that is impossible for most of us to 


 imagine. Most can sympathize but not really empathize. 


 This is the fundamental challenge of Memorial Day: once a 


 year, we have the opportunity to congregate as a community 


 and as a society to commemorate their sacrifice--but 


 perhaps more importantly--to celebrate their legacy. I 


 would encourage everyone to find the name of an individual 


 Soldier, Marine, Airman, or Sailor, who has lost their 


 life while serving their country; give that name and the 


 magnitude of their sacrifice specific attention. This will 


 help us to humanize the sacrifice that spans generations. 


 This sacrifice and service connect us all in a tragic but 


 crucial narrative. Ours is a country built upon the value 


 of service and it should be celebrated--even if it must be 


 done with a somber tone and painful heart. I know that on 


 every Memorial Day from this day forward, I'll take the 


 opportunity to reflect on the life and sacrifice of SPC 


 Cadavero.



 Rare is this profession of arms for its whole essence is 


 built upon a foundation of specifically conceptualized values 


 that are intended to discipline individual Soldiers into a 


 coherent and selfless team. The only constants that Soldiers 


 will ever have are the support of their fellow Soldiers, the 


 value of their service, and the appreciation of the grateful 


 nation whom they serve. Soldiers have always been asked to 


 sacrifice their comforts and desires for the sake of the team 


 and for the mission. Unlike the civilian world, Soldiers 


 are required to see their commitment through to the end 


 regardless of the extenuating circumstances that may arise 


 after making the oath of enlistment or commission. I am 


 awed by the courage and service of my Soldiers, by their 


 ability to manage their myriad personal and family 


 concerns while negotiating the constant threats to their 


 safety that lurk ominously every time we leave the wire in 


 Iraq. The purpose of Memorial Day is for our nation to 


 recognize and express their appreciation for this service, 


 in general, and the sacrifice of those that have lost 


 their lives while serving, more specifically. I ask only 


 that we, as a community, embrace this opportunity to 


 contemplate seriously what this service and sacrifice have 


 meant in the development of our country and in the 


 expression of our shared values.
