---
---

# DRUG IMPORTATION
## `5f2d246408cae3c621660876120ebde3`
`Mr. SANDERS — 7 May 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me congratulate the Senator for his 
outstanding leadership on this issue. Let me just pick up right from 
where he left off. He and I and Senator Snowe and a number of us have 
been dealing with this issue for many years. My involvement came in 
1999, when I took a busload of Vermonters, including many women who 
were struggling for their lives with breast cancer.

Many of those women did not have a lot of money, and they also went 
across the Canadian border. They also purchased Tamoxifen. In those 
days, the price they paid was one-tenth the price, one-tenth the price 
compared to what they were paying in the United States. Here you have 
women struggling for their lives, who do not have a lot of money, and 
were paying one-tenth the price.

This amendment is a big deal. This amendment will mean that Americans 
from one end of our country to the other, people with chronic 
illnesses, senior citizens who run into the doughnut hole, so-called 
doughnut hole on Medicare Part D, that finally these Americans, our 
Americans, our people, will no longer continue to be ripped off by the 
pharmaceutical industry and be forced to pay by far the highest prices 
in the industrialized world for the same exact medicine which people in 
Canada, people in Germany, people all over Europe receive at far lower 
prices--the same medicines, same companies, same factory, except we pay 
far higher prices.

There is very strong support for this legislation. Millions of 
Americans are already supporting this legislation by getting into their 
cars and going over the Canadian border. The AARP and other senior 
organizations support this amendment. My understanding is that the AARP 
intends to note on their scorecard that a vote for the Cochran 
amendment--which is clearly a poison pill--is a vote against 
reimportation.

I would urge my colleagues, if you disagree with reimportation, vote 
no. But a vote for the Cochran amendment is, in fact, a vote no.

You have heard from Senator Snowe. You have heard from Senator 
Dorgan. The arguments over safety are just not accurate. This bill 
details in great length an entire regimen as to how we can make sure 
all of the prescription drugs reimported into the United States are 
safe and FDA approved.

I always find it remarkable that every day, huge amounts of imported 
food are coming into this country. I do not hear a hue and cry about 
whether that food is inspected.

Let me quote from the May 1st New York Times:




 More than 135 countries ship food items to the United 


 States. Canada, Mexico and China have led the way with China 


 shipping nearly five times as much in food items to the 


 United States as it did in 1996.


China is importing more and more food into the United States. Where 
are the FDA inspectors? Are they all over the farms in China making 
sure these products are safe? I have not heard one word about that 
issue. This legislation has built in the strongest prescription drug 
safety regimen we have ever seen.

Let me tell you what this debate is really about. It is not about 
prescription drug safety. It is about the power of the pharmaceutical 
industry, which in a city that has enormously powerful special 
interests, we have the pharmaceutical industry standing uniquely alone 
as the most important, if you will, and, in my view, greedy lobby in 
the entire United States of America. Here it is. Do you want to know 
what the issue is? Here it is: pharmaceutical industry lobbying.

From 1998 to 2006 they spent $1.1 billion for lobbying; 1998 to 2006, 
$1.1 billion in lobbying.

The pharmaceutical industry has over 1,000 well-paid lobbyists right 
here on Capitol Hill: former heads of the Republican Party, former 
leaders in the Democratic Party. Whenever anybody stands up for 
justice, whenever anybody stands up to try to lower the cost of 
prescription drugs in this country so that the American people can 
afford these lifesaving medicines, these lobbyists descend like locusts 
on all of our offices in the Senate, in the House. That is what they 
do.

It is not just the amount of money they spend on lobbying. They spend 
a substantial amount of money on campaign contributions: From 1990 to 
2006, $139 million in campaign contributions; 2006 alone, $19 million. 
That is power. What this debate is about is not just the need to lower 
the cost of prescription drugs in America, as important as that is. 
What this debate is more significantly about is whether the Congress of 
the United States has the courage to stand up to the greediest, most 
powerful special interests in this country.

In November the American people went to the polls. They said they 
want a change in the direction in which this country is moving. 
Clearly, that election had a lot to do with Iraq. It certainly did. It 
had a lot to do with global warming, I believe. But it also, in any 
view, had a lot to do with the understanding that year after year 
wealthy and powerful special interests have dictated the terms of the 
debate, have paid for the legislation which has come through the Senate 
and through the House.

The drug companies have managed to do something rather amazing. 
Virtually all of the Members of the Senate and the House look at 
economic issues through two lenses. No. 1, in order to protect 
consumers, we say: Let there be free market competition. That is the 
way to lower the costs of the product. And there is truth to that.

The other way that we can protect consumers is through Government 
regulation. There is certainly truth to that. What the pharmaceutical 
industry has managed to do is tell us we cannot regulate the 
pharmaceutical companies. We cannot have Medicare negotiating lower 
prices with the drug companies. We cannot do that. They have given us 
all kinds of reasons we cannot do that.

Then they have told us, well, we also cannot do free market 
competition: No,


you cannot have the local druggist going out and purchasing the product 
at the best price that he can get, maybe in Canada, maybe Europe. You 
can't do that. You cannot have regulation. You cannot have free market 
competition.

Then, on top of all of that, what the drug companies have managed to 
do is get many billions of dollars in corporate welfare, so the 
taxpayers of this country subsidize the research and development of 
many of the most important drugs, while the consumers, the American 
consumers, get no reasonable pricing despite the many billions of 
dollars that go into research and development that were paid for by 
them.

The drug companies get it all. That is what they get. At the end of 
the day, year after year after year, they are one of the most 
profitable industries in this country. They are very profitable, and 
elderly people and working people all over this country find it harder 
and harder to pay for the prescription drugs they desperately need.

Let us stand with the people. Let's defeat the Cochran amendment and 
pass the Dorgan amendment.
