---
---

# None
## `5f42d70cdf9364cfc0bf87b3a6184b43`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 19 June 2008`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the emergency supplemental 
appropriations rule and bill that is currently before the House.

I would like to thank my colleague, Mr. Mitchell from Arizona, for 
his very hard work on the veteran and the veterans service 
organizations like the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Iraq and 
Afghanistan Veterans of America for their tireless effort in support of 
the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act. I am the lead 
Republican on that portion of the bill. And it will boost educational 
assistance to our veterans.

The current veterans' education assistance program covers only a 
portion of the ever-rising costs associated with a college degree. The 
education benefits for our veterans have not kept pace with today's 
rising college costs. Congress must act to correct this. And that is 
exactly what this portion of the bill does.

I also support the bill because it recognizes the tremendous 
contributions and sacrifices made by members of the National Guard and 
Reserves. The United States has relied heavily on the efforts of the 
National Guard in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since September 11, 2001, over 
250,000 National Guard personnel have served in Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Currently, members of the National Guard may only receive educational 
benefits for the longest amount of time that they're activated. The 
Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act included in the 
supplemental recognizes these deserving men and women by allowing for 
the accumulation of educational benefits.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the 
emergency supplemental bill containing the veterans' education benefit 
to provide for a brighter future for all those who have served our 
country honorably, and also because it does contain the funding 
necessary for our troops currently fighting the war to protect our 
freedom.