---
---

# HONORING EDWARD DAY COHOTA, JOSEPH L. PIERCE, AND OTHER VETERANS OF  ASIAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER DESCENT WHO FOUGHT IN THE UNITED STATES  CIVIL WAR
## `5f4780ef1f66e34b586cdc2698f0df02`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in strong support of House Resolution 415, which honors Edward 
Day Cohota, Joseph L. Pierce, and other veterans of Asian and Pacific 
Islander descent who fought in the United States Civil War.

Despite generations of exclusion and discrimination, Asian Pacific 
Americans have served in our American forces with loyalty and 
dedication since the time of our Civil War. Unfortunately, many of 
their stories too often do not receive the attention, recognition, or 
credit they fittingly deserve. The stories of Mr. Cohota, Mr. Pierce, 
and other veterans of Asian Pacific Islander descent who fought in our 
Civil War are a few of such stories.

Edward Day Cohota, the best-documented Asian veteran of the Civil 
War, was found as a small child stowed away in a merchant ship bound 
for Massachusetts from the port of Shanghai, China, in 1854. The 
captain of the ship, Sergeant S. Day, discovered the half-starved child 
two days from port and adopted him as his own. Named after the merchant 
ship, Cohota, Edward Day Cohota spent the next several days sailing 
with Sergeant Day and Mrs. Day until Sergeant Day and his family 
retired to Gloucester, Massachusetts, in 1857.

When the Civil War broke out, Cohota joined the 23rd Regiment, 
Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and fought bravely in the Battle of 
Drury's Bluff near Richmond and at the Battle of Cold Harbor. Mr. 
Cohota went on to proudly serve in the United States Army for 30 years.

In 1935, he died in Hot Springs, South Dakota, still a foreigner in 
the only homeland he had ever really known, as he had been denied 
American citizenship after the passing of the Chinese Exclusion Act in 
1882.

Joseph Pierce is another Asian Pacific Islander who served in uniform 
during the American Civil War. At age 21, Pierce enlisted in the 14th 
Connecticut Infantry in August 1862. Connecticut ship captain Amos Peck 
found Pierce adrift in the South China Seas and brought him home where 
he was raised with the rest of the Peck family and the family's 
children. The 14th Connecticut Infantry unit participated in the Battle 
of Antietam on September 17, 1862, and he also fought with them at the 
Battle at Chancellorsville in May 1863. The 14th was also at the Battle 
of Gettysburg where they helped repel Pickett's Charge that fateful 
day.

Since the Civil War through today's current conflict in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Asian and Pacific Islanders continue to honorably and 
bravely serve our Nation in uniform.

We in Congress recognize and express our sincerest appreciation for 
the courageous and loyal contributions made by soldiers of Asian and 
Pacific Islander descent during the Civil War. We honor their 
distinguished and dedicated service in preserving and maintaining the 
Union and are proud of the rich diversity of our heritage.

I thank my colleague from California (Mr. Honda) for bringing forward 
this bill, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
important resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.