---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `5f58fa67a8691fe72f27686ee0ce3452`
`Mr. DURBIN — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader, Senator Reid, 
who was here earlier today talking about the economic stimulus package. 
What I have tried to do is to understand at this moment where the 
Republicans are, and it is hard to follow because initially there was 
agreement between the Republican and Democratic leaders in the House--
Speaker Pelosi, Congressman Boehner, and Secretary Paulson of the Bush 
administration. They came up with the notion that to get the economy 
moving forward, we should send a rebate check of about $600 for 
individuals and $1,200 for families and additional money for children 
across the country, which is certainly an excellent starting point 
because the administration was persuaded to include the lower income 
families across America, and there were limits on family income as to 
eligibility.

The Senate Finance Committee took up this proposal from the House and 
suggested a few changes. I think each one of them is a positive change. 
For instance, they said: Let's include 21 million seniors receiving 
Social Security checks. If the idea is to put the money in the hands of 
people who will spend it, certainly our seniors on fixed incomes, many 
who struggle with utility bills, keeping their homes warm, paying for 
gasoline, the cost of food and prescription drugs, they can use the 
money. An additional $500 or $600 will be spent by them. That was 
included in the Senate finance package. That was not in the original 
House version. I think that is a positive improvement.

Then they also said: If we are talking about groups of people who 
should be recognized, those disabled veterans from previous conflicts 
and certainly from Iraq and Afghanistan should be included as well. 
There is argument here. Those men and women certainly deserve special 
consideration for all they have given to America. So that was added to 
the House version of the bill on the part of the Senate Finance 
Committee.

Then they went to another category, and this is one the economists 
say is a very important category: people who are currently unemployed, 
those folks looking for jobs, many of whom are struggling to keep their 
families together while they find a job after they have been laid off 
from previous employment. If they receive additional money, economists 
say they are most likely to spend it in a hurry. So they encouraged us 
to include them in the relief we are providing with this tax rebate.

I have been listening carefully to see if our Republican colleagues 
believe these people deserve help as well. I am beginning to believe 
this is the real problem the Republicans have. They are concerned about 
giving additional money to people who are currently unemployed. 
Yesterday, one Senator from Texas on the Republican side said that just 
encourages them not to find work. I took a look at the amount of money 
that is paid to people on unemployment. It is hard to believe that is 
the kind of money that will lead to a life of leisure, where you 
decide: Heck, I don't need a job; I have unemployment benefits.

It turns out that unemployment benefits are not that generous--$500 a 
week would be a big number, and for many it is a lot less. If we 
suggest people will stop working with that kind of income, I think it 
overlooks the obvious. Many people in lower income categories struggle 
from paycheck to paycheck. Losing a job creates a family emergency. 
What we are talking about is whether we should provide additional help 
to those unemployed. This has been done before. It is not a new 
concept. In fact, historically, if you want to fire up the economy and 
put spending power in the hands of people across America, helping the 
unemployed is one of the first places you turn.

The way the Finance Committee does it is to extend unemployment 
benefits, currently at 13 weeks, another 13 weeks, which will be 
another 3 months or so, except for States with the highest 
unemployment, and then they would be extended another 26 weeks


total. That is a way of providing special help in areas of high 
unemployment.

I took a look at the estimated number of people who will exhaust 
their jobless benefits State by State. In my State, it is 57,000 
people. Let's take a look at a State such as Senator McConnell's State 
of Kentucky: 11,458 people will see their unemployment benefits end 
unless we enact this Senate Finance Committee version of the bill; 
Arizona, Senator Kyl's home State, 18,846. Let's go down to Texas where 
Senator Cornyn says he thinks this encourages people not to look for 
work: 49,000 people are about to lose their unemployment insurance 
benefits.

The point is, unemployment is at a relatively low level in this 
country, according to Senator Kyl. These are his words:




 Unemployment is at a relatively low level in this country, 


 and it would be a huge mistake to exacerbate the unemployment 


 situation by extending unemployment benefits.


I am quoting from a statement that Senator Kyl made, not Senator 
Cornyn. I want to make that correction for the record. Senator Kyl was 
the one who questioned the wisdom of extending unemployment benefits.

So in Senator Kyl's home State, it appears that 18,846 people are 
about to see their unemployment benefits come to an end, and he, I 
assume from his argument, believes that is a good thing because now 
this will prod them into looking for work, and he is not supporting 
extension of these unemployment benefits for 18,846 people in his home 
State.

That has become one of the major elements of debate in terms of 
whether the Republicans will support the Senate Finance Committee 
version. Let me add, it was a bipartisan vote that brought the bill out 
of committee--Senator Grassley of Iowa, joining with, I believe, 
Senator Smith of Oregon and Senator Snowe of Maine, if I am not 
mistaken. All three voted for the Senate Finance Committee version of 
the bill that was brought to the floor.

Let's take a look at some other States where unemployment benefits 
might be important. In the State of Mississippi, 7,819 are about to 
lose their unemployment benefits unless the Senate finance version 
passes as an economic stimulus. As I mentioned, in my home State of 
Illinois, 57,000 are looking for assistance in that regard.

As I go through this list--North Carolina is another good example. 
North Carolina, 48,000 people in the State, obviously suffering from 
some high unemployment, are about to lose their unemployment benefits. 
The State of Ohio, 35,320 otherwise will lose their unemployment 
benefits.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
this table so all the States, based on the current U.S. Department of 
Labor data, will be reported officially in the Record.