---
---

# None
## `5f584ba1c02b714e0e30e3709e1bca90`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. All we really have to do is talk to some of the 
soldiers who are over there and who have come back, which I'm sure most 
of us have. And when they explain what's going on on the ground, it's 
mind-boggling to think in cities of 140, 150, 160, 170,000 we've got 
American troops, for example, on the west side of the city, with 1,000 
Iraqi troops on the west side of the city, and 1,000 on the east side 
and 1,000 Iraqis; 2,000, 4,000 total for the whole city, 2,000 of the 
4,000 being American. How are you going to control a city of 170,000 
people? And a surge of an extra 1,000 or 2,000 is not going to make a 
difference. It's going to make it worse.

This surge is not the first time we've tried this. This is like the 
fourth time, and every time that we've tried a surge in certain areas 
there has been an increase in the number of daily attacks, not a 
decrease, because it incites the area, and you still don't have enough.

And we've all said from the beginning, if we went in there with 3- or 
400,000 troops, where we were able, after the statue fell, to secure 
the State, to secure the country of Iraq, that would have been a 
different story, and all the looting was going on and the museums and 
everything, and then Secretary Rumsfeld said, well, they're just 
blowing off steam. At that point, you lost control and it went all 
downhill from there.

But my point is that you talk to these soldiers who are on the 
ground, and they see that they can't handle this situation the way it 
is and that the only way to do it is through diplomacy, is to try to 
patch up some of these political problems, which gets worsened because 
of the innocent civilians that are dying in Iraq, which makes them not 
like us.