# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `5f59c6a62df1cc85d95879c1b7841a9a`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 14 March 2008`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I just had to come down to the 
floor and speak on this. No one, there isn't anybody who disagrees that 
we ought to be wiretapping the terrorists. No one disagrees with that. 
Democrats, Republicans, everyone wants to keep this country safe.



Let's make something real clear about what's at stake here. What's at 
stake is whether we wiretap Americans. That's what we're talking about.

The bill that we proposed that we have here, it can be summarized in 
one thing: wiretap first, get permission later. Go out and be 
aggressive. As a matter of fact, you can spy on Americans. You can do 
anything. You can spy, you can go out there and keep our country safe.

But when it comes to spying on Americans, that's the difference here. 
We believe that you need a warrant to do that, even after the fact of 6 
or 7 days later to go back and tell the court what you've done.

I, for one, do not, and am not able to stand here and say, as the 
other side says, that the terrorists have already won; we need to give 
up our basic constitutional right. I don't believe that the terrorists 
have won, and I find it extremely discouraging.

What I find so troubling is the same, same rhetoric that we heard for 
this march to Iraq and, quite honestly, lately this march to Iran. Its 
the same rhetoric that we're hearing now. It's ''trust me.''

Well, I'll tell you what. I didn't get sent to Washington, DC not to 
speak up. A lot of people are worried sick that a 30-second ad is going 
to kick them out of office. And I'll tell you what, I will not put my 
own re-election ahead of the absolute determination that I have to make 
sure, first and foremost, that my family and your family are safe, but 
that we do not shred that Constitution to do it. This is not an either/
or, and we need to find a balance. I do not believe the terrorists have 
won.