---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `5f6696aa1d662dc918f47153de5b868b`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 21 October 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I wish pay tribute to CPT Benjamin A. 
Sklaver, U.S. Army, of Hamden, CT, who died of injuries sustained when 
an improvised explosive device detonated near his dismounted patrol in 
Murcheh, Afghanistan, on October 2, 2009.

Captain Sklaver was assigned to Headquarters Company, 422nd Civil 
Affairs Battalion, U.S. Army Reserve, of Greensboro, NC.

Ben Sklaver was a remarkable young man. He lived not only as a true 
patriot and defender of our Nation's principles of freedom and justice 
but as a compassionate ambassador of good will and humanitarian 
assistance to thousands in need.

Though he was called ''Captain'' by those soldiers around him, he was 
known as ''Moses Ben'' to thousands of Ugandans who now have clean 
water thanks to Ben's efforts. After serving in Africa and being struck 
by the number of deaths and illnesses resulting from dirty drinking 
water, he returned home and founded ClearWater Initiative. In the short 
time since its inception, with the aid of his parents Laura and Gary, 
ClearWater Initiative constructed wells for more than 6,500 people, 
primarily in northern Uganda.

Captain Sklaver served as a messenger of high justice and idealism in 
the best tradition of American principles and patriotism. Our Nation 
extends its heartfelt condolences to his mother and father, Laura and 
Gary Sklaver, his brother Samuel, sister Anna, and fiance Beth, whom I 
have known since she was a baby because she is the daughter of my dear 
friends Jim and Barbara Segaloff.

To Ben's family and the people he touched during his life, we extend 
our


deepest appreciation for sharing this outstanding soldier and 
humanitarian with us. Ben was a true national hero, and his many 
contributions made significant and lasting impacts throughout the 
world. You may be justifiably proud of his contributions which extend 
above and beyond the call of duty.
