# VISIT TO WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER AND BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL  WITH JEROME AND RACHEL LEE AND LEX
## `5f75584b8faa6c93189ba62b0f557e6d`
`Mr. JONES — 26 April 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, on April 12 of this year I had the honor 
and privilege of visiting the wounded warriors at Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center and Bethesda Naval Hospital with Jerome and Rachel Lee 
and their dog Lex. The Lees' son Dustin, a marine, was killed in Iraq 
in 2005. Lex was his military working dog and was severely injured in 
the attack.

The Lees are a remarkable family. They continue to visit the wounded 
warriors that return from Iraq and Afghanistan. This is how they 
remember their son. And they gave for this country a very special young 
man. The interaction between Lex and the wounded was amazing. To see 
these brave men and women smile at the sight of Lex was truly a 
touching experience for me personally. Lex is one of them and continues 
to fight through his injuries. The shrapnel still lies in his back. In 
fact, Lex has been awarded the Purple Heart.

The Lees also had a wonderful experience meeting retired United 
States Senator Bob Dole as he was recovering from an accident. Senator 
Dole was kind enough to invite the Lee family into his room at Walter 
Reed and speak with them for several minutes. It was truly remarkable 
as I watched former Senator Dole, a war hero himself, as he pet and 
bonded with Lex.

I would like to thank the Humane Society, who sponsored this trip for 
the Lee family, Connie Whitfield, wife of United States Congressman Ed 
Whitfield, who joined us on this tour. They, Mrs. Whitfield, and the 
United States Humane Society, went above and beyond for this family.

There are many other people to thank, but I would like to especially 
thank my dear friend Major General Mike Regner, who was very 
instrumental in uniting the Lees and Lex. Major General Regner is 
currently serving in Afghanistan, but I would like to note that he was 
remembered during the Lees' visit at Bethesda and Walter Reed. And the 
family is very grateful to him. Major General Regner helped them adopt 
Lex, their son's best friend and partner.

Madam Speaker, because of that trip that I took with the Lees to 
Bethesda and Walter Reed, and the number of young men and women both at 
Walter Reed and Bethesda who have been severely wounded for this 
country, I would like to close, as I normally do on the floor of the 
House, I would ask God to please bless our men and women in uniform. I 
will ask God to please bless the families of our men and women in 
uniform. I will ask God in His loving arms to hold the families who 
have given a child dying for freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq. And I 
will ask God to please bless the House and Senate here in Washington 
that we would do what is right in the eyes of God for today's 
generation, but also tomorrow's generation. I will ask God to give 
strength, wisdom, and courage to President Obama that he will do what 
is right in the eyes of God for today's generation and tomorrow's 
generation.

Madam Speaker, I will ask three times, God, please, God, please, God, 
please continue to bless America.
