---
---

# None
## `5f76247630fcb3aaa7dac698aa69fa73`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 10 January 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you to my good friend.

Before you are excused, though, I do want to tell you, you were so 
kind in your words about the three of us and you have been so helpful 
to us over the last 2 years and joining us here night after night on 
the floor. But, quite honestly, I really want to commend you on your 
eloquence and your commitment on this issue in particular. You have 
been one of the key leaders of the Out of Iraq Caucus. You have kept 
this caucus focused on those issues that are incredibly important.

As my good friend, the gentleman from Florida, indicated in his 
remarks earlier, one of the major reasons that we were returned to the 
majority of this institution is because of how strongly people feel 
about the situation with the war in Iraq. And so thank you very much 
for helping with that effort.

With that having been said, one of the things that I think that is 
going to be important in about an hour from now for the American people 
to note when the President makes his remarks to the Nation is that what 
we heard the President say repeatedly, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Meek, over and 
over again over the last several years, was that his strategy was going 
to be tied to the advice from his military leaders; that he was going 
to listen to the generals; that he was going to take a page from their 
book, take their lead, use whatever expression is applicable.

But I guess he was just kidding, or maybe he was just saying that he 
meant that until he wasn't hearing what he wanted to hear. Because at 
the point that his belief in the direction that we should be going in 
Iraq departed or parted company with the advice of his military 
leadership, that is the point that he decided to stop listening to 
them. We have now shifted the military leadership in Iraq. And I 
certainly realize that, particularly in a democracy, there is going to 
be a wide range of opinions even among military leaders. But the 
current military leadership that President Bush has brought in does 
support the strategy and the direction that he is planning on taking 
America tonight and in this war on Iraq. And it is just astonishing 
that this continues the pattern of this administration, where they ask 
their questions, or make statements and pursue a goal, an agenda and 
surround themselves only with people who agree with them.

I just, one of the things that I know we are going to hear from the 
President tonight is a caution that victory, if we achieve it, won't be 
similar to other military victories. He will talk about, as opposed to 
the Mission Accomplished banner that was emblazoned over his head on 
the deck of a battleship, he will caution us tonight apparently that 
that is not what victory will look like if we ever achieve it in Iraq.



It will not be perfect, and that the outcome will not be traditional. 
Well, it sure will not. It is hard to imagine that we are ever going to 
achieve a semblance of victory. One of the things that we intend on 
doing as Democrats and aggressively doing is holding this 
administration accountable. The question has been asked repeatedly by 
commentators and by our friends on the other side of the aisle.

There has been a question mark about whether or not Democrats will 
have the nerve to actually address the issue of funding these 
additional troops. And Speaker Pelosi has talked about how we 
absolutely are committed and will continue to be supportive with 
funding and every other measure of support for the troops that are 
there.

There is no question we would never pull the rug out from under the 
troops that are there fighting on behalf of America and fighting on 
behalf of democracy. But we absolutely should question this strategy, 
which is completely contrary to the goals and desires of the American 
people, and which is contrary to the advice of the military leadership.

There is no question, I believe there is no question about Democrats' 
nerve; no question about whether we plan on holding the administration 
accountable, which hasn't occurred in years. There has been, like you 
said, no opportunity to question the administration's choices and 
direction on Iraq; no opportunity to actually cast a vote on whether 
this new direction would receive and was worthy of funding.

I truly believe that is an opportunity that we will be having and 
that we should have and that we should accept, because the American 
people elected us to make bold decisions and make sure that we can move 
this country in a new direction, domestically and in terms of our 
foreign and military policy. I look forward to finally being able to 
reassert this institution, the United States House of Representatives' 
role in the system of checks and balances, because the unitary 
philosophy the executive branch in this administration supports is 
wholly contrary to the Constitution.