---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `5f78e9ca34b24552acbbc1842c70af49`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, we are in strong opposition to this 
amendment. In fact, the Armed Services Committee under the very able 
chairmanship of the gentleman from Missouri has finished a number of 
oversight hearings. The subcommittees that are involved in the Armed 
Services Committee and in Defense Appropriations Subcommittee have 
undertaken extensive hearings and analysis of every weapons system that 
we have. And, of course, you have many weapons systems that were built 
20-30 years ago that were highly relevant, like the C-130s that Members 
fly on, that are the backbone of the transportation system, the 
intratheater transportation system in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Bradley 
fighting vehicles, M-1 tanks. There is no weapon system that comes out 
of a production line with the word ''Cold War'' on it, so the relevance 
and the importance and the use of weapons has been carefully and 
closely analyzed by the important committees, the oversight committees, 
and we are aided in that by the Quadrennial Defense Review that is done 
by the administration where they make their case for what they think 
that we need, and the President makes that proposition which is 
manifested in his budget. And after hearings, the members of this 
committee and the full body, this House of Representatives, respond 
with our cut on what we think we should do with respect to arming and 
maintaining and equipping our military forces.

So I would just strongly oppose the gentlelady's amendment, and say I 
have great respect for the gentlelady.

Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Boren).