# CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
## `5f7e66870b33094fa2cf89f32b746b1c`
`Mr. DURBIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. First, Mr. President, I wish to thank the Senator from 
Michigan for making this statement on the floor of the Senate. I 
listened to the news reports this morning and heard that some from the 
White House said they did not believe we should be helping to pay for 
health insurance for families who are well off, such as families making 
$60,000 a year. That was the reference that was made.

The Senator from Michigan, I am sure, is aware that health insurance 
premiums--assuming the whole family is healthy--could, in some 
circumstances, cost a family thousands of dollars each year. If their 
gross income is $60,000, and they are trying to get by with $3,000 or 
$4,000 a month, an $800 health insurance bill for a healthy family, let 
alone $1,200 or more for a family with a sick child, it is hard for me 
to understand how the White House could say a family making $60,000 a 
year is so well off they would not need help in providing health 
insurance to their children.

I suggest to the Senator from Michigan that the President's position 
here seems to me to be inconsistent, in that he is willing to provide 
tax cuts for the wealthiest people in America and then is saying folks 
who make $60,000 a year are well off and don't need a helping hand when 
it comes to their children's health insurance. So in addition to the 
cost of the war in Iraq, I ask the Senator from Michigan, isn't it a 
little difficult to understand the President's position of giving tax 
breaks to the wealthy and not giving working families making $60,000 a 
year a helping hand with their health insurance for kids?