---
---

# CONGRATULATIONS ON THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CONGRESSIONAL BLACK  CAUCUS VETERANS BRAINTRUST
## `5f80322a18125d4e86678f86b3a92c76`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 26 February 2009`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise during this Black 
History Month to congratulate Hons. Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) and 
Charles Rangel (D-NY) for joining me in convening the highly successful 
20th Anniversary of the Congressional Black Caucus Veterans Braintrust 
during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's 38th Annual 
Legislative Conference (ALC) held in Washington, DC. The 20th 
anniversary celebration covered three days of activities over September 
24-26, 2008, with the collaboration of the African American Civil War 
Museum, the Vets Group and the National Association for Black Veterans. 
This was an important social, psychological and political achievement 
for the sustained work and growth of the Veterans Braintrust over more 
than twenty years. During that period the Veterans Braintrust has 
become the institutional memory for the Congressional Black Caucus on 
American veterans of African descent, much like the U.S. Naval 
Historical Center is for the Navy, and U.S. Army Center of Military 
History is for the Army. Thus, can justifiably be called the preeminent 
forum for debate, or discussion for public policy issues between 
veterans of African descent and government officials in the country. 
Second, the Braintrust deserves our special admiration for being the 
champion of diversity and inclusion for a much broader array of WWII, 
Korean, Vietnam, Persian Gulf and War on Terrorism constituencies; 
including our African veteran allies from abroad heretofore 
unrecognized and unrepresented. For example, the Ethiopian delegation 
that attended reminded us that Ethiopia fought by our side during the 
Korean Conflict; was the only African country never colonized, and led 
the way for the liberation of the rest of Africa. Equally important, 
the Veterans Braintrust long ago adopted the expanded definition of 
veteranhood to include: families and friends, in order to recognize the 
central importance of family and friends, particularly when any veteran 
goes into the hospital, and second, as an authentic voice for black 
veterans, their families, and communities nationwide.

Yet, no less important, the 20th Anniversary took place during two of 
the most challenging moments in American history--America's worse 
economic crisis since the Great Depression of the 20s and 30s, and the 
sixth year of the war on terrorism, now the second longest war in 
American history, in which 4,000 soldiers have been killed, 30,000 
wounded, and 14,000 seriously disabled.

Hon. Charles Rangel (D-NY) opened the morning tribute session of the 
forum, which was dedicated to recognizing the contributions of our 
nation's African American veterans, by briefly explaining the economic 
crisis and its impact on us all. He also honored our invited guest 
speakers Hons. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Bob Filner (D-CA), and John 
Conyers, Jr. (D-MI).

Next he shared a small piece of his own story of returning from the 
Korean War (1952) as an Army Sergeant with a Bronze Star, four Battle 
Stars and a Purple Heart. But somehow forgot he was a high school drop-
out and ended up pushing a clothing cart in New York City's garment 
district, before finally going to the VA to request assistance.

More importantly, he pledged his undying support for the GI Bill, 
because, as he put it, ''the only difference between being a drop-out 
on Lenox Avenue and a chairman in Congress was the GI Bill!'' before 
turning over the reins to Ron Armstead, Executive Director of the 
Veterans Braintrust, who has been with us since the beginning in 1988. 
Ron promptly began by saying ''forums that begin with an invocation and 
end with a benediction are a blessed occasion,'' and invited Leon 
Bryant, Sr., Pastor of Capitol City SDA Church to give the invocation.

Throughout the morning session more than 250 people were on hand as 
we paid special tribute to the courageous African American men and 
increasingly women of the military who dedicate their lives to 
preserving our precious freedom and continuing way of life. Our special 
guest, Emmy award nominee Actor John Amos, called the honor roll of 
black military units from the segregated World War II and Korean War 
eras to the integrated Vietnam, Persian Gulf, Afghanistan and Iraq 
wars. Remembering their selfless service and sacrifice to national 
defense throughout the entire 20th century, and returning home to join 
the fight for equal rights.

Most importantly, we focused on the long legacy of service of those 
who undertake the armed defense of the scared principles of the 
Constitution, Declaration of Independence and Bill of Rights that all 
men (and now women) are created equal, have thus earned the right of 
every African American full citizenship through honorable military 
service, and as Dr. W.E.B. DuBois said in 1906, for ''all true 
Americans.'' Thus Congress, the Executive Branch, states, 
commonwealths, territories, counties, municipalities and communities 
across the land ought to be deeply indebted to these all too often 
forgotten warriors who fought the most bitter of ironies in America's 
history: for democratic ideals abroad while the practice of racial 
discrimination persisted at home. But as the historic inauguration of 
President Barack Obama proves, their hope, faith and loyalty have been 
vindicated.

Seated on the dais were Anthony Brown, Lt. Governor from the state of 
Maryland, highest ranking black elected state official to serve in 
Iraq; Hon. Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Member of the House 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs and I, Senior Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, 
Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation 38th Annual 
Legislative Conference and Veterans Braintrust Co-Convener; keynote 
speaker Secretary James Peake, MD, Department of Veterans Affairs; Rev. 
Dr. James Forbes, Jr., President & Founder of the Healing of the 
Nations Foundation of New York; special guest of honor Actor John Amos, 
Honorary Master Chief of the USCG and Navy, and New Jersey National 
Guardsman (best known for his role as Kunta Kinte on the hit CBS 
miniseries Roots, and NBC's Emmy award winning hit series, The West 
Wing, as Admiral Percy Fitzwallace, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff); 
Hon. Louis Stokes (D-OH) Retired Congressman and Past Chairman of the 
Appropriations Subcommittee on VA, HUD and Independent Agencies, Past 
Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus Health Braintrust and WWII 
veteran, and Dr. Roscoe Brown, an original Tuskegee Airman and 
Congressional Gold Medal Recipient.

The afternoon session consisted of a unique Stakeholders Roundtable 
Discussion on Veterans' Issues supported by the Hon. Bob Filner (D-CA), 
Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee and his senior 
committee staff. The roundtable was moderated by Dr. William King, and 
featured the following subject matter experts and discussants: Dr. 
William Lawson, MD, Ph.D., Dr. Shirley Marks, MD, MPH, Dr. Lorraine 
Blackman, Ph.D., LCSW, Dr. Cedric Bright, MD, Dr. Reginald Wilson, 
Ph.D., Dr. Beverly Coleman Miller, MD, Dr. Donna Holland Barnes, Ph.D., 
Dr. Cheryl Royster Branker, Ed.D., Judge Robert Russell, Jr., Haywood 
Fennel, Sr., Sidney Lee, Maceo May, Amy Fairweather, Col. Ann Wright, 
USA, Ret., Sgt Natasha McKinnon & Jason Lindsay, disabled Iraqi 
veterans & students at North Carolina State University; SFC Vontella 
Fludd, USA, Ret., Two Tour Iraqi veteran and mother of two accompanied 
by First Sgt. Ronnie Robinson, USA, Ret. and Local Union Vice 
President, American Federation of Government Employees, along with 
committee staff members to address a lengthy list of black veterans 
issues and concerns.

Additionally, special invitations were extended to the major 
veterans' service organizations to enhance ways of building closer 
relationships between them and minority veterans. Further, the VA 
provided us with case workers who were present to respond to questions 
from individuals in the audience.

The roundtable discussion opened with brief presentations on PTSD and 
other health related issues such as VA health disparities, disability 
benefits difficulties, employment concerns and/or discrimination, post 
secondary education challenges and other issues of particular interest 
to black veterans. The outcome


product was a video recording of the session, which in turn will be 
transcribed in order to produce a document, or written report for 
presentation back to Reps. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), and Rangel (D-NY) of the 
Veterans Braintrust, the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, Democratic 
leaders in the House, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and others 
recommending ways to address the unique needs of both Iraqi & 
Afghanistan returning soldiers, and their families, as well as African 
American, or black veterans and provide thoughtful proposals for 
legislation.

Later that evening I hosted the 20th anniversary gala reception and 
awards ceremony at the Washington Grand Hyatt Hotel. Among those 
publicly recognized and acknowledged on this special occasion were 
Judge Robert Russell, Jr. who was presented the Citizens Beneficiary 
Award by the Mike Handy Foundation and Fund, for his unique Buffalo 
Veterans Court Treatment Program in the state of New York along with 
the U.S. Army Freedom Team Salute recognizing Frederick Gray, President 
of the Black Iwo Jima Veterans Group; Brig. Gen. Robert Cocroft, 
President and CEO of the Center for Veterans Issues; and Joseph 
Stevenson, a World War II veteran.

Other 2008 Braintrust awardees included: Actor John Amos, Sgt. 
Nathaniel Bass, USA, Ret., Asa Gordon, Dr. Richard Danford, Jr., Ph.D., 
Dr. Edward Brown, Dr. Vincent Patton III, Maj. Gen. Rosetta Burke, 
NYANG, Ret., Thomas Jones, Sr., Christopher Moore, Dr. Charles Simmons, 
Howard Wright, Thomas Yarosz, Halley's Comet Foundation, Association 
for the Study of African American Life and History, Tubman African 
American Museum, Smithsonian's National Museum for African American 
History and Culture, Parting Ways Historical Site, Sankofa Restoration 
Project, Myrl Billings Memorial Veterans Center, and Doubleback 
Productions.

Finally singled out for special praise was the Association of the 
2221 Negro Volunteers of World War II, who served in white Army 
infantry units during and after the Battle of Bulge. Afterward the 
private reception and awards ceremony was opened to the general public 
for a party with entertainment provided by Tori Robinson of Paris and 
Recording Artist Betty Wright.

My special thanks go to Roslyn Burrough, Anthony Hawkins, Mae 
Campbell, Forest Farley, Jr., Dr. Frank Smith, Jr., Brigadier General 
Robert Cocroft, Joe Wynn, Jack Evans, Dr. Vince Patton III, Belinda 
Foster, Dr. Martel Teasley, Dr. Michael Kane, Dr. Cheryl Royster 
Branker, Karen Freeman Wilson, Carmen Wilson II, Lucretia McClenney, 
Thomas Harris, Pastor Leon Bryant, Sr., Maceo May, Jason Young, 
Clarence Slaughter, Jean Davis, David Thompson, Maj. Myles Caggins, 
USA, Tonya Collins, Medgar Evers College and Congressional staff 
members Emile Milne, Kenya Handy, Holly Biglow, Kiwanis Harvey Styles, 
Roshan Hodge, Lee Footer, Alexandra Ward, Sonya Passi, Jonathan 
Halpern, Edwin Larkins, Tony Buckles and Malcolm Shorter.

May God continue to Bless America, and thank all veterans for their 
service.
