---
---

# None
## `5f85dd41995abfdd82a796ed82434381`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the memory of 
SGT Daniel McCall, United States Army. Sergeant McCall gave his life in 
defense of our Nation and was killed in action on October 30, 2007 in 
Salmen Pak, Iraq. Sergeant McCall was serving with the 1st Battalion, 
15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, 
Fort Benning, Georgia.

Daniel was a 2001 Pace High School honor graduate and a star athlete. 
He held numerous track records, many of which still stand. In June 
2004, he enlisted in the United States Army, following in his 
grandfather ''Duke's'' footsteps. Daniel excelled as an infantryman as 
he graduated from airborne school and was selected for Special Forces 
training. It was at Fort Bragg, NC that Daniel met the love of his 
life, Brittnay, whom he married in April 2006. He and Brittnay 
transferred back to Fort Benning and Daniel deployed to Iraq in March 
2007. Sergeant McCall's accomplishments while serving his country 
include: Special Forces training, sniper school, combat life saver 
training, and the warrior leaders course. He received the Bronze Star 
Medal, Purple Heart, Combat Infantryman's Badge, Army Commendation 
Medal, and the Global War on Terrorism Medal, just to name a few.

Daniel's grandfather, Duke, said ''Daniel was loved by all who met 
him, and his smile would brighten up the room.'' His uncle, Dr. Robin 
McCall said of Daniel, ''He set higher goals, and he set higher 
standards for others to follow. He didn't accept average. He was a 
shining example to all.''

Daniel was buried with full military honors on November 8, 2007 at 
Barrancas National Cemetery, Pensacola Naval Air Station. Several 
hundred people attended the funeral to remember this patriot--this fine 
soldier. While his earthly remains will be enshrined forever in 
Pensacola, Daniel's memory and example of selfless service will live on 
in the hearts of all of us in northwest Florida. I am always reminded 
of the greatness of our country when I meet military families like the 
McCalls, who supported Daniel as he volunteered to defend America.

The people of Pace have reason to be proud of Sergeant McCall, and I 
am humbled to be able to represent those people. Vicki and I will keep 
Daniel's entire family, especially his wife, Brittnay, his mother, 
Petra, and his grandparents, Duke and Liane McCall, in our thoughts and 
prayers. I hope all the people of northwest Florida and our Nation do 
the same. May God bless SGT Daniel McCall and all of those who serve in 
our Armed Forces and defend our Nation around the globe.
