# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `5f92cb767f2790e2028d2439154505ef`
`Mr. PEARCE — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her yielding and 
for her work on the issue and thank the majority party for their work. 
We're involved in a very serious discussion here.

I was in the Air Force in 1970, in Reese Air Force Base in Texas in 
pilot training, and the Shah of Iran's son was in the class right 
behind me. I didn't know much about the Shah of Iran, coming from 
Hobbs, New Mexico, but we began to watch and began to visualize as he 
left training, and those Iranians who were in the training class with 
me left and went back home to Iran, what their life was like flying 
jets in the Middle East. And then in 1979, the Shah was suddenly out of 
power, just like that. The ayatollah came to power and instituted a 
tremendous repressive regime that continues to this day.

Now, the question that our friends on the other side of the aisle 
fail to ask is what is their plan to see that our friends in the Middle 
East have stability because, in fact, they're balancing the terrorists 
in their own countries every day. They're balancing them using our 
force and our will and our promise to help.

So what do our friends in Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, UAE, 
what do they do? When I went to Israel earlier this year, Israel simply 
said they fall. If you leave Iraq, those nations fall.

Now, it's an uncomfortable truth, but somehow we're not going to talk 
about some uncomfortable truth these days. It's an uncomfortable truth 
that the entire Middle East is facing a problem of stability. If the 
entire Middle East faces a problem with stability, the entire world has 
a problem of stability because, if the Middle East exports about 25 to 
30 percent of the world's oil, which it does, then the world oil market 
becomes destabilized, the world economy becomes destabilized, and in 
the end, the terrorists win because they have destabilized the world 
rather than defeat any of the forces in the world. That's been their 
long-term plan, to export instability, and they have been doing a very 
good job of it.

Now, the President after 9/11 said we're going to fight a war on 
terror that simply does three things: we're going to take away the 
training camps, we're going to choke off their funding, and we're going 
to take the fight to them. Now, you can agree or disagree that Iraq is 
a place of combat with the terrorists, but it looks like to me that the 
terrorists from all over the world are coming in there. Iran is 
providing terrorists and weapons, Syria, other nations; and so whether 
or not it appears that the war is there, our soldiers believe that 
they're actually fighting al Qaeda.

So the President's plan has definitely uprooted the training camps. 
We've begun to squeeze off the funding to the al Qaeda troops, to the 
terrorists worldwide, and we have taken the fight to them. But now 
then, when we retreat, when we come home, the question that has failed 
to be asked by our friends who have this resolution calling our troops 
home, it fails to ask what do we do for world stability at that point. 
It is a serious omission. It's not accidental.

I appreciate the gentlelady for yielding.