---
---

# HEALTH CARE
## `5f95d186c5ce8bef590832de7dd65b21`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. I think my friend from Iowa just made a great point 
about why there needs to be this rush to bad judgment by the Speaker 
and by the administration, and it answers the question of our friend 
from New Jersey about why this rush to bad judgment. That is exactly if 
the Democrats go home for the weekend, just when they think they are 
about to get the last vote by adding something that will get their 
vote, by twisting the arm--I don't know if we are threatening losses of 
committees, I understand that's gone on around here in the recent past, 
but they are so close, they think, to getting this vote done, this 
travesty against the American people, if they go home, they are going 
to hear about what's going on.

What I can't help but come back to, when my friend, Mr. Garrett from 
New Jersey, asked about why rush? We have heard our President and all 
of those who seek to make excuses for him trying to make up his mind on 
what to do in Afghanistan say, He doesn't want to rush and make a bad 
decision. He wants to take his time.

Can you imagine the stress being heaped upon our soldiers who are 
either in harm's way in Afghanistan or get news, you are about to be 
sent into harm's way into Afghanistan, and you have a President that 
can't commit to whether he is going to give them what they need to win 
in Afghanistan?

I can't imagine anything more stressful and debilitating to hear, You 
are going to send me into harm's way? You've got a report that has been 
sitting on your desk since August that says if you don't give us the 
troops we need, we're going to lose this war. That means I am likely 
going to be killed while you are trying to make up your mind, and you 
are playing footsie with different groups and shows and doing all these 
fun things, and we are over here in harm's way; you can't make up your 
mind.

Okay. We will give him that he needs to take his time. We understand 
that he voted ''present'' probably more than anybody else in recent 
history in the Senate because he couldn't make up his mind down there, 
but how about giving us the same benefit of the huge doubt we have 
about his decision-making? Give it to the Congress.



Let us have time so a mistake, a huge mistake, is not made here. This 
is scary stuff, what is about to be heaped on us. Let us have the same 
amount of time that he has demanded.