---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF SPC MARC WHISENANT
## `5f96314c5ee8a83a47760070ce4f45fd`
`Mr. MICA — 15 November 2010`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the life and 
accomplishments of U.S. Army Specialist Marc Whisenant.

On Friday, September 24, a Central Florida soldier lost his life in 
service to our Nation during a training exercise in Kuwait.

At his funeral service at the Daytona Beach Baptist Church on 
Saturday, October 2, our community heard wonderful recollections of how 
this young man, Army SPC Marc Whisenant of Daytona Beach, while only 23 
years old, lived and accomplished a great deal in his lifetime. As a 
member of the ROTC program and 2005 graduate of Spruce Creek High 
School, Marc joined the U.S. Army after graduation from High School. He 
knew that serving in the United States military would fulfill a life 
goal.

In the Army, Marc found his calling as an M1A1 Armor Crewman and 
honorably served tours of duty in both Afghanistan and Iraq. He 
received recognition for his work and accomplishments as an outstanding 
serviceman.


Many of Marc's brothers in arms have commented on what a fine soldier 
he was and how he always held a positive attitude--even in the toughest 
of conditions.

Marc was a soldier to his country, a friend to many, but most of all, 
he was dedicated to his family. Marc's memory will carry on in the 
hearts and souls of his proud parents, Jerry Whisenant and Elizabeth 
Cook, and his beloved sisters, Michelle and Monica.

My colleagues, please join me in recognizing the life and service to 
our Nation of Marc Whisenant. We are forever grateful as a Nation for 
Marc's service and sacrifice, and my deepest condolences are extended 
to his parents, family and friends.
