# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `5fa7a3bf59111fe6238c97d1d1d6886e`
`Mr. GINGREY — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, as the gentlewoman from Texas who just preceded me 
stated, we just completed a memorial dedication remembrance ceremony on 
the steps of the Capitol as Members on both sides of the aisle came 
together led by our distinguished Speaker, our distinguished majority 
leader, and our distinguished minority leader. We came together in a 
very bipartisan way to once again pay tribute to the lives that were 
lost, indeed, and to their families, and to our first responders and 
the lives that were lost on their part and, of course, the City of New 
York on that great tragic day, that


great tragedy that occurred 6 years ago today, Mr. Speaker.

Before we went to the steps, the majority leader made a statement to 
our colleagues on this floor, which I fully support and endorse. I 
paraphrase his comments, but basically what Mr. Hoyer said to us, just 
a few minutes ago, was that the terrorists, the extremists, those who 
hate our way of life and hate everything about this country, our great 
country, brought us to our knees, but they didn't bring us down. And 
they will never bring us down.

I absolutely agree that it showed the resolve of the American people 
that they can't bring us down. They got our attention, absolutely. And, 
Mr. Speaker, today, of course, also is the day that General Petraeus, 
the commander of Multinational Force Iraq, the four-star general, the 
combatant commander on the ground in Iraq, along with our ambassador to 
Iraq, Ryan Crocker, gave their report to the American Congress, to the 
House of Representatives, they will do the same thing over the next 
couple of days to the Senate, and directed this report to the House 
Armed Services Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

Mr. Speaker, there were 111 Members of those two respective 
committees present for this hearing today, which went on almost 7 
hours. It was an opportunity for Members on both sides of the aisle to 
come together to listen carefully to a report that we mandated in our 
emergency supplemental spending bill that was passed March of this 
year, some 6 months ago.

Mr. Speaker, the thing that bothered me about this report was that in 
this town, last week, in this Congress, indeed, we heard nothing but 
negative comments about the messenger and what he might bring in regard 
to this report to suggest that it would be less than honest. Mr. 
Speaker, the New York Times today ran an article that basically showed 
a picture of General Petraeus and said, underneath the caption of that 
picture, General Petraeus is General Betray Us, to suggest, Mr. 
Speaker, that this general, our combatant commander of Multinational 
Force Iraq, would lie to the American people for some political 
advantage.

At this time, Mr. Speaker, I want to yield to my friend from 
Mississippi. I think that he may have a copy with him of that 
particular ad. I will be happy now to yield to the gentleman from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker).