---
---

# RECOGNIZING AND HONORING MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS
## `5fad726ac1269193db6031999830904c`
`Mr. McKEON — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, listening to the chairman relate that story 
made me think of an experience I had last week at home. We had an event 
that was held by our community, honoring those who served.



At that event, I met again the parents of a young man who was killed 
a few weeks ago, from our home. It was a Filipino family who had a son 
and two daughters. Their son, Ian Gelig, was killed in Afghanistan, 
just as I said, a few weeks ago. They came to this gathering from the 
cemetery, which is where they go on a daily basis to visit their son.

We had another family there who had lost their son in Iraq a few 
years ago, and this family has kind of befriended the parents of other 
young people who have lost their lives since then. They go to all of 
the funerals, and they have become strong advocates, reaching out to 
help the other families.

They feel good about what their sons have done. They hate the fact 
that they have lost their sons, but they feel proud of what they have 
done and feel like their sons did what they wanted to do.

I had the experience today of meeting a young midshipman. He will be 
graduating Friday from the Naval Academy. He is planning on becoming a 
SEAL. He has been learning Arabic, and he is looking forward to having 
an exciting career in the Navy.

You know, seeing these young people and seeing the light in their 
lives and what their plans are makes one think of others, as the 
chairman talked about--of the young man who graduated from West Point, 
who lost his life. He had that same light in his life, and I'm sure he 
felt like what he was doing, the sacrifice he'd made for our country, 
was worthwhile.

It is up to us to remember those sacrifices and, as Mr. Wilson said, 
to never forget 9/11 and to never forget the service of all of these 
young people since the birth of our great Nation.

I would ask that all of our colleagues support this resolution.