---
---

# SUPPORTING CONTINUED POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN UKRAINE
## `5fb28ce2ccfc203ef7ec8f56989bca41`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in support of House Resolution 981, introduced by Chairman 
Berman, and expressing our support for the continued political and 
economic development of Ukraine.

Almost 20 years have passed since the Ukrainian people gained their 
independence by breaking free from the oppressive authoritarian Soviet 
communist regime. Despite continuing challenges, both internal and 
external, Ukraine has made significant progress in establishing a 
democratic political system and implementing market-based economic 
reforms. Since becoming an independent state, Ukraine has evolved into 
an increasingly important partner for the United States and for our 
European allies.

Ukraine's participation in the international mission in Afghanistan 
and in the NATO training mission in Iraq are examples of contributions 
that Ukraine has made and is making in its effort focused on promoting 
stability and defeating Islamic extremists. In recognition of Ukraine's 
commitment, the NATO heads of state at their Bucharest summit in April, 
2008, agreed to and declared Ukraine will become a member of the NATO 
Alliance in the future. In December, 2008, then-Secretary of State 
Condoleezza Rice signed the U.S.-Ukraine Charter on Strategic 
Partnership, which aims to expand cooperation between our two countries 
on issues relating to democracy, defense, energy, and trade.

Significant challenges continue to confront Ukraine, including 
serious financial troubles it now faces as a result of the global 
financial crisis. One very serious challenge to the stability of 
Eastern Europe, as well as the future independence and prosperity of 
Ukraine, lies in the apparent interest on the part of some in 
neighboring Russia to ensure that Ukraine is held within a sphere of 
influence dominated by Russia. It's important to Ukraine, to Europe, 
and to the transatlantic community that Russia refrain from any effort 
to provoke instability by fomenting territorial divisions, as it did in 
Georgia, or interfere in Ukraine's domestic policies and politics, 
either overtly or through less visible corrupt activities.

In the wake of the Russian invasion of Georgia in August, 2008, such 
concern over Russian intentions toward Ukraine is no small matter. The 
Kremlin needs to accept the right of Ukraine to its independence and to 
its right to live as a peaceful political democracy free of 
intimidation. The United States has a strong interest in seeing the 
rise of a sovereign, free, democratic, and prosperous Ukraine. The 
presidential elections scheduled to take place next week in Ukraine 
need to be conducted in a free and fair manner. The victor in those 
elections needs to lead Ukraine in a democratic and noncorrupt manner 
in order to solidify the hard-won progress already made by the 
Ukrainian people.

I urge my colleagues to render their full support for this 
resolution.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.