---
---

# None
## `5fc3f2b306eb566d6aa081d1453d557b`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentleman from Florida, and I look forward 
to continuing the discussion tonight on all these issues the gentleman 
has brought up.

The gentleman closed with Iraq. We are going to have General Petraeus 
and we are going to have Ambassador Crocker come before Congress again 
next week and give their status report on what they see on the ground 
in Iraq. As the gentleman from Florida knows, he and I traveled to Iraq 
together last year. One of the things that you would see over there is 
that the military situation, without question, our brave men and women 
are doing incredible work


over there. It's amazing to see firsthand the men and women in action 
and seeing the great things that they have been able to do with the 
situation that they have been presented with in Iraq.

But I cannot say the same thing about the politicians in Baghdad, the 
Iraqi politicians. We have had for several months now, if not more than 
a year, a situation in Baghdad where the politicians have just refused 
to step up and make the necessary political accommodations to 
administer their own government and run their own affairs. This 
situation in Iraq can only be resolved by the Iraqis themselves. It is 
their country. Our brave men and women in the military have provided a 
bubble of security around Baghdad to give the decisionmakers, the 
Iraqis in Baghdad the opportunity to make the tough political 
accommodations that are necessary, and they have refused to do it.

What we have seen in recent weeks, unfortunately, is the situation in 
Iraq regress. We will hold judgment on that until I hear from General 
Petraeus next week and Ambassador Crocker and hear what they have to 
say. But it does not appear that the situation in Iraq over the past 
several weeks has gotten any more stable. I hope that General Petraeus 
has good news.

But nobody can argue that our brave men and women in the military, 
the best and brightest this country has to offer, have done everything 
they can possibly do to give the Iraqis the opportunity to take the 
reins of power and control their own affairs and manage their own 
destiny. Unfortunately, it appears that they have refused to do so, the 
politicians in Baghdad. So we will certainly talk more about that.

I also wanted to touch on the economic downturn that we are in. 
There's a lot of debate on what you call it; is it a recession, are we 
in a recession, or are we not. I really don't care what we call it, 
what I know about is when I go back to my district in western 
Pennsylvania and I talk with people who are struggling in this economy, 
I can see firsthand what has happened and what the impact of this 
economic downturn has had on my constituents in southwestern 
Pennsylvania. We hear stories from all around the country of families 
going through the same trouble and turmoil as my constituents are in 
western Pennsylvania.

One of the things I hear over and over again is, well, these are just 
people who bought too much house. They got in over their heads and they 
bought more house than they can afford. You know what, they are getting 
what is coming to them.

That is not what happened. What we have had is people all across this 
country that have a mortgage, but they also have health care costs.



They have kids in school, where they are paying college tuition that 
is going up three and four and five times the rate of inflation. They 
have perhaps businesses to run. They have costs with fuel and gas 
prices and everything that that affects, with food prices going up.

Perhaps they took out a second mortgage, and maybe then they got 
overextended because they couldn't afford their daily household 
expenses because of everything else happening in the economy. This wave 
came on, and we had over 1 million foreclosures last year. We are on 
schedule this year to perhaps double that in 2008.

And I don't think anyone can argue that the economy is certainly in 
trouble right now. It is in a downward spiral, and we are hoping to 
prevent a recession, if we are not in one already. But I think to have 
an argument, as we have had on this floor many times with people on the 
other side who want to deny that this is a recession or not, that is 
missing the boat. I don't care what you call it. What I want to do is 
get out there and make a difference for the American people in a way 
that is going to make their life better and help them pay their daily 
household expenses and avoid bankruptcy and avoid defaulting on their 
mortgage. And that helps everybody.

Perhaps you do say, well, these are people who bought too much house 
and they got what they deserve. Even that is not the case. If those 
people live in your neighborhood and they default on their mortgage and 
their house is foreclosed, guess what? That is going to hurt your 
property values. That is going to have a direct impact on you, and 
maybe at that point you might take a second look at it. I don't want it 
to get to that point. I want to take proactive action.

The President this week, when he talked about what his economic plan 
was he was moving forward, it sounded a lot like Herbert Hoover and 
what his plan was in the 1930s. And if you sit on your hands and you do 
nothing, I can promise you, this is not going to correct itself. This 
problem is going to continue to get worse.

So I am grateful that we have come here tonight to talk about these 
important issues and to take action on these issues as a Congress, 
because working together we can take a giant step in solving these 
problems for the American people, hopefully avoiding a recession, if we 
are not in one, but in the long term making policy decisions that are 
going to directly improve the lives of our constituents all across the 
country.

With that, I would now yield to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. 
Clarke).