# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5fd9192b8fd933a920d038c2c4eb655b`
`Mr. BUYER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. I compliment Mr. Ryan for his budget. I speak in support 
of the Republican alternative for fiscal year 2008 budget resolution.

In particular, I would like to address the veterans discretionary 
health care and programs which would provide $42.4 billion, most of it 
for health care. This budget is $2.9 billion above the administration's 
overall request.

Mr. Chairman, the Republican alternative would provide our Nation's 
veterans with an increase of $8 billion more than the Democrats over 
the next 5 years, without any tax increases on the very same veterans. 
That is a budget of $8 billion more for our veterans versus a tax 
increase of $392.5 billion on America's veterans.

Now think about that. They want to stand up and say, oh, we are going 
to be against enrollment fees and copays, but what are they really 
doing? They are increasing taxes on veterans to do what? Increase 
funding for veterans programs. Think about it. Over 25 million veterans 
they want to increase taxes on.

The assumptions behind the numbers of Mr. Ryan's budget here, within 
the $28.5 billion for medical services for FY08, House Republicans 
would provide $1.3 billion more than the President's request, including 
$463 more in increasing demands on VA health care system, $200 million 
for mental health over and above the President. These numbers are over 
and above the administration. $100 million more on OIF, OEF, $100 
million for chiropractic care, $100 million for dental care, $80.2 
million on long-term care, $50 million more than the administration on 
polytrauma care, $65 million for prosthetic and sensory aids, $25 
million for blind rehabilitation. Republicans would also provide nearly 
$100 million more than the administration's request for the medical and 
prosthetic research.

We also fund $1.4 billion above the administration's budget for 
construction and facilities. This includes $585 million to the O&M 
accounts for improving our current medical facilities, an additional 
$691.7 million to support a substantial investment in the construction, 
renovation, planning and design of major medical VA facility projects, 
and $120 million for the gravesite expansion in the National Cemetery 
Administration.

When you look at the chart, the zeros on the chart, the dots here are 
the National Cemetery expansions. Those would include Calverton, New 
York; Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania; Canton, Georgia; Abraham Lincoln, 
Illinois; Dayton Ohio; Houston, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona and Riverside, 
California.

When you look at the diamonds, what this would include would be 
advanced planning for construction projects in Tampa, Florida; in Bay 
Pines, Florida; Seattle, Washington; American Lake, Washington; 
Seattle, Washington; Roseburg, Oregon; Palo Alto, California; San 
Francisco, Loma Linda, Los Angeles; Dallas, Texas; Louisville, 
Kentucky; Butler, Pennsylvania; Washington, D.C.

In North Carolina it would be in Salisbury, Ashville and 
Fayetteville; Wichita, Kansas; Omaha, Nebraska. And in South Carolina, 
it would be in Columbia and in Charleston. In Alabama, it would be 
Birmingham. Perry Point, Maryland; Bronx, New York; West Haven, 
Connecticut.

With regard to major construction projects and full funding, that is 
depicted by the stars on this map, you would have in Los Angeles, 
California would be seismic corrections of $103.8 million; 
Fayetteville, Arkansas, clinical addition $59 million; Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, a campus consolidation of $105.5 million; Lee County, 
Florida outpatient clinic of $89 million. St. Louis, Missouri, is 
medical center improvements of $25.8 million. Columbia, Missouri 
operating suite replacement of $32.5 million. And in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, a spinal cord center of $30 million.

With regard to how we get to the $8 billion differential, it is this: 
The Democrats assume an assumption over the 5 years of an increase of 
5.8 percent. The Republican proposal over 5 years is an increase of 7.2 
percent. What I did is I looked at the medical inflation plus 
utilization rate, and when you work those numbers, we actually come up 
with a differential of $8 billion. The Republican alternative is an $8 
billion increase in veterans funding over and above the Democrat 
proposal. And we do that without increasing taxes on America's 
veterans. I think that is pretty important.

When I think about the taxes on America's veterans and families, 
let's see, those are tax increases on middle-income veterans and their 
families, tax increases on low-income earners, tax increases on 
veterans with children, those who own small businesses. Think about it. 
It is going to be an increase in marginal rates potential, the child 
tax credit reduction could be wiped out. You've got the increase in the 
marriage penalty, increase in death taxes, increase in capital gains 
and other tax increases. That is going to be upon America's veterans, 
and I think that is pretty disturbing.

So a $392.5 billion Democrat tax increase, who does it hurt? It hurts 
America's veterans. It hurts our wounded warriors. It hurts our low-
income veterans. It hurts veterans with children. It hurts our veterans 
who are business owners.

Now think about this for a second. I want to go back to it. I support 
the copays, I support enrollment fees for proper utilization. But what 
is happening here? You see, my Democrat colleagues will stand up and 
say to the veterans community, oh, I don't want to increase any copays, 
I don't want to do enrollment fees, but what are they doing instead? 
They are taxing America's veterans, who in turn will then take those 
dollars and roll them back into veterans programs. But they are going 
to champion that we are not going to increase copays, I am not going to 
increase enrollment fees, but what I am going to do to 25 million 
veterans is I am going to tax them, not only during your life, but I am 
going to tax you when you die.

Thank you, for the time Mr. Ryan and I thank you and your staff for 
your hard work on this budget. It is a budget of which we can be proud.

Mr. Chairman, the Republican Alternative for Fiscal Year 2008 Budget 
Resolution for veterans discretionary healthcare and programs would 
provide $42.356 billion, most of it for health care. This budget is 
$2.939 billion above the administration's request.

Mr. Chairman, the Republican alternative would provide our Nation's 
veterans with an


increase of $8 billion more than the Democrats over the next 5 years 
without any tax hikes on those same veterans.

Within our $28.5 billion for medical services for FY08, House 
Republicans would provide $1.3 billion more than the President's 
request, including: $463 million more for increasing demands on the VA 
health care system; $200 million for mental health care; $100 million 
more for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom; $100 million 
for chiropractic care; $100 million for dental care; $80.2 million for 
long-term care; $50 million more than the administration for polytrauma 
care; $65 million for prosthetic and sensory aids; and $25 million for 
blind rehabilitation.

Republicans also would provide nearly $100 million more than the 
administration's request for medical and prosthetic research.

We fund $1.4 billion above the administration's budget for 
construction and facilities. Included in this is $585 million for 
improving our current medical facilities and an additional $691.7 
million to support a substantial investment for the construction, 
renovation and planning and design of major medical facility projects. 
The Republican Alternative also includes $120 million for the National 
Shrine Commitment of the National Cemetery Administration and expands 
gravesites in the following locations: Annville, PA; Canton, GA; 
Elwood, IL; Riverside, CA; Calverton, NY; Houston, TX; Elwood, IL; 
Dayton, OH; and Phoenix, AZ.

This is why the Republican alternative also funds an additional 
$691.6 million above the administration's request to support a 
substantial investment for the construction, renovation and planning 
and design of major medical facility projects.

$105.5 million for the consolidation of campuses in Mr. Doyle's 
district in Pittsburgh, PA. Constituents in Mr. Altmire's, Mr. 
Murphy's, and Mr. Murtha's district will benefit as well.

$103.8 million for seismic corrections in Mr. Waxman's district in 
Los Angeles, CA. Constituents all over the Los Angeles area would also 
benefit including constituents in Ms. Harman's and Ms. Watson's 
district.

$32 million for a Spinal Cord Center in Ms. Moore's district in 
Milwaukee, WI. Constituents in Ms. Baldwin's, Mr. Sensenbrenner's, and 
Mr. Ryan's district will benefit.

$89 million for outpatient improvements in Mr. Mack's district in Lee 
County, FL. Constituents in Mr. Mahoney's, Mr. Diaz-Balart's, and Mr. 
Buchanan's district will benefit as well.

$59.9 million for a clinical addition in Mr. Boozman's district in 
Fayetteville, AR. Constituents in Mr. Snyder's, Mr. Blunt's, and Mr. 
Ross' district will also benefit.

$92 million for medical center improvements in Mr. Carnahan's 
district in St. Louis, MO. Constituents in Mr. Lacy Clay's and Mr. 
Akin's district will benefit.

$25.8 million for operating suite replacement in Mr. Hulshof's 
district in Columbia, MO. Constituents in Mr. Graves', Mr. Skelton's, 
and Mr. Akin's district will benefit.

Mr. Chairman, the Republican Members also fund advanced planning for 
medical facilities. The funding represents about 5 percent of the 
estimated cost of the project and is an important first step in the 
construction of these new facilities.

$36.8 million for a co-located joint use medical facility with the 
Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, SC. This project is 
in Mr. Brown's district but constituents in Mr. Clyburn's district will 
benefit as well.

$8 million for Poly-trauma center expansion and a bed tower in Tampa, 
FL. The project is in Ms. Castor's district, but it will also help 
constituents in the districts of Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Putnam, and Mr. 
Young.

$1.9 million for seismic improvements in Seattle, WA. The project is 
in Mr. McDermott's district but will also help constituents in the 
districts of Mr. Dicks and Mr. Smith.

$6.8 million for inpatient and outpatient clinic improvements in Bay 
Pines, FL. This is in Mr. Young's district and the project will also 
help constituents in the districts of Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Castor, and 
Mr. Putnam.

$26.5 million for land to build a new medical facility in Louisville, 
KY. This project is in Mr. Yarmuth's district but will also benefit 
constituents in the districts of Mr. Davis and Mr. Lewis.

$14 million for seismic correction in ambulatory care in Palo Alto, 
CA. This project is in Ms. Eshoo's district but constituents in the 
districts of Mr. Honda, Mr. Lantos, and Mr. Stark will also benefit.

$2.4 million for seismic corrections in American Lake, WA. This 
project is in Mr. Smith's district but constituents in the districts of 
Mr. Dicks, Mr. McDermott, and Mr. Reichert will also benefit

$3.6 million for seismic corrections for the mental health building 
in Roseburg, OR. This project is in Mr. DeFazio's district but 
constituents in the districts of Ms. Hooley and Mr. Walden will also 
benefit.

$2.9 million for a spinal cord injury center in Dallas, TX. This 
project is in Ms. Bernice Johnson's district but other constituents in 
the Dallas area will also benefit.

$4.1 million for a spinal cord injury center in Bronx, NY. This is in 
Mr. Serrano's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. Rangel, 
Mr. Crowley, and Mr. Engel will also benefit.

$4.3 million for seismic corrections to five buildings in San 
Francisco, CA. This project is in Speaker Pelosi's district but 
constituents in the districts of Ms. Woolsey, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Lantos 
will also benefit.

$7.5 million for seismic corrections to thirteen buildings in Los 
Angeles, CA. This project is in Mr. Waxman's district but all 
constituents in the greater Los Angles area will benefit especially 
those in the districts of Ms. Harman and Ms. Watson.

$2.2 million for an outpatient clinic in Butler, PA. This project is 
in Mr. English's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. 
Altmire and Mr. Peterson will also benefit.

$6.5 million for seismic corrections for buildings in Seattle, WA. 
The project is in Mr. McDermott's district but will also help 
constituents in the districts of Mr. Dicks and Mr. Smith.

$3 million for an outpatient clinic in Palo Alto, CA. This project is 
in Ms. Eshoo's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. Honda, 
Mr. Lantos, and Mr. Stark will also benefit.

$8.5 million for outpatient clinic expansion in Washington, DC. This 
project would affect constituents in Eleanor Holmes Norton's district 
but also benefits constituents in Mr. Davis's and Moran of Virginia, as 
well as constituents in Mr. Wynn's and leader Hoyer's district.

$2 million for a clinical addition in Salisbury, NC. This project is 
in Melvin Watt's district, but constituents in Mrs. Bono's, Mr. Baca's, 
and Mr. McKeon's districts will also benefit.

$3.75 million for medical and surgical bed, and ambulatory 
modernization in Wichita, KS. This project is in Mr. Tiahrt's district 
but will benefit all veterans in Kansas.

$2.6 million for diagnostics and specialty care facility renovation 
in Columbia, SC. This project is in Mr. Wilson's district but the 
constituents in the districts of Mr. Spratt, Chairman of the Budget 
Committee, and Mr. Clyburn will also benefit.

$5.9 million for clinical expansion in Dallas, TX. This project is in 
Ms. Bernice Johnson's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. 
Sessions and Mr. Marchant will also benefit.

$1.6 million for an outpatient clinic in Huntsville, AL. This project 
is in Mr. Davis' districts constituents in the districts of Mr. 
Aderholt and Mr. Bachus will also benefit.

$2.5 million for a nursing home care unit in Perry Point, MD. This is 
in Mr. Gilchrest's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. 
Miller and Mr. Sarbanes will also benefit.

$5.2 million for a clinical ward tower in West Haven, CT. This 
project is in Ms. DeLauro's district but constituents in the districts 
of Mr. Hall, Mr. Shays, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Courtney will also benefit.

$7.8 million to fix heating and air conditioning and clinical 
deficiencies in Omaha, NE. This is Mr. Terry's district but I am sure 
all Nebraskan veterans will benefit.

$1.8 million for outpatient expansion in Ashville, NC. This project 
is in Mr. Shuler's district but constituents in the districts of Mr. 
Davis and Mr. Duncan, of Tennessee, will also benefit.

Mr. Chairman, I now turn to my next chart, which shows the Republican 
alternative budget outlays for the next five years.

As you can see, the President's five-year average budget growth rate 
for VA discretionary spending is 1.60 percent, the Democrat's is only 
5.8 percent and the Republican alternative five-year average growth 
rate is 7.2 percent.

This number accounts for the cost of medical inflation that is 
calculated by the consumer price index and annual increased use of VA 
by all veterans.

What this means Mr. Chairman is that over the next five years 
Republicans would increase spending by $8 billion more than our friends 
on the other side of the aisle and we will do this without a tax 
increase.

Mr. Chairman, at first blush the Democratic budget appears good for 
veterans, but it is really just smoke and mirrors.

The Democratic budget contains a $392.5 billion tax hike. This 
includes tax hikes on middle income veterans and their families, 
veterans who are low-income earners and veterans who own a small 
business. Democrats also blocked every amendment offered in the Budget 
Committee that would stop unfair taxes on veterans and their families.

Mr. Chairman, the last time Democrats were in the majority they 
passed the largest tax hike in history. Now, with only 3 months in 
office they have already broken their own record. This is the wrong 
message to send to our veterans and their families.

Mr. Chairman, we are a nation at war, and we will win this war. The 
best way to maintain morale of our servicemembers is not to micromanage 
the fight, pretending that's good for the troops; it is to make tough 
decisions here that will engender their confidence in our capacity to 
preserve the vitality of this nation while they fight for its freedom.



I believe that the Republican budget helps do exactly that, while 
honoring the promises we have made our veterans.