---
---

# None
## `5fe28f9cc2de58ff6d463cb641df0692`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 
2199.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will help us better care for America's wounded 
warriors suffering from traumatic brain injury, the signature wound of 
the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. This important legislation will require 
the VA to better screen veterans for symptoms of TBI, devise a long-
term care strategy, and promote better understanding of TBI and how we 
can provide the best care possible.

I also want to thank my good friend, Mr. Michaud, for including my 
bill, H.R. 2190, establishing an advisory committee on rural veterans, 
as a provision of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, over 40 percent of returning Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans are coming home to rural communities, and countless older 
veterans live in rural America, places like Pulaski County and Starke 
County, Indiana. The health care needs and services rural veterans 
require are very, very unique. These veterans often have increased 
barriers to obtaining the same quality of care as their urban and 
suburban counterparts. We must do better by them.

It is critical that the VA have direct input from rural veterans at 
the highest level of policymaking. The Advisory Committee on Rural 
Veterans will work with and advise the VA Secretary on how policies and 
programs affect them, and how services can be improved for rural 
veterans and their families.

I urge my colleagues in the House to pass this bill to improve care 
for our wounded warriors and America's rural veterans.