# FILIPINO AMERICAN HISTORY MONTH
## `5fe6d9c181fe85e787172aef7a501057`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I extend my strong support to H. 
Res. 780, which recognizes and celebrates Filipino American History 
Month in October.

The first Filipino in the United States arrived at Morro Bay, 
California, on October 18, 1587 in the Manila-built galleon, Nuestra 
Senora de Esperanza. In 1763, the first permanent Filipino settlement 
was established in the United States in St. Malo Parrish, Louisiana. 
For over 200 years, since before the founding of our great country, 
Filipino Americans have made varied contributions to American culture 
and society in countless ways.

Today, there are more than 3 million Filipino Americans and persons 
of Filipino ancestry living in the United States, including nearly 
6,000 in my own 9th Congressional district in Houston, Texas. Filipino 
Americans count among their community prominent politicians, artists, 
businessmen, athletes, scientists, educators, writers, television 
personalities, scholars, and entertainers. Moreover, they are people 
who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for the safety of our country. 
Filipino American servicemen and servicewomen have a longstanding 
history of serving in the Armed Services of the United States, from the 
Civil War to the present Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts, including more 
than 250,000 Filipinos who valiantly


fought under the United States flag during World War II.

Notwithstanding their contributions to America, we must continue to 
promote the study of Filipino American history and culture because of 
the important roles that Filipino Americans and other people of color 
have played in United States history. It is my hope that through this 
House Resolution, we can renew our commitment to ensuring that Filipino 
Americans and people of color are given their due recognition for their 
contributions to our nation.

I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 780 to honor our nation's 
Filipino Americans and our shared history with this community in the 
United States. Filipino Americans have altered America, their 
contributions are documented and forever enshrined in our history, and 
they deserve our recognition for the countless ways in which they make 
America great.