# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `5ff765074dee9fcba648807865b6009b`
`Mr. REID — 15 July 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, under an order of May 5 and under the 
auspices of S. Res. 18, I made a temporary appointment of Sheldon 
Whitehouse to serve on the HELP Committee, while retaining my authority 
to make a permanent appointment to the HELP Committee. I now announce 
that as of today, Senator Al Franken is appointed to serve on a 
permanent basis to the slot that was occupied by Senator Sheldon 
Whitehouse.















 Senator Whitehouse


Mr. President, Sheldon Whitehouse, since coming to the Senate, has 
truly been a workhorse. There isn't anything I have asked this fine man 
to do that he has not come forward with enthusiasm to do it. We have 
seen the brilliant work he has done on so many different occasions as a 
member of the Judiciary Committee.

His other assignments in the Senate have been just as auspicious as 
his work on the Judiciary Committee. His background is significant. He 
has a real interest in health care. His work on the bill that was 
reported out of the HELP Committee today was essential. All members of 
the committee, Democrats and Republicans, are astounded at how good he 
was.

I repeat, he enthusiastically accepted this temporary assignment 
while we waited for the long, never-ending situation in Minnesota to 
come to a close. Senator Whitehouse was far from just a seat-warmer. He 
dove into the issues and, to no one's surprise, was a substantive 
contributor to one of the most important bills the committee has ever 
marked up in the history of this country.

Without belaboring the point, on behalf of the entire Senate, I 
greatly appreciate his service on the committee, and I personally thank 
him, as does the entire Democratic caucus. I bet if a poll were taken 
of those who serve as Republicans on the HELP Committee, they would 
acknowledge his brilliance and hard work. I know Senator Kennedy, whom 
we have missed on that committee and the vital work he has done for 
decades in the Senate, is someone who has watched from afar and 
applauded Senator Whitehouse.

Mr. President, I came to the House of Representatives in 1982. In 
that class of 1982 was a young man from Arizona, someone who came with 
a certain degree of fame. His name is John McCain. He had served our 
country valiantly during the Vietnam conflict and spent 5 years in a 
prisoner-of-war camp in Vietnam. I have great admiration and respect 
for him. I want the record to reflect that my respect for John McCain 
is very deep. Not only did we come to the House together, but we also 
came to the Senate together. We were elected together in 1986. Our 
seniority is as close as it can get. We both have the same amount of 
service in the House of Representatives, so seniority is determined by 
how many people are in the State of Nevada and the State of Arizona. 
There are more people in the State of Arizona than in the State of 
Nevada, so he is one up on me in overall seniority in the Senate.

Having said that, recognizing who this man is, he was proudly the 
nominee for Republicans in the last election. I watched his campaign 
and admired his courage, the stands he took. While I may not have 
agreed with him,


I recognize he has strong feelings. But so do I.

The senior Senator from Arizona today said he was ''deeply, deeply 
disappointed'' that what he considers an unrelated amendment; that is, 
the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes bill, has been added to this bill, the 
Defense authorization bill. I wonder on which recent morning did the 
Senator from Arizona wake up and suddenly feel so strongly. Where has 
he been in the past? Let me make a couple of comments about the remarks 
of my friend from Arizona.

First, his is a new outrage over a very old issue. The hate crimes 
bill was first added to the Defense authorization bill in a previous 
Congress. I didn't do it. The amendment today was an amendment I 
offered on behalf of the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and other 
sponsors of this legislation. Senator Leahy would have been here, but 
he is a little busy with the Supreme Court nomination. The hate crimes 
bill was first added to the Defense authorization bill when George Bush 
was President, a Republican. Where was the Senator's disappointment 
then? I heard no big statements at that time, and no one else did.

Second, the Senator from Arizona has evidently not always held the 
belief he discussed today. This is a new conversion. He has evidently 
not always believed that bills must only contain amendments that relate 
directly to the underlying legislation.

It was just a while ago a bill came before the Senate known as the 
motor-voter bill, a bill to make it easier for people to register to 
vote. When they got their registration changed on their car, they would 
at the same time have the opportunity to register to vote. It was a 
unique and good idea, and it has allowed millions of people to register 
to vote who ordinarily would not register.

On that legislation, motor-voter, Senator McCain offered a line-item 
veto amendment. It had nothing to do with registration to vote. So it 
is hard to understand how his was the kind of related amendment he 
demands today. In fact, that issue went to the Supreme Court, where the 
Supreme Court declared it illegal, unconstitutional.

It was a year before that that Senator McCain offered the same 
amendment to a research bill. Again, it is hard to understand how his 
was the kind of related amendment he demands today.

Additionally, Senator McCain offered an amendment that would change 
Senate rules about tax increases to a bill about unemployment 
compensation. It is hard to understand how his was the kind of related 
amendment that he suddenly today demands.

He also offered his line-item veto amendment to a bill that would 
give more rights to blind Americans. It is hard to understand how the 
line-item veto had anything to do with the visually impaired. But it 
appears this was the kind of amendment he demands today.

Again, Senator McCain offered an amendment about Medicare to a bill 
funding energy and water development, having no relation, obviously. It 
is hard to understand how his was a kind of related amendment that he 
demands today.


The third point I want to make is that the Senator from Arizona is 
not alone in offering such unrelated amendments. His Republican 
colleagues do it all the time. In fact, they are quite fond of doing 
it.

Where has his outrage been when that has happened, Mr. President? 
Where has the outrage been from the Senator from Arizona when, for 
example, one of his Republican Senator friends twice offered an 
amendment about the ACORN group? This is an organization around the 
country that is involved in a lot of different things. But he wanted to 
do an amendment on the economic recovery package related to the ACORN 
organization. That was a bill, of course, that had nothing to do with 
voting registration.

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about prescription 
drugs to a bill that funds homeland security--no relation whatsoever. 
Where was the outrage of my friend from Arizona about that?

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about the fairness 
doctrine--a fake issue meant exclusively to excite a very small segment 
of our population--to a bill that would give DC residents, finally, the 
right to vote. Where was the outrage of my friend from Arizona about 
that?

Another Republican Senator offered the same amendment; that is, the 
fairness doctrine; another Senator, same amendment, on the same 
conjured issue to the Omnibus appropriations bill. That is the bill we 
passed to keep our government running and complete unfinished business 
from the Bush administration. Where was my friend's outrage about that?

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about union dues to 
that same Omnibus appropriations bill, having nothing to do with what 
we were trying to accomplish here.

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about congressional 
pay to another appropriations bill, having no relationship whatsoever.

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about rules 
surrounding charitable donations to the national service bill--no 
relationship whatsoever. I did not hear my friend say one word about 
that. The Senator from Arizona did not complain 1 minute about that.

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment about national 
language to a bill that helps us crack down on mortgage fraud. Now try 
that one. That is something that might stir up a little outrage but not 
from my friend from Arizona.

Another Republican Senator offered an amendment on auto dealers to a 
bill that funds our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Where was the 
outrage on that--an amendment on auto dealers on a bill that funds our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, the supplemental appropriations bill?

Mr. President, there are lots of other examples. Those are just a 
few. It is hard to understand how any of these amendments were the kind 
of related amendment Senator McCain demands today. But it is even 
harder to understand why the Senator from Arizona did not feel the need 
to express, as I have said, the outrage he did this morning.

Finally, I want to say that I would gladly, as a matter of principle, 
keep each of these bills separate; that is, hate crimes, Defense 
authorization. But the reality is, the Republicans' relentless and 
reckless strategy of slowing, stopping, and stalling has made it 
impossible for us to do so. My friend, the senior Senator from Arizona, 
knows the most recent example of this all too well. His Republican 
colleagues refuse to let us vote on his amendment, which I support. I 
support the F-22 amendment. I support that. Why can't we vote on that? 
This could have been done yesterday, the day before, today, but for the 
stubbornness of the Senate Republicans.

We have lots of work to do, a lot of priorities to fulfill, and a lot 
of mistakes in the last 8 years to correct. And we are trying to do 
that. The bottom line is, we would not have to take the time for such 
steps if the Republican minority would not waste the American people's 
time and money by making us jump through procedural hoop after 
procedural hoop just to do our jobs. Last Congress, 100 filibusters; 
this Congress, I think we are at 21 already this year--21.

To my knowledge, Senator McCain has never supported hate crimes 
legislation. If I am mistaken, it certainly would not be the first 
time, but that is the information I have. It is my understanding he 
does not think there probably is ever a good time to pass this 
important and overdue bill.

This is an issue here, a very important issue. And that is the real 
reason the Republicans, I assume, do not like to talk about the Matthew 
Shepard hate crimes bill. But I am not afraid to talk about the issue.

A man by the name of Luis Ramirez was picking strawberries and 
cherries to support his three children and a woman he wanted to marry. 
When he was not working the fields, he worked a second job in a local 
factory in Shenandoah, PA. It is a coal town of only 5,000 people.

As he was walking home one Saturday night, six high schoolers jumped 
him in a park. They taunted and screamed racial slurs at Luis, who came 
to this small town in the middle of Pennsylvania from a small town in 
the middle of Mexico. But the boys did not stop with the taunting and 
screaming racial slurs. That was not enough.


They punched, beat, and kicked him. When Luis's friend pleaded with the 
teenagers to stop, one yelled back: Tell your Mexican friends to get 
out of town, or you'll be lying next to him.

These boys stomped on Luis so hard that an imprint of the necklace he 
was wearing was embedded into his chest. They beat him so badly and so 
brutally that Luis never regained consciousness. He is dead. On July 
14, 2008--2 days after the beating and exactly 1 year ago yesterday--
Luis Ramirez died. He was 25 years old.

Hate crimes embody a unique brand of evil, and that is why the 
legislation is so important. It is terrorism; it is just a different 
kind than we normally see or think of. A violent act may physically 
hurt just a single victim and cause grief for loved ones. But hate 
crimes do more. They distress entire communities, entire groups of 
people, and our country.

Our friend, Senator Ted Kennedy, has for many years courageously 
fought for the legislation Senator Leahy and I offered as an amendment 
today to the Defense authorization bill. Senator Kennedy has correctly 
called hate crimes a form, I repeat, of domestic terrorism. It is our 
obligation to protect Americans from this domestic terror.

The hate crimes bill will help bring justice to those who 
intentionally choose their victims based on race, color, religion, 
nationality, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, sexual identity, or 
disability. Disability--there are examples all the time of someone who 
may not be what ''normal'' may be; maybe they are mentally challenged. 
There are all kinds of examples of people for that reason taking 
advantage and hurting them. That is a hate crime.


Hate crimes are rampant and the numbers are rising. The Department of 
Justice estimates that hundreds happen every day. Now State and local 
governments are on their own when it comes to prosecuting even the most 
violent crimes and conducting the most extensive and expensive 
investigations. State and local governments will always come first, as 
they should, but if those governments are unwilling or unable to 
prosecute hate crimes--and if the Justice Department believes that may 
mean justice will not be served--this law will let the Federal 
authorities lend a hand to State and local authorities.

I spent some time yesterday with Judy Shepard. I have five children. 
I have four boys. I had never met Judy Shepard until yesterday. My 
wife, within the past few months, had lunch with her and a number of 
other people and sat next to her. She told me what a wonderful person 
she is. When I met with her yesterday, the thing she said that was so 
traumatic to me was: I only have one boy left. Two children; Matthew is 
dead.

The bill we have is named after Matthew Shepard, Judy's son. He was a 
21-year-old college student when he was tortured and killed for being 
gay--and did they torture, did they torture. And that was not good 
enough for them. In the cold Wyoming night, they took him, before he 
was dead, and hung him on a barbed-wire fence.

When Wyoming police pursued justice in Matthew's murder, they needed 
resources they did not have. Laramie, WY, is where it is. Police could 
not call in Federal law enforcement for help--the law would not allow 
it--and their expensive investigation devastated that small police 
department. It was a police department of 40 people--not all police 
officers. As all police officers, some of them took care of the little 
jail, did jail duty, and they were responding to phone calls. Out of 
this 40-person police department, they had to lay off 5 people so they 
could prosecute this crime, this vicious crime, this hate crime. But it 
cost that little town a lot. When this bill becomes law, that will 
never happen again in Laramie, WY, or anyplace else in the country.

We must not be afraid to call these crimes what they are. The 
American people know this is the right thing to do. Hundreds of legal, 
law enforcement, civil rights, and human rights groups know this is the 
right thing to do. The U.S. Senate knows this is the right thing to do.

This bill simply recognizes that there is a difference between 
assaulting someone to steal his money or doing so because he is gay or 
disabled or Latino or Jewish; that there is a difference between 
setting fire to an office building and setting fire to a church, a 
synagogue, or a mosque; that there is a difference, as we learned so 
tragically last month, between shooting a security guard and shooting 
him because he works at the Holocaust Museum.

It is a shame that we often do not discuss our responsibility to do 
something about horrific hate crimes until after another one has been 
committed. It means we always tend to act too late. But does this mean 
we should not act now? Of course not. It means, in fact, the opposite: 
it means we must act before another one of our sons or daughters or 
friends or partners is attacked or killed merely because of who they 
are.

We must act in the name of people such as Thomas Lahey, who, in 2007, 
was beaten unconscious in Las Vegas. Why? Because he was gay.

Not far from my hometown of Searchlight, NV, is a place called 
Laughlin, NV--25 miles away. It is on the river, a little resort 
community. We must act in the name of Jammie Ingle, who, in 2002, was 
beaten and bludgeoned to death in Laughlin, NV. Why? They thought he 
was gay.

We must act in the name of Tony Montgomery, who was shot and killed 
in Reno. Why? Because he was an African American.

We must act in the name of those who worship at Temple Emanu-El in 
Reno, a synagogue that has been firebombed time and time again by 
skinheads. We must act in the name of Luis Ramirez, whom I already 
talked about who died 1 year ago this week. We must act in the name of 
Judy Shepard, of her son, Matthew Shepard, whose family has fought 
tirelessly since his brutal death, his brutal murder, so others may 
know justice. If their country doesn't stand for them, if we don't 
stand for them, who will?


The F-22 is an airplane I have seen. A number of them are stationed 
at Nellis Air Force Base. Nellis Air Force Base has almost 15,000 
people who are involved in that air base, civilian and military 
personnel. We are so proud of that. Nellis Air Force Base is named 
after Bill Nellis from Searchlight, NV. Bill Nellis was a war hero in 
World War II. He joined then the Army Air Corps, already having two 
children, was way beyond the age when he would be drafted, but he 
volunteered. He served 69 missions before a dive bomber went down in 
Belgium where he is now buried. We are proud of Nellis. We are proud 
the F-22s are there. But we have had enough F-22s at Nellis Air Force 
Base. We have enough F-22s anyplace else.

The F-22 is a Cold War weapon that has not flown a single mission 
over Iraq or Afghanistan--not one; not a training mission, not any kind 
of a mission. It is a powerful plane built to fight superpowers. But as 
we all know, the wars we fight today are not against superpowers. This 
generation of our military bravely fights a new generation of warfare 
against terrorists and insurgents. For today's national security needs, 
the F-22 is an overpriced and underperforming tool. And the nearly 200 
we already have in our fleet is sufficient. It is a sufficient 
deterrent to the potential of conventional war. But some want us to 
spend at least $2 billion to keep making more of them. That is only the 
first step. Actually, it is $1.75 billion. I rounded it off to $2 
billion. It is a very expensive plane to build and a very expensive 
plane to fly. It costs taxpayers $42,000 an hour to operate.

This technology is not suited for today's warfare. The radar in the 
F-22 means that when it flies over heavily populated cities such as the 
ones in Iraq and Afghanistan, its position is easily given away. We 
have at Nellis Air Force Base in the ranges there what we call red flag 
activities.

A couple times a year, we bring our fighting forces there, our air 
fighting forces, and they do mock exercises. It is a wonderful place, 
one of the few places in the world this can take place. They do all 
kinds of good things. Aircraft from all over the world come there to 
participate in these war games. If the F-22's radar is turned off to 
avoid being so easily detected, its agility is significantly 
compromised. We know that. This was proven recently in a recent 
exercise at Nellis Air Force Base, when an F-16 brought down in a war 
game an F-22 that simply had turned its radar off in a test fight.



There is broad bipartisan consensus that ending the F-22's production 
is in our national security interests. Here is a list of some who 
agree: Chairman Levin; Ranking Member McCain; Commander in Chief Barack 
Obama; the previous Commander in Chief, President Bush; the Secretary 
of Defense; the previous Secretary of Defense; the chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, I repeat; the ranking member, I 
repeat, of the Senate Armed Services Committee; the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff; the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; 
the Secretary of the Air Force; the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. 
Can you believe that? And we are going to try to move forward in doing 
this, and no one wants it in the military. All of those have prudently 
pointed out that buying more F-22s that we don't need means doing less 
of something we do need.

Some have encouraged us to continue making this Cold War-era plane 
because it creates jobs for those who build them. Being a little bit 
personal here, the stealth airplane was developed in the deserts of 
Tonopah, NV. It was a wonderful thing our country did. Each of these 
airplanes had its own hangar up in the desert because the Soviet 
satellites came over, and they couldn't come out in the daytime. These 
pilots were trained so efficiently; everything they did was in pitch 
darkness, but that is where these airplanes were developed and flown.

There came a time after it became public that we had these stealth 
aircraft that they had to put them someplace. They put most of them at 
Nellis Air Force Base. The Pentagon, after they had been stationed 
there for a matter of months, made a decision: That is not good. We 
need to move them to New Mexico to an airbase. Pete Domenici, my 
friend, was concerned about whether they should go to New Mexico or 
Nevada. I said: Pete, I got a deal for you. I, personally, don't 
believe that what we do for the military is a jobs program. I think it 
is to make our Nation more secure. Let's have the General Accounting 
Office do a study, and if they come back and say it will save the 
country money and it will make our country more secure if they move 
them to New Mexico, I am not going to say a word about it. It took the 
General Accounting Office a matter of a few months to do this. They 
came back and said these stealth aircraft would be better off in New 
Mexico, and it will make our country more secure; they can train better 
there because of how much activity there is at Nellis, and it will save 
the country money.

That is how I feel about the military. I think we have to have the 
most sophisticated, secure weapons systems that exist, but it has to be 
something that is good for our country. It is obvious--with all these 
people from President Obama to President Bush to the Secretaries of 
Defense in the past to now--these airplanes are not necessary. They 
prudently point out that buying more F-22s that we don't need means 
doing less of something else that we do need.

I repeat: Some have encouraged us to continue making this airplane 
because it creates jobs for those who build it. I don't believe that is 
the purpose of why we are here. I understand the importance of jobs, 
but a more advanced jet, the F-35, which can be used by all branches of 
the military service, would create similar jobs--jobs that actually 
will enhance our national security. That is what this is all about. 
That is what this bill is about, the Defense authorization bill.

Finally, President Obama has pledged to veto this Defense 
authorization bill if it includes continuing to build this obsolete 
airplane. And he will veto it. That is a risk, and why would anyone 
want to take it? I spoke to the President's Chief of Staff yesterday. 
The President is going to veto this bill. This is kind of an: Oh, he 
will never do that. He will.

Cutting funding for wasteful programs is good for our economy, good 
for our workers, and good for the continued military dominance of our 
country. I oppose continuing to build a weapon that will compromise our 
national security. I oppose continuing to fund a program that will 
jeopardize our economy. I oppose wasting billions of dollars of 
taxpayer money on a plane that doesn't defend us in our wars that we 
fight today and will not defend us in tomorrow's wars. I support moving 
our military into today's century the 21st century, not go back to the 
last century.


Now, finally, let me say this: I have called my friend, the 
Republican leader, and he will call in just a minute when he has some 
time because I didn't call him while he was in a meeting. I wanted to 
speak to him before I came to the floor, but I have something else I 
have to do tonight. We are going to vote on invoking cloture. We will 
see if we can get 60 votes on this hate crimes amendment that is on 
this bill. I would like to work it out so we can do it conveniently for 
everyone, sometime tomorrow. What I would like to do is set aside some 
more time if we want to debate more the hate crimes, set aside more 
time to do that, and if people want to do the F-22, let's do that. 
Let's get these two out of the way. I can't force an amendment vote on 
the F-22, but I can force a vote on cloture, and we are going to do 
that. We will do that tomorrow. Tomorrow may spill over until a little 
after midnight Friday morning, but we are going to do this. So everyone 
should understand the hate crimes bill is going to be voted on either 
tomorrow or very early Friday morning. I have said Friday there will be 
no votes, and that is by day. This will be in the middle of the night. 
I hope we don't have to do that, but that is when time runs out on 
this.

I think these two amendments are important. I understand the anxiety 
of those who would rather not have hate crimes legislation on this 
bill. I accept that. But I spent a lot of my time here on the floor, as 
I have outlined, wondering why in the world other people don't complain 
when they offer these ridiculous amendments on legislation that is so 
important. I have indicated that we are going to go back to the way we 
used to do business in the Senate. I have done that during the time I 
have had this job. We have this--this year we have had an open 
amendment process except on rare occasions. I have stood here when we 
have done abortion amendments, gun amendments, you name it. I have told 
Senator McConnell I wish this were not the case, but that is why we are 
here, to make tough votes and easy votes both.

So I hope we can work something out, where we can resolve this matter 
tomorrow during the daylight hours; otherwise, we will do it tomorrow 
night.