# None
## `600016bc1e8b9bb4a8e17b7fd09cab25`
`Mr. SHAYS — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and believe it is 
important to clarify overseas contract fraud involving U.S. taxpayer 
dollars is a crime that will not be tolerated and will be prosecuted.

Contractors have labored in Iraq under incredibly severe 
circumstances; most have worked honestly and in good faith, and some 
have even given their lives trying to improve the lives of Iraqi 
citizens. During 18 trips to Iraq I have seen firsthand the incredible 
work contractors have done--building schools, repairing power plants, 
and working with the Iraqi people to restore critical infrastructure.

Unfortunately, a few bad actors have operated greedily and 
dishonestly and in the end have defrauded not only the Iraqi people the 
contracts were intended to assist, but have also defrauded their own 
American government. Perhaps worst of all, the criminal actions of a 
select few have tarnished the image and integrity of the United States.

This legislation will create a new criminal fraud offense to prohibit 
fraudulent acts involving the provision of goods or services in 
connection with a mission of the United States Government overseas. It 
also makes this new offense a predicate crime for criminal forfeiture, 
as well as for Federal money laundering and racketeering offenses. It 
is my hope this legislation will provide more clarity regarding crimes 
committed abroad, and not less. Ranking Member Tom Davis has identified 
several important criticisms of this legislation, and I hope my friends 
on the other side of the aisle will seriously consider and address 
those as this bill moves forward.

Way back in 1988, I voted for the Major Fraud Act, which creates 
criminal penalties of up to $1 million in fines and 10 years 
imprisonment for anyone who knowingly defrauds the U.S. government. 
There are numerous other statutes, such as the Criminal False


Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Act, which criminalize acts of fraud.

Working with then-Government Reform Committee Chairman Tom Davis, the 
Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International 
Relations, which I chaired from 1999 to 2006, had several hearings on 
contracting concerns in Iraq. During the hearings, several DoD 
witnesses with oversight responsibility for contracting in Iraq 
testified about the challenges of coordinating the tremendous task of 
rebuilding Iraq. While I recognize the tremendous task and difficult 
challenges associated with the reconstruction of Iraq, the bottom line 
is the Coalition Provisional Authority was under-staffed and 
overburdened.

I appreciate this legislation being brought to the floor and hope it 
will provide needed clarity about the United States' intention to 
prosecute those who defraud our government.