# None
## `600281525c6e093ad41aff1be4c507b4`
`Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 3087, the Tanner-Abercrombie-English Iraq planning 
bill. And I want to thank my two colleagues at the front end of that 
title, particularly, for their extraordinary efforts to move this bill 
forward.

Mr. Speaker, it is important that Congress speak with a clear voice 
on Iraq. The American people need to know that their representatives 
are trying to seek out the best policy to protect American interests 
overseas and reduce our footprint in that troubled country.

The Iraqi Government needs to know that the U.S. Congress is not 
prepared for our Nation to carry the burden of defending Iraq's 
security indefinitely and that that must become an Iraqi undertaking.

Our allies need to know that we remain committed to the war on 
terror, and that although Congress may be deeply divided on the means 
to pursuing our goal, that ultimately, politics ends at the water's 
edge.

This bill sends important signals. It sends a signal to our troops 
that their deployment is purposeful and that we're prepared to respond 
to changing conditions.

It sends a strong bipartisan message that Congress is ready to 
respond to changing circumstances on the ground and recognizing the 
coming and necessary transition of our role in Iraq from combat 
operations to strategic support.

Secretary Gates has already acknowledged that DOD would have little 
difficulty complying with the terms of this bill, so this legislation 
simply calls on the administration to make transparent the planning 
processes that prudent military leaders would undertake normally as a 
matter of course.

Our legislation is a very simple bill, but it is still significant. 
H.R. 3087 has gained support from a broad spectrum of Members of this 
body, Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives. It cleared 
the Armed Services Committee with overwhelming bipartisan support.

I encourage my colleagues to use this important bill as a launching 
pad for a new debate in the House on how we may find a new way forward 
in Iraq, while keeping faith with our troops, with our constituents, 
with our allies, with the Iraq nation and with all who stand for order 
and democracy in the face of the creeping menace of terrorism.

The message we send today will be heard in our hometowns, on the 
battlefields of Iraq, and all around the world. That message is that we 
in this Chamber are prepared to stand together to do what it takes to 
forge a strong, sustainable and bipartisan U.S. policy in Iraq.