# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `603d665f5b8818fe57463ef157bea86b`
`Mr. CARPER — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, last week was the second of 2 weeks of the 
Easter recess. A number of us took that opportunity to travel to places 
around the world where our Nation is involved and has great interests. 
Senator Ensign, Senator Scott Brown, Senator Tom Udall, and a 
Congressman from Virginia, the First Congressional District of 
Virginia, named Rob Wittman, and I together visited--it was a 6-day 
trip--several days in Afghanistan and a couple of days in Pakistan as 
well, places I suspect the Presiding Officer has been or will be 
visiting.

I led a similar congressional delegation almost 10 months ago to both 
countries, Afghanistan and Pakistan. I had gone there right after the 
President had laid out his strategy for making progress in Afghanistan 
to restore the rule of law, to make sure the Taliban does not come back 
into power and provide sanctuary for al-Qaida to launch attacks against 
us or any other nation.

The President, at the time, my colleagues may recall, said we were 
going to do a couple of things. He suggested a year ago that we launch 
a military offensive, almost like a military surge on a modest basis, 
and we do the same thing with a civilian offensive. What he called for 
a year ago was to commit an additional 10,000 marines, commit 7,000 
Army troops, commit 4,000 U.S. trainers to train the Afghan National 
Army and Afghan national police, and to also send over about 150 
additional Black Hawk helicopters. That would be matched by a civilian 
surge as well to complement the military increase in resources.

When we were coming out of Afghanistan, we did a press availability 
with some reporters back home. One of the reporters asked me the 
question: What is our exit strategy in Afghanistan?

I replied: I think our exit strategy is to implement well the 
strategy the President outlined in April of last year. That was the 
additional marines, additional Army troops, additional trainers, 
additional Black Hawk helicopters for mobility, and the civilian surge 
to help us with the Afghans; to diversify the economy, the poppy seed 
trade where they produce enough opium to meet the demands of the world, 
to help them raise the kinds of agricultural commodities they used to 
raise to feed themselves and a lot of the folks in that part of the 
world.

We want to help them diversify their economy with respect to the 
mining and minerals industry. We want to make sure they would have the 
opportunity to exploit the oil and gas reserves, which are about three 
times what was envisioned a couple of years ago; at the same time, on 
the civilian side, work with the Afghans in cleaning up corruption 
which is rampant in most levels of Afghanistan and to help them to 
start developing a governmental institution to provide services, 
actually serve the people of that country. That is what was laid out a 
year ago.

I have been joined by Senator Ensign. I will yield to him in a 
moment.

In my mind, when I returned almost a year ago to America, I thought 
it was a smart strategy. The key is to implement it well. We met with 
the Afghanis last week, and we had an opportunity to see what we are 
doing well and not doing well. I think what is key in almost every 
endeavor I have been part of is leadership.

We spent time with General McChrystal, our top military leader, and 
Ambassador Eikenberry, who used to be a four-star general and is now 
Ambassador to Afghanistan. We met with President Karzai and the 
civilian and military leadership of Afghanistan, as well as the 
civilian leadership of the United States.

I came home not hopeless, not euphoric, but more hopeful than not 
that we have the right strategy, that we are beginning to implement it 
well. We have some 40 other nations involved with us in this endeavor. 
We are committing the resources to make this strategy potentially 
successful.

That is my take on it. I yield at this time to the Senator from 
Nevada, Mr. Ensign. I have already asked unanimous consent to engage in 
a colloquy. I will not ask that again. This is what it is about. It is 
not a monologue for me. I very much enjoyed the time I spent on the 
road with my colleagues, especially my colleague from Nevada. I was 
happy to be his partner and lead the delegation.