# None
## `603f651ccde080ee1e8441f0199f1731`
`Mr. LaHOOD â€” 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution, 
a similar resolution of which I introduced at the suggestion of the 
ranking member of the Rules Committee, David Dreier. He spoke to me 
about this and suggested that this type of resolution be considered by 
the House. I want to thank the majority leader for scheduling this 
resolution to commemorate and honor those who lost their lives in 
Beirut, Lebanon, during the bombing that took place.

I also want to thank my classmate and friend, Walter Jones, for his 
leadership in introducing this resolution. I rise today to honor the 
United States Marines and other servicemembers who were killed in the 
Marine barracks bombing in Beirut, Lebanon, on October 23, 1983.

On this day at approximately 6:20 a.m., a delivery truck carrying 
explosives drove through the gates into one of the barracks buildings 
and the explosives were detonated. This day was the deadliest for the 
United States Marine Corps since the battle of Iwo Jima during World 
War II; 241 servicemen and women were killed and many others were 
wounded.

The servicemen and women serving in Beirut who were killed had been 
sent to serve as peacekeepers during the 15-year civil war in Lebanon. 
Throughout the time U.S. forces were in Lebanon, there were many 
instances in which American lives were lost. In April of 1983, a 
similar suicide bombing occurred at the United States Embassy killing 
60 people, predominantly embassy staff and U.S. Marines. President 
Reagan called this act ''a vicious terrorist bombing'' and reiterated 
the United States' commitment to peace in the region. As a Nation, we 
would not let such actions deter us from our goal.

The fight against terrorism still continues today. Brave members of 
the Armed Forces risk their lives every day in an effort to bring an 
end to such attacks. While we take this time to honor those who were 
killed in Beirut, we also rededicate our country to the fight against 
terrorism. It is our hope that such despicable acts can be prevented, 
not only just in Lebanon but also in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and 
throughout the rest of the world. Progress has been made in Lebanon and 
progress towards peace will continue throughout the region.

Today the Members of the House of Representatives and the rest of the 
Nation join the families of these 241 fallen servicemembers to mourn 
their loss. We remember the courage of these Marines and other 
servicemembers who willingly put their lives on the line in order to 
serve their country and promote peace and security throughout the 
world. Our heartfelt prayers and sympathies go out to these families. 
Nearly 25 years after this terrible tragedy, we remember these brave 
men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice.

During the 14 years that I have had the privilege of serving in the 
House of Representatives, I have made 13 trips to Lebanon. During the 
first time that I went there, there was a travel ban: the airport was 
closed, people were restricted from traveling. We've made great 
progress in the last 14 years. Great progress.

A great deal of the credit really goes to the people and the 
leadership of the country but also to President Bush and Secretary Rice 
for taking a great deal of interest in this country and not being 
dissuaded by terrorist attacks and not being dissuaded by those who 
would have our men and women in harm's way. They have helped rebuild 
the country both politically and economically.

One of the saddest events that took place in the country 2 years ago 
was the assassination of the then Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri. There is 
an investigation going on in that. He was a true leader in the country. 
Since that time, there has continued to be progress being made in the 
country.

As a matter of fact, President Bush will welcome the President of 
Lebanon tomorrow at the White House, the first time in the memory of 
many that the President of Lebanon will be coming to the United States 
and actually having a visit with President Bush and the Secretary of 
State, Condoleezza Rice. This is an extraordinary event for the country 
of Lebanon, for the people of Lebanon, for those of us in this country 
who have worked very hard to develop the kind of relationship with 
their government and our government. We're delighted that the new 
President of Lebanon will be visiting Washington and visiting President 
Bush.

We've made progress, and we've made that progress through the great 
sacrifice of our men and women who serve in the Embassy in Lebanon and 
the men and women who sacrificed their lives during the time of the 
attack 25 years ago. So it's very fitting today that we not only 
recognize their families and those but we recognize the fact that our 
government leaders have reached out to this small country in a way that 
has enabled us to make great progress.















 Moment of Silence
