---
---

# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `6041b855235bb802c463b8c3861418b3`
`Mr. DORGAN — 21 January 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I support the Conrad-Gregg fiscal action


task force amendment. I am going to vote for it, and I do so not 
because I think it is the best solution. The best solution would be for 
us, year to year, to reconcile that which we spend and the amount of 
money we have to spend. But we don't do that, and we are now in a 
position where we have an unsustainable fiscal policy. It just is.

I know people on that side want to blame this administration; people 
on this side want to blame the last 8 years. Whatever the blame might 
be, let me say that we are on an unsustainable course, and it is 
required, in my judgment, by Republicans and Democrats, to come 
together to find a way to address it. This is not the best way, but it 
is probably the only way we are ever going to get some control.

I have heard so many people come to the floor of the Senate to say 
this administration is a socialist administration; it is going to spend 
this country into the ground. I have heard all of that. It is easy for 
me to stand here and go all the way back to a time when I stood on this 
floor--a time when we had the only budget surplus in several decades--
and say in response to a President's proposal to spend it before it 
even existed, and all we had was 10 years of projections, why not be 
conservative? These surpluses only exist this year, not for the next 10 
years. Let's be a little conservative. And the blowback was: Katey, bar 
the door. Let's do big tax cuts. Let's do all these things. Then 
immediately--and I didn't vote for it--but immediately we ran into a 
recession, then we ran into a terrorist attack, then a war in 
Afghanistan, and a war in Iraq--which, by the way, we never paid a 
penny for. We just sent men and women to go to war and said: We won't 
pay for it except with emergency supplementals every year.

So there is plenty of blame to go around. This current President, 
President Obama, has been in office just 1 year. There are things with 
which I disagree with this administration, for sure. But, look, he 
inherited the biggest mess in the history of a Presidency, in my 
judgment. So let's try to figure out how we can get the best of what 
both parties have to offer in this country rather than the worst of 
each.

I have often quoted Ogden Nash's four lines that I think captures 
this the best when he was talking about a guy who drinks too much and a 
woman who scolds.




 He drinks because she scolds, he thinks. She scolds because 


 he drinks, she thinks. Neither will admit what's true. He's a 


 drunk and she's a shrew.


So it is perhaps with the political parties. Neither will admit what 
is really true. Both have some responsibility, and both have a 
responsibility to lead. We are not leading year to year in the normal 
budget process and in the normal appropriations process to reconcile 
the amount of money we have and the needs that exist. We are not 
reconciling that. We are offering a level of government that exceeds 
the amount of money we have, exceeds the American people's willingness 
or ability to pay for it, and that is not sustainable in the long term 
for this country.

So the question is, What do we do? Some say, Well, you can never 
increase any taxes. I say: Why not, if you have people who aren't 
paying their fair share? How about increasing taxes on them? Some of 
the biggest folks in the country, who are running hedge funds, are 
paying the lowest tax rates in America. How would you like to make $3 
billion a year?

By the way, when somebody comes home and says: Honey, how are you 
doing?

That person says: Well, I'm doing pretty well--$3 billion a year. 
That is almost $250 million a month salary. Doing pretty well. By the 
way, I don't know whether you know it, sweetheart, but I get to pay the 
lowest taxes in the country. I get to pay, on carried interest, a tax 
rate of 15 percent.

So if somebody says: What is the solution to this? Cutting spending? 
Yes, I think so, in areas where we are spending money we shouldn't--
such as beaming television signals into the country of Cuba. We have 
spent $/1/4/ billion sending television signals to the Cuban people in 
TV Marti. Yes, we have spent that, and there are television signals 
beamed from 3 a.m. to 7 a.m. and blocked by the Cuban Government so 
nobody can see them. So we have spent $/1/4/ billion sending television 
signals no one can see. I guess some people here feel better about 
that. I have been trying to shut that down for 10 years and can't even 
shut down that kind of insanity.

So cutting spending, yes. How about asking those who aren't paying 
their fair share of taxes? Yes. Let's do all of that. Perhaps we are 
requiring that be done if we set up this mechanism. Perhaps that is 
what will happen. I wish we didn't have to do this, but with the choice 
of yes or no, which is a very simple choice on should we do something 
or should we just continue down this bumpy road that leads to a 
destination none of us wants and none of our children will like, my 
answer is let's vote yes on this amendment. Let's decide to do 
something that maybe can put this country back on track, help us 
restart this economic engine and give the American people confidence 
again.

I used to teach a little economics in college, and I used to teach 
that it didn't matter what the supply and demand curve and all those 
issues dealt with, with the graphs. What really matters is do people 
have confidence about the future--about themselves, their family, and 
their future. If they do, they do the things that expand the economy. 
They take a trip, buy a suit of clothes, buy a car, buy a home. That is 
what expands the economy. If they are not confident, they do exactly 
the opposite, and they contract this economy.

Let's do some things that give people some confidence in the future. 
Let's give them confidence that finally, at last--at long last--we are 
going to grab these issues, look them square in the eye, and say: We 
will fix them. Why? Because our kids and grandkids deserve that, and 
this country deserves that leadership.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.