---
---

# EXPIRATION OF THE PROTECT AMERICA ACT
## `60560c06c91286a4460c526e7fb17954`
`Mr. McCAUL of Texas — 25 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCAUL of Texas. I thank the gentlewoman from New Mexico for your 
great leadership on this very important issue and for having this 
debate tonight.

I think we are denying democracy its voice by not allowing the 
Members who represent the American people the opportunity to vote on 
the Protect America Act and to make that act permanent.

As the gentlewoman mentioned, I do have experience in the Justice 
Department in this area. I applied for FISA warrants while I was there. 
This statute was never intended to apply to overseas intelligence. It 
was solely intended to apply to agents of a foreign power who were in 
the United States.

This is a very dangerous game, and it's probably the most important 
debate that I've seen since I have been elected to the Congress. By 
allowing the Protect America Act to expire, by walking away from this 
Chamber 10 days ago and doing nothing about that, we see what the 
consequences are. We have heard the letters from the Director of 
Intelligence, from the Attorney General, and the failure now to be able 
to capture critical intelligence overseas.



In fact, some estimates are as high as 66 percent. In other words, we 
are going dark now in parts of the world where we should be paying 
attention. This is a dangerous game of politics; in my view it is 
partisan politics at its worst.

We are literally putting Americans at risk. The most solemn 
obligation we have as Members of Congress is to protect the American 
people. And there is a reason why since September 11 we haven't seen a 
September 11.

Intelligence is the best weapon we have, as the gentlewoman has 
mentioned, in this war on terror. And the idea that somehow when 
American soldiers are kidnapped in Iraq overseas by al Qaeda and yet we 
are denied the opportunity to listen in because we have to get lawyered 
up, and we have to go through the FISA Court to get that emergency 
warrant, and in the meantime one soldier is killed and two we have not 
heard from since, really saddens my heart as an American. And I 
believe, as the gentleman from Pennsylvania said, we are derelict in 
our responsibilities.

I want to share with the gentlewoman an editorial, an op-ed that I 
wrote with Admiral Bobby Inman. Why is Admiral Inman important? He was 
the Director of National Intelligence, the Deputy Director of the CIA 
under both Democrat and Republican administrations. Admiral Inman was 
one of the principal authors of the FISA statute. And in this editorial 
he says, to apply FISA to monitoring foreign communications, a 
suspected terrorist operating overseas such as Osama bin Laden and 
other key al Qaeda leaders, turns the original intent of FISA on its 
head. Turns the original intent of FISA on its head.

That is what a few key leaders on the other side of the aisle have 
done. By not allowing us to vote, they know that it would pass. It 
passed overwhelmingly in the Senate in a bipartisan way. And he goes on 
to say, contrary to some of the rhetoric coming from the Democrats, it 
is the members of al Qaeda, not American citizens, who are the target 
of these intelligence-gathering activities.

I submit the question, don't you think that most Americans want us to 
be listening to what al Qaeda is saying overseas? Don't you think most 
Americans want to hear the conversations that we know they are having, 
because this is a long-term struggle, and we know that they are 
planning to attack us again? Don't the American people want us to be 
listening to that? And yet by failing to make this Protect America Act 
permanent, we are denying that opportunity.

If I can just by saying that if, God forbid, something happens 
between now and the time we can finally get this body together to pass 
this act, and American blood is spilled, that blood will be on the 
hands of all Members of Congress. We need to get this act passed.