# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `60691500daead0e6769fba59d398e08a`
`Mr. COOPER â€” 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. COOPER. I thank my colleague from Arkansas.

Mr. Speaker, I'm pleased to join this Blue Dog Special Order hour 
tonight. I would like to discuss not only the Wartime Spending 
Accountability Act but also another measure that most of the Blue Dog 
leadership has been kind enough to cosponsor having to do with reform 
of all of our entitlement programs.

But first on wartime spending, there is absolutely no question that 
there's been an astonishing amount of waste, fraud and abuse in this 
conflict in Iraq. I personally was on the tarmac at the Baghdad Airport 
when a C-130 plane flew in, and the Air Force did not want us to see 
that plane land and unload its cargo. Well, why was that? Here are a 
group of U.S. Congressman standing on the runway and they did not want 
us to


see a U.S. plane land because of its cargo. Well, what was in that 
plane that was so secret? Well, the plane landed and they got the 
forklift out and they unloaded six pallets, very well wrapped up, 
absolutely full, very heavy. And what was in those pallets? $1.2 
billion of U.S. cold hard cash, $100 bills. I've never seen that much 
money in my life. I'm not sure if any bank in the country keeps that 
much cash on hand. But that much U.S. currency was flown into Baghdad. 
Why? We were told it was to go to replenish the Baghdad or Iraqi 
Central Bank. It certainly had the most elaborate convoy I've ever seen 
protecting that cash, because if it had been robbed, it would have been 
the greatest robbery in the history of the world. Now, the tragedy is 
we don't know how much of that money disappeared once it got to the 
bank and was in proper hands, because it is widely known that there is 
massive corruption in that country.

Another incident that most people know about is the fact that U.S. 
contractors, who are supposed to be handling taxpayer money wisely, 
have been seen playing touch football with what, a football? No. With 
small bales of $100 bills. They've been so loose with our money, and 
they have so much on hand, not in single dollar form, but in bales of 
$100 bills, that they've been seen playing touch football with that.

Another episode we were recently made aware of is due to the Iraqi 
Government's inability to pass an oil revenue sharing law. There's been 
a lot of upset by the Sunnis in al-Anbar province in particular because 
they're worried they won't get their fair share of Iraq's oil wealth.

Well, recently a shipment was made of millions and millions of U.S. 
dollars to basically dump this money in a town square in al-Anbar 
province just to make sure the Sunnis felt better about themselves. 
That is not a wise use of U.S. taxpayer dollars.

So the Inspector General in Iraq is doing an outstanding job of 
ferreting out this misuse of U.S. taxpayer money. We have tried here in 
the House of Representatives on a bipartisan basis to strengthen 
inspectors general. They are a wonderful mechanism for ferreting out 
waste, fraud and abuse. We passed a bill to strengthen inspectors 
general in this House by a vote of 404-11, an overwhelming bipartisan 
majority. And guess what the administration response was? They 
threatened to veto that bill. Veto a bill that enjoyed the support of 
404 House Members, overwhelming bipartisan support.

I think we need to keep on strengthening inspectors general because 
they are finding problems with U.S. taxpayer dollars, and we need to 
root out all this waste, fraud and abuse.

The other topic I wanted to focus on tonight is a different measure. 
And as important as the war in Iraq is, as important as it is to find 
misspent U.S. dollars, this topic is even bigger. This has to do with 
overall U.S. entitlement spending. And the proposal is H.R. 3654. We 
call it the SAFE Act. What it would do, and my bipartisan cosponsor is 
Frank Wolf of Virginia. David Broder actually commented on this bill in 
his national column today in the newspaper. What it would do is set up 
a bipartisan commission to study the problem of entitlements for 1 
year, then by the time the next President is sworn in, give that new 
President a commission recommendation that's completely bipartisan, a 
50/50 commission. All issues are on the table, so there's no 
favoritism, no exclusion of certain hot-button issues. And Congress 
would be required to vote up or down on the finding of that commission 
as well as on any proposal that the new President or this Congress 
would like to make.

But the key is, this commission would have teeth. Congress would have 
to act. Reforms would have to take place, because if you look at our 
overall entitlement spending, there are severe problems.

According to the U.S. Treasury Department, Medicare alone, which is 
one of the most important programs in America, Medicare alone is $32 
trillion in the hole. $32 trillion. That's many times larger of course 
than even $32 billion. This is $32 trillion. And their estimate is, if 
we knew how to measure it, that Medicaid would be in a similar bind. 
That's probably more than this Congress can handle in terms of problem 
solving this late in the session, so that's why we think that a 
bipartisan commission will do the best job and the fairest job and the 
most bipartisan job of coming up with a solution that we can all 
support to solve these fundamental fiscal problems.

So I would encourage my colleagues to look at H.R. 3654, the SAFE 
Act, to try to remedy the entitlement crisis that we face in this 
country. A wide group of folks from all sides of the political spectrum 
have supported this measure: the Bipartisan Concord Coalition, for 
example, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, the Heritage 
Foundation on the right and the Brookings Foundation, which is more of 
a nonpartisan organization. So we have wide bipartisan support from the 
think tanks. We have wide bipartisan support in this body, with some 25 
Members from each side of the aisle cosponsoring the measure already. 
So I hope most of my colleagues can see their way clear to going ahead 
and cosponsoring H.R. 3654.

But I want to thank my colleague from Arkansas, as my friend from 
Florida has said earlier, you've taken the lead on many weeks now to 
bring the message of the Blue Dogs to the American people, that message 
of fiscal conservatism, that message of centrism, that message of 
common sense and trying to do what's right for our country.

We're fortunate in the Blue Dogs to have members from all corners of 
the country, from California to Maine, from Florida to Washington, it's 
a wide and diverse group, and we're proud of that. But the most 
important thing is the common sense we try to bring to these debates, 
because these shouldn't be highly partisan debates. Most Americans can 
agree when they get around the kitchen table or meet at the Rotary Club 
back home on what the right thing to do is for the country. We should 
show a similar amount of common sense here in Washington. So I thank my 
colleague from Arkansas, Mr. Ross, for holding this important Special 
Order.