# HONORING RYAN T. DION
## `606ecc41fd60b1b8c4b50a5484801747`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay great 
honor to United States Marine Corps Cpl. Ryan T. Dion, a true American 
hero from Manchester, CT. On April 25, 2007, while serving in Unit


216 Echo Company at Camp LeJeune in Fallujah, Iraq, Ryan was injured in 
an IED explosion. On December 11, he was awarded the Purple Heart, 
recognizing his great sacrifice for the defense of our country. The 
story of Ryan's bravery inspired the following poem, written by United 
States Capitol Guide, Albert Carey Caswell:
















 A Patriot



 A Patriot...


 A young man who goes off to war....


 But, for his country his burden bore!


 Lock and Load,


 A man who so lives by a code....


 Is that not but what heaven is for?


 A fine Marine!


 Who on battle fields of honor, with but his courage seen!


 When, heartache would so intervene!


 When, his new battle would begin


 To rebuild where none lies left, all in courage's quest... as 





 he so intervenes!


 Without a leg as seen, when so comes within his inter being.


 The Proof!


 The Truth! Of what his heart and soul has willed. The Truth!


 As all around him, he brings people to tears to so instill...


 As we watch him rebuild...and fight the fears!


 With his patriotic heart so filled, to our children to so 





 instill...so dear!


 Of All The Best, yes nothing less! As this patriot climbs 





 this hill with no fear!


 To Teach Us,


 To Reach Us....To So Beseech Us....


 As has Ryan so been seen, as where patriotism so 





 stands....for all of us to understand!


 The real Neon Dion!


 Shining far . . . Patriotism's Star . . . Shining way beyond! 





 Shining far!


 Ooh Rah . . . you've come so far . . . so fast . . . Marines 





 Do, They do no ask!


 For in this, Our Country Tis A Thee!


 Has come throughout her very history, such fine men and women 





 as he!


 Who are but her very soul, her very fabric of gold so indeed! 





 As why we are free!


 Ryan, March On You Patriot. We see!



 Dedicated to Ryan Dion . . . all the fine men . . . and 


 women just like him!
