---
---

# TRIBUTE TO ELKS USA
## `607543a0f576fd436d2c0991c79861b9`
`Mr. SKELTON — 30 March 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, let me take this means to pay tribute to 
the Elks USA for their continued dedication to communities across the 
nation and their contributions to the veterans of this country.

Founded after the Civil War with a goal of promoting friendship and 
charity, the Elks are the nation's oldest and largest fraternal 
organization, with 1.1 million members and lodges in all fifty states. 
Last year, they donated 9.7 million hours and contributed almost $263 
million to a variety of charitable and philanthropic causes.

One of the major tenets of the Elks is a commitment to the military 
and its veterans. In 1918, the Elks built a 700-bed hospital in Boston 
to rehabilitate World War I wounded and gave it to the nation. Elks 
made a solemn pledge that ''so long as there are veterans, the 
Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks will never forget them.'' This 
commitment still stands through an extensive visitation program in VA 
hospitals and nursing homes. As the VA's only source of leather, the 
men and women of the Elks gather animal hides, pay for the tanning, and 
provide wheelchair gloves and leather used for therapy programs at VA 
medical centers nationwide. In 2005, they logged 1,037,932 hours 
visiting hospitalized veterans and taking many of the patients to 
baseball games, fishing trips, and other outings.

The Elks were among the first groups to endorse the World War II 
Memorial, donating $1.2 million towards its construction. In addition, 
the Elks raised a similar amount to aid the victims of the World Trade 
Center and Pentagon attacks.

During World War II and the Korean War, the Elks operated canteens 
for the troops. A decade ago, they gave $100,000 to service chaplains 
to support the families of the Gulf War wounded at Walter Reed and 
other military hospitals. A current project, dubbed the Army of Hope, 
provides support for the families of reservists and National Guard 
personnel who have been called to active duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
For the citizen soldiers whose lives have been disrupted, Elks are 
helping with the kids, making minor home repairs, writing wills, and 
providing other assistance for their families.

The Elks were founders of Flag Day, a concept President Harry Truman 
(himself an Elk) signed into law. They promote the flying of the Flag, 
promote the observance of Veterans Day and Memorial Day, and sponsor 
parades along with other patriotic events.

Madam Speaker, I know the Members of the House will join me in 
commending Elks USA for their commitment to bettering our country and 
we thank them for their dedication to our military families.
