# TAX ON BONUSES RECEIVED FROM CERTAIN TARP RECIPIENTS
## `6081ee80f2d04ffb7d566d1e54b56525`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, the body will consider two amendments 
today that propose to limit some discretionary spending. Regrettably, 
both amendments contain significant flaws, and I will oppose both of 
them for that reason.

The amendment proposed by the Senator from Alabama, Mr. Sessions, and 
the Senator from Missouri, Mrs. McCaskill, propose to limit some 
discretionary spending over the next 5 fiscal years. However, those 
limits include a giant loophole, as the proposal includes a complete 
exemption for spending on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. The proposal 
in no way requires that such funding be offset, or be subject to the 
usual supermajority thresholds that the Senate imposes on spending 
beyond that for which the body budgets. Under the amendment, spending 
on those wars is completely unrestrained, and would be added right onto 
the government's budget deficits.

This is not a small matter. To date, spending for those wars has 
totaled roughly $1 trillion and not one cent has been paid for. The 
cost of those wars has been added directly to our budget deficits, 
swelling our already mountainous public debt, and increasing the burden 
we are leaving our children and grandchildren to bear. The question of 
whether these wars are in the best interest of our national security 
is, of course, a primary concern. Having made the decision to pursue 
that course, though, we should not just shove the cost off on future 
generations. But that is just what this amendment would do.

The amendment proposed by the Senator from Arkansas, Mr. Pryor, and 
the Senator from Nevada, Mr. Reid, also limits discretionary spending, 
but it, too, carves out a loophole for the spending on these wars. 
While it doesn't provide the unlimited exception included in the 
Sessions-McCaskill proposal, it still permits another $150 billion to 
be spent on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars over the next 3 years without 
having to be offset.

Beyond the matter of pushing the cost of these wars on to our 
children and grandchildren, the war-spending exceptions included in 
these two amendments invite continued budget gaming that has been a 
byproduct of the supplemental spending requests submitted on behalf of 
war spending. Those supplemental bills have been used as a way to boost 
defense spending unrelated to the wars, circumventing the budget caps 
Congress has set as part of annual budget resolutions. Both of these 
amendments risk inducing more of the same.

I support establishing discretionary spending limits in law, and have 
done so in the past. But we should do so in a way that does not provide 
a massive escape hatch for hundreds of billions in discretionary 
spending.