# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6084df9dfaac7103d835d1f5e3af5856`
`Mr. McCAIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will take a minute to say to my 
colleagues we have several speakers lined up, and if Senators would 
come over and speak and also call as to whether you wish to speak and 
how much time, because we, I think, are close to entering into an 
agreement on speakers and also a time agreement so we can set a time 
for the vote on the Webb amendment.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that following the disposition 
of the Webb amendment, that a side-by-side alternative to the Webb 
amendment be considered, which is in keeping with the agreement--well, 
I withdraw my request because I will wait until Senator Levin comes so 
there is no misunderstanding, except to say we do intend, after the 
disposition of the Webb amendment, to propose a side-by-side amendment 
which then we, I hope, could act on quickly because it is basically the 
debate we have been having. There is also the habeas amendment pending, 
as I understand it, and negotiations I think are still going on with 
regard to that issue. I hope we could get that resolved, and then we 
will try to nail down the number of amendments so we can address the 
issue of Iraq and associated amendments so we can then move forward 
with the rest of the DOD authorization bill.

I will very soon have conversations with Senator Levin, but in the 
meantime, if there are those on either side who wish to speak on this 
amendment, please make their wishes known, and the length of their 
statement, so we can begin to put together a unanimous consent 
agreement, which would then allow for a vote on the Webb amendment. I 
say this after having had discussions with Senator Webb on the issue.

I wish to make one additional comment. Dr. Kissinger had a piece in 
the Washington Post on Sunday which I had printed in yesterday's 
Record. I also commend to my colleague an article by Frederick W. Kagan 
entitled ''A Web of Problems.''