---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `60861bce49b2faaf8a0bf2e7da8abc54`
`Mr. LATHAM â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Washington for 
yielding.

I rise today in strong opposition to this rule, and there is one very 
good reason. Partisanship has reached an unconscionable level in this 
House.

Just for the simple fact that I am in the minority party, the Rules 
Committee did not allow an amendment which would have given a 9-year-
old child from my district access to the death gratuity that her mother 
wanted her to have when she was killed in Iraq, just for partisan 
reasons.

Susan Jaenke, the mother of Jaimie Jaenke, who was killed in Iraq, 
along with her granddaughter, Kayla, came to Washington at great 
expense and trouble and testified before the Veterans' Affairs 
Subcommittee. There was broad bipartisan support for an amendment that 
would simply allow access to the death gratuity of Jaimie Jaenke by her 
daughter.

This is outrageous, the fact that you would deny a 9-year-old child 
access. Her grandparents don't have the money to raise this child. She 
has no spouse. It would not cost a dime. It is the right thing to do. 
In the committee, on a bipartisan basis, people said they would do 
anything possible to help in this situation. I brought this before the 
Rules


Committee and explained what is going on, how this child is denied 
access to funding so that she can have a decent life; and it was denied 
simply for partisan reasons. I would think you would be ashamed.

And this is not just a single case. There are at least 143 cases 
exactly like this. And to deny a child access to this benefit is simply 
outrageous.

Vote against this outrageous rule.