# TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT PRINCEY GEORGE PINDER
## `60892961194a71f6d00b99d5c11d87fc`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 3 June 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, today I rise to honor an American 
soldier who served 1 year in Iraq at Camps Ramadi and Fallujah while on 
a mission to look for roadside bombs. Army SSG Princey George Pinder's 
unit was hit four times, and miraculously they all survived the impact.

Born in Nassau, Bahamas, SSG Pinder is the fifth child born to Viola 
Pinder and Frank Greene. He graduated from A.F. Adderley High School 
and went on to be enlisted in the Royal Bahamas Police force in 1983, 
where he received an honorable discharge in 1994. He continued his 
higher education and received an associate degree from Miami Dade 
College, bachelor's degree in Christian education and is currently 
pursuing a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from Florida 
International University. He holds various leadership training 
certificates from the U.S. Army as a combat engineer.

For over 18 years SSG Pinder has served as the co-founder and senior 
pastor of Baruch Christian Fellowship Ministries, Inc. in Miami-Dade 
County. He has also served as vice-president director of a juvenile 
delinquency and ex-offender mentorship program named Destiny Image 
Review Network for 14 years, as well as co-founder of Baruch Leadership 
Training Academy.

SSG Pinder enlisted in the Army in January 1997, and was deployed to 
Iraq in March 2003. His second deployment took place in May 2007. SSG 
Pinder currently serves as a reservist army staff sergeant in Camps 
Ramadi and Fallujah, Iraq with the 841st Charlie Company from Perrine, 
Florida. Upon return he will continue his employment as a motor 
compliance officer with the Florida Department of Transportation.

Madam Speaker, SSG Princey George Pinder represents the best our 
Nation has to offer. He volunteered to serve our Nation in uniform and 
to protect our freedom and liberty. For this, his family, friends and 
loved ones know that this Congress will always remember his bravery and 
commitment in battle.
