---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `608f28edef882ee9a5e1212e1cc1c81d`
`Mr. ROSS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. 
Murphy, an Iraq war veteran, for his insight and leadership within the 
Blue Dogs and within this Congress on restoring accountability, on how 
our tax money is being spent in Iraq, and ensuring that it is being 
spent to protect our men and women in uniform.

The gentleman raised an interesting point. We are in year five of 
this thing now, and a recent survey indicated that 71 percent of the 
Iraqi people don't want us there. In fact, 60 percent of them think it 
is okay to kill a U.S. soldier. You contrast that with Afghanistan, 
where 80 percent of them are glad we are there. The last time I 
checked, Osama bin Laden was spotted closer to Afghanistan than he was 
to Iraq.

So, while we continue, and I think this is just me personally, I 
think we have got to demand more from the Iraqi government to train 
Iraqis to be on the front lines, providing the police and military 
force for them in this civil war.

This line that it is better to fight the terrorists there than here, 
I don't buy that. If there are some 10 to 14 to 20 million illegal 
immigrants in this country, do you think we only allowed illegal 
immigrants into this country? Terrorists are already here in America, 
and that is why we need to do more to protect our homeland by properly 
funding the Department of Homeland Security. That is why we need to 
demand more of the Iraqis and to do more in Afghanistan, that is 
becoming more and more neglected every day.

I yield to the gentleman from Indiana, Mr. Donnelly.