---
---

# HONORING AND EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO THE 1ST BATTALION OF THE 133RD  INFANTRY OF THE IOWA NATIONAL GUARD
## `609cc14388c06bc64e5c5335c9220328`
`Mr. LATHAM — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution honoring the 1st Battalion, 133rd Infantry of the Iowa 
National Guard. This unit returned last week from a deployment lasting 
nearly 23 consecutive months in Iraq, which is the longest continuous 
deployment of any Army National Guard Unit during Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. This distinction carries on the 1st Battalion's proud 
historical legacy: Since the Second World War the unit served more 
consecutive days in the European theatre than any other unit.

In Operation Iraqi Freedom, the 1st Battalion carried out a critical 
mission in one of the most dangerous areas of Iraq. The unit drove over 
4 million miles providing security for convoys supplying thousands of 
U.S. troops. I want to commend the soldiers of the 1st Battalion for 
their successful completion of over 500 missions.

These soldiers and their families have made tremendous sacrifices to 
further the U.S. mission in Iraq and for that we owe them a debt of 
gratitude. Tragically, this sacrifice included more than 25 wounded and 
the deaths of two members of the unit who made the ultimate sacrifice. 
SGT 1st Class Scott Nisely and SGT Kampha Sourivong were killed in 
combat operations on September 30, 2006. Our Nation will forever be 
grateful to these heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our 
freedoms.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this important 
recognition of one of our Nation's finest National Guard Units.