# COMMENDING ROBERT C. BYRD
## `60ace986bb252aad894a5942c9e852c9`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I wish to make a few remarks about one 
of the most remarkable men ever to serve in the Senate, Robert C. Byrd 
on this milestone of service. When I came to the Senate, he was my 
teacher. We went to school to him. He told all of the new Members about 
the rules of the Senate and we all got copies of his book on the 
history of the Senate. We were all mightily impressed, because he had 
an encyclopedic understanding of this Senate.

I have heard him over the years refer to the Senate as the great 
Senate or the second great Senate, the Roman Senate being the first 
great Senate and the U.S. Senate being the next great Senate. The pride 
he has in this institution, the way he respects it and reveres it, I 
think is second to none who has ever served here. I believe that.

I remember one night--I don't know why it was so late, but it was 
sometime during the debate over Afghanistan or Iraq, and I was here 
speaking. It was 8 or 9 o'clock at night, later than this--and Senator 
Byrd was the Presiding Officer. I told this fabulous story somebody had 
shared with me. It was a history of Rome, and it was about what the 
Romans did when they had terrorists and pirates. When they could stand 
the disgrace no longer, the Romans all got together and said we have to 
take action, and they selected the leading man of the country and gave 
him a whole fleet of ships and I think 100,000 or more soldiers. They 
issued a directive to every city on the Mediterranean that they would 
cooperate with Rome, and they set about to destroy the pirates. The 
pirates had captured a Roman leader or two. They raided the coast of 
Rome, and the disgrace was intolerable and they finally got together 
and crushed them in short order.

I was the last one to speak, as I am tonight, and he asked me to come 
up to the Chair. He said, that was Marc Antony; ''I think that was 6 
AD.'' So he is a real student of history and the Roman Empire and the 
Roman Senate.

I also would normally preside over the Senate on Fridays, and Senator 
Byrd at 11 o'clock would appear through the door almost every Friday 
and he would make a speech. They were remarkable speeches. He had a 
remarkable talent for speaking. He would quote poetry at length without 
a single note, or quote the Scripture without notes. I still can 
remember some of his speeches. One of my favorites was his discussion 
of the failure of modern textbooks.

One of the things that irked him--and he quoted from them--is that 
they didn't recognize the difference between a democracy and a 
republic, and there is a difference. He delineated that with great 
clarity. Finally, at the conclusion, he referred to those books as 
touchy feely twaddle, and I thought that was a phrase I liked. I have 
remembered it ever since.

He also discussed the little school he attended. My father attended 
one like that and my grandmother taught in one like that. But the 
highlight of their day was to be selected to be the one to take the 
bucket and go down to the spring and get a bucket of water to put in 
the barrel so the kids would have something to drink. They were taught 
well. He made clear that they were well taught. This was not poor 
education; it was a good education. But, that is the way the school was 
conducted. He noted they had a single dipper for the class and all the 
students used it to dip in the barrel to get the water whenever they 
needed it. I guess the EPA would have them in jail today if they were 
to try such a thing as that.

He has been and still remains a fierce advocate of issues he 
considers important. We did not agree on the Iraq war, and Senator Byrd 
was fierce in his opposition. He articulated it aggressively and fairly 
and in a tough, effective manner. He was one of the most effective 
Senators on that matter.

We agree on a number of issues involving immigration. I strongly 
believe that the immigration system in this country is broken and we 
need to create a lawful system and that we cannot tolerate the 
continued lawlessness, and he agreed. He doesn't believe people have a 
right to just walk into the country illegally and claim they are a 
citizen, then just wait a little bit and get amnesty.

What kind of law is that? On many of those votes, we shared a common 
view. I guess I will say he is a person who answers to his own sense of 
right and wrong. It is a deep sense of right and wrong. He is a man who 
understands the Scriptures, a man of deep personal faith and there are 
things he believes that are right and there are things he believes are 
wrong and he doesn't do what he thinks is wrong. It is the kind of 
model that I think is a good one for all of us in the Senate.

I find Senator Byrd to be one of the most refreshing and brilliant 
men I know in the Senate. I say this with some real confidence: Nobody 
loves the Senate more than Robert C. Byrd.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.