---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `60b6507da668d3530a3bfa84c21a936e`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 15 June 2007`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an 
amendment on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Bill for FY 08. My amendment would devote $2 million 
dollars from the Department Administration General Operations Expenses 
Account, of the nearly $1.6 billion appropriated in this bill, to the 
Advisory Committee on Women Veterans. The intent of my amendment is 
that the Advisory Committee on Women Veterans would establish a 
commission to evaluate and make recommendations for improvements to the 
VA system so that it can better meet health care needs of women 
veterans.

In 1978, I purchased a one-way ticket to Colorado Springs, Colorado 
to enroll at the Air Force Academy. I was in the third class that 
accepted women into our service academies. I am the only woman veteran 
serving in the Congress. Women face different obstacles than men when 
trying to receive care from the VA. To start with, many women who have 
served in the military don't call themselves ''veterans'' and many 
women don't think of the VA as ''their'' system.

A larger number of women are serving in military and in the future we 
will see a higher number of women veterans. One in seven Americans 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan is a woman.

My goal in proposing this amendment is to bring together a group of 
people who can truly devote the time and effort to study the needs and 
examine the challenges our women veterans face. They then can report to 
Congress their finding and recommendations so that we, as a body, can 
evaluate these findings and implement improvements and initiatives to 
ensure women receive the care they have earned.

I introduced legislation similar to my amendment, H.R. 2394, the 
Bipartisan Commission on Wounded Women Veterans. This amendment would 
fund the commission envisioned in H.R. 2394.

I am grateful to all who serve their nation and we as a Congress have 
a responsibility to ensure they receive the best possible care. In this 
war on terrorism, the greatest burdens have fallen on the shoulders of 
a relatively small number of Americans who have volunteered to take 
great risks on our behalf. Events over the last few years have made a 
new generation of Americans realize just how precious our freedoms 
really are. We owe our freedom fighters--past, present, and future--a 
debt of gratitude for their selflessness and sacrifice. I will continue 
to fight to ensure that our veterans get the benefits they were 
promised, the health care they deserve, and the recognition that our 
Nation owes them.

Thank you for the time and I ask for a yes vote on my amendment.