# None
## `60c137e83a69da0d701069558705464a`
`Mr. INHOFE — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, allow me to echo strong agreement with 
my colleague from Alabama. We both serve on the Armed Services 
Committee. It is our hope and belief that we will be able to get a bill 
tonight. There are a lot of amendments that we would have liked to have 
had time to add. Senator Sessions talked about the successes we have 
had in the Czech Republic and in Poland. It is absolutely necessary. 
This is a life-threatening situation. I believe we are in pretty good 
shape there. I had several programs that are going to be included in 
this bill expanding the training and equipment. Sections 1206, 1207, 
and 1208 are significant. Those are things we can do in the field in 
these countries where we are in a position to train and equip these 
people, which is certainly to our advantage. Expanding what used to be 
called the CERP, the Commanders Emergency Response Program--they 
changed the name. I can never keep up with these things. But instead of 
having it only apply to Iraq and Afghanistan, it now applies to other 
areas also. It gives the commanders in the field a chance to respond 
immediately rather than go through all the bureaucratic redtape of 
correcting problems back in Washington.

With the IMET program, which is a program whereby we bring in 
officers and train them in our facilities in the United States, it used 
to be that until they signed an article, we would not allow them to be 
trained in the United States. The assumption was that somehow we were 
doing them a favor by training them. The reverse is true. They want to 
come to the United States to train because they know we have the best 
training. If we refuse to do it, countries such as China will welcome 
them with open arms. One of the interesting things is, once officers 
are trained in this country, they develop an allegiance that stays.

A lot of these things are in the bill that are good. I am delighted, 
because I understand we will be voting on it very soon.
