# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `60c24b1a4b1ba156288a4cc241e5eb1c`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise today to support the resolution 
on which I hope we will have an opportunity to vote. As we hear this 
debate, it is a good debate that should move forward. I hope we will 
actually get to vote on the resolution.

I am amazed at some of our colleagues who would suggest that this 
debate shouldn't even take place. The Senate, the greatest marketplace 
of ideas, the clash of ideas, should be the place in which one of the 
most momentous issues facing the Nation should have the opportunity for 
those 100 Senators, elected by their constituencies across the country, 
to come and not only debate but cast a vote so that the American people 
know which way the Senate intends to lead on this question of changing 
the course in Iraq.

What we seek to do is put forward a new direction and a clear plan 
for Iraq--a clear plan that is very different than the President's 
current plans to escalate the war in Iraq. We have a plan that, if 
effectuated, would end the war in Iraq.

Our plan is relatively straightforward and says: One, our troops 
should leave Iraq by March 31, 2008, with a small number remaining to 
help with security and counterterrorism.

Those who say we shouldn't have any date because the enemy will 
outwait us, we see that Sadr's militias have already retracted, that 
they are already willing to spend the time to wait until it is 
propitious to strike.

Two, we should start the process of leaving within 120 days.

Three, our troops' mission should immediately change to the priority 
of training--priority of training--Iraqi security forces, focusing on 
counterterrorism.

I heard some of our colleagues talk about that element of al-Qaida in 
Anbar Province. Well, that is 5,000 or so. We have roughly 140,000 
troops, and 140,000 U.S. troops could certainly take


care of 5,000 elements of al-Qaida in Iraq and protecting U.S. 
personnel in Iraq. Or we should take all these steps as part of a 
comprehensive diplomatic plan, working with Iraq's neighbors and our 
allies to bring stability to Iraq.


I support this plan. I would like to see it be much more than a goal. 
I would like to see it move more along the lines of a mandate. I 
support the plan because it matches the goals of the Iraq Study Group, 
a bipartisan group that met unanimously, agreed upon all of its 
recommendations, and who said that U.S. combat forces should leave Iraq 
by the end of March 2008.

I know some of my colleagues have mentioned comments made by 
Democrats in previous statements. Well, I would point out that this was 
a bipartisan group and it had prominent Republicans on it, such as 
former Secretary of State James Baker, Lawrence Eagleburger, Ed Meese, 
Sandra Day O'Connor, and Alan Simpson. They all came to the conclusion, 
as we have in this resolution, that, in fact, our goal should be to 
have our troops out by March of 2008.

I support the plan because it transitions the mission for our troops, 
instead of keeping them fighting in the middle of a civil war. I 
support the plan because it sets a clear timeframe for our troops to 
leave Iraq. In my mind, unlike the way in which our opponents in this 
regard pass a negative light on a timeframe, I think a timeframe is the 
most powerful element to achieve success in Iraq. It is only by setting 
a clear timeframe for our troops to leave that Iraqis will have to take 
the responsibility for security in their country and to work out their 
political power struggles.

Some of these hearings that I have been part of in the Senate 
Committee on Foreign Relations, you hear how so much of the struggle 
among Iraqis is about political power. Is it the mission of the U.S. 
troops, the sons and daughters of America, to sit in the crossfire as 
people are pursuing political power? I think not.

Unless we have the Iraqis understand this is not an open-ended 
commitment, they will never make the hard choices, compromises, and 
negotiations necessary for a government of national unity, if that is 
possible. They will never get there so long as they believe we will 
shed the blood and our national treasure in an unlimited fashion. It is 
only by setting a clear timeframe for our troops to leave that Iraq's 
neighbors will start to take responsibility for ending the chaos inside 
of Iraq.

Right now, that violence hasn't reached the tipping point for them to 
get Iraq's neighbors involved. Ultimately, it is not in their national 
security interest to have the conflict spill across their borders and 
have Iraq disintegrate, but they do not yet feel the pressure to do 
this. By setting a date certain to leave, we create a new incentive for 
Iraq's neighbors to help quell the violence.

It is only by setting a clear timeframe for our troops to leave that 
the international community will take its responsible and necessary 
role in Iraq. Right now, the international community sees this as 
America's war. Once we make it clear we will not be there permanently 
or indefinitely, they, too, will have an incentive in getting involved 
to help preserve security in a region that is incredibly important to 
them, much closer to Europe than the United States. By setting a clear 
timeframe for our troops to leave, we actually motivate Iraq's 
neighbors and the international community to take the steps necessary 
to stabilize Iraq.

Let me be clear, for my friends who are saying we shouldn't vote for 
this resolution. They say we shouldn't try to micromanage the war. No 
one is trying to micromanage a war. There is a constitutional 
responsibility by Members of the Senate to act as a legislative body. I 
say the era of blank checks, both in lives and national treasure, is 
over. They say don't micromanage the war. Well, you have had a blank 
check under this administration. You have rubberstamped everything they 
have wanted, with virtually no oversight, until this new Congress 
started. That is not the responsible exercise of the Senate. They say 
slow bleed. How about the endless bleeding going on now?

Let me take a moment to talk about the President's plan to escalate 
the war and stay there without any timeframes that bind. First, let's 
be frank. I simply don't believe the recent escalation of troops in 
Iraq is a temporary surge. I believe it is a long-term escalation. Even 
General Petraeus has said we are in it for the long haul, and that, to 
me, is undefined.

I wish this administration would be honest with the American people 
and the Congress about the total cost of the escalation and the total 
number of troops needed for the escalation. I sit as a member of the 
Budget Committee, and we had the Deputy Secretary of the Department of 
Defense, Mr. England, testifying in a hearing. I said to him: If the 
chairman would put you under oath, would you say that the $5.6 billion 
that you want in addition for the escalation of the war would be the 
total amount; the total cost? He told me: Yes, even if I was under oath 
it would be roughly that amount. Of course, depending on the needs of 
the commanders. And then that weekend--that weekend, after the 
hearing--the administration said they needed another $2 billion. They 
needed $2 billion more over a weekend? That is not a small amount of 
money that he didn't know about. We are also told the administration 
will need more troops, and there may be additional billions added to 
the supplemental. Each time we ask, we get a different answer. I, for 
one, would like a clear and honest answer for the total number of 
troops and the total cost of the troop escalation.


Staying indefinitely in Iraq isn't in the national interest or the 
national security interest of the United States. Our troops are caught 
in the middle of a civil war they can't solve. Adding more troops will 
only put them more directly in the middle of an Iraqi fight. Keeping 
our troops there or adding more troops is trying to solve a political 
problem with a military solution.

I have heard General Pace and others in the past say: You know, we 
have to get the Iraqis to love their children more than they hate their 
neighbors. That is a powerful truism. We have to get the Iraqis to love 
their children more than they hate their neighbors. That, however, 
cannot be accomplished by military might. That is accomplished by 
reconciliation measures. That is accomplished by confidence- building 
measures. That is accomplished by revenue sharing. That is accomplished 
by power sharing. It cannot be accomplished at the point of a gun. It 
cannot be accomplished at the point of a gun.

Staying there would only continue to empower and embolden Iran, a 
country that has turned out to be, by many experts who have testified 
before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, one of the biggest 
winners in our war with Iraq. Staying in Iraq actually keeps the Iraqis 
from making the hard choices, compromises, and negotiations necessary 
to achieve a government of national unity.

Frankly, what we hear from the other side doesn't make sense to me. 
They talk about victory. What is the definition of victory? Is it when 
the President landed on the aircraft carrier, fully decked out, and 
said, ''Mission accomplished''? Is it the many times we have heard the 
administration say, victory is right around the corner? How many lives, 
how much national treasure, what victory are we talking about? They 
talk about benchmarks for the Iraqis, but they set no consequences. 
Benchmarks without consequences are simply aspirations, nothing more.

Victory. How many lives must we lose? How much more money must we 
spend? How long will we be in this war under a plan without end of the 
President? I believe it is long past time to change the course in Iraq. 
That is why this vote to allow us to move forward, to allow us to have 
a final vote on changing the course in Iraq and laying out a plan that 
can create the best possibility for victory in Iraq is essential, and 
that is what I hope we will do between today and tomorrow.

Finally, in the time it takes me to finish my remarks this afternoon, 
the United States will have spent over $2 million on the Iraq war 
today. Our Nation spends over $8 billion a month in Iraq. We spend $2 
billion a week in Iraq. We spend $280 million every day. And the loss 
in money pales, pales in comparison to our Nation's loss of our best 
and our brightest, with almost 3,200 lives lost in the conflict and 
over 24,000 who have been wounded.



I visited them again this past weekend in New Jersey at the Veterans 
Hospital at Fort Dix. I listen to the stories they tell me, especially 
now as they face challenges in this part of their life. I know that may 
be another subject matter, but it is something for which we have to be 
responsible. A grateful Nation does not just say they are grateful, a 
grateful Nation takes care of those who serve their country, in how we 
treat them in their health care, how we treat them in their disability, 
and how we treat their families, for those who commit the ultimate 
sacrifice on behalf of the Nation. The stories I heard from those 
soldiers do not indicate a grateful Nation.

I didn't vote for the Iraq war when I was in the House of 
Representatives. I believe that was one of the most important votes I 
ever cast. I don't support the President's escalation of the war. I was 
in the minority when I voted against the war in 2002, and there were 
those who said voting against the war would be political suicide. Even 
with that knowledge, I put my seat in the Congress on the line because 
my conscience told me this was simply not the right thing to do.

In a speech about the war, the President said the following:




 In speaking of the consequences of a precipitous 


 withdrawal, I mentioned that our allies would lose confidence 


 in America. Far more dangerous, we would lose confidence in 


 ourselves. Oh, the immediate reaction would be a sense of 


 relief that our men were coming home. But as we saw the 


 consequences of what we had done, inevitable remorse and 


 divisive recrimination would scar our spirit as a people.


The President added:




 I recognize that some of my fellow citizens disagree with 


 the plan for peace I have chosen. Honest and patriotic 


 Americans have reached different conclusions as to how peace 


 should be achieved. I share your concern for peace. I want 


 peace as much as you do. I have chosen a plan for peace. I 


 believe it will succeed.


That plan did not succeed. The man speaking wasn't President Bush but 
President Richard Nixon, and the war he spoke of was not the war in 
Iraq but the war in Vietnam. It is painful to hear the similarities 
between what was said by the President of the United States in that 
conflict and the one in which our Nation is currently ensnared. It is 
even more painful to see an administration and a President similarly 
disconnected from the American people.

In soaring speeches, President Bush, the Vice President, and 
Republican allies invoke the ''will and courage'' of the American 
people. They say, if the American people would have the ''will and the 
courage'' to persevere in Iraq, then we can succeed militarily. This 
administration fails to understand this war is not just about will and 
courage, it is also about wisdom and clarity of judgment, traits that 
have been sorely lacking in this administration.

No one should doubt the will of the American people. In fact, they 
expressed their will last November, a point that seems to elude many 
Members of this Chamber. The American people have the will, they have 
the nerve. What they no longer have is patience with this 
administration and the continued failed policy in Iraq, and they are 
losing patience with Members of this body.

It is time for the Senate to take a stand against the President's 
failed plan in Iraq and to vote for a new plan, a new plan and a new 
course to end the war in Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to support the ability to move ahead, to have a 
final vote, and then I urge them to support the resolution that would 
lead us out of the war in Iraq, that could give us the greatest 
opportunity for victory, that would give the greatest opportunity for 
the Iraqis to make the hard choices, compromises, negotiations for a 
government of national unity, and in doing so would honor those who 
have served their country with courage, with valor, and with 
distinction.

I yield the floor.