# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `60c3d1c2dccc95c33bb7a26a7388d4f9`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 18 June 2010`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Mr. President, I rise today to remember a fallen hero, 
U.S. Army SPC Blaine Redding of Plattsmouth, NE.

Blaine was a proud member of Company A, 2nd Battalion, 327th Infantry 
Regiment, of the 101st Airborne Division, operating in one of the most 
dangerous areas of Afghanistan, the Kunar Province.

On June 7, only 4 weeks after arriving in that country, Specialist 
Redding was killed when his vehicle was struck by a remotely detonated 
improvised explosive device.

His death is a great loss to our Nation and to Nebraska, his home 
State.

Blaine was a model of persistence, determination, and patriotism. 
Faced with challenges during his adolescent years, he realized that 
military service was the best way to fulfill his longings.

Blaine overcame an early departure from high school by earning a 
general equivalency diploma to join the U.S. Army. He was determined to 
sustain a family history of service to our country in uniform, 
beginning with a great-grandfather and continuing through subsequent 
generations.

Fort Campbell became a very special place for Specialist Redding. He 
and his brother, PFC Logan Redding, were assigned to the elite 101st 
Airborne Division.

But more important, he met his future wife Victoria, or Nikki, while 
at Fort Campbell. They were married on March 13, 2010. With this came a 
renewed sense of responsibility to defend this great Nation and its 
principles of freedom.

Specialist Redding knew combat operations, having completed already a 
year-long tour in Iraq. The rugged terrain and close proximity to the 
Pakistan border of the area of Afghanistan where he was poses special 
challenges to allied forces. Losses have been heavy in this region. 
Specialist Redding was comforted by his brother being deployed nearby. 
Ultimately, Logan would aid in returning his brother's body to the 
United States.

Specialist Redding will be remembered in different ways. His Army 
buddies sometimes refer to him as ''a perfect soldier,'' a great 
''mortar man.''

To family and friends, he had a priceless personality. To his wife 
Nikki, he was a devoted husband with a very big heart.

The decorations and badges earned during a far too brief Army career 
speak to his dedication and to his bravery: the Army Commendation 
Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, and the 
Purple Heart. He proudly wore the Combat Infantry Badge and Air Assault 
Badge.

Today, I join Nikki, family, and friends in mourning the death of 
their beloved husband, son, brother, and friend. Blaine made the 
ultimate sacrifice in defense of our great Nation, and we owe him and 
his family an immeasurable debt of gratitude.

May God be with the Redding family, friends, and all those who mourn 
his death and celebrate his life. We will remember Blaine as we 
remember all the Nation's fallen warriors who gave their lives so that 
we may live in peace. Their names are etched on the conscience of our 
Nation in glory undimmed unto the end of our people.

I also offer my prayers to all those serving in uniform today, and 
especially those serving in peril overseas. May God bless them and 
their families and see them through these difficult times.

Mr. President, I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.