---
---

# REPUBLICAN FRESHMAN PERSPECTIVE
## `60cba267efdc3317b91c049c41c9c43e`
`Mrs. LUMMIS — 4 June 2009`

---


Mrs. LUMMIS. Thank you for your statement.

Now, we have six freshmen here of the Republican class and, indeed, a 
seventh member in the Chair. Our Speaker this evening is a member of 
the majority party, a Democrat. It would be really fascinating at some 
point to have a Special Order some evening with our Democrat colleagues 
who are freshmen as well, because I think many of us came to Congress 
with a different perspective, with a new perspective, regardless of 
party, about how we think America can move forward.

As freshmen Republicans, we did support legislation that would 
stimulate economic growth. It would have cost $315 billion less than 
the bill that Congress adopted, the Democratic bill; and it would have 
created twice as many jobs.



In my district in Wyoming, it would have created 50 percent more 
jobs; but in many districts that are suffering mightily, it created 
twice as many jobs. That because we really targeted and took to heart 
what President Obama asked us to do, and that was to be targeted and 
temporary. Unfortunately the bill that was adopted was neither 
targeted--it was a shotgun approach to economic stimulus--and it is not 
temporary. Many provisions in that bill are built into the ongoing 
spending of government and inflate the costs of government, as Dr. Roe 
pointed out earlier, by adding to the baseline of expenditures that 
will go up and up and up in the future.

One of the things that Representative Rooney just mentioned that is 
so frustrating to all of us, I think on both sides of the aisle, is 
seeing legislation that is not germane to the subject of the bill being 
attached to the bill. In the case that Representative Rooney was just 
discussing with us, it was the funding for our military men and women 
in Iraq and Afghanistan and in Pakistan, and the addition to that bill 
would lend money or guarantee money to the International Monetary Fund. 
No connection whatsoever. And the IMF funding has created a situation


where we're not voting tomorrow on that bill because there are not 
sufficient votes to pass it by virtue of an amendment that was not 
germane being added to a bill. In the Wyoming legislature you cannot do 
that. You cannot amend a nongermane topic to a piece of legislation or 
it is ruled out of order. If that rule were in effect here, we would 
see much better legislation. We would see people having a better 
opportunity to vet that legislation, discuss that legislation and then 
vote with their heart rather than having to grit their teeth and vote 
for a couple things that are just not a good pairing.

I can give an example of where it pained some people on the other 
side of the aisle. I am a big supporter of Second Amendment rights, but 
there was an amendment put on a credit card bill to allow concealed 
weapon permits in national parks. I firmly support allowing concealed 
weapons in national parks because they are so part and parcel to the 
State of Wyoming and to our right to bear arms, but attaching it to a 
credit card bill is wrong. It's just wrong.