---
---

# TORTURE VICTIMS RELIEF REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `60cbb7ea1fd1ac42e1ef2922a354a8e2`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, we almost wish we did not 
have to come to the floor of the House to address this question of 
ongoing torture in 2007. Again, I offer my appreciation for this work, 
your leadership and leadership of this committee, and to Mr. Smith who 
has articulated his ongoing struggle with a crisis that will break your 
heart.

Even today we know that torture goes on in 150 nations around the 
world. We know that some 4- to 500,000 torture victims have found their 
way to the United States. Many of us have heard of the lost boys, some 
of us know the story of Sierra Leone and mutilation that occurred in 
Rwanda, children who were child soldiers who were victimized. But do we 
understand the ongoing psychological, traumatic experiences that 
requires necessary psychological services and therapy to cope with 
posttraumatic stress?



Now with the Iraq War and Afghan War, we hear of prisoners of war and 
the unending suggestions of torture that have occurred, and so we know 
that even in our own House we must respond to the crisis.

I rise to support this legislation, H.R. 1678, because its journey is 
not yet finished. Let me applaud the author of this legislation, as I 
am a cosponsor, that authorizes $12 million per year for centers and 
programs administered through USAID's victims of torture fund, an 
additional $12 million per year for centers and programs administered 
by the U.N. voluntary fund for victims of torture, and $25 million for 
the Department of Health and Human Services.

Let me also salute the Darfur Coalition for Peace. I believe these 
resources can be utilized for the Darfurian women who have reportedly 
and repeatedly been raped, a very, very difficult and brutal form of 
torture. These women have not only been raped, but they have been 
mutilated. They have been carved and scarred. They have bled, and they 
have a mass of psychological devastation.

The Darfur Peace Coalition will be attempting to place tents on the 
soil in Darfur, the only kind of structure that can then have 
counselors who will help these torture victims, these victims of rape.

This legislation can certainly be a partner in finding and weeding 
out torture where it is, but more importantly, in dealing with the 
torture victims who may have some small chance of regaining their lives 
again.

I rise to support this legislation in sadness, because its work is 
yet not done, and every day we know that there may be a victim of 
torture. I am proud of this Congress in moving forward on this 
legislation, and I ask for its passage.