---
---

# REPUBLIC OF CHINA'S NATIONAL DAY
## `60cfc5fa52ec41f7ddf46cf5f67502e7`
`Mr. BARTON of Texas — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. BARTON of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the Republic 
of China's National Day on October 10th. Today I join the Taiwanese 
people as they celebrate their freedom. Taiwan has peacefully 
transformed itself from an authoritarian regime to full-fledged 
democracy. It will hopefully constitute a model for the eventual 
establishment of a genuine democracy in China.

The United States and Taiwan value human rights, civil liberties, a 
free press and the rule of law. Our shared values have produced a 
strong and dependable friendship for over sixty years. Today, the 
people of Taiwan determine their own destiny and government through 
free and fair elections.

The Republic of China was one of the first to come to our aid after 
the events of September 11th attacks and Hurricane Katrina 
devastations. Taiwan continues to be our ally in the war against 
terrorism by providing humanitarian assistance in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In honoring the Republic of China, we need to continue to sell 
defensive weapons to Taiwan fulfilling our commitments under the Taiwan 
Relations Act. Despite the goodwill that has been gradually built up 
between Taiwan and China, the possibility of military confrontation 
continues to exist in the Taiwan Strait. A well-armed Taiwan is the 
best guarantee to perpetuate peace and stability in the region.

To ROC President Ma Ying-jeou I say ''good luck.'' I remain hopeful 
that our relations will continue to be strengthened in 2011 and beyond. 
Certainly, the capable leadership of Ambassador Jason Yuan has helped 
to further our relations with the government and people of Taiwan.
