# PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `60e65148a36ac7c0e280d4bc77a53bac`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 1255, the ''Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2007,'' 
which vitiates an Executive order issued in 2001 by President Bush that 
unreasonably and severely restricts public access to Presidential 
records. By negating that Executive order, we win a great victory for 
open government.

Under the Presidential Records Act, Presidential records are supposed 
to be released to historians and the public 12 years after the end of a 
Presidential administration. Shortly after taking office in 2001, 
President Bush issued Executive Order 13233, which overturned President 
Reagan's Executive order and gave current and former Presidents and 
Vice Presidents broad authority to withhold Presidential records or 
delay their release indefinitely. H.R. 1255 will nullify the Bush 
Executive order and establish procedures to ensure the timely release 
of Presidential records.

Under the Bush Executive order, the Archivist of the United States 
must wait for both the current and former President to approve the 
release of Presidential records, a review process that can continue 
indefinitely. Under the bill, the current and former President would 
have a set time period of no longer than 40 business days to raise 
objections to the release of these records by the Archivist.

Mr. Speaker, another salutary feature of H.R. 1255 is that it limits 
the authority of former Presidents to withhold Presidential records. To 
prevent the release of his records under the regime established by 
President Reagan's Executive order, a former President was required to 
request the incumbent President to assert the claim of executive 
privilege. If the incumbent President decided not to assert executive 
privilege, however, the records would be released unless the former 
President succeeded in obtaining a court order upholding the assertion 
of privilege and enjoining disclosure.

The regime established by President Bush's Executive order turned 
this process on its head. It requires the incumbent President to 
sustain the executive privilege claim of the former President unless a 
person seeking access could persuade a court to reject the claim. In 
effect, the Bush order gave former Presidents virtually unlimited 
authority to withhold Presidential records through assertions of 
executive privilege. H.R. 1255 restores the Reagan approach, giving the 
incumbent President the discretion to reject ill-founded assertions of 
executive privilege by former Presidents.

Mr. Speaker, under President Bush's Executive order regime, claims of 
executive privilege could be asserted to defeat disclosure even after 
the death of a former President by his heirs, assigns, and descendants. 
The practical effect of eliminating the requirement that the former 
President had to assert the privilege personally is to extend the time 
in which Presidential records may be withheld in perpetuity. H.R. 1255 
makes clear that the right to claim executive privilege is personal to 
current and former Presidents and does not survive the death of the 
former President.

Mr. Speaker, perhaps the most egregious aspect of President Bush's 
Executive order is that it authorized former Vice Presidents to assert 
executive privilege claims over Vice Presidential records. If the 
authority to assert such a claim is left undisturbed, the public will 
never learn what really went on behind the closed doors of Vice 
President Cheney's secret energy task force or the White House Iraq 
Group's marketing campaign to sell the Iraq War to the Congress and the 
American people. That is why I support the provision in H.R. 1255 
limiting the right to assert executive privilege over Presidential 
records only to Presidents and former Presidents.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1255 and urge all my colleagues 
to join me in supporting this legislation amending the Presidential 
Records Act to nullify the Bush Executive order and establish 
procedures to ensure the timely public release of Presidential records.