# DISCLOSE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `60e71feb7b439ccbd043ad327c0525b6`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I listened with some interest to my 
colleague from Arizona, the minority whip, discuss his notion about the 
economic issues confronting our country. I wish to respond a bit to 
them with great respect, of course, because I think the opportunity to 
have competing ideas about our country's future is a very important 
opportunity here on the floor of the Senate.

Some long while ago I wrote in a book that I published about Stanley 
Newberg. I wrote in the book that I had read about Stanley in a very 
small New York Times article, but it so piqued my interest that I 
decided to try to find out about Stanley, so I did. I found that 
Stanley had come to this country as a young boy to escape the 
persecution of the Jews by the Nazis. He, with his father, sold fish, I 
believe, on the Lower East Side of New York City, in Manhattan. He 
followed his dad selling fish. He learned English. He went to school. 
Then he was able to do well in school and go to college. His parents 
had saved for him. He went to college and graduated from college and 
then went to work. He got a law degree and then he went to work for an 
aluminum company. He did so well he rose up and finally managed the 
aluminum company and then purchased the aluminum company. When he died, 
they opened his will. In his will he said he wanted to leave his $5.7 
million to the United States of America for the privilege of living in 
this great country, and that was Stanley Newberg's will.

I thought: That is really unusual for someone to die and in their 
will leave their money to this country with gratitude for the privilege 
of living in this great country. What a remarkable thing to remind all 
of us that being an American is something we shouldn't take for granted 
Monday through Friday or all week long, for that matter.

It is the case, I think, for most of us that when we grew up, we 
understood this country was the biggest, the strongest, the best, 
destined to expand opportunity for our children, and things would 
always be better for the next generation than for the last. That is how 
we viewed this country of ours.

But it is the case, it seems to me, these days that America has lost 
a step. There is great concern about whether the kids will have it 
better than we had it. There is great concern about the economy and the 
fact that there are probably 18 million to 20 million people who woke 
up this morning either without a job, or with less of a job than they 
could easily handle. They are underemployed or unemployed--18 million 
to 20 million people. People woke up this morning and saw the news that 
we are deep in debt and getting deeper in debt. They are concerned 
about the federal debt, and they should be, there is no question about 
that.

Let me, for a moment--because I want to engage on the proposition by 
my colleague from Arizona--transport us back to 2001. In 2001, on the 
floor of the Senate, during that period, we had a pretty raucous 
debate. That debate on the Senate floor was about the first budget 
surplus in 30 years under the last year of President Bill Clinton--a 
budget surplus of a couple hundred billion dollars. Alan Greenspan was 
not sleeping at night because he was worried that we were going to pay 
down the Federal debt too rapidly and that would injure the economy. 
Many of my colleagues said we have a surplus now, and the economists 
project that we are going to have surpluses for 10 years--as far as the 
eye can see. You have heard the old line that if you were to lay all 
the economists end to end, they would never reach a conclusion. 
Individually, almost all of them said we have a surplus, and now we 
will have one as far as the eye can see. Many of my colleagues 
supported George W. Bush's proposal to provide tax cuts for the next 10 
years. They said: Let's provide tax cuts for the next 10 years because 
we need to give this surplus back to the American people.

I stood on the floor of the Senate then and said I don't think we 
ought to give back tax funds that don't yet exist. These surpluses are 
only projections. What if something would happen? How about being a 
little conservative about this? But, no, Katy bar the door; they said 
we are going to provide large tax cuts, and the largest to the 
wealthiest Americans, such that if you made $1 million a year in 
income, you got an $80,000 or so a year tax cut. That was the proposal. 
It passed--without my support, but it passed. So that was the 
experience in 2001.

Fast forward to 2010. Where are we? We are $13 trillion in debt. By 
the way, this is testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance by 
Leonard Burman, who is the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Professor of Public 
Affairs at the Maxwell School at Syracuse University:




 If the Bush tax cuts had never been enacted, the debt held 


 by the public at the end of 2009 would have been 30 percent 


 lower, to about $5.2 trillion . . . This was less than the 


 level of debt at the end of 1999.


The question is--and this is what brought me to the Senate floor--my 
colleague says we have to extend the tax cuts that were provided in 
2001. The President says let's extend the tax cuts for middle-income 
folks making $250,000 a year, or below. My colleague from Arizona, and 
others, say, no, let's extend all of Bush's tax cuts from 2001. Let's 
extend them all. The difference is about $1 trillion added to the debt 
over the next decade. Extending those tax cuts for roughly 2 percent of 
the wealthiest U.S. households will cost, with interest, about $1 
trillion.

My colleague says if you don't do that, then you are increasing taxes 
on upper income people, and that is going to retard economic growth. 
Let me talk for a bit about that, because it is interesting to me that 
those who are on the floor saying let us not let the tax cuts expire--
by the way, these were tax cuts for upper income people, who got the 
largest tax cuts, and they were given because we were trying to give a 
surplus back. Does anybody see a surplus around here? Has anybody seen 
a surplus for 9 years?

Right after the Senate and the Congress passed legislation to provide 
significant tax cuts for wealthy Americans, we had a recession in 2001, 
on 9/11 we had a devastating terrorist attack, and then we went to war 
in Afghanistan, and then we went to war in Iraq, and we had a 
continuing war against terrorism. We never saw a surplus beyond that 
year. That deficit and debt went up, up, up, and up.

At the same time all of that was happening, this new administration 
that came in in 2001 not only said we are going to cut taxes largely 
for the wealthy, but they said we are going to hire a bunch of 
regulators in this town who will promise not to look. You do what you 
want and we won't watch. Wall Street went wild. It was an unbelievable 
carnival of greed. We had trillions and trillions of dollars of 
financial vehicles being created that had never been created before, 
such as naked credit default swaps, synthetic CDOs--you name it--and 
they were trading back and forth. As Will Rogers said, people were 
trading things they never got from people who never had it. Everybody 
was making a lot of money on Wall Street, like hogs in slop, as they 
say on the farm.

The fact is that the house of cards they created came tumbling down. 
When this President crossed the threshold of the White House in January 
of last year, had he taken a Rip Van Winkle nap for a year and done 
nothing, the budget deficit he inherited was going to be $1.3 trillion. 
Now we have a $13 trillion Federal budget deficit, and now we have the 
circumstances of a tax cut, the bulk of which went to the wealthy, that 
was described by the minority 9 years ago as being essential to give 
back the surplus that doesn't exist.

The question is, will that tax cut be extended for the wealthiest 
Americans?


Phrased another way, shall we add another $1 trillion in Federal debt 
in order to give tax cuts at $80,000 a year to someone who makes $1 
million a year? At the same time our colleagues say that is essential 
to do, they say if you don't do that, you will have an unbelievable 
impact on small business, because that is who will pay these taxes. 
That is not true at all--just not true. About 3 percent of small 
business income, would be captured by that; 97 percent would not. Those 
are the facts.

At the same time we have people pushing for that--adding $1 trillion 
to the debt by giving the highest income earners in the country 
extended tax cuts--the same folks are coming to the floor and saying, 
by the way, one of our highest priorities is not only to extend the tax 
cuts for the highest income earners, it is to make sure we repeal 
permanently the estate tax. They don't call it that; they call it the 
''death tax.'' Why do they do that? Because a pollster did a poll and 
said if you call it the ''death tax,'' you can fool the American people 
who will believe there is a tax on death. But of course, there is not; 
there is a tax on inherited wealth.

It seems to me that is an interesting set of priorities. They say we 
are concerned about the Federal deficit and debt--and, by the way, we 
want to add $1 trillion to the debt by opposing President Obama's 
request that we not extend the tax cuts for people making over 
$250,000. We want to add $1 trillion to the debt, and we also want to 
repeal the entire estate tax.

I don't know how one believes that set of priorities represents the 
best interests of our country. I am for lower taxes. I would love it if 
people could pay minimal taxes across this country. But I am also for a 
country that works, and a country that matters, and a country that 
invests in itself and its future. Someone once asked the question: If 
you were given the assignment to write an obituary and the only 
information you had about the deceased was their check register, what 
would you write? So you look at that check register and find out what 
did they spend money on? What was their value system? What was 
important to them?

The same is true with the Federal budget and the priorities we 
described by taxing and spending. What will historians say when looking 
back and seeing that we were in deep trouble, with 20 million people 
out of work or underemployed, a $13 trillion debt, and the minority was 
saying the highest priority was to cut taxes for those earning 
$250,000, and more, and to repeal the tax on inherited wealth? That is 
unbelievable.

You know, the only way, as of last year, you would pay any tax on 
inherited wealth is if you had more than $7 million a year. How many 
families have more than $7 million net per year? By the way, this year, 
the inheritance tax is zero, and it springs back the next year. That 
goofy set of circumstances was arranged by the same people who wrote 
the tax cut bill in 2001 to give back a surplus that turned out not to 
exist. So we have a zero tax year this year, and four billionaires have 
died so far. By the way, their estate will pay a zero rate, and my 
colleagues come to the floor and say that money has already been taxed. 
Wrong, it has not. Much of it is growth appreciation of property or 
tax, and it has never borne a tax. It is just the folks who go to work 
every day and pay their taxes on time; they pay for their kids' 
schools, and roads, and police, and fire protection, and the Defense 
Department, and the CDC--they are the ones paying the taxes.

But do you know what? If you find the people who have 10, 15, 20, and 
$50 million in assets--I will show you that the bulk of that has come 
through growth appreciation that has never borne a tax at all in this 
country. That is the highest priority for the minority--to eliminate 
the tax on inherited wealth. That is unbelievable to me.

We in this country have a very serious set of problems. We need to 
cut Federal spending, there is no question about that. Federal agencies 
are big and, in some cases, bloated. I mentioned the other day that I 
think I have done pretty well myself. I want to spend in this country 
to invest in good things that will make this a better country. I want 
us to continue building and improving our roads, our schools, and the 
things that make this a better country. But I also believe we ought to 
cut back where we should.

In my State, some years ago, there was a proposal to build a new 
courthouse, and $46 million was put into an appropriations bill, which 
passed, to build a new courthouse in the largest city of my State. I 
thought it was way overboard, so I cut it to $23 million--in half. It 
was built for $19 million. Some people say: That is strange, cutting 
funding for your own State. But I thought it was excessive spending. I 
don't care whether it is my State, or other States; we need to tighten 
our belts and cut spending. We can cut in areas where we are spending 
too much, no question about that.

You don't address this unbelievable burden of debt deficit and by 
deciding you are going to cut your revenue as well. You cannot do that. 
Who will pay for this country and what it needs? We have some people at 
the top of the income ladder in this country who are only paying a 15-
percent income tax rate--the highest income earner, 2 years ago, earned 
$3.6 billion--that is $300 million a month--and paid a 15-percent tax 
rate.

Most working people don't get to pay a tax rate that low. Some of 
those folks are running their companies through tax haven countries, 
with deferred compensation deals to even avoid paying a 15-percent 
rate. Somebody has to pay some taxes to invest in the future of this 
country. We need to invest in our children and in our infrastructure. 
Somebody has to pay those taxes. I understand that nobody likes to pay 
them very much, but we have to get control of this deficit, no question 
about that. We have to decide as a country that you can't ask men and 
women to lace up their boots and put on ceramic body armor and go 
halfway around the world and take a gun and fight and be shot at and, 
by the way, we ask you to do that in the name of our country, and we 
will not pay for a penny of it. We will add it to the debt. We have 
done that for 8 years. We cannot continue to do that. Americans know 
better than that.

Let me finish by saying that, as I said earlier, we should not 
necessarily believe that everything will be all right just because we 
live here in America. This country deserves good judgment and tough 
decisions to put the country back on track. In the book McCullough 
wrote on John Adams, they were putting this new country together and he 
was traveling in Europe. The record of all of that is in his letters to 
Abigail. He would write back as he was traveling abroad and ask the 
plaintive question: Where will the leadership come from to build this 
new country? From where will the leadership come? Who will be the 
leaders as we try to put this new country together? Then, in the next 
letter, he would answer the question.


There is only us to provide the leadership. There is me. There is Ben 
Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, Madison, Mason. In the 
rearview mirror of history, the ''only us'' represents some pretty 
unbelievable human talent who risked their lives, risked their 
fortunes, risked all they had to do the right thing for this country.

The question for us now, with a $13 trillion debt, an anemic economy, 
great partisan divides that exist between the political parties, and 
elections coming up in November, the question is, From where will the 
leadership come? Who really is willing to lead this country by saying: 
Here is what we have to do? It is not pleasant always. But who is 
willing to make those judgments to say we cannot just always take for 
granted what America's future might be based on what it was? This 
country deserves better.

I am not here to say one party is all right and one party is all 
wrong. I heard my colleagues say: If you do this, it is bad for small 
businesses. That is not the case in any event. We have had a bill on 
the Senate floor that would provide assistance, help, and investment to 
small businesses. It has been on the floor 3 weeks, and the very people 
who say they are for small businesses have been blocking it for 3 
weeks. All we need is some straight talk from time to time.

I would like everybody to pay the lowest possible tax rate. I would 
like our government to be the most efficient. I would like us to invest 
in the future of our country. I would like all


those things to happen. I would like it if we were not at war. I 
watched yesterday down at a place called the Newseum. Once again, I 
watched the video of 9/11/2001. That was not brought on by us; that was 
brought on by others, and we did not have a choice but to address these 
issues.

When we do these things, we must do them as a country that cares 
about our future. We cannot just spend money, send soldiers to war, do 
all these things and say: We don't have to pay for any of it and you 
all will understand. That is not leadership.

This President inherited a pretty tough situation. Now he is 
criticized for saying he inherited a tough situation. The history books 
will write what he inherited. He is trying pretty hard but does not get 
agreement on much of anything these days. At the very least we ought to 
say we agree, let's extend tax cuts for middle-class Americans. This is 
a pretty tough time for them. But we had some of the highest rates of 
growth in this country when the wealthiest Americans were paying the 
tax rate that previously existed. Extending tax cuts for the wealthy at 
a time when we are at war and we say we would like to extend to them an 
$80,000-a-year tax cut if they have a $1 million a year income? That is 
not leadership, in my judgment.

This country deserves better, this country can do better, and this 
Congress can do better with a little less partisanship and a little 
more thought and see if we can come together to represent the future of 
this country.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.