---
---

# VETERANS' HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `60fb4c3aed6f0742202de652ea370236`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I would like to commend the chairman and Ranking Member 
Miller for the work they have done on this legislation, but moreover, 
the attention they paid to our Nation's veterans. I also want to 
commend the members of this committee for all the work that they have 
done on mental health.

Mr. Speaker, I have had an opportunity, as a member of the Veterans 
Appropriations Committee, to sit in on some of the committee hearings 
on the Veterans Authorizing Committee and seeing the work that they 
have done to try to increase the outreach to veterans with post-
traumatic stress disorder. I am pleased to see that this committee is 
starting to do as much as they can to reach out to these veterans as 
they return from Iraqi Freedom. But, clearly, more needs to be done. We 
have witnessed that in these recent hearings.

I think that, clearly, the Appropriations Committee has recognized 
this this year. I am pleased to announce that this Congress has voted 
the largest increase in veterans health care spending in the 77-year 
history of the Veterans Department.

Within that, there is an over $100 million increase in veterans 
specialty mental health care. This is just one acknowledgment of many 
that our veterans, when they come home, we need to make sure they come 
home not only in body, but that they come home in spirit, and that it's 
not enough just to take care of the outer wounds of our Nation's 
veterans, but we also need to make sure that we mend the inner wounds, 
the psychological and emotional wounds that they have sustained during 
war defending our country's freedom.