---
---

# CRANE CONSERVATION ACT OF 2009
## `6105988d53a33865e868a58b43d2d2e0`
`Ms. BALDWIN — 21 April 2009`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. I thank the gentlewoman from the U.S. Virgin Islands, 
Dr. Christensen, for yielding time. And I also thank the chairman of 
the full committee for reporting out this bill for consideration on the 
suspension calendar.

I rise today in support of the Crane Conservation Act of 2009, 
legislation to help protect and preserve the world's 15 species of 
cranes for generations to come.

Cranes are the most endangered family of birds in the world, with 11 
of the world's 15 crane species at risk of extinction. Their special 
characteristics and unique ability to bring people together across 
city, State, and international boundaries place them in a class worthy 
of our conservation efforts.

Cranes are revered throughout the world for their beauty, grace, and 
long-distance migrations, frequently spanning numerous countries. In 
fact, their appeal is so vast that they figure prominently in the 
culture, folklore, and art of many people around the world. They are 
featured in the silks, sculpture, poetry, and folk tales of many 
cultures. And because of their long lifespans, they have become symbols 
of longevity and good fortune.

These magnificent birds also have served as ambassadors of harmony 
and peace in the international arena. Representatives from nations with 
various political struggles have reached beyond the instability to 
address the conservation of cranes. In fact, about 2 years ago, 
representatives from bordering nations, including India, China, 
Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan, and others, met in an attempt to 
overcome strained relations and send a message of goodwill for the sake 
of protecting this threatened species. Similarly, African nations which 
share troubled borders also have joined together in recent years to 
stop the illegal trade of cranes.

In North America, the whooping crane is the rarest of the crane 
species. Back in the year 1941, only 21 whooping cranes existed in the 
entire world. Today, there are almost 400 birds in existence. The 
resurgence is attributed to the bird's tenacity for survival and to the 
efforts of conservationists in the United States and Canada. In fact, 
since 2001, coordinated efforts have focused on encouraging young 
whooping cranes to migrate from their breeding grounds in Wisconsin's 
Necedah National Wildlife Refuge to their destination in Florida.

In an effort to reintroduce a migratory flock into their historic 
range in the eastern United States, the recovery team used ultralight 
aircraft to train and lead these young cranes on their spectacular 
journey, stretching from city to city and State to State. Fortunately, 
these efforts have been successful, and the Crane Conservation Act 
would complement them, both domestically and internationally.

This bill will provide the resources to support initiatives that 
protect cranes and, importantly, their habitats, which have 
deteriorated due to industrial development, pollution, and other human 
disturbances, including wars and other violent conflicts. The bill will 
also provide the means for the United States to fulfill various 
international obligations and commitments, thus having a large 
environmental and cultural impact across the globe.

Additionally, the Crane Conservation Act will provide resources for 
the United States to bring people and governments around the world 
together to protect ecosystems, develop adequate habitats, and 
encourage overall goodwill. Specifically, the Crane Conservation Act 
will authorize up to $5 million per year to be distributed in the form 
of conservation project grants to protect cranes in the wetlands and 
grasslands and other ecosystems on which they depend.

Congress has passed similar bills in support of globally significant 
and endangered wildlife species, including tigers, rhinos, elephants, 
and neotropical migratory birds. And just as these efforts took 
significant steps in international wildlife conservation, the Crane 
Conservation Act would play a similar and promising role in improving 
endangered wildlife and their habitats.

This bill, in identical form, passed on the suspension calendar last 
session. I encourage my colleagues to support the Crane Conservation 
Act of 2009.