# IN PRAISE OF THE TRANSATLANTIC LEGISLATORS' DIALOGUE MEETING HELD IN  MADRID, SPAIN
## `610c928d4e2df4f21389b2d1329fd5fa`
`Mr. BERMAN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, I would like to call the attention of my 
colleagues in the Congress to another successful meeting of the 
Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue (TLD) that was held in Madrid, 
Spain from June 4-6, 2010. Chairwoman Shelley Berkley, yet again, 
showed her strong commitment to furthering the transatlantic 
relationship in her leadership of a bipartisan delegation, which 
included Vice-Chairman Jim Costa (D-CA), Vice-Chairman Cliff Stearns 
(R-FL), Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN), Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Rep. 
Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) and Rep. Vern 
Buchanan (R-FL). I wish to recognize and thank Chairwoman Berkley and 
the entire U.S. delegation for their contribution to a constructive 
dialogue with Members of the European Parliament.

The TLD is the formal response by the European Parliament and the 
U.S. Congress to the commitment in the New Transatlantic Agenda of 
1995, which enhances legislative ties between the European Union and 
the United States. The TLD biannual meetings foster transatlantic 
discourse and encourage the exchange of views on topics of mutual 
interest. With the additional powers provided by the Lisbon Treaty to 
the European Parliament, it is more imperative now that legislators 
engage in this dialogue and seek joint solutions to the pressing issues 
that affect citizens on both sides of the Atlantic.

The most recent meeting in Madrid addressed a wide range of common 
challenges, including energy security and climate change, cooperation 
in both responding to international crises and in providing development 
aid, and current economic challenges within the Eurozone, the United 
States, and the world.

The session addressing the transatlantic response to volatile regions 
of the world was moderated by the Honorable Miguel Angel Moratinos, 
Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs and current President of the EU 
General Affairs Council. Members discussed the Middle East, Afghanistan 
and Pakistan, Iran, Somalia, and Cuba and stressed the need for 
transatlantic engagement to address these shared foreign policy 
interests.

There was also an extensive session on the implications of the Lisbon 
Treaty for Europe, the transatlantic relationship, and the TLD. The 
newly enhanced legislative power of the European Parliament reinforces 
the relevancy and importance of TLD meetings in fostering transatlantic 
cooperation.

In conclusion, I submit the joint statement that was agreed upon by 
American and European legislators at the 68th TLD meeting held in 
Madrid. It underscores the rich agenda of this meeting and highlights 
the many areas in which there was strong transatlantic agreement.



Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue 68th Meeting of Delegations

 [From the European Parliament and the United States Congress, Madrid, 








 Spain, 3-6 June 2010, Joint Statement]


(By Shelley Berkley, Chairwoman, United States Congress Delegation; 
 Cliff Stearns, Vice Chairman, United States Congress Delegation; Jim 
 Costa, Vice Chairman, United States Congress Delegation; Elmar Brok, 
MEP, Chairman, European Parliament Delegation; Sarah Ludford, MEP, Vice 

Chairwoman, European Parliament Delegation; Niki Tzavela, MEP, Vice 







Chairwoman, European Parliament Delegation.)




 We, the Members of the European Parliament and the United 


 States House of Representatives, held our 68th 


 Interparliamentary meeting (Transatlantic Legislators' 


 Dialogue) in Madrid, from 3-6 June 2010.



 Building on the joint statement issued following our last 


 meeting in New York on 4-7 December 2009, we reasserted the 


 importance of regular dialogue on political, social, economic 


 and environmental challenges that affect all of our citizens. 


 We agreed to report back to our parent bodies on the content 


 and outcome of our discussions in Madrid, in particular in 


 the areas where joint efforts are likely to produce positive 


 outcomes.



 The first experiences with the Lisbon treaty, and the 


 enhanced powers it gives to the European Parliament, were 


 evaluated and we concluded that this emphasizes the need for 


 continued and expanded dialogue and interaction between 


 legislators in the United States Congress and the European 


 Parliament.



 In the field of civil liberties, we recognised that we 


 share many common values yet we also recognised that we may 


 have different approaches to finding optimal solutions. It 


 was noted that these differences in approach are being 


 addressed with a view toward coming to a permanent agreement 


 on the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program (TFTP). We welcomed 


 the intensified contacts, also on the level of the relevant 


 committees, to understand differences and explore common 


 ground. We took note of the EU-US and Member States 2010 


 Declaration on Counterterrorism of 3 June 2010 'Forging a 


 durable framework to combat terrorism within the rule of 


 law'.





 In the same spirit we discussed issues concerning energy 


 and climate change. We exchanged views on adopted legislation 


 on the EU side, in particular the 2020 goals, and on pending 


 legislation on the US side. We emphasized the importance of 


 sustainable policies on both sides of the Atlantic which 


 could facilitate agreement in the larger international 


 context. In this respect the up-coming COP 16 in Cancun was 


 noted. We discussed the aim of 'greening the economy', 


 including alternative energy sources, to provide the 


 opportunity of enhancing the quality of the environment and 


 improving the economic situation, as well as the perspective 


 of setting common standards for new and environmentally 


 friendly technologies, such as electric vehicles. The 


 national security implications of energy sources and 


 independence were also discussed.



 In the presence of the Director General for External 


 Relations of the European Commission, Mr. Joao Vale de 


 Almeida, the prospects for bilateral and global cooperation 


 between the EU and the US were discussed and our shared 


 commitment for disaster relief in third world countries and 


 our common interest in stable and sustainable development in 


 all areas of the world were recognized.



 In the presence of the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs 


 and current President of the EU General Affairs Council, Mr. 


 Miguel Angel Moratinos, we exchanged views on regions in the 


 world where tensions are high. In this respect we focused 


 attention on the situation in the Middle East, in Afghanistan 


 and Pakistan, in Iran, Somalia and Cuba.



 An extensive discussion was held on the latest financial 


 and economic developments in Europe, the US and the world. 


 With regard to Europe, government interventions to stabilise 


 the situation in Member States and the Eurozone are needed. 


 We recognised the global character of the crisis and its 


 effects and therefore emphasised the importance of 


 coordinated action. In this respect the prospects for common 


 approaches regulating the financial sectors of the economy 


 were explored.



 We evaluated the state of play of the Transatlantic 


 Economic Council (TEC) and ways to enhance EU-US economic 


 cooperation. The transatlantic market should be allowed to 


 develop its full potential in particular through reducing 


 non-tariff barriers and joint efforts to find common 


 standards. The importance of a successful outcome of the Doha 


 Round was reiterated. We welcomed a proposal to submit a TLD 


 paper to our respective administrations on ways to expand US-


 EU trade and economic cooperation.



 Finally, we reviewed progress in strengthening the 


 Transatlantic Legislators Dialogue, in particular:



 --the growing interest in communication among Members of 


 our institutions, both in general and on specific topics,



 --the strengthening of the TLD in the Congress by enhancing 


 its status, increasing stability of membership and involving 


 the Speaker of the House of Representatives,



 --the opening on 29 April 2010 of the European Parliament 


 Liaison Office (EPLO) in Washington,



 --the steps in expanding contacts among staff of our 


 institutions,



 and discussed options for further enhancing it, such as:



 --inviting EU and US officials to provide perspectives on 


 strategic issues related to financial recovery and economic 


 growth,



 --expanding interaction between the US Congress and the 


 European Parliament in Brussels and in Washington, including 


 through video-conferencing,



 --the possibility of joint hearings and the issuance of 


 joint statements.



 In conclusion, we reaffirmed our commitment to 


 strengthening the transatlantic relationship and working in 


 partnership to solve common challenges. We pledged to 


 continue improving the effectiveness of our dialogue in order 


 to realise the full potential of our interparliamentary 


 relationship, as well as to ensure the relevance of the TLD's 


 work to the European Parliament and the United States 


 Congress.














Annex: Statement on Iran




 We, the members of the Transatlantic Legislators Dialogue, 


 condemn the systematic violations by the Iranian regime and 


 its agencies of the human rights of the Iranian people. The 


 actions of the regime are denying the Iranian people the 


 basic human rights as described in the United Nations 


 Declaration of Human Rights. We call on our respective 


 Administrations to strengthen their efforts to assist the 


 Iranian people in achieving the rights that they are due, 


 through effective means to counteract the regime's 


 repression.



 We welcome the coordinated strategy and concerted action by 


 the US government and the European Union to halt the threat 


 posed by Iran's nuclear weapons and ballistic missile 


 programs.
