---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `6114137bd1134a6caccf0c2ff7df70c2`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 24 June 2009`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 572 provides for consideration of H.R. 
2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, 
under a structured rule.

Last week the House Armed Services Committee reported H.R. 2647 
favorably to the House by unanimous vote. The final vote came at 2:30 
in the morning after more than 14 hours of thorough debate.

During that time the members of the committee did not see eye-to-eye 
on every issue, but we did not split by party lines on every vote, and 
we often had differing views on how to devote limited resources to 
endless challenges. In the end, we all agreed by a unanimous vote that 
we must take steps to keep our country safe and keep our military 
prepared. We must work to eliminate wasteful spending and restore 
fiscal discipline, and we must provide our troops and their families 
with the care that they need and the quality of life that is worthy of 
their sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2647 makes significant progress on all these 
fronts. It strengthens our national security by focusing resources on 
the most immediate and severe threats to our troops and our country. 
The bill enhances efforts to prevent the spread of weapons of mass 
destruction by increasing funding for the Cooperative Threat Reduction 
Program and by fully supporting the Department of Energy's 
nonproliferation programs.

The bill cuts extensive spending, excessive spending on flawed 
missile-defense programs and, instead, invests more resources in 
systems that are proven to work and strategies that meet immediate 
threats.

H.R. 2647 also takes an important step forward in strengthening 
accountability and increasing oversight of the defense contracting 
process. The bill grows the size of the civilian acquisition workforce, 
which will reduce our reliance on defense contractors and cut down on 
wasteful spending.

The bill improves the quality of life and the quality of care for our 
men and women in uniform by providing a 3.4 percent pay raise for each 
servicemember, by expanding access to education and training, by 
increasing funding for family housing programs, and by expanding 
TRICARE coverage for members of the Reserve and their families prior to 
mobilization.

After 7 years of conflict in Afghanistan and Iraq, this bill provides 
a basis for ensuring that the plans for progress are sound and that the 
objectives for victory are clear. The bill requires frequent reports to 
Congress on the objectives and measurements for success in Afghanistan 
and the progress of withdrawing our troops from Iraq.

The bill also directs the GAO to provide Congress with separate 
reports, which will assess strategic plans for both Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Congress must do everything in its power to ensure that our military 
strategies are working and our ultimate goals are achievable. I believe 
that we can always do more, but I also believe that this bill provides 
a starting point for that process. Lastly, Mr. Speaker, while this bill 
addresses broad strategic issues and threats across the globe, it also 
has a direct impact on our districts.

While communities across the country are saving, struggling and 
working to recover from this recession, other communities are preparing 
for even tougher times ahead. In 2011, scores of military bases will 
close for good as a result of the 2005 BRAC. For decades, these bases 
have been the backbones of communities and provided the surrounding 
areas with jobs, tenants, customers and neighbors, which will now be 
lost in a matter of years.



H.R. 2647 expands the use of no-cost economic development conveyances 
as a tool to redevelop and restart communities affected by base 
closure. This provision allows the Department of Defense to transfer 
property to a local redevelopment authority at no cost if the land will 
be used for purposes of economic development.

At a time of declining property values, devastating job loss and 
crippling economic hardship, we must provide communities with every 
possible tool to redevelop and reorganize. This bill will assist in 
that effort.

I am looking forward to completing our work on this year's defense 
authorization.

I reserve the balance of my time.