---
---

# IRAN COUNTER-PROLIFERATION ACT OF 2007
## `6117b37bc0b3aeaeedc18567b3a0589d`
`Mr. SHAYS — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1400, the Iran Counter-
Proliferation Act, what I call the bipartisan Lantos-Ros-Lehtinen 
Resolution. We need to prohibit nuclear cooperation between the U.S. 
and countries who are aiding Iran's nuclear program, and we need to 
strengthen our current sanctions against Iran.

First, we cannot talk about Iran in a vacuum. We need to pass this 
resolution and put other pressure on this government. We also need to 
make sure that we do not leave Iraq and the Middle East to this 
country. Iran is pursuing nuclear capabilities and is one of the 
world's most egregious exporters of terrorism, funding Hamas, Hezbollah 
and Iraqi insurgents. We are needing to confront Iran because they are 
funding the Iraqi insurgents, therefore killing Iraqis who are on our 
side. They are literally killing our American troops. The seriousness 
of these facts was made clear when Iran's president threatened to wipe 
Israel off the map. That is his intent.

In addition, in April 2006, Ayatollah Khamenei told another one of 
the world's worst human rights abusers, Sudan, that Iran would gladly 
transfer nuclear technology to it. Khamenei stated, ''The Islamic 
Republic of Iran is prepared to transfer the experience, knowledge and 
technology of its scientists.'' That is a quote. I am hopeful the 
ongoing discussions between the Iranians and the United Nations to 
craft a permanent nuclear agreement will be successful. But I am not 
holding my breath.

It is critical that our Government utilize the tools at our disposal, 
including economic and diplomatic sanctions and the appropriate 
distribution of foreign aid to those groups who oppose the current 
regime to deter the threat Iran poses to global security. It is also 
appropriate and essential for us to impose pressure on the other 
nations of the world who prop up the Iranian Government and the 
extremists at the helm by their investing heavily in that nation.

The bottom line is, in spite of its assurances to the contrary, Iran 
remains committed to a nuclear weapons program. The United States must 
be unequivocal in its rejection of these ambitions. We need to realize 
that if you don't want war with Iran, then we need to make sanctions 
work.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.