---
---

# None
## `611bc8816f177af3110084df5b5e3005`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Well, when you look at how many different ways the 
Iraq war is like that pressure point that you hit and it has all these 
different ramifications all over the country, all over the economy, all 
over our society in so many different ways, and this is the one issue 
that needs to be addressed if we are going to make any kind of headway 
into converting our economy over from manufacturing and basically the 
industrial age into a new high-tech economy that everyone benefits from 
it.

Now, in Youngstown, Ohio, or in Warren or Akron or Cleveland or the 
industrial Midwest or Pittsburgh, Detroit, whatever the case may be, if 
the amount of money that was spent already in Iraq, nearly $1 trillion, 
was invested into these communities that, for example, have been hurt 
by globalization, and the big debate in the Ohio and Texas primary was 
NAFTA, NAFTA, NAFTA, and some areas benefited and some areas didn't, 
and Texas did this and Ohio did that and whatnot, just think, if all 
the communities that were very successful 50 years ago and pumped a lot 
of money into this country in steel and rubber and coal and all this 
stuff that were hurt by globalization, the investment of $1 trillion 
was made into those communities in water lines, sewer lines, roads, 
education, community colleges, worker retraining, investments into the 
NIH research, investments in alternative energy, figuring out who's 
going to make the windmill, figuring out how biodiesel is actually 
going to work without having all these different adverse effects, 
figuring out who's going to make the solar panels and how we're going 
to make these investments, $1 trillion that has been spent in Iraq, and 
we have no real signs of success.



No real signs of success. So this is what we're all factoring in 
here: The fact that it's costing us $1 trillion already and projected 
to be $3 trillion; the fact that all that money is borrowed; the fact 
that our friends on the other side raised the debt limit five times and 
borrowed $3 trillion already from Japan, China, and OPEC countries; the 
fact that our homeland has suffered because of the Guard and Reserve, 
and so we are incapable now of addressing major threats to the United 
States; the fact that our army is not at the level it should be, all of 
these factor in. The lack of readiness, the money, and then the lost 
opportunity.

We are Americans. We think about what can be. We think about the 
future. We think about where we want to go, what we want to be, what we 
want to do. And we are stuck because we don't have the resources to 
make the investments that Americans have always made: canals, 
railroads, Internet superhighway, investments in all these research 
projects that bounce into the Internet and put men in spaceships and 
land them on the moon. That's what Americans do. So let's put ourselves 
in a position where we can make these investments so these kids that we 
talk about all the time can have a future, have an economy. When you 
look at the benefits of NASA and science and technology and math over 
the years, how many corporations benefited from all of that, that's 
what we're talking about doing. Let's think about the future.

And when you look at this war as missed opportunities with 
Afghanistan, national security alone. We have missed opportunities 
catching bin Laden, focusing on Afghanistan, focusing on the global war 
on terror, these networks. We should have been tripling and quadrupling 
our special forces and hiring people who speak Farsi to translate tapes 
that we're pulling down from the satellites. All this stuff could have 
been done. A missed opportunity. Economically, missed opportunity.

So, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, thank you for coming down to this floor 
and claiming our hour tonight, and it's been great to be with you 
again. And we're going to keep plugging away here.