---
---

# IRAQ
## `612572554ccd67ece67251ec0436cb74`
`Mr. BROWN — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, 4 years ago today, as Senator Menendez 
said, the President landed on an aircraft carrier, amid a flurry of 
pomp and circumstance, and declared, ''Mission accomplished.''

Since that day, much has happened. Since that day, 3,000 brave 
American soldiers and marines have died in Iraq. This war has gone on, 
since that day, longer than World War II. Since that day, the United 
Nations has estimated that 35,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed. 
Since that day, U.S. taxpayers have spent $450 billion on the war in 
Iraq.

To get an understanding of what $450 billion is, if we spent $500 
every second of every minute of every hour of every day, it would take 
29 years to spend the $450 billion we have spent in Iraq.

Now, 4 years later, our troops in Iraq are stuck in the middle of a 
civil war. Too many of our brave soldiers do not have the body armor 
they need, in spite of the imploring of so many of us to the 
administration to do what they need to do to protect our soldiers. Now 
thousands of Guard men and women face early and extended redeployment.

Four years later, the will of the people resonates in townhalls and 
in


churches, in back yards and in living rooms across this country. Their 
message is clear: Mr. President, redeploy our troops out of Iraq.

Up to now, however, the President has refused to hear the calls of 
millions of Americans. He has refused to listen to voters last fall who 
demanded a different course in Iraq. He has refused to listen to the 
Iraq Study Group, which recommended the redeployment of our troops out 
of Iraq. He has refused to listen to his own generals who have implored 
him, in many cases, to disengage from this civil war. He has refused to 
listen to Congress.


The supplemental on its way to the White House echoes what many of us 
in Congress and military families across this great country have been 
saying: We need a new direction for Iraq.

We take a backseat to no one in supporting the brave men and women 
fighting in Iraq. That is why so many of us have pushed this 
administration, pushed the civilian leadership in the Pentagon and in 
the White House to equip our soldiers with proper body armor.

We take a backseat to no one in supporting the families of our 
soldiers overseas. That is why so many of us in this Chamber have 
pushed to help these support groups that have formed all over the 
country for soldiers and helping them reintegrate back into their jobs, 
back with their families and their society when they return home from 
Iraq.

But more of the same is not a plan for our troops and will not end 
the war in Iraq. This war has made our country and our world less safe. 
Congress will continue to fight for our Nation's military by working to 
see that they have the resources and the support they need and the 
leadership they deserve.

This legislation fully funds and supports our troops, while 
establishing conditions that will bring our troops home. It provides 
desperately needed funding to the Veterans' Administration, something 
this administration and previous Republican Congresses have woefully 
underfunded. It provides desperately needed funding to the Veterans' 
Administration to help care for the hundreds of thousands of new 
veterans created by this war.

If the President will not take responsibility for his failures in his 
conduct of this war, then Congress will. If the President will not lead 
our troops home, then Congress will. We owe it to our soldiers, to our 
sailors, to our airmen, airwomen, and to our marines, and we owe it to 
their families.

Instead of threatening a veto, the President should listen to the 
military leaders, listen to the American people, and work with Congress 
to change the course in Iraq.

Vetoing this legislation would deny funding our military and our 
veterans desperately need: $99 billion in emergency Department of 
Defense spending, more than the President's budget; $3 billion for Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles; $4.8 billion in military 
construction for BRAC, the Base Closing Commission; and the VA, which 
has been underfunded by $2 billion in the President's budget, under 
this bill would get $1.7 billion immediately, more than the President's 
VA proposal, and will do better in the next budget. It includes $100 
million for VA mental health services.

It is absolutely outrageous that this Congress--the House and 
Senate--and this President send our men and women off to war, not 
equipping them with the right body armor, not giving them the Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles we know how to build in this 
country, and then when they return home, not giving tens of thousands 
of soldiers and marines the health care they deserve.

In addition to what we do to restore that spending and take care of 
our veterans when they return home, this emergency legislation has over 
$1 billion for Katrina relief, $13 million for mine safety because of 
the increase in deaths in mines in places such as Pennsylvania and West 
Virginia, $625 million for the pandemic flu response, something we 
absolutely need to be prepared for, and $400 million for energy 
assistance for the low-income elderly.

Please, Mr. President, before you decide to veto this bill, read this 
legislation. Don't turn your back on millions of Americans, don't turn 
your back on your military advisers and the military experts, don't 
turn your back on our soldiers. Sign this legislation.
