---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `61262b52d1f4bdf8504b00b297a8c595`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Thank you, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. And first I want to 
say thank you personally for everything you have done for this 
institution and for this Nation. The kind of


leadership you are showing tonight has been shown over and over 
throughout your 3/1/2/ years in the Congress, and I look forward to 
that kind of leadership in the future.

I want to say a few things about posttraumatic stress. The marital 
problems diagram that we saw earlier is a shocking example of the kind 
of thing that we are seeing throughout society as a result of this 
conflict. It turns out that about one in five of our soldiers that 
returns from Iraq is suffering from a serious form of posttraumatic 
stress. And that correlates very well with the numbers we are seeing in 
the graph: About 20 percent of divorce in the current year, 27 percent 
of other problems, 15 percent of infidelity. So we know that those 
numbers are about right. And this is exacerbated by having extended 
tours, by staying there longer than 12 months, and by going back 
repeatedly. And we know now that only about half of the servicemembers 
who are suffering from posttraumatic stress and veterans are receiving 
the right kind of treatment or are receiving any kind of treatment or 
have sought treatment.



We know that only about half of those that are looking for treatment 
are getting the kind of treatment they need. So only about 5 percent of 
the veterans really are getting the kind of treatment that they need on 
that.

We really do owe the veterans of the country that have served, that 
have volunteered in this day and age to serve our country, to go to a 
conflict region, knowing that their lives are in danger, that they 
could end up with post-traumatic stress, that it is going to be harmful 
on their families, nonetheless they volunteered to serve our country, 
to protect our freedom and fight for us back home. No matter how you 
feel about the war and any of those political issues, we should all 
agree that we owe our veterans for what they have done for our country.

You are finding throughout this Congress, the 110th Congress, that we 
have made a collective decision to do what we can for the veterans. We 
have increased the VA budget by $8 billion over the previous year. And 
that is significant. That is great, but we still need to do a lot more, 
and we are moving in that direction.

Today in the Veterans' Affairs Committee we had some bills on the GI 
bill for the 21st century which are an extension of the Montgomery GI 
bill, a terrific advancement to give our veterans the kind of education 
that they need to be productive members of our society.

That money is very, very well spent. I have heard oftentimes that for 
every dollar we invest in education for our veterans, we get paid back 
ten-fold. You can see that as a true indication of what happened after 
World War II. The veterans came back from World War II, and they were 
given a terrific GI bill, and they have contributed to our society in 
so many ways in terms of developing our infrastructure, in terms of 
raising our national stature. And we want to make sure that the 
veterans coming back from Iraq today have those same opportunities to 
contribute in other ways than just participating in the war.

With regard to the Iraq war, a specific type of injury is the 
hallmark or signature of this war, that is the traumatic brain injury. 
Before in earlier conflicts those kind of injuries, a serious form of 
traumatic brain injury resulted in death. Today they know how to treat 
that injury. I will give you sort of a graphic explanation. If that is 
going to be offensive, you better turn off the sound for a little 
while.

Basically in a serious form of traumatic brain injury, you get a 
bullet or shrapnel lodged in the brain, and what happens is your brain 
begins to swell from the injury. And so unless that swelling is dealt 
with very soon after the injury, the subject will die. So what they do 
in the field now is they open up a large section of your skull. They 
remove the skull itself and embed that into your GI territory to keep 
that skull viable so it can be reattached later on. In this situation 
the brain is allowed to swell, and they will have this proceed for 
about a month. During that time they need to put you in a cold 
surrounding. They put a cold jacket on you so you are shivering in your 
bed for about a month. They keep you on medication to keep the swelling 
down. When the swelling eventually goes down, they will reattach the 
skull and let you heal.

Another problem is when you have this sort of injury, you are very 
susceptible to reinjure that, to swell it after they have removed the 
shrapnel if they can or the bullet. You are very susceptible, so you 
have to be very careful a year or longer after this kind of injury.

We had a young man from my district, from the town of Manteca. It is 
a small town of about 60,000 people. He was a Navy corpsman and he was 
serving in Iraq and their convoy was attacked. He was servicing marines 
that were injured, and a piece of shrapnel was embedded into his brain. 
It went in through his eye and he lost his eye. He went through the 
treatment, and then they brought him back to Bethesda, Maryland. I 
visited him there a couple of times. This is a very long recovery. The 
young man is doing fine. He is back home now.

I can tell you the town of Manteca where he grew up and lived and 
went to church really came together for him. They had a dinner when he 
was still in Bethesda. About 300 people came out to the dinner to 
contribute and to show their support for this young man. It was a 
terrific outpouring of community and faith and love. It was a terrific 
thing to be representing this kind of town and this kind of a district 
where people come together in that sort of way for one of their own.

And then when he did come home, the church that he went to, they had 
a gathering. About a thousand people showed up, and he was there 
receiving accolades and welcome and love from the entire community. I 
can tell you, it is a terrible thing to see. Unfortunately, a lot of 
our young men and women who come back from Iraq don't have that strong 
of a community. We need to make sure that we provide them, through 
treatments and efforts to integrate them back into society, to educate 
them, that they get that sort of opportunity and that they receive the 
kind of reward that they should for the kind of service and sacrifice 
that they have made.

With that, I yield back to Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and thank you for 
your leadership.