---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS
## `612fd5baab0166c7e22edb895669d90f`
`Mr. BROWN — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Last night we heard a vision that the President of the 
United States was standing in the Chamber of the House of 
Representatives speaking to all of us. He talked about how best to 
proceed during times of clear economic crisis, job loss, health care, 
energy costs soaring, threats to our domestic safety nets, and a war in 
Iraq with no end in sight.

When news media people asked me what I thought about the speech, one 
of the things I said was I wished the President could have sat in on 
some of the meetings that I had as I traveled Ohio in the last year, my 
State. I had about 80 roundtable meetings of 15, 20, 25 people in a 
community where for an hour and a half I would ask them questions about 
their communities, about their problems. In every corner of the State, 
I heard from veterans and first responders, from farmers, from people 
running small businesses, from teachers, from students, from community 
leaders, from mothers and fathers. I wish the President had been able 
to hear some of this because people clearly want to hear their 
Government is finally committed to change and to fighting for the 
middle class.

They want to hear that the economic policies of the last 7 years, 
policies that have failed them, are a thing of the past and we have a 
new direction. They want to hear about a plan to finally bring back 
good-paying jobs, lower our health care and energy coasts, secure our 
safety nets, and end the war in Iraq.

For Ohioans, the future is about change. Let's say you are driving 
down the road. You notice that the signs, mile markers, exit signs, 
billboards as huge as houses are telling you that you are going in the 
wrong direction: Signs saying wages stagnating, signs saying U.S. jobs 
being shipped overseas, a housing crisis deepening, health care costs 
soaring, increased dependance on foreign oil, product safety unsure, no 
end to the war in Iraq. The longer you stay on the road, the worse 
things get.

So you hit the gas pedal and head further down that road. If you 
drive down the road, the wrong road, long enough, does it become the 
right one? Of course not. You do not proudly log more miles on the 
wrong road. You change direction.

If there is one thing you can say about the administration and its 
supporters in Congress it is that they are consistent. They 
consistently answer to the wealthiest Americans and to the largest 
corporations and pay lipservice to the rest of the population.

Think about last night. The President said 116 million people--if we 
extend the tax cuts, 116 million people will get tax cuts averaging 
$1,800 a person.

Does the President really say--does that really say what the tax cuts 
mean? It is a very small number of people getting huge tax cuts, and 
tens and tens and tens of millions of Americans are getting almost 
nothing.

Does he say it that way? Does he tell the American people that is 
what it is? Of course not. He says the average American will average 
$1,800 from the tax cuts. Simply, that is very misleading. We have seen 
that on tax policy over and over and over in this administration.