---
---

# FILIPINO VETERANS EQUITY ACT OF 2008
## `612fd471635df05050424eae8541ef2d`
`Mr. FILNER — 22 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, let me say this is an important bill for 
our Nation, for our moral standing, and for our historical standing. 
There has been a blot on our record for the last 62 years. We now have 
a chance to remove it.

I am surprised to hear from my friend, Mr. Stearns, that he wants to 
play off one veteran against another and say there are higher 
priorities. That is what he and his ranking member objected to in our 
pay-for in S. 1315.

As we deal with the very real problems of our veterans returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan, we have 24 million other veterans to care for, 
whether they be from the Persian Gulf War I, Korea, Vietnam or World 
War II. We have injustices. I don't think the gentleman from Florida 
would have any problem dealing with the injustices from Vietnam where 
we have not honored our Agent Orange claims, and we will try to take 
care of that. I don't think he would have any problem honoring the 
atomic veterans of World War II who, involved in the testing of atomic 
weapons, were not told of the dangers and risks, and they have cancers 
today that they cannot get compensation for. We have to correct that.

So, yes, we are involved with the current veterans, but we also have 
to correct injustices of the past as we are trying to do here in this 
bill on Filipino veterans.

Madam Speaker, I misspoke when I said I didn't have any further 
speakers, and if Mr. Stearns wants more time, he can take from us 
before Ms. Richardson takes the floor.