# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `615f8f41c25f4e3539464f124140a626`
`Mr. AKIN — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Thank you very much, and thank you for taking some time to 
run through a series of events that actually in the last couple of days 
seem a little puzzling to me, I might have to say.

My recollection is is that General David Petraeus, his credentials 
were reviewed over in the other body, and they took a vote as to 
whether or not he was the guy that we're going to put front and center 
to be in charge of the


entire campaign in Iraq, and he got a unanimous vote in the other 
legislative body. That says an awful lot of people had to vote for him 
to get a unanimous vote over there.

Also, as I recall, it was just not so long ago that the Democrat 
party, who's in charge of both the House and the Senate, made the 
request that in September General Petraeus would come before the 
legislature and would make a report as to what the findings were, would 
let us know how things were going. Many people were very skeptical 
about the reorganization, the restructuring of our war in Iraq, around 
the idea of the surge, but people trusted General David Petraeus. They 
trusted him because he has an excellent reputation and record as a 
soldier, but he also is a straight shooter. He doesn't sugarcoat 
things. He explains it the way it is.

And so it was with some sense of alarm and a little bit, I have to 
say, with a sense of frustration that we saw in the New York Times this 
calling General Petraeus where they say ''General Betray Us.''

What we're doing is taking somebody that before we thought they had 
good credibility, we're going to guess what they may say to us, we 
think we may not like what he has to say, so now we're going to try to 
destroy his reputation. I think that's a shame.

My son has served over in Fallujah. As you have mentioned, I also am 
on the Oversight Committee.



One of the things that has been consistent with every witness, week 
after week over a period of months, every witness we could scrounge up, 
conservative, Republican, liberal, Democrat, you name it, the one thing 
those witnesses said was, first of all, they said if we pull out of 
Iraq rapidly, there is going to be a huge bloodbath there.

The second thing is that the whole region will be destabilized. 
Everybody agreed to that. Now, some people said, well, there is nothing 
we can do about it, so we ought to pull out now and cut our losses. 
Other ones said, no, there are some things we could do about it. But 
everybody agreed that a rapid drawdown of troops is not what we should 
be doing in America.

After listening hour after hour to all these experts, I came to the 
conclusion of this simple fact, and that is, it is the least-cost, most 
logical best alternative for us to just go ahead and win the war in 
Iraq.

We are more than halfway, and trying to turn around and back out, 
make excuses and try to lose is just going to be much more costly than 
moving forward and doing a good job.

That's what the general has outlined today in very credible 
testimony. I was very thankful that he is here. I am thankful that you 
took the time to help us to be able to talk about this very important 
subject about how we proceed and the sense of good news. There is a 
little light at the end of the tunnel is what it seems like to me.