---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `616177b45ba4904484eae48ffacd84c7`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Madam President, I wish to pay tribute to the life of 
Army SPC Raymond ''Neal'' Mitchell III. Specialist Mitchell gave his 
life serving our Nation in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Although he may no 
longer be with us, his legacy and spirit will live on through the lives 
he touched and the example he set for others.

Originally from Tennessee, Specialist Mitchell moved to West Memphis, 
AR, in 2002 to live with his grandparents and attend West Memphis 
Christian School. While going to school, Mitchell helped his 
grandparents with the business they had operated for more than 18 
years. Teachers at West Memphis Christian School remember Specialist 
Mitchell for the tremendous strides they witnessed him make as a 
student and as a person. The quiet young man they knew came out of his 
shell and became involved in the school and the community. Specialist 
Mitchell clearly valued the company of friends and family and 
considered returning one day to coach baseball. Upon graduating in 
2004, he enrolled at Arkansas State University in Jonesboro before 
enlisting in the U.S. Army in 2005.

While serving in the Army, Specialist Mitchell became an infantry 
man. Despite the ever-present danger, he courageously devoted his 
skills where he felt they were needed most--becoming the point man, or 
lookout, for his patrol. When asked why he became a point man he said, 
''I'm not the best shot . . . but I'm the fastest.'' It was a testament 
to his bravery, desire to serve his country and devotion to his fellow 
soldiers. In August 2006, his unit deployed to Baghdad where he served 
as a driver and gunner for humvees while on patrol. Over Thanksgiving 
he had the opportunity to return home on a 2-week leave from Iraq. 
During his leave, he spent time with his family in Tennessee and had a 
chance to visit his old school in West Memphis. He told his grandmother 
that after completing his service in the Army, he planned to go back to 
Arkansas State University and try out for the baseball team.

Tragically, Specialist Mitchell died on January 6, 2007, from wounds 
sustained during routine security operations in Baghdad. On January 15, 
he was laid to rest in Smyrna, TN, with full military honors. He was 
posthumously awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.

The loss of someone so young and full of life, and loved by so many 
is a tragic reminder of the terrible consequences of war. While I could 
never find the words to adequately express the sorrow felt by friends 
and family of Neal Mitchell, I hope they can find some solace knowing 
that he lived his life with passion and with love. My thoughts and 
prayers are with his family members, friends, and all those who knew 
and loved him.
