---
---

# RENEWABLE FUELS
## `61720a84c836221b843cd53699da9f73`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for 
picking up on that. There is a reason why there is a strong affinity 
between this Western Iowan and this Texan and lot of the Texas 
delegations.

I know that today is the anniversary of the final battle of the 
Alamo, and I am very much aware of what that means in Texas and across 
this country. In fact, if you walk into my office, this Iowan's office, 
framed there is a letter from Colonel Travis. That level of freedom, 
the Texans reached out for freedom and they had to fight for it a 
number of times, number of different ways. I like that flag that hangs 
in Mr. Hensarling's office that shows a picture of the cannon and says, 
''Come and take it.'' That is the right kind of attitude.

We have this freedom here in America, and there are people here that 
do not want our freedom, they detest our freedom. They just want to 
take our lives, and to understand an enemy like that goes beyond the 
scope of our religious foundation and our beliefs. So I think it is 
important for us to understand this enemy.

I would reflect upon a major from Kentucky whom I spent some time 
with in the Middle East in the early part of December who said: Thank 
you for all your prayers. Thank you for the support for our military. 
We have everything we need. We have the training, the technology. We 
have the weapons. For men that have to do this job, we have everything 
we need, but when you pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray 
that the American people will understand the threat that we are up 
against, and pray that they will not lose their resolve. We will not 
lose ours.

I think that might be an appropriate time, unless the gentleman from 
Texas has another remark to make in watching the clock, Mr. Speaker, I 
would like to close with that thought, that our military is not going 
to lose their resolve. They understand this enemy that we are against. 
This Congress needs to understand this enemy we are against. A majority 
of the American people understand the enemy we are against, and we have 
a historical time here.

We can close the door on the legacy of Vietnam, Lebanon, Mogadishu, 
and we can build upon the success in Afghanistan, and we can close the 
situation in Iraq and build upon that success. If we do that, we have a 
bright and free future. If we fail to do that, every enemy that wants 
to come after us will come after us.

I appreciate again Mr. Gohmert coming down here, the way you engage 
with your constituents and the way that you bring these values, these 
American values out of the heartland to flow all the way through the 
middle part of the United States here. I am proud to serve with the 
gentleman from Texas, Mr. Speaker, and I am glad to have had the 
privilege to address you in this chamber.
