---
---

# None
## `618dc77fb0e1fdbee6297c98529731cc`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, there have been many justifications for why we went to 
war in Iraq. Take your pick: We invaded to capture Saddam's weapons of 
mass destruction, or we invaded to oppose a


dictator and bring democracy and human equal rights to the Iraqi 
people, or we invaded to fight al Qaeda and prevent them from attacking 
us here.

So many reasons have been offered that you can mix and match one from 
column A, two from column B.

Whatever your favorite reason for invading Iraq, the one reason that 
was never offered was that we are invading Iraq to occupy their land, 
establish permanent bases and control their oil. Yet, among Iraqis, 
this perception is that the establishment of permanent bases is 
precisely why we invaded. The insurgents use that perception to recruit 
fighters and incite attacks on our troops.

The bill before us today, introduced by our colleagues, Barbara Lee 
and Tom Allen, along with Jim Moran and David Price, will help combat 
that perception. It states that it is the policy of the United States 
not to establish permanent bases in Iraq and not to control Iraq's oil 
resources.

Mr. Speaker, this is not the first time that the House has spoken on 
the issue. Six separate times the House has passed legislation 
prohibiting or expressing opposition to the establishment of permanent 
military bases in Iraq. Three of those bills have been signed into law. 
Yet, from the President, we continue to get mixed messages.

In May, the President's spokesman talked about a U.S. presence in 
Iraq that looked like our presence in South Korea. Last month, 
Secretary Gates suggested that the President was considering a long and 
enduring presence in Iraq.

Whatever your position on the war, I don't think anyone here in this 
House believes that we should be in Iraq for over 50 years. In case 
anyone needed any further convincing that pursuing a long-term presence 
in Iraq is unwise, the Iraq Study Group was unequivocal on the point of 
permanent bases. ''The President should state that the United States 
does not seek permanent military bases in Iraq''. But instead of 
standing down when the Iraqis stand up, the President seems intent on 
putting down roots. It is the wrong policy yet again.

The Lee-Allen bill will send an important message again that the 
United States has no interest in permanent bases.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.