---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `618f9e5017935284c12c579d785a1cfa`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, if you think that there is too much education 
in this country, then vote for this amendment. If you think that we 
could use more help to people trying to get an education, then you vote 
against it.

I think that the only thing wrong with this program in the eyes of 
the White House is the name of the man that's attached to the program, 
the distinguished Senator Robert Byrd from West Virginia. He sponsored 
this program, which provides needs-based scholarships all over the 
country, some 15,000 of them. I happen to think that's a good thing. I 
think the recipients certainly think it's a good thing. I think the 
working families of the recipients think it's a good thing.

The gentleman says that the White House Budget Office has ranked this 
program as ''not determined'' in terms of effectiveness. I would remind 
you, this is the same White House that is claiming that the surge in 
Iraq has shown great progress. I hardly think that their judgment ought 
to serve as the standing judgment of the House.

I also note, by the way, that the White House also ranks as 
''effectiveness not being determined'' IDEA preschool grants, and IDEA 
Grants for Infants and Families. We've had several efforts on the part 
of people on that side of the aisle today to increase funding for IDEA. 
I didn't see them stopping then because the White House didn't think 
that was such a hot idea. I also see the White House ranks the Federal 
Work Study program as being ''not determined'' in terms of adequacy.

With all due respect, I think this country needs all the education it 
can get. I think it needs all the student aid it can get. And I would 
therefore urge rejection of the amendment.