# IN RECOGNITION OF THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ROTARY CLUB OF BURKE,  VIRGINIA
## `6190a984c517fbf6ba28efa66df2c9db`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
the Rotary Club of Burke, Virginia, on the occasion of its 25th 
Anniversary and to pay tribute to its significant contributions to the 
community.

The world's first service club, the Rotary Club of Chicago, Illinois, 
was formed on February 23, 1905, by Paul P. Harris. The name ''Rotary'' 
is derived from the early practice of rotating meetings among members' 
offices. The Rotary Club concept thrived in its early years, and, by 
1921, there were chapters on six continents. In 1922, the name ''Rotary 
International'' was adopted. The objective of Rotary International is 
to encourage and foster the ideal of community service as a basis of 
worthy enterprise. International understanding, goodwill and peace are 
fostered through the shared commitment to service of Rotarians from 166 
countries.

The Rotary Club of Burke was organized by Brian Tilbury and was 
chartered by Rotary International on June 30, 1984. Since that time, 
the Burke Rotary has grown in not only the number of active members, 
but also in the areas of community service.

The Burke Rotary participates in Polio Plus, which is dedicated to 
the eradication of polio in countries such as Afghanistan, India, 
Pakistan and Nigeria. Closer to home, The Rotary Club of Burke is a 
dependable ally in the Toys 4 Tots Program and the Northern Virginia 
Literacy Council. It also encourages involvement in the Medical Reserve 
Corps, a Fairfax County, Va., program that trains volunteers to provide 
vital services in the event of a public health emergency.

The Rotary Club of Burke has partnered with the Rotary Club of 
Annandale to provide scholarships to deserving students who wish to 
pursue vocational training at Northern Virginia Community College. This 
partnership now provides six scholarships each year and has allowed 
approximately 40 individuals to continue their education and learn a 
marketable skill. The quality of life for each of these students and 
their families will be forever improved because of this opportunity.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating The 
Rotary Club of Burke on the occasion of its 25th Anniversary and to 
express our gratitude for their contributions here at home and abroad.
