---
---

# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL THOMAS H. MAGNESS IV
## `6193b3795dae89bbaef9923717d2328f`
`Mr. CALVERT — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
an individual whose dedication and contributions to southern California 
are exceptional. Southern California has been fortunate to have dynamic 
and dedicated community leaders who willingly and unselfishly give 
their time and talent and make their communities a better place to live 
and work. Colonel Thomas Magness IV is one such individual. On July 1, 
2010, Colonel Magness will be honored at the Change of Command Ceremony 
as the 58th Commander, Los Angeles District, for the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers.

Colonel Magness was born in Fort Campbell, KY. He graduated from the 
United States Military Academy in 1985 with a Bachelor of Science 
degree and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant and began serving in 
the Army Corps of Engineers. He later earned a Master's degree in Civil 
Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin. His professional 
military education includes the Engineer Officer Basic and Advanced 
Courses and the Command and General Staff College.

Colonel Magness has served in the 2nd Armored Division at Fort Hood, 
TX; the 1st Armored Division in Germany; and the 4th Infantry Division 
at Fort Hood, TX. He has been a platoon leader, battalion supply 
officer, company commander, and battalion operations officer. He 
deployed with the 1st Armored Division as part of Operation Desert 
Shield/Desert Storm. Colonel Magness served as the District Commander 
for the Detroit District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Prior to coming 
to Los Angeles, Colonel Magness was a Senior Service College Fellow at 
the University of Texas at Austin. Colonel Magness has served as an 
instructor and assistant professor in the Department of Geography and 
Environmental Engineering at West Point. He has also served two tours 
as an observer/controller (trainer) at the National Training Center at 
Fort Irwin, CA where he led the Sidewinder team, preparing engineer and 
maneuver support units and their leaders for combat operations.

Colonel Thomas H. Magness assumed command of the Los Angeles 
District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on July 10, 2007. Upon assuming 
command of the Los Angeles District, Colonel Magness understood the 
importance of managing water resources in a more comprehensive manner. 
Working closely with local watershed stakeholders, Colonel Magness took 
an innovative and forward looking approach to developing Corps of 
Engineers water resource projects. Among his many accomplishments while 
Commander, Colonel Magness played a significant role in advancing the 
construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem Project, which is one of 
the largest Corps of Engineers projects in the Nation. When completed, 
the Santa Ana River Mainstem Project will provide Orange County with 
dramatically enhanced flood protection.

Colonel Magness' military awards and decorations include the Legion 
of Merit, Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal (four awards), 
and the Army Commendation Medal (four awards). He has been awarded the 
Parachutist Badge, Air Assault Badge, and the Ranger Tab. He is a 
licensed Professional Engineer in the Commonwealth of Virginia and is 
an Accredited Professional for Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED).

Colonel Magness is married to the former Michelle Carnes of Killeen, 
Texas. They have two daughters, Jenna and Shelby.

Colonel Magness' tireless commitment to the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers and his role as Commander of the Los Angeles District has 
contributed immensely to the betterment of southern California. I am 
proud to call Colonel Magness a fellow community member, American and 
friend. I know that many people are grateful for his service and salute 
him as he completes his tour as the 58th Commander, Los Angeles 
District, for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. I also wish him well as 
he assumes command on July 8, 2010 to help rebuild northern Afghanistan 
with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
