---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `6198fcd92e6b88a88dbe63ad7d0ba38e`
`Mr. HOLT — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Ohio for 
initiating this needed debate on our policy in Afghanistan. Indeed, I 
opposed the war in Iraq because I felt it distracted us from finishing 
the job we had started in Afghanistan--finding and bringing to justice 
those who attacked us on 9/11. I think we have to acknowledge that the 
current Administration has accomplished more in less time to address 
the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan than the previous 
Administration did during its eight years in power. The capture of 
Mullah Baradar and the disruption of the Quetta, Pakistan-based Taliban 
leadership group headed by Mullah Omar--these significant tactical 
successes are the direct result of


President Obama's current policies, particularly his success in 
pressuring the government of Pakistan to live up to its obligations to 
help us root out the remaining Al Qaeda and Afghan Taliban elements at 
large in Pakistan. That's the good news. The bad news is that every 
time we take out one of their field commanders, several more rise to 
take their place. This is the nature of insurgency, it is the nature of 
the problem that confronts us, and it is not a problem that will be 
resolved by the continuous, endless use of military force. I came to 
the floor in December 2009 and posed a series of questions about our 
policy in this war, and many of those questions remain unanswered. 
However, several events over the last few months have answered at least 
one question: Are we fighting on the wrong battlefield?

Congress must push the Administration to think anew about this 
problem, as this conflict is not confined to Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
We saw that with the Ft. Hood terrorism incident, and with the near-
tragedy on Christmas Day in the skies above Detroit. The ideas that 
motivated Major Hasan and Mr. Abdulmuttalab are propagated around the 
world via the mass media and the internet. Going to a training camp in 
the Pakistani tribal areas is no longer a requirement for a radicalized 
individual who wants to commit an act of terror.

The extremist ideology that is used to motivate these people itself 
occupies a safe haven--the internet and the global mass media. Unless 
and until we confront that reality, we will not prevail in this 
struggle. That is why we must think anew about how we're approaching 
this problem. I encourage the President to do that, and I encourage my 
colleagues to do that.