---
---

# None
## `619984415a811a744a950d6a924b33e2`
`Mr. SANDERS — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, yesterday, as part of the managers' 
package, the Senate approved an amendment that I offered to the Defense 
authorization bill. That amendment would establish a pilot program at 
the Department of Defense to deal with a very important problem. That 
problem is that all across our country, men and women are returning 
home from the war in Iraq, from the war in Afghanistan, they are coming 
home to big cities, small towns, and rural communities, and they and 
their families, in many cases, are hurting. These are soldiers and 
military family members who are suffering from post-traumatic stress 
disorder, who are suffering from traumatic brain injury, who are 
suffering from depression, and who are watching their marriages and 
their families coming apart. They are suffering nightmares, they are 
suffering panic attacks and sometimes uncontrollable anger and various 
physical symptoms. Because of the stigma, many of these brave soldiers 
do not come forward for help, and others, where the military 
infrastructure is not strong, simply don't know where to turn. They are 
hurting, but they don't know how to get help. In my view, we have a 
moral responsibility to reach out to these soldiers and their families 
and to help them.

The program, approved by unanimous consent yesterday, would create a 
pilot program at the Department of Defense. Under this pilot, funds 
would be provided to adjutant generals to conduct person-to-person 
outreach to soldiers who have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan. In 
other words, the heart of this program is outreach quality. We can't be 
successful in dealing with PTSD if soldiers do not get involved in the 
program, if they are not involved in counseling. I fear very much that 
unless we are aggressive in our outreach efforts, especially in rural 
areas, especially with the National Guard's people, we are going to see 
folks who don't know where to turn.

These trained outreach personnel will be meeting with the soldiers 
and their families. They will be able to make sure the soldiers and 
their families know about the help that is available to them. In other 
words, it doesn't matter how much help we have if our soldiers don't 
know where to turn and what is available. These outreach workers would 
make sure that America's heroes and our military families don't fall 
through the cracks.

As I mentioned, this body unanimously approved this new pilot as part 
of yesterday's Defense authorization bill. I thank the Members for 
their support. That pilot program amendment was cosponsored by Senators 
Sununu, Kerry, Harkin, and Brown. I also point out that this amendment 
is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States.

My amendment today, cosponsored by Senator Leahy, is to make sure the 
commitment we made yesterday to returning servicemembers and their 
families is a real commitment backed by the necessary resources. This 
amendment would provide $10 million to carry out the pilot program for 
State-based outreach programs to assist servicemembers and their 
families created by the Sanders-Sununu-Kerry-Harkin-Brown amendment No. 
2905 to the Defense authorization bill. This amendment is fully offset.

Madam President, I ask for the yeas and nays.