---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `619ba9d39e7424db5f8c1874949a6535`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, take a moment to travel 
through the Nation's hospitals and speak to those in this final injury 
ward, see the young women bending over their soldier husbands who now 
have lost the use of all of their limbs, 25,000-plus injured and 3,000-
plus dead.

It is not the policies of this Democratic majority that is causing 
this absolute disaster. It is the misdirected policies of those in the 
administration who are causing harm to our soldiers.

Let me thank our soldiers for their leadership, for their service, 
and their patriotism. But as I stand here today and look at my Members, 
the Speaker of the House who went into the Mideast, Mr. Giuliani, there 
is no white flag on this side of the aisle, and I reject your insult 
and insensitivity.

This legislation will not give the administration a blank check. It 
will give a new direction to Iraq. It will begin to redeploy soldiers 
if the President cannot certify the readiness in July and then in 
October of 2007. It provides funding for veterans hospitals, for the 
injured with spinal injuries, with brain injury. And, yes, there are 
those on this side of the aisle who understand the shedding of blood of 
our soldiers.

That is why this legislation will allow us to go and fight the 
terrorists, to find Osama bin Laden, and to do the job that we have not 
done since the tragedy and the terrorism of 9/11.

This is a sad day in this body. I want us to support the rule and the 
underlying bill because there is no white flag. We have the solution, 
and that solution is a policy that responds to the needs of the 
American people and our soldiers on the battlefield. No more nine 
soldiers of the 82nd Airborne. We thank them for their service. We 
declare a military success. And we bring our soldiers home.

And maybe it will be good if some of those who did not serve would 
understand what it means to serve.

Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq 
Caucuses, I rise to speak in support of the Conference Report on H.R. 
1591, the ''U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act.'' I support the Conference Report because this 
compromise offers us the first real chance to end the misguided 
invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to 
the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can 
''care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and 
orphan.'' This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's 
international reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the 
responsibility for bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs 
and that is squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government.

Mr. Speaker, the House and Senate conferees have approved legislation 
providing $124.2 billion primarily for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. As part of the legislation, conferees approved a sensible 
plan to redeploy U.S. forces in Iraq paired with progress made by the 
Iraqi government in meeting diplomatic and security benchmarks. These 
legislative provisions, which are subject to a Presidential waiver, 
will ensure adequate rest between tours of duty of both active duty and 
Guard and Reserve forces, while also requiring that their service in 
Iraq not be extended beyond a year for any tour of duty.

President Bush would be required to certify that the Iraqi government 
is meeting the diplomatic and security benchmarks. If he makes that 
certification, deployment shall begin no later than October 1, 2007, 
with the goal of


completing the redeployment within 180 days. After that period, a 
limited number of U.S. forces could remain in Iraq for force 
protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted 
counterterrorism options. The legislation makes it possible for the 
U.S. military to focus its resources on Osama bin Laden, whose 
organization attacked the nation on 9/11, and destroying his base of 
operations in Afghanistan.

Additionally, the U.S. commander in Iraq would provide regular 
progress reports to Congress on both the progress of the Iraqi 
government to take control of that country as well as the status of the 
redeployment efforts.

Finally, the conferees are also to be commended for providing needed 
funding to improve health care for returning soldiers and veterans, for 
continued Hurricane Katrina recovery for the Gulf Coast, to fill major 
gaps in homeland security, and to provide emergency drought relief for 
farmers.

Overall, the conference agreement provides more than $100 billion for 
the Department of Defense, primarily for continued military operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation includes a $1 billion increase 
for the National Guard and Reserve equipment and $1.1 billion for 
military housing. The legislation also provides $3 billion ($1.2 
billion more than the President's request) for the purchase of Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAP)--vehicles designed to 
withstand roadside bombs and more than $5 billion to ensure that 
returning troops and veterans receive the health care that they have 
earned with their service.


Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I did not point out that the tragic 
loss of life last week at Virginia Tech still weighs heavily on our 
hearts and minds. Neither the mind nor the heart can contemplate a 
cause that could lead a human being to resort to such senseless 
violence to injure and destroy fellow human beings. The thoughts and 
prayers of people of goodwill everywhere go out to the victims and 
their families. In the face of such overwhelming grief, I hope they can 
take comfort in the certain knowledge that unearned suffering is 
redemptive.

The war in Iraq has also caused a lot of unearned suffering in Iraq 
and here at home. This is the same war, Mr. Speaker, whose proponents 
misrepresented to the nation would last no more than six months and 
likely less than six weeks. This same war in Iraq, we were led to 
believe by the Administration, would cost less than $50 billion and 
would be paid out of the ample revenues from Iraq's oil fields. The war 
in Iraq, the American people were promised, should have ended years ago 
with Americans troops greeted as liberators by jubilant Iraqis throwing 
rose petals at their feet.

The President has threatened to veto the legislation now before us if 
it passes. According to the President and the Vice-President, H.R. 1591 
''would undermine our troops and threaten the safety of the American 
people here at home.'' Coming from an Administration that has been 
wrong on every important question relating to the decision to launch 
the Iraq War as well the conduct of it, this claim is laughable. Little 
wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans disapprove of the way the 
President is handling the war. But more important, the President's 
claim is simply not true.

Mr. Speaker, many of the nation's most highly respected generals have 
endorsed H.R. 1591; all of them oppose the President's plan to escalate 
the war in Iraq. Take, for example, Maj. Gen. John Batiste, U.S. Army, 
Ret.

''This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. It 
acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing the nation, 
that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically flawed since the invasion 
in March 2003, that our Army and Marine Corps are at the breaking point 
with little to show for it, and that our military alone will never 
establish representative government in Iraq. The administration got it 
terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to their 
constitutional responsibilities.''

Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, USA, Ret. Supports this legislation because it 
''gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government 
down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' 
According to Major Eaton, the real audience for the timeline language 
is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq:

The argument that this bill aides the enemy is simply not mature--
nobody on the earth underestimates the United States' capacity for 
unpredictability. It may further create some sense of urgency in the 
rest of our government, beginning with the State Department.

Lt. Gen. William E. Odom, U.S. Army (Ret.), President Reagan's 
Director of the National Security Agency, supports the bill because it 
''gives the president a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, 
re-orient U.S. strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help 
from many other countries--the only way peace will eventually be 
achieved.''

Mr. Speaker, to date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than 
America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all 
of human history. But there is a difference. The Second World War ended 
in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But 
then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-
in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened 
to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently 
trained and equipped to do the job.


As a result of the colossal miscalculation in deciding to invade 
Iraq, the loss of public trust resulting from the misrepresentation of 
the reasons for launching that invasion, and the breath taking 
incompetence in mismanaging the occupation of Iraq, the Armed Forces 
and the people of the United States have suffered incalculable damage.

The war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,316 brave servicemen and 
women (64 in the first 16 days of this month). More than 24,912 
Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. 
American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this 
misadventure.

The depth, breadth, and scope of the President's misguided, 
mismanaged, and misrepresented war in Iraq is utterly without precedent 
in American history. It is a tragedy in a league all its own. But it 
was not unforeseeable or unavoidable.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health 
and Iraq Accountability Act the House passed last month provides real 
benchmarks and consequences if the Iraqi Government fails to live up to 
its commitments. First, it requires the President to certify and report 
to Congress on July 1, 2007 that substantial progress has been made on 
security, political and reconstruction benchmarks by the Iraqi 
government.

If the President cannot certify that the Iraqi government has made 
substantial progress, redeployment of U.S. combat troops must begin, 
with a goal of being completed within 180 days (by December 31, 2007). 
If the July certification is made, redeployment of U.S. combat troops 
must begin by October 1, 2007, with a goal of being completed within 
180 days (by March 31, 2008).

The measure changes the mission of U.S. troops in Iraq after 
redeployment from combat to training and equipping Iraqi troops, 
targeted counterterrorism operations, and force protection.

I have to say, Mr. Speaker, the Iraqi Government is not off to a good 
start. The Green Zone surrounding Baghdad remains insecure. Two weeks 
ago, a suicide bomber managed to penetrate the security perimeter of 
the Iraqi Parliament and detonated a bomb that killed at least three 
members of the Iraqi parliament and wounded scores of others. 
Additionally, the market represented by Senator McCain as an example of 
the improved security situation in Iraq was turned into a killing field 
within days after Senator McCain's visit. And just last week, we saw 
the bloodiest and deadliest day in Baghdad since the so-called 
''surge'' began when 198 Iraqi civilians were massacred by insurgents.

Mr. Speaker, radical Shiite Muslim cleric Muqtada al-Sadr has 
reasserted his political power by yanking his loyalists from the 
Cabinet, a move aimed at showing his supporters he retains his 
credentials as an opposition leader and which increases the pressure on 
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to loosen his embrace of the U.S. 
occupation, which many Iraqis blame for violence in the country.

These developments, Madam Speaker, illustrate the wisdom of requiring 
benchmarks the Iraqi Government must meet to justify continued American 
blood and treasure in Iraq. Moreover, because those benchmarks are 
established pursuant to President Bush's policies, it is passing 
strange indeed that he would threaten to veto the bill since it 
necessarily means he would be vetoing his own benchmarks for the 
performance of the Iraqi government. He would be vetoing his own 
readiness standards for U.S. troops. The President demands this 
Congress send him an Iraq war bill with ''no strings.'' But the only 
''strings'' attached, Madam Speaker, are the benchmarks and standards 
imposed by the President himself.


Mr. Speaker, in addition to the enormous financial cost, the human 
cost to the men and women of the United States Armed Forces has also 
been high but they have willingly paid it. Operation Iraqi Freedom has 
exacerbated the Veterans Administration health care facility 
maintenance backlog; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical 
treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and 
exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness 
requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces.

The emergency supplemental acknowledges the sacrifices made by, and 
the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces of 
the United States. But more than that, it makes a substantial down 
payment on that debt by providing substantial increases in funding for 
our troops.



The supplemental includes a total appropriation of $2.8 billion for 
Defense Health Care, which is $1.7 billion above the President's 
request. The additional funding supports new initiatives to enhance 
medical services for active duty forces and mobilized personnel, and 
their family members. Included in this new funding is $450 million for 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Counseling; $450 million for Traumatic 
Brain Injury care and research; $730 million to prevent health care fee 
increases for our troops; $20 million to address the problems at Walter 
Reed; and $14.8 million for burn care.

Unlike the Republican leadership of the 109th Congress and the Bush 
Administration, the new Democratic majority is committed to America's 
veterans. What's more, we back up that commitment by investing in their 
well-being. For example, the supplemental includes $1.7 billion above 
the President's request for initiatives to address the health care 
needs of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and the backlog in maintaining 
VA health care facilities, including $550 million to address the 
backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities so as to prevent the 
VA from experiencing a situation similar to that found at Walter Reed 
Medical Center.

We provide an additional $250 million for medical administration to 
ensure there are sufficient personnel to support the growing number of 
Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain a high level of services 
for all veterans; $229 million for treating the growing number of Iraq 
and Afghanistan veterans; $100 million for contract mental health care, 
which will allow the VA to contract with private mental health care 
providers to ensure that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are seen in the 
most timely and least disruptive fashion, including members of the 
Guard and Reserve; and $62 million to speed up the processing of claims 
of veterans returning from Iraq and Aghanistan.

Madam Speaker, when American troops are sent into harm's way, America 
has an obligation to do all it can to minimize the risk of harm to the 
troops. That is why it was so important that we included additional 
funding above the President's request to support our troops. We provide 
$2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of our 
stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped and 
trained. We include $1.4 billion more for military housing allowances 
and $311 million more for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) 
vehicles for troops in Iraq. And there is included in the supplemental 
$222 million more for infrared countermeasures for Air Force aircraft 
to address the growing threat against U.S. air operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan


Equally important, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental contains language 
directing the President to adhere to current military guidelines for 
unit readiness, deployments, and time between deployments.

The supplemental requires the Defense Department to abide by its 
current Unit Readiness policy, requiring the chief of the military 
department concerned to determine that a unit is ''fully mission 
capable'' before it is deployed to Iraq. The President may waive this 
provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's 
deployment is in the interests of national security despite the 
assessment that the unit is not fully mission capable.

The Defense Department is also required to abide by its current 
policy and avoid extending the deployment of units in Iraq in excess of 
365 days for the Army and 210 days for the Marines. The provision may 
be waived by the President only by submitting a report to Congress 
detailing the particular reason or reasons why the unit's extended 
deployment is in the interests of national security.

Mr. Speaker, to reduce the incidence of combat fatigue and enhance 
readiness, it is important that our troops have sufficient ''time out 
of the combat zone and training between deployments. That is why we 
require the Defense Department to abide by its current policy and avoid 
sending units back into Iraq before troops get the required time away 
from the war theater. The President may waive this provision by 
submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's early 
redeployment to Iraq is in the interests of national security.

Mr. Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last 
November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. 
They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They 
voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil 
war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we 
Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held 
more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, 
investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of 
Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group 
Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at 
Walter Reed Medical Center.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the President should sign this measure, in order 
to get these needed resources to our troops and to our veterans and to 
hold the Iraqis accountable. By signing this legislation the President 
can help deliver the message to the Iraqi people that they must take 
responsibility for their own future. By signing this measure the 
President can show some leadership in the transitioning of the mission 
of U.S. troops from combat to training Iraqi troops and 
counterterrorism. Last, this legislation will help restore and 
strengthen our military, with a new Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund 
among other measures.

Last November the American people signaled clearly their loss of 
confidence in the President's leadership and their desire for a new 
direction in Iraq. In less than 120 days, the new Democratic majority 
has begun to deliver. And we will not rest, Madam Speaker, until we are 
clearly on a glide path to the day when our troops come home.

And even then our work will not be done. We must still be about the 
business of repairing the damage to America's international reputation 
and prestige. But this Democratic majority, led by the Progressive 
Caucus and the Out of Iraq Caucus, has ushered in a new era of 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement.

I urge all members to join me in supporting the Conference Report to 
H.R. 1591. This is the best way to ensure accountability to our 
soldiers who have been sent into battle without proper training or 
equipment or a clear mission. It is the best way to keep faith with our 
veterans who are not getting the best medical care when they come home. 
Passing this supplemental appropriations bill is essential to restoring 
our military that is being stretched to the limits by the Bush policy. 
Last, it is absolutely necessary to regain the confidence of the 
American people who demand a new direction in Iraq.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
