---
---

# COLLEGE STUDENT RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `61b608839811c5defd045d9e489cfaa6`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

Across America, our Nation's young people are burdened with this 
President's misplaced priorities. With the debacle in Iraq, many of our 
young people actually give their life or their limb, and with the 
soaring national debt combined with the personal debt for the cost of 
going to college, many of our young people find that their future is 
already mortgaged.

Escalating costs for tuition, the textbooks, for the cost of gasoline 
to get to and from school and work, they all impact who can afford the 
opportunity of higher education.

It was Thomas Jefferson who urged public support of higher education, 
wanting the youth of all of our States to, ''drink from the cup of 
knowledge.'' But today, those students, thirsty for knowledge, confront 
too often a parched, unwelcoming desert of financial need and debt; and 
the last Republican Congress just made matters worse.

This bill represents a constructive step forward in making the dream 
of attending quality institutions a reality. It is a reality that will 
be there, now available, for 47,000 students each year in Texas who 
choose not to get a higher education because of financial barriers.

It lends a hand to working parents who want to earn a degree and 
provide a better life for their children.

It lends a helping hand to a young person who is the first in her 
family to see the inside of a college classroom.

And it lends a hand to middle-class Americans who struggle to save 
for college while their cost of living continues to increase.

A skilled, productive workforce is an investment in our future. We 
cannot afford to leave higher education unaffordable to so many of our 
neighbors.

Pass this bill because our youth are worth the investment