---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `61bf96832e16567a41bab4b761217b75`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, we have just heard a great 
example of an important form of political debate. The Republicans 
specialize in this. It is kind of political necrophilia. There is this 
love of dead Democrats among many Republicans. Democrats who, when they 
were alive were trashed by the right wing, once they are dead and 
safely no longer possibly candidates for office, get lionized. Nothing 
of course shows that better than with Harry Truman, but it is John 
Kennedy, and it is others.

The assertion that the Democrats who are supporting this resolution, 
and the unspoken Republicans who will be joining with us, that we 
somehow oppose the use of force is terrible history. It is wrong. In 
fact, the most recent entirely successful use of military force by the 
United States came from a Democratic President, Bill Clinton--he's 
still alive, so don't say good things about him--and supported by 
Democrats in Congress, and it was opposed by many of the Republicans, 
including many of the current Republican leadership.

Under Bill Clinton, American military forces were used quite 
successfully; and the result is not perfection but a much better 
situation in the former Yugoslavia than we had before. And the 
Republicans brought forth, guess what, nonbinding resolutions.

Now, they pretend to be upset about nonbinding resolutions. Frankly, 
I was a little encouraged when I heard the Bush administration 
criticize nonbinding resolutions, because, up till now, I had thought 
that Bush and Cheney thought that everything we did was nonbinding with 
regard to national security. So they were at least implicitly conceding 
that some things can be binding.

But the fact is that the Democrats strongly supported--I didn't mean 
to make it partisan, they did--the effort in Yugoslavia over Republican 
opposition.

And then let's talk about terrorists. We were attacked in 9/11 from 
Afghanistan and overwhelmingly, with only one exception, Democrats in 
the House and Senate supported the war in Afghanistan. We are 
continuing to support that war in Afghanistan.

I am critical of an administration which has diverted military 
resources and energy and political resources from Afghanistan. They are 
weakening the number one fight against terrorism, which is in 
Afghanistan. And that is one of the reasons for opposing this war in 
Iraq.

Now, the war in Iraq has been, in my judgment, the greatest national 
security disaster in America history. And it isn't one in which we got 
sucked in and had to defend ourselves. It was an entirely voluntary 
error. This administration unwisely went into Iraq on inaccurate 
grounds; and not only did they make the wrong war, they have been 
disastrously wrong in virtually every decision. So the question now is, 
are we doing more good than harm to the causes we care about?

I believe, in fact, that fighting terrorism, fighting extremism, 
fighting that particularly radical fundamentalist form of Islam, not 
all Islam, obviously, by all means, that that is


weakened by our being in Iraq. It has clearly weakened our effort in 
Afghanistan. The commanders in Afghanistan beg for more troops, and 
instead they go uselessly to Iraq, uselessly not because of the lack of 
capacity of the fighting people but because they are condemned to fight 
in a very mistaken strategy.

It has emboldened radicals elsewhere. This administration predicted 
that our overthrowing Saddam Hussein would strengthen the forces of 
moderation. In fact, it has weakened them.

Let's remember that when America invaded Afghanistan with the 
overwhelming support of both parties and the united support of this 
country, we were popular in the world. We mobilized the world. And 
since that time came the invasion of Iraq. And because of the mistaken 
decision and the poor way in which it is carried out, I do not think 
there has been a time in recent history when America has been less able 
to accomplish in the world the things we want to accomplish.

So then the question is, okay, but isn't this escalation going to 
change that?

There is zero reason to think that. First, we are told this is what 
the administration says. If ever any group of people forfeited their 
right to be listened to, it is the collection of people who have shown 
an aggressive incompetence with regard to Iraq. Can anyone think of a 
single decision from the invasion forward that has been correct, that 
has been borne out by events?

So why do you take people who have been wrong about everything, wrong 
about the politics, wrong about the military situation, wrong about the 
economy, and then you say, oh, but this time we think they got it 
right. Maybe it is the theory of random occurrences, that people, 
having been wrong so often and so consistently, they are owed one. But 
that is not a basis on which we ought to be making a decision.

This war in Iraq continues to hurt rather than help our efforts 
overall. If I thought we were doing some good there, then it would be a 
different story. But the causes of the disaster, in addition to the 
rampant incompetence of this administration at virtually all levels, 
the cause of the disaster is internal, it is ethnic and political and a 
whole range of other things within Iraq. It is not a lack of American 
firepower.

So to try to resolve this disaster by taking the advice of people who 
created the disaster and have been wrong about it would be a terrible 
error, and I hope the resolution passes.