---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `61c1a59eb8d3adac18188382076824b2`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our 
troops and dedicated civilian professionals, and to my former comrades 
and friends now serving, and against the Democrat resolution 
disapproving of reinforcing our troops in combat.

This week, Congress has spent its time debating a futile, nonbinding 
resolution when, in reality, we should be debating policy initiatives 
that will help our troops in their mission and lead to stability. I 
believe that in fighting the war in Iraq that there is room for an open 
and honest debate about the best way to advance the compelling national 
security interests of this Nation. Honest debate, respectful 
disagreement, and constructive dialogue are components of our great 
Republic; and it is important to honor the process that our institution 
provides.

Furthermore, this measure seeks to debate whether we support an 
operational decision that, in reality, should be made by the commanders 
on the ground, not by politicians in Congress. What are we going to be 
debating next week, Mr. Speaker? Which block in Baghdad? Which precinct 
to target? This nonbinding resolution serves no purpose other than 
pacifying the Democrats' political base and lowering


morale in our military. At least one Democrat has likened this type of 
resolution to a child stomping in the corner.

The troops will be doing their job by completing the mission that 
they have been given, and we in Congress need to do ours. Our troops 
who are fighting abroad do not get to debate the validity of their 
mission. Their enemies are real, and they are fighting day in and day 
out to protect our country, the Iraqi people and themselves.

This resolution does not help make progress in Iraq. It does not 
provide a new approach in Iraq and does not make our Nation or our 
troops more secure. That is what we need to be doing, not wasting our 
time debating a measure that can dishearten and demoralize our citizens 
faithfully serving in theater while encouraging and emboldening the 
adversaries of stability.

We have seen the aggression of this faceless and cowardly enemy in 
the bombing of Pan Am 103 in 1988, in al Qaeda's attack on the USS Cole 
in 2000, and the tragic events of September 11. This enemy is driven by 
hate and seeks to do Americans harm.

Over the course of time, it has become evident that we are involved 
in a long-term struggle with Islamic extremism to preserve our freedom 
and the freedom of the world. Every day, our men and women in uniform 
and our civilian professionals risk their lives to protect our freedom. 
From providing security to building an economy, we are strengthening 
the security of our country and the international community.

We have not had a terrorist attack on our soil in over 5 years 
because of our vigilance in pursuing the security of our Nation at home 
and abroad. Success in Iraq is our only option for continued national 
security and the preservation of freedom.

I have had the opportunity to speak to hundreds and hundreds of men 
and women in uniform whose experience spans all ranks, all services, 
and all units. Consistently, they share an optimistic and sober message 
about the importance of continuing the struggle to defeat Islamic 
extremists. A resolution like this blurs the many successes in the war 
they have had against the extremists.

The messages of our troops do not come without an understanding of 
the reality and the resources that we must commit to this mission. 
Fighting the terrorists will require a strong commitment, and the road 
to victory will be long. Our partners in Iraq have stated their 
commitment to the mission, and we must stand behind them.

At the same time, the Iraqis must continue to assume responsibility 
for their success as a nation and that our commitment is not open-
ended. Success in countering an insurgency largely happens outside of 
the realm of combat. Security is only one aspect.

We must work on establishing frameworks within Iraq that can keep the 
water running and the electricity on, which will in turn allow people 
to go to work and children to return to school. Returning normal life 
to Iraqis is important, but it should not be the sole responsibility of 
our troops who are providing security and stability. We need to 
strengthen the involvement of the international community in this 
endeavor as we empower and engage the Iraqis.

I strongly believe that if we are to fully support our troops that we 
must listen to what they are saying. And when the troops are saying 
that they are committed to their mission then, I believe, we should 
listen. I remain a committed supporter of our troops, and I thank them 
for their service.

Soon, Congress will vote on the Department of Defense's supplemental 
budget; and in it, the Pentagon is requesting $5.6 billion for troop 
reinforcement. This will be the real test of commitment, not this 
meaningless resolution. A ''yes'' vote on that funding supports the 
troop reinforcement being debated here today, and a ''no'' vote will 
delete funding for this important mission. This will not only show 
people where Congress stands, but give accountability to our actions 
here in Congress with the force of law behind it.

I support our troops and our civilian professionals, and I intend to 
keep my commitment to my many friends on active duty and to vote to 
provide them the funding for their mission when the time comes.

To my former comrades and friends in the 101st Airborne Division and 
82nd Airborne Division, thank you for answering the call again and know 
that I stand with you.