# STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `61c88e45473315a0df50810514746ca0`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 11 April 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I thank the Chair and the distinguished 
manager. I thank him also for his leadership on this issue, which has 
been long and steady.

Last summer, I had the privilege of coming to the floor to speak on 
this issue, accompanied by a summer intern from my office, a college 
student from Massachusetts named Beth Colby. Beth was paralyzed from 
the chest down in a car accident when she was 14 years old. She came to 
Washington, like so many women, and so many young folks, period, to 
learn about Government. She also came here with a determination to try 
to fight for the scientific research that holds untold promise for her 
and for tens of millions of Americans. She wanted to be, as she put it 
to me in asking to come to the floor during the debate on stem cell 
research, a face Senators can see so they can see what they are voting 
for.

The truth is there are people like that in every single community in 
our country. They are all hoping to benefit one day from lifesaving 
stem cell therapy. Grandparents with Parkinson's disease have that 
hope. Soldiers coming back from Iraq who are crippled by a roadside 
bomb have that hope. Children who, decades from now, will suffer from a 
disease we are not aware of yet, or that we know well, hope stem cell 
research might be able to cure them.

Since we first heard about stem cell research several years ago, the 
country has been on a journey together. We have discussed it. A lot of 
folks have sat around their kitchen tables and in their living rooms 
and have talked about stem cell research. Everybody has debated it. We 
have learned a lot more about the promise and the peril of stem cell 
research. At first, our natural reaction was to temper our excitement 
with a well-founded fear that this technology perhaps posed 
insurmountable ethical hurdles. The President himself deliberated. He 
appointed a task force. He studied and debated the fine points with 
teams of bioethicists. He reached what he felt was a reasonable 
compromise. In August of 2001, he announced to the American people that 
Federal funds would be used only for research on a few lines of stem 
cells that were already harvested. Back then, he said stem cells 
''offer both great promise and great peril. I have decided we must 
proceed with great care.''

That was the President speaking. Since then, America's understanding 
of this issue has evolved. We have learned that the lines available for 
research are far less useful than we had initially hoped. We learned 
the technology is as promising as we dreamed it might be. We have come 
to understand that embracing stem cell research does not condemn us to 
the slippery slope of human cloning.

Since the President's decision, stem cell research funded by the 
private sector and by the States has gone ahead across the country. But 
it has gone ahead slower than many of us might like in the absence of 
crucial Federal funding--fast enough to fill the pages of major medical 
journals with exciting new discoveries. But this research has taken 
place on a large enough scale at our most important educational 
research institutions to be able to tell us it addresses our major 
fears. What in the summer of 2001 might have seemed a well-founded 
suspicion has completely proven to be unfounded. As Newt Gingrich told 
me yesterday, after reversing himself and acknowledging the threat 
posed by global warming is both urgent and real, serious legislators 
change their stances over time. That is permissible. That is the 
product of thinking, the product of additional information and 
additional input.

Look at the Senate. Republicans such as John McCain, former majority 
leader Bill Frist, the Senator from Utah, Orrin Hatch, who is on the 
floor now, have looked carefully at the scientific facts and have 
searched their own consciousness. They have all reached the same 
conclusion: Opposing stem cell research is the opposite of a pro-life 
policy.

Last summer, 63 Senators, Republicans and Democrats alike, and 235 
House Members voted in favor of stem cell research. That was a 
responsible bill, a consensus bill. It was designed specifically to 
address the concerns of lawmakers who are worried about the bioethics--
and appropriately worried, I might add. It is difficult to get 63 
Senators to agree on anything more controversial than the sort of 
standard fare of America, and it is especially difficult on a 
polarizing, emotionally charged issue. But we came together as a 
Senate. We hammered out our differences and they came together in the 
House, and we arrived at a smart, thoughtful, sensitive piece of 
legislation that reflected a consensus and respected our collective 
conscience. When we did so, we were confronted by a President who 
promised to proceed with great care, whose commitment to deliberation 
has calcified into a stubborn refusal to confront reality or re-engage 
in a changing debate.


America has evolved on this issue, but the President has stood still. 
That is why over an overwhelming bipartisan Senate majority, the 
President finally dusted off the veto pen and offered up the first and, 
to date, the only veto of his entire Presidency. The President has 
signed good and bad legislation--torture bills, pork, giveaways to oil 
companies, and tax cuts for millionaires. But when it came to a strong 
emerging national consensus on an issue that brings hope to families 
across the country, the President chose to shut down the debate and 
block Federal funding for scientific research.

Make no mistake, this is a personal issue--deeply personal for each 
of us in this Chamber, and for the President. I understand that. I am 
confident when the President made his decision about stem cell research 
over 6 years ago, he searched his mind and his heart, as all of us who 
care passionately about this issue have done. If he vetoes stem cell 
research again, that will send a message that this country no longer 
intends to be the global leader in scientific knowledge and discovery. 
It would send a message to Americans suffering from Parkinson's, spinal 
injuries, and countless ailments that their well-being is not important 
to us. We are telling these people we could do more to cure you, but we 
choose not to. We are telling them help is not on the way.

The current policy is eroding our national advantage on stem cell 
research. It is undermining the hopes and dreams of millions of 
Americans. We are tying our scientists' hands behind their backs and 
holding them back from the possibilities of the future.

We need a Federal policy that builds on the advances being made in 
our States and our universities, in our private foundations, and in our 
research centers, all of which have proceeded in a thoughtful and 
commonsense way to the ethics concerned in this issue. The research now 
is already showing tremendous promise. In my State of Massachusetts, 
some of the best scientists in the world are working at the Whitehead 
Institute for Biomedical Research at MIT and the Harvard Stem Cell 
Institute. We are still in the early stages of this line of research, 
but there is here the kind of discovery that we are already making.

Let me explain. The Harvard Stem Cell Institute identified cells that 
they call ''master cardiac'' stem cells, which is a single cell type 
that gives rise to the major cellular building blocks of the mammalian 
heart. That discovery rewrote the story of cardiac development and 
contributed a significant building block toward what could become 
revolutionary new treatments for heart disease. We are already seeing 
cures for diseases in our labs.

At the Whitehead Institute, a leading stem cell researcher and his 
team used stem cell therapy to cure a mouse suffering from an immune 
deficiency disease. As you can see, the research is still in the early 
stages, so we cannot say what the immediate results are going to be for 
humans. But, rest assured, today's breakthroughs in mice have often 
become tomorrow's cures for humans.

Now we can all hope that alternatives to embryonic stem cell research 
hold similar promise. But you


cannot wish away what our scientists are telling us. Research on 
embryonic stem cells is incredibly promising, pivotal to this new 
field, and not easily sidestepped. Nobel Prize winners past and 
present, and most likely future, believe this is the future biology of 
medical science.

People of good will and good sense can resolve these complicated 
ethical issues without stopping lifesaving research. The country has 
led the world in revolutionary discoveries, with our breakthroughs and 
our beliefs moving ahead together, symbiotically. Senate passage of 
this bill with a veto-proof majority can put us, again, on that path.

We are giving this administration yet another chance to consider a 
misjudgment with profound consequences. We are working to create a 
framework for ethical, federally funded research. Like the bill passed 
last summer, this legislation provides important ethical safeguards by 
extending federally funded research only to embryos that are, one, 
donated by in vitro fertilization clinics; two, created specifically 
for fertility treatment, not for research; three, in excess of 
treatment needs and would otherwise be discarded; and four, donated by 
treatment-seeking individuals who provided written, informed consent 
and were not offered financial inducements. I cannot think of any way 
to more effectively and thoughtfully address the ethical issues that 
are concerned here.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 2 more minutes. Is that 
possible?