---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `61cf92301d2f62c409834fdeb07c307c`
`Mr. KERRY — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today Representatives Ellsworth and Emanuel 
and Senator Obama and I are introducing the Fair Share Act of 2008 
which ends the practice of U.S. Government contractors setting up shell 
companies in foreign jurisdictions to avoid payroll taxes. On March 6 
2008, Farah Stockman of the Boston Globe reported that Kellogg, Brown 
and Root Inc. KBR, has avoided payroll taxes by hiring workers through 
shell companies in the Cayman Islands. The article estimates that 
hundreds of millions of dollars in payroll taxes have been avoided a 
disturbing, yet not all too surprising discovery.

KBR is an American engineering and construction company, formerly a 
subsidiary of Halliburton, based in Houston, TX. Throughout its 
history, KBR and its predecessors have won numerous contracts with the 
United States military. In recent years, however, many of these 
contracts have been called into question based on everything from 
wasteful spending to mismanagement and lack of competition. The evasion 
of payroll taxes is yet one more serious misstep.

The Fair Share Act of 2008 will end the practice of U.S. Government 
contractors setting up shell companies in foreign jurisdictions to 
avoid payroll taxes. The legislation amends the Internal Revenue Code 
and the Social Security Act to treat foreign subsidiaries of U.S. 
companies performing services under contract with the U.S. Government 
as American employers for the purpose of Social Security and Medicare 
payroll taxes. The legislation will apply to foreign subsidiaries of a 
U.S. parent. The degree of common ownership applied by the legislation 
is 50 percent, meaning that the U.S. parent would have to own more than 
50 percent of the subsidiary.

In addition, the legislation addresses the situation in which a U.S. 
subsidiary of a foreign corporation subcontracts with its foreign 
subsidiary to perform a contract with the U.S Government. In this 
situation, the legislation would apply to wages paid by the foreign 
subsidiary to its U.S. employees. The legislation does not address the 
situation in which the foreign parent contracts directly with the U.S. 
Government. Present law will continue to apply to totalization 
agreements. The legislation applies to services performed after the 
date of enactment.

The bottom line is this: Federal contractors should not be allowed to 
use tax loopholes to avoid paying U.S. Medicare and Social Security 
taxes on behalf of their American employees working in Iraq. 
Furthermore, KBR should not have a competitive advantage over its U.S. 
competitors because it sets up sham corporations to avoid paying its 
fair share of U.S. payroll taxes. Failing to contribute to Social 
Security and Medicare thousands of times over is not shielding the 
taxpayers they claim to protect, it is costing our citizens.

At a time when as much as $300 billion per year in taxes goes 
uncollected by the government, and by some estimates more than a third 
of that money may be related to corporations using offshore tax havens, 
we should close every loophole possible.

Just last week, the Government Accountability Office, GAO, went to 
the Caymans to investigate U.S. companies' offshore operations. The GAO 
went to look at the buildings where U.S. corporations locate shell 
corporations. These corporations are often nothing more than a computer 
file. According to the Boston Globe, the KBR Cayman Island corporations 
do not even have an office or a phone number. I commend Senators Baucus 
and Grassley for requesting this investigation.

As a member of the Finance Committee, I will continue working to 
close corporate loopholes that are fueled by greed. I urge my 
colleagues to support ending this egregious practice.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.