---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `61e5c22c9c91303bd1b4322889326409`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 29 April 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Thank you, Madam President.

Let me start by commending Chairman Conrad for his leadership of our 
Budget Committee and especially for the hundreds of hours he and his 
staff have dedicated to getting this budget done and accommodating both 
the priorities and concerns of so many of us in this body. Putting 
together a budget is never an easy process, but I believe our chairman 
has achieved a very good balance that will set us on a course both to 
reduce our deficits and invest in the areas we know will make us 
stronger in the future: energy, health care, and education. A budget is 
a statement of priorities, and ours are very clearly in this budget. We 
put the middle class first, and we get our country back on track by 
investing in our future.

There is no doubt that we have inherited great challenges at this 
time. We now face the worst economic crisis in generations. Since 
December 2007, we have lost 5.1 million jobs, including 3.3 million of 
those in just the past 5 months. So before we consider where we are 
going, I believe it is important today to talk a little bit about where 
we have been.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have been bemoaning 
deficits and debt with not a moment of consideration for their own 
record on this issue. Back in 2001, Republicans controlled the full 
power of our entire Government. Under the leadership of President Bush 
and Republicans in Congress, record surpluses that were created under 
President Clinton became record deficits. Those Republican deficits 
grew and grew, and now today they add up to trillions of dollars in new 
debt that is going to be shouldered by future generations of Americans.

So it was with this perspective, which I hope our Republican friends 
will start to acknowledge and own up to, that we know at this point in 
time we have two choices: Choice 1 is to continue down the Republican 
deficit path--no investments in the future, a widening gap between the 
rich and the middle class, and more massive deficits. Choice 2 is 
represented by the budget we present today. It improves the economy by 
investing in energy and education and health care reform so that we are 
stronger in the future, cutting taxes to the middle class, and 
addressing deficits so that our children do not continue to bear the 
burden of bad decisions well into the future.

After 8 years of the Bush administration's very shortsighted budget 
and misplaced priorities, we are now working with President Obama to 
invest in our Nation's needs and chart a new course for America. We 
have chosen a new path with this budget. The American people deserve an 
economic plan that works for everyone in this country. Our budget makes 
responsible choices that will help get our economy moving again. I want 
to talk about a few of them. Let me start with education.

We all know that education and training are the keys to our future 
strengths. In this new global economy, a good education is no longer 
just a pathway to opportunity, it is a requirement for success. We will 
not rebuild our economy and be competitive long term unless we can both 
create jobs and ensure that our American workers have the education and 
skills needed to fill those jobs.

This budget before us invests strongly in education and in training. 
We also place a priority on making sure American students do not fall 
behind as they make their way into the global marketplace. Our budget 
helps to retrain American workers for careers in those new high-growth 
and emergent green industries, such as health care or renewable energy 
and energy-efficient construction, so that those workers stay in the 
middle class.

This budget makes strong investments in early childhood education and 
home visiting programs to make sure that our young students are healthy 
and that they are ready for school. It also, importantly, invests in 
making sure college is affordable and accessible for more of our 
students. We want all of our students to achieve a postsecondary 
credential, whether it is through a registered apprenticeship, through 
a community college, or through a university. This budget helps point 
us in that direction.

As a nation, we have to change the way we think about preparing our 
young people for careers, starting with making sure education works 
better.

This current economic crisis has cost us dearly. Every weekend I go 
home to my home State of Washington, and I hear about another business 
that has closed or another family who cannot pay the bills. But we know 
that if we make changes and we make smart investments, we can move our 
country forward. Investing in education and investing in training is 
one of those smart investments.

That brings me to our next investment. As we are all aware today, 
energy issues are some of the most pressing facing our Nation today. 
Our dependence on foreign oil has left us beholden to other nations, as 
middle-class families pay the price at the pump. By making renewable 
energy a priority, we can reduce our dependence on foreign sources of 
energy in the future and help create green jobs here at home and leave 
a cleaner environment for future generations. This budget does that.

On an issue that everyone knows is near and dear to my heart, I 
commend both the committee and President Obama for making veterans a 
priority in this budget process. Our men and women in uniform and their 
families have served and sacrificed for our Nation. After years of 
underfunded budgets and being overshadowed by other priorities, this 
budget finally does right by them. I commend my Budget chairman and our 
President and all of us for making sure that happens in this budget.

This budget is honest with the American people about the cost of war, 
not just by paying for our veterans care but by paying for the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan on budget for the first time since they started 
over 6 years ago.

I also note that this budget meets our commitment to nuclear waste 
cleanup in my State and across the country. Workers at Hanford nuclear 
reservation and people of that community sacrificed to help our Nation 
win World War II. Hanford and other sites are now still home to 
millions of gallons of waste, and our Government needs to live up to 
our promise to clean them up. This budget does that.

As is the case in many States across America, farming and ranching 
and agricultural production is my home State's largest industry. 
Protecting our agricultural sector is critical to the economy, the 
environment, and to our quality of life. We have to make sure our rural 
communities are strong. We worked to make sure we have a bright future 
for our farm families. Production agriculture, such as Washington 
State's wheat farming, is a very volatile business. A workable safety 
net such as in the farm bill is vital to the security of our family 
farms. I have also long supported the Market Access Program which 
provides funds for our producers to promote their products overseas and 
expand into those important international markets. Especially in these 
difficult economic times, when our foreign competitors are trying to 
limit our market access with tariffs, the last thing we should be doing 
is cutting programs such as MAP that will help growers in a competitive 
marketplace.

I want my colleagues to know I will continue to work with everyone to 
make sure we find ways to support one of the staples of our economy, 
our agricultural community.

We all know our health care system is broken. It needs real reform. 
Today we have an historic opportunity to finally tackle this challenge. 
These investments are not luxuries. They are essential to this 
country's future strength. That is why we have to prioritize the health 
professions workforce and access to quality care in rural areas. We 
have to work to ensure that preventive measures are given priority so 
American families are not left with giant bills for expensive care down 
the road.



Some critics of this budget are saying now is not the time to tackle 
health care reform. I believe that is pretty shortsighted reasoning. 
There is a direct connection between our Nation's long-term prosperity 
and developing health care policies that stem the chronic bleeding in 
business and in State and national budgets. A recent editorial in the 
Everett Herald newspaper in my home State made this point very well. 
They said:




 Yes, the economy is the most urgent challenge. But our 


 broken health care system and addiction to oil threaten to 


 become our long-term undoing.



 They're all intertwined: Failing to find solutions to our 


 long-term problems will likely stunt future economic 


 expansions, creating longer and deeper downturns.


Health care is an important priority in this budget before us.

There has been a lot of talk over the past few weeks about the 
inclusion of reconciliation in this budget. Some following this debate 
are probably very surprised that our Republican colleagues, who were so 
adamant about using this procedural motion when it came to passing huge 
tax cuts for a very few while paying for it on the backs of many, would 
now be arguing against its inclusion in this budget. As I said earlier, 
there is a direct connection between America's long-term prosperity and 
improving our health care system. Today nearly 46 million Americans do 
not have health insurance. One in five working adults does not have 
good coverage today. There was a survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation 
this month that found 6 in 10 American families put off care because of 
cost, and 42 percent of those people said they relied on home remedies 
instead of going to see a doctor.

Of course, just this week the covers of newspapers across the country 
are filled with photos of people wearing surgical masks. TV screens are 
filled with commentators talking about the possibility of a new strain 
of flu crippling the country and our economy. I can't think of a better 
time to be talking about the need to insure all Americans, to focus on 
prevention, and to make absolutely certain that when there is the 
possibility of a public health crisis, no one puts off medical care 
because they don't have the means to pay for it. But in order to do all 
that, we have to work together.

Democrats would strongly prefer to address health care in a 
bipartisan manner and by going through the regular legislative process. 
It is our full intent to do just that. Democrats believe all Americans 
deserve high quality health care that reduces our costs, makes care 
more affordable, and creates jobs in the health care sector. We believe 
in protecting existing coverage when it is good, improving it when it 
is not, and guaranteeing health care for the millions of Americans who 
have none. We know the only way for our economy to fully recover is by 
making this critical investment in health care today. We are committed 
to working with Republicans to do that. But they have to demonstrate a 
sincere interest in legislating, because the stakes are too high and 
the cost of inaction is too great for us not to move forward. As long 
as Republicans want to be at the table, they have a seat. We welcome 
them. This is simply too important an issue not to have their voices. 
But it is also too important an issue to stall using partisan tactics. 
We have to address this crisis. We intend to move forward this year.

I urge all colleagues to stop debating the process and, instead, join 
the conversation about how we move forward on this issue that is so 
critical to America's families today and to our Nation's future 
economic strength.

America has paid dearly for the Bush administration's failure to 
invest in our Nation. We all know that. We don't have to tell the 
American people. They wake up to it every day: rising health care 
costs, pink slips, crumbling infrastructure, bills and mortgages they 
can't afford to pay. We tried it the other way for 8 years. It is time 
to invest in America again. It is time to give the middle class a 
break. It is time for honesty, and it is time to make bold decisions. 
This budget invests in our future and begins to get us back on track.

I thank our chairman who is now in the Chamber and tell him I 
appreciate the tremendous work he and his staff and so many people did 
to make sure we now have a budget before us that begins to get America 
back on track.

I yield the floor.