---
---

# LUMBEE RECOGNITION ACT
## `61ea433a1ad26d7ba31f1261c2880ff1`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise to support the proposed rule 
to bring this bill, H.R. 65, for consideration. And I certainly would 
like to commend my good friend, the gentleman from New York, who's 
managing this legislation, and my good friend from Florida, the 
opposition, for their being here and to deliberate on the importance of 
this bill.

Madam Speaker, this is not a Republican or a Democratic piece of 
legislation. I say this because this bill has the absolute support of 
the chairman of the Committee on Natural Resources, Mr. Rahall, and 
also the senior ranking member, the distinguished gentleman from 
Alaska, Mr. Don Young. So we have bipartisan support to this proposed 
bill. In fact, over 215 Members have already sponsored this proposed 
legislation.

And I would be remiss if I did not give special commendation for the 
outstanding job that the gentleman from North Carolina has put in 
trying to bring this legislation for the last 6 years I believe, the 
gentleman from North Carolina, Mr. McIntyre. And I do commend him very 
much for his leadership and for his sensitivity in bringing this 
legislation out to the floor.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 65 would extend Federal recognition status to the 
Lumbee tribe of North Carolina. Several studies undertaken by the 
Department of the Interior have consistently concluded that the Lumbees 
are a distinct self-governing Indian community historically located on 
the Lumbee River in North Carolina.

This legislation is long overdue. Indeed, Congress passed the Lumbee 
Act of 1956. On its surface, one would deduce that this law was to 
provide Federal recognition to the Lumbee people. Instead, Congress 
perversely added a provision making the Lumbee Indian people ineligible 
for the services provided by the United States to other federally 
recognized tribes.

Today, we are simply here to rectify this injustice. This bill was 
reported by the Natural Resources Committee by a vote of 24-7. The 
tribe agreed to the provision that no gaming operation is ever to be 
part of their operations if they are ever to be recognized.

Madam Speaker, finally, I would note that the tribe has sought 
recognition through the current administrative procedure which was 
developed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which, by the way, was done 
through Federal regulation. It was not done by statutory mandate by the 
Congress. But this is not an option for them.

In 1989, the Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs at the Department 
of Interior made the determination that the Lumbee Indian people are 
not eligible for the current process, and the fact that we have to go 
back to the provisions of the Lumbee Act of 1956. So there is no other 
option to obtain justice for these people, Madam Speaker.

And let me note that Congress is empowered to recognize Indian 
tribes, just as we have recently done for the Virginia Indian tribes. 
There are some 560 federally recognized Indian tribes in our country, 
and of those, Congress recognized 530 of them.

Madam Speaker, the times that I've met with the many members of this 
distinguished tribe, they noted to me, they say that many of them have 
fought, members of that tribe have fought in the defense of our Nation. 
And for a population of 53,000, and I believe six members of this tribe 
have already died from this terrible conflict that we're faced with now 
in Iraq. And to me, that is a way to show the patriotism, and we owe 
the people this recognition, I submit, Madam Speaker.

I urge my colleagues to support the proposed rule and pass this 
proposed bill, H.R. 65.