---
---

# AMBITIOUS AGENDA
## `61ebe914de2e1bf14e10a0c6404944e2`
`Mr. REID — 6 December 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, as far as lameduck sessions of the Senate 
go, our agenda is rather ambitious, and the session itself is 
relatively long. It did not have to be this way. We have tried many 
times this Congress to tackle each of the priorities on our agenda. 
Each time we have tried, the minority has tried to shut down the 
Senate. Republicans ground the Senate to a halt and forced endless 
hours of inactivity. That is why we were here voting on Sunday--on 
Saturday; I am sorry. Thank goodness it was not on Sunday. That is why 
we will still be here another few weeks.

We have a long to-do list. But these priorities are not mere 
leftovers. They are critical to our economy and our national security, 
to our families and our country's future, and we will resolve them 
before we adjourn.

We have to give first responders--our communities' firefighters, 
police officers, and emergency medical personnel--the same job 
protections that other workers enjoy.

We need to give seniors and disabled veterans some relief, which will 
also benefit our economy as a whole. The cost-of-living adjustment for 
Social Security recipients is a question of both fairness and 
economics.

We will again fight for the DREAM Act. When it passes, millions of 
children who grew up as Americans will be able to get the education 
they need to contribute to our economy. Many who have volunteered to 
defend our country will no longer have to fear being deported.

We will give the heroes of 9/11 long overdue help. Thousands of first 
responders who rushed to Ground Zero on 9/11 got terribly sick from the 
toxins that were present. Everyone should agree they should not have to 
wait any


longer than they already have for the health care and compensation they 
deserve.

We will protect middle-class families from a tax hike.

We will ratify the bipartisan START treaty to make America safer.

We have to confirm the enormous backlog of qualified nominees to the 
bench and other important positions. For example, there are more than 
30 judicial nominees ready to come to a vote. Most were voted out of 
the Judiciary Committee without a single vote against them. They have 
been waiting for a long time to fill these important seats and serve 
their country. It is time we let them.

We are also going to repeal the discriminatory don't ask, don't tell 
rule. We are going to match our policy with our principles and finally 
say that in America everyone who steps up to serve our country should 
be welcomed.

Republicans know they do not have the votes to take this repeal out 
of the Defense authorization bill, so they are holding up the whole 
bill. But when they refuse to debate it, they also hold up a well-
deserved raise for our troops, better health care for our troops and 
their families, equipment such as MRAP vehicles that keep our troops 
safe, and other critical wartime efforts in Afghanistan and 
counterterrorism efforts around the world.

Obstruction has consequences. None of the issues on this long list is 
new. Neither is the minority's effort to keep the Senate from working 
and keeping Senators from doing our jobs.

It is time to roll up our sleeves--not dig in our heels. My hope for 
the final weeks of this year is that Republicans finally will realize 
we all have much more to gain by working together than working against 
each other.

Mr. President, would the Chair announce morning business.
