---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `61fc97f27a97b9fee3e05f6fa9c7c973`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to make a couple of points about 
General Petraeus. My colleague, Senator Bunning, who knows him 
personally from when he served in Kentucky--and has been with him in 
Iraq, as I have, will speak longer about him.

I will just say this: General Petraeus was in Iraq in 2003 during the 
initial invasion. I met him there when I went on a codel. He impressed 
me, and all of us, as an extraordinary leader. He was commander of the 
101st Airborne. He is a Ranger and a combat officer. He finished at 
West Point at the top of his class. He has a Ph.D. from Princeton. He 
was No. 1 in his class at the Command and Staff General Officer School. 
By all accounts, he is a man of the most extraordinary ability.

He came back to Iraq when we realized the training of the Iraqi 
military was not progressing effectively. So after he had hardly been 
home a year, the President asked him to go back to train the Iraqi 
military and police; for 15 months, he went back to Iraq, leaving his 
family again. Fortunately, his wife is a daughter of a military officer 
and understands our national interest and the lives of American 
soldiers are at stake.


He went back to train those officers, and he did that, by all 
accounts, to an extraordinarily fine degree, given the difficulties 
that entailed. He got to know virtually all the leaders in Iraq. He 
doesn't know Prime Minister Maliki, but he knows all the leaders in 
Iraq. Then he came back, and his duties for the last year have been to 
prepare this manual, the military manual on counterinsurgency. That is 
exactly what we are in today, a counterinsurgency operation in Iraq.

I believe we have the finest person this country has to offer to take 
a fresh look at the situation. I am an admirer of General Casey and 
General Abizaid. I think they worked their hearts out and did a lot of 
great things. I never believed they have done anything but a superb 
job, but sometimes, we need change and new people. I believe this is 
the best person we can send.

General Petraeus promised, as Senator Levin said, which is critically 
important, in response to a question I asked, but he had volunteered it 
to me in a private conversation: Senator, if you want the truth, I will 
tell you. If you send me over there, I am going to tell you what I 
think.

I said to him at the hearing: Will you tell the American people how 
this thing is going? And if it is not going effectively and we 
shouldn't continue, will you tell us?

He said: Yes, sir, I will.

I believed him when he said that. We cannot have a situation in which 
we end up 20 years from now with someone writing an autobiography and 
saying: I thought the war was lost. Yet I didn't say it at the time. We 
need somebody to tell us the truth. I believe he will do that.

We need to support him. The whole infrastructure and bureaucracy of 
this Government needs to be responsible to the commander on the ground. 
We have a good Ambassador, but in Iraq where we have this much disorder 
and military threats, the commander is a leading factor. The people 
there respect him. We in the United States look to him to do much of 
the work, when much of it is actually being done by the Ambassador and 
other agencies of Government. But they need to respond to him because 
he understands the situation. We need to have adequate prisons and an 
adequate court system. If the soldiers go out and apprehend these 
people, where are they going to put them?