---
---

# None
## `62058e6b4f49b14bbe1878fc99ec18fb`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 2 December 2009`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. As the Senator noted, there is an astonishing 
similarity between the interests of the private health insurance 
industry and the arguments made by our friends on the other side on the 
floor. It is amazing. They are identical, virtually, to one another. I 
have yet to hear an argument about health care coming from the other 
side of the aisle that does not reflect the interests and the welfare 
of the private insurance industry, about which for years I never heard 
them complain while they were denying care.

We have another example beyond Medicare. I am struck that today is 
the first day since the President's speech in which he announced 
another 30,000 men and women will be going over to Afghanistan in 
addition to the ones there. All of us in the Senate and in America are 
proud of our soldiers. We wish them well. Those of us who have visited 
Afghanistan know how challenging an environment it is and how difficult 
it is to be away from one's family. There can be no doubt in our minds 
that we want the best for our men and women in the service. Everybody 
agrees we want the best for them. Our friends on the other side also 
want the best for them.

When we give them health care, what do we give them that we think is 
the best? We give them government health care through TRICARE and 
through the Veterans' Administration. I have not heard a lot of 
complaining about that, about stripping our veterans out of the 
Veterans' Administration and letting them go to the tender mercies of 
the private health insurance industry because when there is not an 
issue that involves the essential interests of the private health 
insurance industry, then they will do the right thing and recognize 
that is best for our service men and women. That is best for our 
veterans and, of course, we all support that. It makes perfect sense. 
It belies the arguments we are hearing today.
