---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `620597d09131e5282a536f8afc03e810`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Obey 
and Ranking Member Lewis for their leadership in bringing this 
important and timely legislation to the floor. H.R. 2346, the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act establishes funding levels for defense, 
international affairs, and influenza preparedness, and also addresses a 
number of key issues, including conditions on aid to Pakistan, 
assistance to North Korea, and the status of President Obama's plans to 
shut down


the Guantanamo Bay prison. The Administration requested a net total of 
$83.4 billion in additional supplemental appropriations for FY2009, 
comprised of $86.8 billion in new appropriations, offset by $3.4 
billion of recessions of previously appropriated funds. H.R. 2346 
increases the Administration's request by over $11.8 billion for a 
total of $96.7 billion. It includes:

Defense. Providing a total of $84.3 billion for the Department of 
Defense, including military construction, an increase of $8.5 billion 
to the request of $75.8 billion (net of offsetting rescissions).

International affairs. Providing a total of $9.4 billion for 
international affairs programs (including P.L. 480 food assistance), an 
increase of $2.4 billion compared to the request.

Influenza preparedness. Providing $2.05 billion for influenza 
preparedness, an increase of $550 million over the $1.5 billion 
requested. Of the total in the bill, $1.85 billion is for the 
Department of Health and Human Services and the Center for Disease 
Control & Prevention to supplement federal stockpiles, develop and 
purchase vaccines, and to expand detection efforts. It includes $350 
million in unrequested funds to assist state and local governments in 
preparing for and responding to a pandemic; and $200 million also 
unrequested, to support global efforts to track, contain, and slow the 
spread of a pandemic in the foreign affairs budget for Global Health 
and Child Survival.

Mr. Speaker as you know, Texas was hit especially hard by the H1N1 
virus. The only two deaths from complications with the virus were in 
Texas, the first--a toddler visiting my district.

North Korea. Rejects a request for $34.5 million in Department of 
Energy non-proliferation funds to dismantle nuclear facilities in North 
Korea and rejects $95 million requested for energy assistance to North 
Korea in the foreign assistance accounts.

Aid to Pakistan. Provides $400 million to the Department of Defense, 
as requested, for the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Fund to finance 
training and other assistance to the Pakistani military. The Chairman's 
mark of the bill originally transferred the funds to the Department of 
State, but Representative Obey offered a manager's amendment at the 
beginning of the committee markup that restored the funds to the 
Department of Defense. In the foreign assistance portion of the bill, 
$897 million, ($91 million above the request), is provided for 
construction of facilities and for diplomatic operations in Pakistan 
and $529 million of economic assistance.


Conditions on assistance to Pakistan and Afghanistan. Administration 
officials strongly objected to legislated benchmarks on the performance 
of the Pakistani government, arguing that conditions on aid would not 
improve U.S. leverage but would more likely foster resistance to U.S. 
efforts. Instead of setting benchmarks tied to funding, the Committee 
included a requirement that the President submit a report to Congress 
no later than February 2010, when the FY2011 budget is submitted, 
evaluating the conduct and commitment of the governments of Afghanistan 
and Pakistan. The report is to include assessments of each nation's 
level of political commitment to confront security challenges; level of 
corruption and efforts to counter it; performance of security forces in 
counterinsurgency operations and in establishing population security; 
intelligence cooperation with the United States; and the ability to 
effectively control its territories.

Closure of the Guantanamo Bay Prison. The Committee did not authorize 
the Administration request for $50 million for the Department of 
Defense to transfer prisoners out of the Guantanamo Bay facility nor 
did it seek to appropriate the $30 million requested for the Department 
of Justice to create a task force to facilitate legal activities 
associated with the closure.

Border security and counternarcotics assistance to Mexico. Approving 
$350 million requested for the Department of Defense for 
counternarcotics activities on the Mexican border, including up to $100 
million for transfer to other federal agencies. In the foreign aid 
chapters of the bill, $160 million is provided for Mexico in the 
International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE) account. 
This bill will also add $310 million for Mexico in the Foreign Military 
Financing Program for surveillance planes, helicopters, other 
equipment, and support activities.

These are truly efforts that the people in my district are dealing 
with each and every day. As a Subcommittee Chair on the Homeland 
Security Committee, I am working daily to ensure that we address the 
violence spilling over from Mexico by coordinating law enforcement 
efforts and working with our Border Patrol personnel.

