---
---

# HONORING MEMBERS OF AIR FORCE KILLED IN THE KHOBAR TOWERS TERRORIST  BOMBING
## `62068da8dbed22ade1bc8fa033a5b84c`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I do rise today in honor of H. Con. Res. 32, which does 
honor the members of the United States Air Force that were killed on 
the 25th of June, 1996 in the Khobar Towers in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

This is the 12th anniversary of the terrorist bombing which killed 19 
members of the U.S. Air Force and injured over 300 Americans. On that 
day in 1996, a truck bomb exploded outside the fence around the Khobar 
Towers compound.



The bomb, estimated at more than 3,000 pounds, detonated about 85 
feet from a residential housing unit where U.S. troops were, killing 19 
United States Air Force servicemen and wounding hundreds of other 
Americans. The force of that explosion destroyed or damaged six high-
rise apartment buildings and shattered windows throughout the entire 
residential compound.

Today we honor the 19 airmen who gave their lives in the service of 
this great Nation. This Congress joins me in paying tribute to those 
men, who are individually recognized in H. Con. Res. 32.

It's important to note that 12 of the 19 men killed in the attack 
were based at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida's First District. Several 
of the airmen, along with their families, were constituents. These 
brave men, like the men and women currently serving in our military 
today, were on freedom's watch, prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice 
in defense of our Nation. As we approach Memorial Day, it's only 
fitting that we remember the 19 airmen killed at Khobar Towers as well 
as the many brave men and women who gave their lives for our freedom 
and our security. It's my sincere hope that all Americans will give 
pause and honor these heroes and others for their sacrifice.

As we look back to 12 years ago, we know that Khobar Towers and the 
bombing there was a precursor to the terrorist attacks on the USS Cole; 
the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center; and the 
current global war on terrorism that we fight in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
No matter where our troops are stationed, we recognize that they are 
prepared to defend our security, American values, and the American way 
of life. It's my hope that we can prevent future attacks like the one 
at Khobar Towers as we aggressively fight terrorism all around the 
globe.

I want to personally express my deepest appreciation to the families 
of these heroes who were killed at Khobar Towers. We can never undo the 
tragedy that they have lived. We can never ease the pain, and I know 
it's with each of them each and every day. But I hope, and I know that 
my colleagues join me in this hope, that with the adoption of this 
resolution, they will take from our actions some solace in the fact 
that we do not forget those contributions and those sacrifices of their 
loved ones. They were much more than airmen. They were sons, fathers, 
brothers, and they are loved ones.

Mr. Speaker, our action on this resolution sends a message to the 
families of those who died, to our Nation, and to the rest of the 
world, that we honor the sacrifices of these 19 airmen and the families 
they left behind. They served with the highest distinction and 
professionalism which is indicative of the United States military. No 
one could have served better or given more.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me and the 50 cosponsors in 
support of this resolution.