---
---

# ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `620ff971ca5d1292c25c95bdb8e9a62b`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Thank you. I really think that everything that 
the gentleman from Tennessee said is right.

The question that I ask myself at times is how is it, if we have been 
doing a good job and accomplishing the things that you recited, so many 
of the American people think we are not doing much at all, or we are 
doing a bad job? That is a sentiment that a lot of folks have. It's in 
conflict, in my view, with many of the concrete things that we have 
done here in the House.

I will tell you what I think it is. Back in Vermont, people are 
asking me, when are we going to the stop the war, and when are we going 
to change the priorities of this country so that we are standing up for 
the needs of average, middle-income families and not just the wealthy, 
not just corporations who can get legislation passed.

They are also asking the question that Mr. Yarmuth has presented in 
very stark form, when are we going to reassert our own constitutional 
authority and be willing to stand up to the President? I am hearing 
from people in my State, really good people, real Democrats, real 
Republicans, and they are saying even when Congress is right, it seems 
that they are not willing to stand up to the President.

I think some of the frustration is that on the war there has been no 
change by the President, despite the efforts of many of us in Congress, 
and that's a fact.

Number two, there has been some sense that even when we are right 
here in Congress, we are not willing to hold our ground.

I want to address both of those.

First of all, on the war, the bottom line reality is that the 
President of the United States has an immense amount of power. We have 
article I power, but he has executive power. Despite the fact that the 
people of this country voted across the country from Vermont to Ohio to 
Pennsylvania to California and chose a new Congress, and a clear 
message of that election and decision by the people was that we wanted 
a new direction in Iraq, the President ignored that election.

He then ignored that March vote of the House of Representatives where 
we put a date certain on ending the war, August of 2008. Think about 
where we would be and what kind of optimism we would have in this 
country if that legislation was signed by the President instead of 
vetoed.

Then the President, of course, dismissed the advice of retired 
generals who are critical of the war, and, of course, paid no attention 
whatsoever to the Iraq Study Commission. I have come to the conclusion 
that the President is not at all going to bend, no matter what, and we 
have to be willing to fight that battle with him day in and day out.

Second, on the priorities, there is good news. I mean, this House, 
oftentimes with a bipartisan vote, has shifted the priorities to 
middle-class needs. The minimum wage was raised. The student loan cost 
of interest was cut in half. Prescription drugs are going to be 
negotiated, price negotiations so we can lower the cost, make it more 
accessible to seniors, less costly to taxpayers.

All of this we did by returning to pay-as-you-go principles, so we 
are not going to bankrupt future generations. The largest increase in 
the veterans budget in the history of the country.

All of that is important. It reflects that we are actually walking 
the walk of trying to change priorities. It's not getting out into the 
public either because it can't get through the Senate or it gets vetoed 
by the President.

We are going to be talking, I guess, a little bit about children's 
health care. But that's an example where it was the right thing we did 
to insure 10 million kids in this country. The President vetoed it. We 
made some minor adjustments, not nickel and diming about which kids we 
take off of health care, passed it again, and we will be sending it 
back to the President. I think that's the type of thing that we need to 
do.



But I also do believe that any time this Congress has an opportunity 
to hold its ground and essentially embrace and accept the 
responsibility that the Constitution gives this Congress under article 
I, we have to do it, whether it's on war funding, when we believe we 
are right, we have to be able to weather the storm; whether it's on 
budgets that are going to get vetoed when those budgets reflect the 
bipartisan consensus in this body that they meet the needs of average 
people, and that they comply with our obligation to pay our bill as we 
go.

There is good news, but we also have to acknowledge that there is 
much more fighting to be done, and that it's time for us in the right 
circumstances to hold our ground, to be willing to weather the storm of 
criticism that will come from the White House machine and to stand up 
for that change and direction that I believe the people of this country 
voted for in November.

I thank the gentleman from Florida.