# THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA AND THE PRESIDENT'S AGENDA ON IRAQ
## `62138a0564d8f4c0c63e925429f860fa`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to address 
you and of course all the Members here on this floor of the United 
States Congress. I would point out here in the beginning that it is 
about 8:15 here this evening, and the President will be giving his 
major address on Iraq at about 9:01 and so I intend to be asking for an 
adjournment just right before 9:00 so there is an opportunity to do 
that transition and that the President does have an opportunity to use 
this channel to speak to the American people.

To begin this presentation this evening, and we listened to the 
members on the other side of the aisle talk about supporting the 100-
hour agenda, Mr. Speaker, I point out that this 100-hour agenda was a 
number just kind of picked out of the air or off the wall and it turned 
into a promise. And inside of that promise of 100 hours and to 
accomplish these five or six things within 100 hours are a whole series 
of other promises, and it appears as though the most important promise 
of all is we are going to do all this in 100 hours. The 100-hour 
promise. And not the promise for bipartisanship and not the promise for 
the most open Congress in history, and probably not the promise for the 
most ethical Congress in history. The jury is still out on that, Mr. 
Speaker, but this thing that preempts all, that trumps all is this idea 
of 100 hours.

Well, 100 hours to the American people might mean at midnight on 
December 31 when the ball dropped and hit the bottom in Times Square, 
the clock might start to tick on the 100 hours here in 2007, the new 
110th Congress. But I don't take that position necessarily, Mr. 
Speaker. I take the position that when we gaveled in and went to work 
here, if you want to count 100 hours, that is fine; if you want to make 
a promise to get something done in 100 hours, that is also fine. But 
that 100 hours didn't start for the first week. It didn't start for the 
first week because we were voting on things other than the six things 
on the agenda to be accomplished in the 100 hours.

And so then the promise that it was going to be bipartisan and an 
open process, we found out, I guess after Congress began, this 110th 
Congress, that this open process couldn't be opened up until the 100 
hours were over, or otherwise they couldn't get everything accomplished 
in the first 100 hours. So bipartisanship went out the window a victim 
of the 100-hour promise, and so did the open kind of a system. The 
bills didn't go through subcommittee. They didn't go through committee. 
They didn't go through rules. No amendments are allowed. And yet that 
was all decided before the 100-hour clock began.

So we set up a clock, a legitimate clock, one that actually keeps the 
time here that Congress is in session. From when we gaveled in this 
110th Congress, we gavel in the morning, open with a prayer and the 
pledge, and we gavel out in the evening. That clock has got a tick on 
that. We are paying people here to work around this Capitol the whole 
time the 100 hours is moving.

So I set up this clock so the American people can keep track of what 
the hours are, and I point out this: When we started this morning, we 
were at 31 hours that ticked away since. And these are just business 
hours. It is not a stretch; it is not 24 hours a day. It is the hours 
that this floor is in operation. In fact, yesterday, it was scheduled 
to be at 10:00, so a lot of people made their plans to be here at 
10:00. It didn't work on Monday because of the football game. And I 
will just reserve my opinion of that tonight, Mr. Speaker. But the 
10:00 time to start got moved back to 10:30, got moved back to noon and 
then got moved back to first votes at 5:30 yesterday afternoon. So some 
of that is not taken into account here, but as of about now, this 100 
hours has clicked up to 42 hours, Mr. Speaker, have ticked away. And 
there have been a couple of things that have been passed, and some will 
claim that to be an accomplishment. And I don't intend to take up that 
issue either tonight, Mr. Speaker. But I would point out to the 
American people that we are at 42 hours and counting.

If you can't count time, you also can't count dollars or people. And 
it is important to understand the cost to the United States of America 
and the taxpayers that fund it. And we will be doing some of these 
tallies after hours tonight to come back with some better numbers 
tomorrow, and I will bring this chart then to the floor every day until 
the 100 hours ticks over, and we can make this 100-hour promise 
something that goes into the dust bin of history.

But this 100-hour promise has trumped the other promises. It has been 
more important than an open system of government. It has been more 
important than allowing anyone to offer a single amendment to any bill 
that has come forward here, and each one of those bills are going to 
change the destiny of America. Maybe a little bit, maybe a lot. But 
each one will change the destiny of America some. And the people I feel 
sorry for, all of those new freshmen Democrats, the ones that were 
elected to office having promised that they were going to represent 
their constituents here, they would have a voice, they would be 
effective. They bring with them the vitality of America. They bring the 
new ideas into this Congress, the fresh blood. The best responsiveness 
to constituents that you ever will see on average comes with the 
freshmen. We are glad when they come here every new Congress because it 
adds new vitality.

But that large crop of Democrat freshmen and that smaller crop of 
Republican freshmen I think have gotten their eyes opened up a little 
bit. I think they believed they would come here and they would be able 
to come to


a subcommittee and do a markup on a bill and offer an amendment to 
improve the bill and see it go over to full committee, offer an 
amendment, improve the bill and bring it to the floor, where amendments 
would be offered and the bill would be improved and perhaps perfected 
and passed out of this Chamber, on over the Senate, where we would have 
negotiations working with them and they would have done the same thing.

The sad news for those freshmen is that they don't have a voice in 
this process. Not a single freshman had an opportunity to offer 
amendment to engage in debate in a subcommittee, to engage in debate in 
a committee; didn't have an opportunity to go before the Rules 
Committee and make their argument as to why their amendments should be 
made in order. None of that was allowed to the freshmen. And, in fact, 
the small little group of people that put together this policy didn't 
consider the wisdom of Congress; they considered the wisdom of the 
people within that room, and I guarantee you, Mr. Speaker, that didn't 
include the freshmen, either the Democrats or the Republicans, who now 
have to reassess what kind of a system they thought they had gotten 
elected to.

And I hope this 100 hours ticks away, and I hope it can be put away 
into the dust bin of history, and I hope those other promises can be 
rejuvenated and brought back to life, those promises about having an 
open system, a system that is bipartisan and a system that allows for 
amendments so that we can improve the legislation that comes.

We are at 42 hours, Mr. Speaker, and the clock will start again. 
Actually, it will shut off when we adjourn here about 9:00 and it will 
take up again tomorrow morning when we gavel back in.

But, Mr. Speaker, I come here to talk about a big subject. It is a 
subject that has been consuming the thoughts and the prayers of the 
American people since September 11, 2001, and that subject is a subject 
the President will take up here in a little more than 35 minutes. It is 
the subject of this global war on terror, and primarily the 
battleground, the main battleground, which is Iraq, in this global war 
on terror.

I have certainly been involved in this since the beginning of the 
operations in Iraq. I have been over there four times. I have traveled 
into Afghanistan as well. Each time I go over there, I always stop at 
Landstuhl in Germany and visit our wounded troops there. And the last 
time I was over was over Thanksgiving, just a little over a month ago, 
when I ate Thanksgiving dinner with wounded troops in Landstuhl at the 
hospital in Germany, and that was the most meaningful Thanksgiving I 
have ever had in my life. I don't expect to ever top that for a moving 
Thanksgiving where one can really be in awe of true courage, true 
patriotism and true sacrifice.

And I believe we are going to hear a speech from the President in a 
few minutes from now that is going to be, I think the tone of it could 
have been written by those people that have sacrificed the most, our 
soldiers and Marines and airmen that have perhaps given a limb, perhaps 
been wounded and crippled for life. I have not yet met a wounded 
soldier who said to me, ''This is a lost cause.'' They believe in the 
cause. They want to get back to the fight. They want to get back to the 
people they feel responsible for, and they want to complete the 
mission.

The wounded troops will stand with the President in the speech he is 
about to give and the families of those who have given the ultimate 
sacrifice, the Gold Star families, the families that have traveled 
across America and been here in Washington, D.C., a number of times and 
were in my office a week before I went over to Iraq. Some of those Gold 
Star families, those that have lost a son or a daughter over in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, some of them have also traveled over to the Middle East, 
also traveled into Iraq and got to visit the Iraqi people. And one of 
the fathers who lost his son killed over there in Iraq said to me: ''We 
cannot pull out of there. It is different now. We are committed to that 
cause. Lives have been lost. The soil in Iraq is now sanctified with 
American blood. It is not so simple that we could just walk away. We 
cannot. We must stay. We must prevail. We made the commitment to go 
there; we are invested in it; we must prevail.''

As I looked him in the eye, I know what kind of pain he has been 
through, that soaked in with me, Mr. Speaker. And so I traveled over 
there in the aftermath of their trip, and as I went alone this time, I 
didn't go with a congressional delegation, I just went alone, and I had 
an opportunity to sit down with General Abizaid and close the door and 
talk and ask questions and probe a line of reasoning and then take on 
another line of reasoning. I had the opportunity to do the same thing 
with General Casey, although staff was in the room for that one. I also 
sat down with General Corelli and did the same thing. I had two 
meetings with Ambassador Khalilzad. And then each time I walked into a 
mess hall, or I would just holler out, ''Is anybody here from Iowa?'' 
And invariably there would be Iowans there. And there is an instant 
connection between you and someone from your State. You know where they 
are from. You know what they believe in. You have an understanding 
about their background and where they come from. You know what sports 
teams they support, or at least you can find out quickly, and we have 
those little arguments, Mr. Speaker. But when I index the things that I 
hear from our top officers that are in the field and what I hear from 
the people on the ground, and as I talk to people through all ranks and 
travel across Iraq and also Afghanistan in this last trip, put back 
together a kind of strategy and come to a conclusion as to where we 
need to go and what we need to do.

And let's look at this thing, Mr. Speaker, from two broad 
perspectives. One of them is the idea that I am hearing over here on 
this side of the aisle, and this is not a new idea from the people on 
that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker; they slipped language into the 
Department of Defense appropriations bill that would have by now 
prohibited all operations in Iraq. And that was Mr. Murtha's language 
that went in there that prohibited any basing rights negotiations in 
Iraq, which would have meant, had that language prevailed that when our 
agreement on any of our bases in Iraq had expired, we couldn't 
negotiate a new one. So, over time, we would have had to give up base 
after base after base until we had to pull our troops completely out of 
Iraq.

That is not a lot different than the amendment that came out of an 
appropriations bill on this floor, Mr. Speaker, back in 1975 when a 
large Democrat majority took over and decided that they would take us 
out of the operations in Vietnam, and they introduced legislation 
successfully that forbid a single dollar from being used to support the 
South Vietnamese military. Not a dollar that can go for a bullet, for 
food, for a helmet, for a pair of khaki uniforms, no air cover, and 
nothing could go on offshore in South Vietnam either. So they shut down 
their operations in South Vietnam. And the South Vietnamese had 
defended their own country for 3 years, but when their resources dried 
up, their military collapsed.



Some of those things are being maneuvered right now, and I can hear 
this come out of the debate on the other side of the aisle.

But here are the scenarios: One scenario is listen to the people over 
here, Mr. Speaker, who would say, well, let's unfund this operation. 
Let's bring our troops home now. Let's get out of there because it is 
sectarian strife and you can't resolve a civil war and it is just 
brother fighting against brother and why do we want to get involved in 
a family feud? All of that that substitutes for rationale.

But what they are really looking at is if they get their way, the 
reality in Iraq is different than their perception, I believe, and I 
would like to have them pay a little more attention, maybe go over 
there with a real intention to learn.

But a year ago in Iraq there was violence over most of the entire 
country scattered around. And the argument I heard from this side of 
the aisle over here was, well, let's get out of there right now, get 
the Americans out because, after all, they are the targets and Iraqis 
just want to have their own country. They object to Americans walking 
on their soil. So if we would leave, there would be nobody for them to 
shoot at, and then peace would


break out all over Iraq, and the government would take over, and 
everything would be peaceful and fine. That was their argument then. 
Well, it was flawed, of course. But there was violence over most of 
Iraq.

A year later, now, most of the violence is confined to Baghdad. 
Eighty percent of the violence is in the Baghdad area. So peace has 
broken out over most of Iraq. And if you talk to the soldiers that have 
been over there that are running missions and convoys and doing 
patrols, they will tell you that most of Iraq seems very, very normal, 
that you go down the street and off on the road and the Iraqi kids come 
out and wave and the Iraqi people are open and friendly. The men are 
open and friendly. The women are a little more shy and a little demure. 
That is their culture. But they travel where they want to go, and the 
only thing that makes them realize that there is a war is when an IED 
goes off. So we are getting there, and the Baghdad area is the area 
that needs to be controlled and pacified. The rest of the country is 
pretty good.

If we pulled out now or if we pulled out in the near future, the 
involvement and the interference that comes from Iran would be imposed 
on the Shiia section of Iraq, which is actually a little more than the 
southern area of Iraq, which has got most of the oil in it. It would be 
Baghdad and some of the areas to the north of there and all the way 
south down to Basra, into the hands of the influence of the Iranian 
Shiia, who are right now funding and training, equipping and arming 
terrorists in Iran and sending them into Iraq and supporting some of 
the militia personnel there like Muqtada al Sadr.

I happen to have his picture here. This fellow has been a nemesis for 
a long time. And I put the date down here. That was the date that I was 
sitting in a hotel in Kuwait City watching Al Jazeera TV. Muqtada al 
Sadr, the head of the Mahdi militia, came on Al Jazeera TV, and as I 
watched that he said in Arabic with the English crawler underneath: 
''If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way 
they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they 
left Mogadishu.'' Muqtada al Sadr.

Now here he is being supported by the Iranians, funding his militia, 
helping to train his militia, and paying some of them to plant IEDs and 
attack Americans. Iran is conducting a proxy war against the United 
States from the sanctuary of their sovereign nation of Iran and sending 
in the munitions and the militia and the insurgents to attack Americans 
there, and this man is their surrogate, and he must go.

It is more complicated than the people on the other side of the aisle 
would say. They would argue that it is just Shiia and Sunni that are 
fighting each other. There are six to eight different factions fighting 
each other there. Sadr is one. The Badr Brigade is another. Al Qaeda is 
another. There are Sunni criminal groups that are fighting. There are 
other groups, the former Baathists, that are fighting.

You can add these pieces up, Mr. Speaker, but in the end it is more 
complicated than just simple sectarian strife. It is a power struggle, 
a power to provide security and safety within some areas of the 
community, the effort on the part of Muqtada al Sadr and others to 
drive some of the Sunnis out of Sunni sections of Baghdad so that they 
can have their internal hegemony within the city of Baghdad.

But this all happened because there was somewhat of a vacuum there 
and we didn't go in and take this man out when we needed to do that. 
And he has been to some degree protected by Prime Minister Maliki, who 
this afternoon made a statement that essentially puts Muqtada al Sadr 
on notice. He tells the Shiite militias to give up.

''Prime Minister al-Maliki has told everyone that there will be no 
escape from attack,'' said a senior legislator who is close to Maliki. 
''The government has told the Sadrists,'' Muqtada al Sadrists, '' 'if 
we want to build a state, we have no other choice but to attack armed 
groups,' '' this being the armed groups, Mr. Speaker.

So I will say there are two main points that I want to hear the 
President address tonight, and one of them is militias must be taken on 
and taken out and they are getting an opportunity to surrender right 
now because Prime Minister Maliki has put them on notice. They must be 
taken on and taken out if they don't surrender. This is the lead that 
has got to go.

The second one is Iran must cease and desist from their proxy war 
against the United States from the sanctuary of the sovereign nation of 
Iran by sending in insurgents who are trained, equipped, funded, and 
armed by the Iranians.

And, by the way, IEDs that are being detonated that are blowing up 
Americans and killing Americans are being made in Iran and smuggled 
into Iraq. If we pull out of Iraq now without a successful safe country 
there, the result will be Iran will control the Shiia section of Iraq. 
They will control most of the oil in Iraq. They control the Straits of 
Hormuz now. They would control the outlet, the mouth of the Tigris and 
Euphrates River, the Umm Qasr ports, the export area for Iraq's oil. 
They would have a stranglehold on 40 percent of the world's oil, which 
is a death grip on the world economy.

They would be in a position to continue to enrich themselves, and 
their money chest would be pouring over. They could then accelerate 
their nuclear weapons development. They could either build more and 
build them faster or buy them where they could get them, perhaps from 
North Korea, and you would see Iran much more quickly become a dominant 
nuclear power with an ability not just to put a nuclear missile into 
Tel Aviv but the ability to do so into Western Europe and within just a 
few years the ability to do so clear into the United States of America 
with a death grip on the oil and the world, 40 percent of the oil, 
which controls the market, Mr. Speaker.

That is what we are looking at if we pull out of there. The stakes 
are too high, and that is why the President rejected, I will say 
politely ignored, the Iraq Study Group's recommendations.

But we should keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, that there was a million 
dollar appropriation here that went to the United States Institute for 
Peace and out of that came the Iraq Study Group. Now, why, if we wanted 
to figure out how to win a war, would we go to the United States 
Institute for Peace and ask them to give us some advice? That makes 
about as much sense as going to the Syrians or going to the Iranians 
and saying, can you help us solve this problem? Why don't you give us 
some constructive recommendations?


It is not in their interest to give us constructive recommendations. 
It is in the interest of the Iranians and the Syrians to undermine our 
effort there so that they can get us out of the Middle East and they 
can impose their influence on Iraq, not the other way around. We will 
not get constructive advice from Iran or from Syria any more than we 
got advice on how to win a war from the Iraq Study Group because I 
believe that they thought that their charge was how do we get out of 
this? Let's figure out how to get out of this. Not how do we win?

But the President, to his credit, went to the Pentagon and said, I 
don't want to hear from you how we get out of Iraq. I want to see a 
strategy for victory.

I wish he had done that a couple years ago, but I am glad he did it 
now. I am looking forward to his speech; and, as I said, I will be sure 
we adjourn here before the President's speech that will happen right at 
9 o'clock.

But, at this moment, I would very much like to yield to my friend 
from Tennessee, Mr. Zach Wamp.