# AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `621e0ee4072777db1ca25414a69e6d3a`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 3 August 2009`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, the reason I ask that on this bill--
and I do urge my colleagues to come forward to speak on the Agriculture 
appropriations bill. We have already cleared some amendments, and we 
need to move forward.

Something happened yesterday that affected my State directly, and 
that was the statement by the administration--or leak from the 
administration--that they are considering moving Guantanamo Bay 
detainees to my State, associated with Fort Leavenworth. This has riled 
up everybody. I was just there this morning, and we had 100 people who 
came out after very short notice. It is virtually unanimous in their 
opinions--not everybody but close to everybody is opposed to this idea 
for a multiple set of reasons.

Moving the Guantanamo Bay detainees to Fort Leavenworth and the Fort 
Leavenworth area would not work, to start off with, and will 
significantly hurt the core educational and international mission of 
the fort. On top of that it is totally unnecessary. I hope the 
administration will start to rethink this idea of moving the Guantanamo 
Bay detainees. I think it is a bad idea that we replicate the facility 
we already have at Guantanamo Bay somewhere in the United States 
because we already have a facility to hold the detainees. We already 
have a facility to try the detainees. It is all set up. I was there. I 
led a congressional delegation a couple of months ago. They are being 
humanely treated, and if they are not, and if there are credible 
reports that they are not, then let's work on fixing Guantanamo Bay 
rather than moving the detainees to the United States.

If there are problems, let's fix them rather than just say we are 
going to change the name of the place and we are going to move the 
detainees from Guantanamo Bay to Leavenworth. We are not going to 
change the opinion of the world of the United States one iota by 
substituting the name ''Leavenworth'' for the name ''Guantanamo Bay,'' 
creating a replica of what we already have at Guantanamo Bay, only 
somewhere else. It would cost hundreds of millions of dollars we don't 
have when we already have an $11 trillion debt, and it is growing at a 
rate of nearly $2 trillion a year. So why would we spend hundreds of 
millions of dollars doing something that is not going to change world 
opinion, replicating a facility that we already have, that slows the 
process? This doesn't make any sense.

On top of that, what is being considered at Leavenworth would not 
work. The fort at Leavenworth--if I could just talk to my colleagues 
about this, and I hope they will look at the factual setting. Fort 
Leavenworth is one of the smallest Army bases we have around the world. 
It is 8 square miles. It butts up in and is a part of an urban area of 
Kansas City. It has on its border a river and a train that goes through 
about every 25 minutes. It is not the secure facility one would need to 
have for these detainees. We don't have any setbacks like we have in a 
number of other facilities, and it has one of the highest population 
densities per square mile or square foot of any of our military bases 
because it houses the Command and General Staff College of the 
military.

If I could just point out that facility to my colleagues--and I hope 
some of them come and attend and address the Command and General Staff 
College. We get students from around the world on a regular basis at 
that facility. Generally, some 90 countries at any one point in time 
have students at the Command and General Staff College. Of these 90 
countries that send students for their Army training for their 
military, half of those students will become general flag officers 
before their career is done. A number of them will become civilian 
leaders in their own country as well. So you get the cream of the crop 
from around the world. They come here. They also meet with our future 
military leaders, and this is the training center they have. It is the 
Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth.

The primary mission of Fort Leavenworth is that training as well as 
that relationship and integration between our U.S. Army forces and 
forces of militaries, Army forces from around the world, which is 
critically important when you go into places such as Pakistan or 
Afghanistan or you are working with the Jordanians or the Egyptians, 
just to name a few. They send leaders from all of those countries, 
future flag officers to Fort Leavenworth to be trained. We have already 
heard in canvassing students from Jordan, Egypt, and Pakistan that they 
will pull their students from Fort Leavenworth if the detainees are 
moved there. They don't want to have their military leaders, their 
future military leaders at the same place that the detainees are being 
held in the United States, and they have already stated that to us.

So we are going to hurt the core mission of Fort Leavenworth in a 
facility that doesn't have setbacks to safely handle this for no gain. 
I would point out that I spoke with the commanding general at Fort 
Leavenworth yesterday. I called him after I heard about this report on 
MS-NBC. That was how I got the news of it. My wife was on the Internet, 
and she was on MSNBC's Web site and she sees that they are thinking 
about moving the Gitmo detainees to either Leavenworth or Michigan. 
That didn't set very well with me, that that is how I learned about 
this to start off with.

As I started calling around, I called the commanding general, and he 
said he learned about it pretty late as well and has difficulties, 
although he is a military man. He will salute and take orders and do 
what he is directed to do, but he is not--he needs to be asked and 
brought in to testify about what his opinion would be about this issue. 
I talked to the Governor in Kansas last night. The Governor, a 
Democratic Governor, has issued a statement previously opposed to this 
move taking place to Fort Leavenworth. The Congresswoman from the area 
was there this morning opposed to this move. The mayor of Leavenworth 
was there opposed to this move.

We have voted in this body virtually unanimously--close to a 
unanimous vote--that you have to work with local officials before the 
Gitmo detainees can be moved anywhere into the United States. Well, the 
local officials are uniformly opposed to this at Leavenworth, and we 
wake up and it is in the morning paper and nobody has been consulted 
about it.

I wish to say the detainees in my estimation deserve appropriate 
humane treatment. They deserve to be treated under our international 
obligations. If they are not getting that, then that needs to be 
changed, and it needs to be changed at Guantanamo Bay. I hope we would 
have international investigations to tell us what is not being met that 
we are required to do, that is not being done. I have not seen any 
credible international reports that say there are things we are not 
doing that we should do at Guantanamo Bay. There is a gray category 
that is involved where you have enemy combatants who don't represent a 
foreign country, and that is a big part of our problem. There is also a 
very tough area, and that is--I saw this when I was at Guantanamo Bay--
a number of the detainees are continuing the fight


today. While in prison, at Gitmo, they continue the fight. So whoever 
gets these or takes these detainees is going to have to be prepared to 
have the continuation of the war on terrorism happening near them and 
happening in the prison facility. That is not everybody, but some of 
them continue to fight in prison. That is going to be a difficult 
situation for whoever is to handle it.

On top of that, our folks at Leavenworth--we have prisoners in there, 
and the town is proud of their ability to handle various prisoners. 
Their concern is not keeping the detainees in, because you can staff up 
for that, but it is keeping out people who seek to get in or make a 
statement in that area. Plus, they would have to scale up their 
facilities.

We have a medium-security Bureau of Prisons facility. It is not 
maximum security. We have a dominated medium-security disciplinary 
barracks there, and we have space for 25 maximum-security prisoners--
only 25. You would have to move out all of the current military 
personnel convicted in military courts who are held in the disciplinary 
barracks. We are not situated to handle this. It would cost a huge 
amount of money, and it would not be safe to do it at Leavenworth. It 
is a bad idea for us to do that there.

I ask the President to come to Leavenworth. He was invited by the 
mayor this morning. He can look at the facility and examine it himself. 
The Attorney General can come and examine the facility, look at it, and 
see what estimation they come up with after examining and looking at 
the facility. I understand they are looking at some sort of hybrid 
facility. We don't have the situation to be able to house it in Kansas.

On top of that, I ask the President to really listen to the American 
people. The American people don't want these detainees moved to the 
United States. They don't want to hurry up artificial timelines set for 
moving the detainees to the United States, and they feel the President 
should be listening to them and not to European leaders or somebody 
around the world who doesn't like the Guantanamo Bay facility and 
thinks it has a bad name. Listen to the American people on this issue.

I ask that the President come and talk to the Members of Congress who 
may be impacted by this and ask our opinions and look at what is taking 
place. This is being rushed. It is on an artificial time deadline. It 
doesn't need to happen. It is replicating a facility we have, at a cost 
of hundreds of millions of dollars, and it will slow the process down. 
It is a bad idea chasing a bad idea with an artificial time limit. I 
ask that the President not do that.

My colleague and I from Kansas will fight every step of the way to 
keep this facility from being moved to Kansas. We are representing our 
constituents, who don't want these detainees moved to Kansas. We are 
going to fight it every step of the way.

With that, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.