---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `621fb35a68edae25ea1eaa072f51d69f`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I thank the gentleman.

This is a 1,513-page document which was completed today at 11:12 
a.m., and delivered most recently to the Clerk's desk. I am sure many 
Members are familiar with some of the aspects of it, but perhaps not 
all.

My good friend, Mr. Skelton, whose work I am always grateful for, 
your commitment to this country is very admirable. It takes a lot of 
work to do what you do, and I stand here today to express reservations 
to, and opposition to, this bill; and the reservations I have are of 
course that this bill will continue to fund the war in Iraq.

I have offered Congress an alternative, which is that we can end the 
occupation, close the bases, bring the troops home, set in motion a 
parallel process of an international security and peacekeeping force 
that would move in as our troops leave. We all want to protect our 
troops. I think the best way to defend and protect them is to bring 
them home. So that is one of the first concerns I have.

The second concern I have is section 229 of the bill relates to 
protection of U.S. and allies from the Iranian ballistic missile. One 
of the things in the bill that I am very concerned about, Mr. Chairman, 
is that it says that Iran maintains a nuclear program. Now the National 
Intelligence Agency, which made information available to this Congress, 
would assert otherwise. I think that we have to be very cautious about 
building out an entire part of our defense, planning for an attack from 
Iran, when we haven't even made an effort to break down the walls that 
have been built up over 29 years and use diplomacy. Yet, we are 
actually defining and making a connection between a nuclear capability 
that Iran clearly doesn't have at this moment and ballistic missiles. 
And by creating that linkage, we are actually creating an architecture 
of fear. I don't think that is a sensible way for the greatest Nation 
of the world to be pursuing its policy. In connection with that, it 
creates increased tensions for Europe.

I am concerned that we keep building these missile interceptors in 
Alaska that in a sense helps to frame an interceptor system that has 
not even been proved to be technologically feasible; that we are 
getting into nanotechnology without any serious discussion of what it 
means when you start using nanotechnology and marry it to weapons 
production.



The discussion in this bill about a Space Posture Review speaks of 
the United States policies in space as space control, space 
superiority, targeting objects on Earth from outer space. Now, that 
doesn't sound like the America that many of us would want to 
participate in when we think that we are going into kind of a Buck 
Rogers scenario here.

Another section deals with continuing and encouraging the School of 
the Americas, something a number of Members have opposed.

Mr. Chairman, I have gone over a good part of this bill, as much as I 
could with this short a period of time, and I think when we, on the one 
hand, accept the judgment of Members of Congress that we don't want a 
permanent presence in Iraq, and on the other hand give $80 million for 
one base, $86 million for another, $88 million for a third, and $103 
million for a fourth, that sounds like a permanent presence to me. 
Either that or it is the most expensive trailers in the history of 
humanity.

So there are so many factors in here that really I think need to 
cause us to be cautious. Also the one about Pakistan, because I think 
we are setting the stage for sending U.S. troops to Pakistan, something 
the American people do not want to do.

I want to thank my friend, nevertheless, for his commitment to our 
troops. We agree that we should protect our troops.