# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `622a917852f4cf080ccc8ab87dab3c17`
`Mr. MOORE of Kansas — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. MOORE of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in support of the 
resolution.

I wrote to the President on May 24 of last year and told the 
President in this letter: Mr. President, I voted for the use of force 
resolution based upon what later proved to be flawed intelligence about 
the weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.

I am glad Saddam Hussein is gone. He was a vicious dictator who 
killed thousands and thousands of innocent people. At that time, in May 
of last year, there were 2,400 dead Americans as a result of our 
intervention in Iraq. Now there are more than 3,100 dead Americans, 700 
more than just 9 months ago.

We have done militarily all we can do in Iraq. We need to ask and 
tell the Iraqi Government, this new Iraqi Government, to step up to the 
plate and assume responsibility for the protection of their people and 
their country, Iraq. We need to give them incentive, powerful incentive 
to step up to the plate and assume responsibility.

Sometimes new governments are like some people. If you tell them you 
will do something for them, they stand back and let you do it and do it 
and do it and never, never assume responsibility.

We saved the Iraqi people from Saddam Hussein, but we can't save the 
Iraqi people from the Iraqi people if they won't put aside centuries of 
religious differences and support their new government. I am talking 
about the Shia and the Sunnis for more than 1,000 years have been 
fighting.

Mr. Speaker, I want to read an e-mail I received from a constituent 
last week. This is from a young lady who is serving presently in Iraq.

''I am a soldier currently deployed to Iraq. Our company is on the 
verge of an extension. Although we all are proud to serve our country, 
we also want to go home. Most of us have been gone from home for over a 
year. If or when we get extended, we wouldn't have seen our families 
for almost 2 years.

''With the news of the possible extension, the soldiers' morale went 
down. The families at home are stressed and that can and will stress a 
soldier out. Some soldiers had to go home on emergency leave because 
their families are falling apart.

''We watch the news here all the time and most of the time we can't 
believe what we hear and see. We see soldiers dying left and right, but 
what are they dying for? Most of us don't even know what we are over 
here fighting for anymore.

''I guess I just wanted to tell the side of a soldier because no one 
else will do it.''

And I say to Mr. President, please listen to Congress. Please listen 
to the American people, and please listen to these soldiers.










Announcement By the Speaker Pro Tempore
