---
---

# A NEW ENERGY POLICY FOR THE COUNTRY
## `622c375c884c69b9421a9c6f508d5976`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I'm sorry to say that he's considering that, and what 
I find so hard to believe is that the best investment this country ever 
made was in the GI Bill after World War II. And now we have had our men 
and women in Afghanistan and in Iraq for more than 5 years, which is 
longer than we were in World War II, and to provide them with education 
and educational opportunities simply will be a fantastic investment for 
this country.

The wealth that was created, the happiness that was created because 
people could live full lives and educated lives after World War II, 
those are the kinds of things that we want for America. And my Dad, 
when we're talking about this, and you can see him well up with pride 
about the GI Bill and how so many men came back from World War II and 
then were successful after seeing the horrors of war, but came back and 
were able to provide for their families in ways that nobody 
anticipated. He describes that as the greatest investment this country 
has ever made, and he kids around by then saying, ''And a distant 
second was the Louisiana Purchase.''

So this GI Bill that we're proposing now for the 21st century will be 
a fantastic investment for our men and women who have served us. I 
believe we owe them a responsibility to provide for education, and we 
just need to go forward with this. And the White House has objected to 
this. Senator McCain has objected to this, as I understand it. And it 
just doesn't make sense.