---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `623b85c61bac667e4c2b80aa7d237dc5`
`Mrs. CAPPS — 15 May 2008`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our troops, and 
in support of a responsible U.S. policy in Iraq.

I have opposed the Iraq war from the very beginning.

Over 5 years later, this war has taken the lives of more than 4,000 
of our brave troops.

Our armed forces are incredibly strained, and our nation's image 
tarnished in the wake of this foreign relations disaster.

I have opposed continued funding of this war in the past, and I will 
vote against Amendment No. 1, which gives the President another blank 
check.

Amendments No. 2 and No. 3 of this bill, however, are a marked and 
deliberate shift away from the failed and short-sighted policies of 
President Bush.

And No. 2 requires that all troops be fully trained and equipped 
before deployment, and calls for a redeployment of U.S. troops from 
Iraq to begin in 30 days.

It also bans any permanent U.S. bases in Iraq and codifies 
contracting fraud as a criminal offense.

Amendment No. 3 will restore the education benefits under the GI bill 
to include a full, 4-year college education for veterans of the Iraq 
and Afghanistan wars.

Mr. Speaker, this war has taken an incredible toll on American 
troops, their families, and our entire country.

We cannot turn back the hands of time, but we can move forward to 
bring our troops home, end this war, and provide them with the tools 
they will need to continue their education.

As this New Direction Congress has done time and again, today we will 
tell the President that he is wrong.

Let us truly support the troops and vote to bring them home.