# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3221, NEW DIRECTION FOR ENERGY  INDEPENDENCE, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, AND FOR  CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2776, RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION  TAX ACT OF 2007
## `623c43c22979ddebc25da815a3230bc3`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, the House is in session on a Saturday, a rare event. And 
why we do that, of course, is to finish up the work that is the 
culmination of the efforts of our committees that have then brought 
legislation to us to consider.

In this past week, we passed important legislation on employment 
discrimination, fair pay, an Iraq planning bill, Agriculture 
appropriations, and, very important, critical, actually, a children's 
health care bill.

Today, we are here to continue the business at hand, and that is to 
turn a new course for an energy future in this country that meets the 
needs and demands of the 21st century for a pro-jobs, pro-growth, pro-
high-tech approach to solving our environmental challenges and our 
energy security issues.

H. Res. 615 provides a single rule for consideration of H.R. 3221, 
the New Direction For Energy Independence, National Security, and 
Consumer Protection Act and H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy 
Conservation Tax Act of 2007. This will be a single rule. The rule 
provides a structured rule for H.R. 3221. It provides a closed rule as 
is customary in tax matters on H.R. 2776.

Today's legislation is about energy independence and creating a new 
economy around facing directly the energy and environmental challenges 
before this country.

This year more than a dozen of our committees began the challenging 
task of drafting energy legislation that, in a wide array of 
jurisdictions, can challenge the growing energy crisis. I certainly 
commend all of the committee Chairs, all of the Members on both sides 
of the aisle, particularly the long-term efforts of men like Chairman 
Dingell, Chairman Rangel, Chairman Waxman and others who have presented 
to us for the consideration of the whole body this comprehensive 
package of energy legislation.

Early in January, as you remember, the House passed H.R. 6. That 
repealed nearly $14 billion that were tax breaks granted to oil 
companies. Those tax breaks have been granted to oil companies at a 
time when they had record profits of $125 billion.

Mr. Speaker, this House has made a different decision. What we have 
done is decided to repeal those tax cuts and invest that money instead 
in projects that are critical for renewable energy and energy 
efficiency incentives. This bill will provide long-term incentives for 
the development of renewable energy, and it will set the stage for a 
growing industry that requires investment in order to thrive.

One of the debates that we have been having is this: If we undertake 
the challenge of energy independence, will that harm our economy? This 
bill says that will promote our economy and create good jobs. We have 
seen across this country, in every State, entrepreneurs taking on the 
challenge of energy efficiency and energy efficiency in new 
technologies.

To give an example, in my own State of Vermont, we have a small 
company that began about 20 years ago, Energy Systems in Heinsberg, 
Vermont. They began developing technologies to help measure wind 
velocity for purposes of determining the feasibility of wind energy. It 
has emerged as one of our most prosperous businesses, creates good 
jobs, high-paying jobs, and it has been very beneficial to the economy 
of the State of Vermont, all-clean jobs, all-clean energy.

That example has been replicated across this country. This bill 
promotes that effort. The idea here in this legislation is very simple: 
If we make a commitment now to investing in our energy future, we can 
have that pro-growth, pro-high-tech, pro-environment economy. We can 
reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and we can protect our 
environment.

One of the potential opportunities that we have is the expansion of 
renewable energy development through carbon offsets. If that is going 
to be successful, it requires that these carbon offsets meet standards 
that are real, that are additional, verifiable and enforceable.

This legislation presented by the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee is going to allow us to put in place that methodology to help 
us offset our carbon emissions and create jobs in clean energy future.

There are many other parts of this legislation, since we have had 12 
committees that have been involved: the Renewable Energy Worker 
Training Program, to help create a workforce of green jobs; the $2.5 
billion investment to help rural communities, farmers and small 
businesses by reducing their energy costs through efficiency; the new 
efficiency standards for appliances, which require more efficient 
lighting and promotes green buildings in the public and private sector; 
and, of course, we have an effort under way here in Congress to green 
the Capitol and offset our carbon footprint by the year 2030. That is, 
at this stage, a bipartisan effort reflecting the mutual commitment to 
use less rather than more.



The committee has done a very good job in crafting a bill that we can 
be proud to support. It doesn't do everything. The CAFE standards are 
not a part of this, as that continues to be a debate. Renewable 
electricity standards are something that the body will be able to 
consider in an amendment that has been made in order.

But, taken together, all of the components of this bill mark a very 
serious and perhaps seminal change in the approach by this Congress 
towards energy, moving away from our excessive dependence on fossil 
fuels and moving towards a self-sustaining renewable energy future.

I look forward to working with my colleagues to finishing the job 
that we have started here today.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.