# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `623c136f449a81cff3b138c70c5184ee`
`Mr. REID — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, in a few minutes, I am going to ask 
unanimous consent to take up the authorization bill for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2008. But before we proceed to consider and 
pass this important legislation, I want to take just a moment to advise 
my colleagues of the unfortunate and troubling path that this 
legislation has taken since the Senate last voted to pass it on 
December 14.

On December 19, the same day the other body adjourned its first 
session, the Congress sent to the President legislation, H.R. 1585, 
that was identical to the bill we are about to take up and pass, with 
one substantive difference regarding section 1083 and several 
associated technical corrections necessary due to the delay of the 
bill's enactment.

What I want to focus on today is the manner in which the President 
chose to exercise his veto prerogative. As the Chair and our colleagues 
are well aware, the Framers of our Constitution deliberately gave the 
President only a limited or qualified veto power, one that could be 
overridden by Congress if it could muster a two-third vote in both 
Houses--a formidable challenge. But President Bush was not satisfied 
simply to veto the bill and risk an override, as contemplated under our 
constitutional process.

Rather, on December 28, the President issued a memorandum of 
disapproval stating that, because the other body had adjourned its 
first session, while the Senate remained in session to protect its 
advise-and-consent prerogative, he considered the bill pocket vetoed, 
relying upon the constitutional provision that protects against the 
Congress's adjourning in order to prevent the President from exercising 
his veto power. But the President did not actually pocket the bill. 
Instead, using the mechanism provided in the rules of the other body 
for such periods as the December holidays, the White House returned the 
bill, with the President's veto message, to the Clerk of the House, for 
transmission to the full body when it reconvened last week. The 
President said that he was returning the bill ''to avoid unnecessary 
litigation'' and ''to leave no doubt'' that he was vetoing the bill.

The Constitution does not provide for double vetoes: A bill is vetoed 
either by being returned or, if return is prevented by Congress's 
adjournment, by being pocketed. Here, the President returned the bill 
to the other body through delivery to the Clerk. Obviously, the 
adjournment did not prevent the bill's return. Accordingly, the bill 
was not subject to a pocket veto. Had the President not returned the 
bill within the 10 days--excluding Sunday--prescribed by the 
Constitution, the bill would have become law without his signature. 
That fact explains why the President returned the bill.

Indeed, in 1983, President Reagan attempted to pocket veto a military 
aid appropriations measure during an analogous adjournment--the break 
between the first and second sessions of the 98th Congress. On a 
bipartisan basis, the Senate joined a group of Members of the other 
body to challenge that attempted misuse of the pocket veto in a Federal 
court case called Barnes v. Kline. Although the decision was 
subsequently vacated because the fiscal year for the military aid bill 
had expired in the meantime, thereby mooting the case, the Court of 
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected the Executive's 
attempt to pocket veto the bill and held that, because it could have 
been returned to the House, under the Constitution the bill had become 
law. The court held that three factors, when taken together, establish 
that adjournment of the first session of a Congress does not prevent 
the President from returning a bill under the Constitution: First, 
''[t]he existence of an authorized receiver of veto messages''; second, 
''the rules providing for carryover of unfinished business'' in the 
second session of a Congress; and third, ''the duration of modern 
intersession adjournments.''


In that decision, the court of appeals built upon the foundation laid 
by our colleague, the senior Senator from Massachusetts, who, a decade 
earlier personally had argued and won the case Kennedy v. Sampson in 
the same court, thereby establishing the President's duty to return 
bills to Congress, through its appointed officers, during intrasession 
adjournments. As the court made clear, during both types of 
adjournments, the application of the pocket veto clause has necessarily 
been guided from the beginning by its ''manifest purpose.'' And that 
purpose is solely to ensure that the Congress cannot deprive the 
President of his right to exercise the qualified veto, not to permit 
the President to accomplish what the Framers of our Constitution denied 
him--by transforming the qualified veto into an absolute veto.

I have gone into some detail in explicating the background and 
history of the pocket veto controversy because of its importance to our 
constitutional system of separation of powers and checks and balances 
between the branches. The President should abandon the strange and 
unseemly practice


of maintaining that he cannot return a bill to Congress, while 
simultaneously returning the bill. Such game-playing is unworthy of the 
Office of the President and breaks faith with the brilliant, carefully 
crafted system that the Founders bequeathed to us and future 
generations.

However, much as part of me would like to see Congress take the 
opportunity provided by the President's action here to establish 
definitively the Congress's constitutional power to override a veto 
exercised during its adjournment, the Nation's security and the care of 
our troops and wounded warriors demands that we get this bill signed 
into law as soon as possible. This bill provides important 
congressional authorizations and guidance for the Nation's defense 
budget, a 3.5-percent 9 pay raise and key bonuses for the troops, 
legislation to improve the system of care for our wounded warriors, and 
authorization to establish a war profiteering commission. The 
President's veto of this bill in December has already delayed these 
provisions for too long.

I also want to reiterate that it is my belief that the Government of 
Iraq should take responsibility for what has taken place there in years 
past, including the brutal torture of American POWs. Congress has gone 
on record repeatedly--most recently, in overwhelmingly passing section 
1083 of the conference report to H.R. 1585 last year in both the House 
and Senate and sending it to the President--to support the efforts of 
these Americans who have suffered so much for their country to hold 
their torturers accountable. This administration has been fighting for 
years to oppose efforts to win compensation for these American 
soldiers, which is, frankly, a disgrace.

In light of the President's veto over this issue, I call on him and 
his administration to work with the POWs and their family members to 
facilitate negotiations with the Government of Iraq. It is my 
understanding that the administration has been working with Iraq to 
settle gulf war commercial debts with foreign corporations such as 
Mitsubishi of Japan and Hyundai of Korea through issuance of Iraqi 
bonds. This mechanism takes no funds from the reconstruction of Iraq. 
It is beyond me why the administration would refuse to do at least that 
for the POWs. The administration needs to make this right.

The bill (H.R. 4986) was ordered to a third reading and was read the 
third time.