# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6258bfc5c155b93d10e179cd376f6833`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 30 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am today introducing legislation to make 
various improvements to VA rural health care. I am pleased to be joined 
in this effort by Senators Max Baucus and Mark Begich. The legislation 
is designed to bring more doctors into small communities; promote the 
use of volunteer counselors to help with mental health issues; expand 
telemedicine services; and create incentives for VA's community 
partners to provide high quality services to veterans.

As the drawdown of forces in Iraq begins, VA must be prepared to meet 
the health care needs of veterans upon their return.

Many veterans live in small towns and communities. This includes a 
large number of Guard members and Reservists who have served in such an 
integral role in Iraq and Afghanistan. Members of the Guard and Reserve 
face challenges that are different than those faced by their active 
duty counterparts, who return to military bases with the support of 
their unit and programs geared toward re-acclimating them to life 
outside of the combat zone. When members of the Guard or Reserves 
return home, they often are isolated from their units, leaving them to 
reintegrate back into their communities without a strong VA or DoD 
presence or support system.

When health care is needed, a rural community may not have providers 
who offer mental health services, such as group counseling, and may not 
be familiar with treating combat-related disorders.

I believe strongly that there is an obligation to care for all 
veterans in need, regardless of where they live. We must ensure that 
adequate resources are available to serve those who live in rural 
communities, and that VA works closely with local health care providers 
to help meet the need for care. It is critical that VA reach out to 
veterans living in rural communities so that they receive the care they 
need. Every resource must be united in the effort to care for wounded 
warriors, whether in a community hospital or VA clinic. When there is 
no VA presence in a community, VA may need to pay community providers 
for the reasonable costs of care.

Last month, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing on 
health care for veterans in rural areas. We heard from the chief 
executive officer of a community hospital, from a former director of a 
rural health clinic, and from outreach organizations who work to bridge 
the gap between VA and community health care systems. These witnesses 
testified about how hard it is for veterans who live in rural areas to 
find health care in the communities where they live, and about how 
difficult it is for community hospitals and clinics to provide quality 
services with the limited resources available to them.

Committee on Veterans' Affairs staff also conducted an oversight 
visit to Hawaii and saw firsthand the needs of veterans living in rural 
communities on the neighbor islands. Many of those veterans find it 
hard to access VA health care because of travel restrictions and a 
shortage of services in their communities. Committee staff found that 
technology was not being used to bridge this gap; indeed, the use of 
telemedicine is actually declining in Hawaii.

The legislation we are introducing today would help address the needs 
of veterans living in rural communities in a number of ways.

First, the bill would bring more doctors to targeted communities by 
repaying their student loans while they work for VA. Currently, VA's 
loan repayment program is capped at an amount that is less than /1/3/ 
the average cost of medical school. This bill would remove the cap, 
allowing VA to offer full loan repayment so as to provide a much more 
effective recruitment tool.

In addition, this bill would encourage VA and HHS to use the National 
Health Service Corps Scholarship Program to recruit physicians for VA 
facilities located in underserved areas. The National Health Service 
Corps pays for medical school up front in exchange for a doctor's 
agreement to work in an underserved area after graduation.

To address the shortage of mental health providers in many 
communities, this legislation would also allow VA to shorten the 
credentialing and privileging process for licensed volunteer counselors 
who could provide mental health services to our veterans.

The legislation would also create a pilot program to place VA doctors 
in community hospitals so as to enable them to provide more continuous 
care for veterans. Under this pilot, VA doctors working in communities 
without a VA hospital would be able to follow their patients when 
admitted to the local hospital. Participating VA doctors would earn 
additional compensation for assuming these responsibilities, thereby 
creating financial incentives for doctors to stay within VA. Since many 
non-VA hospitals do not have mental health providers or other providers 
experienced in the treatment of conditions such as post-traumatic 
stress disorder that disproportionately affect veterans, this would 
also bring needed expertise into other care communities.

This bill would also allow VA to monitor the quality of care provided 
in non-VA facilities. Currently, there is no way for VA to do such 
quality assurance in a systematic way. This bill would encourage VA's 
community partners to participate in quality programs like peer review, 
or to seek accreditation by an outside organization.

This bill also would bring new technologies to rural communities. By 
modifying VA's internal mechanism for distributing funds, the 
legislation would provide incentives for VA hospitals and clinics to 
use telehealth technologies. VA currently bases the distribution of 
funds to its facilities on workload and does not currently count all 
telehealth visits in a facility's workload. By requiring VA to give 
hospitals and clinics credit for telehealth


visits, this bill will promote the natural expansion of these services 
to our veterans.

Finally, for those veterans who must travel by air to obtain their 
health care--because of their health status, geography or other 
barriers--this bill would allow VA to pay beneficiary travel benefits 
for airfare to those veterans who cannot afford it. In recognition of 
the cost of airfare, a different income eligibility standard from that 
used for ground transportation would be used in connection with 
reimbursement of the costs of air travel.

I urge our colleagues to work with me and the other members of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee to improve access to health care for 
veterans who live in rural areas.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.