---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `626f4afdc35f316ed8030cfc9a39de29`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the most 
critical issue this Congress, indeed our Nation, is facing. The U.S. 
military is the best fighting force in the world, and it is vitally 
important that we keep it that way. I am concerned that the President's 
planned escalation is too little, too late, and it will further deplete 
our military's readiness.

My life changed in the late spring of 2002 when my husband Steve 
casually said he thought we would be at war with Iraq by Christmas. And 
I said certainly that wouldn't be the case; the terrorists were from 
Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia. Certainly we will continue to hunt down 
Osama bin Laden and bring him to justice. We wouldn't take resources 
away from fighting the terrorists in Afghanistan. But that isn't what 
happened.

That fall, every time I heard that we were going to be greeted as 
liberators in Iraq, I cringed. We were going into the most unstable 
part of the world, a region that has been at war for centuries, and we 
were going in with dangerously naive plans. We were going after a 
hornet's nest with a baseball bat.

As the mother of two and stepmother of five, I felt my family's very 
safety was being threatened by this diversion of resources. Like a 
mother bear who senses, no, who knows that her cubs are being 
threatened, I could not remain silent.

Diverting resources from Afghanistan and invading Iraq may be one of 
the most dangerous decisions this country has ever made. Our Nation's 
civilian leadership took their eye off the ball. Instead of securing 
more resources to hunt down Osama bin Laden, instead of engaging in 
diplomacy, they put resources into what has become a civil war and have 
depleted our Nation's strategic readiness.

Please, please understand me. Our military has not failed. What has 
failed is our civilian leadership. Our military and their families have 
repeatedly stepped up and done what our Nation has asked of them. And 
now, Mr. Speaker, President Bush proposes to send more than 20,000 more 
troops to this civil war. He asks us to trust him with our soldiers' 
lives, even after trust has been broken time and time again.

Not only is the goal of this escalation unclear, but its effect would 
be to redirect precious military resources instead of preparing for 
potential future conflicts. In a recent hearing of the House Armed 
Services Committee, I asked General Peter Pace whether he was satisfied 
with the readiness levels of our troops. His response? ''No, ma'am, I'm 
not.'' General Peter Schoomaker and General Steven Blum have echoed his 
concerns.

America lives in an unstable world; we face threats from a nuclear-
armed North Korea, from a belligerent Iran, and from the al Qaeda 
terrorists who considered September 11 as only the first act in their 
sinister play. In these dangerous times we are not safer if we devote 
so many of our resources to a civil war in Iraq. And I as a mother, I 
cannot support this escalation. It is withdrawing precious resources 
from a fighting force that is already stretched too thin.

America's strategic readiness is not a political question; it is a 
question of national security, and it is a critical question about the 
safety of all our families.

The U.S. military is the best fighting force in the world, and it is 
vitally important that we keep it that way.

Mr. Speaker, as a mother, stepmother, wife, citizen, and, yes, as a 
U.S. Congresswoman, I cannot support further escalation of the war in 
Iraq.