---
---

# FALLEN SOLDIER--ARMY SPECIALIST CHAD CLEMENTS
## `62939fea8be53bdbab3127972df03b8b`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 15 September 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, Army Specialist Chad Derek 
Clements, 26 years old, died on Monday, August 30, 2010, while serving 
his country in Afghanistan. He was one of my constituents.

He was born on March 16, 1984, in San Diego, California. After he 
graduated from Huntington North High School in Huntington, Indiana, he 
decided he wanted to proudly serve in the U.S. Army. Upon his 
graduation from basic training, Chad reported to the 1st Armored 
Battalion at Fort Carson, Colorado; and he was deployed shortly after 
to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

During Chad's distinguished career, he received multiple awards for 
his service: the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, the Army Good 
Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Medal, the NATO 
International Security Assistance Force Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, 
the Overseas Service Ribbon, and the Combat Action Badge.

He has also recently been posthumously promoted from private first 
class to Army specialist. His expertise and enthusiasm for his job in 
the United States Army was insurmountable.

To the citizens of the State of Indiana, to his fellow troops and to 
the countless people that he touched, Chad will forever be remembered 
as a hero.

He was preceded in death by his father, Daniel, and our thoughts, 
prayers and deepest condolences go out to his mother, Anne; to his 
stepfather, Eddie; to his sister, Danielle; to his stepbrother, Cory; 
and to his stepsister, Heather.

These are some of the things we hate to talk about on this floor, Mr. 
Speaker; but, unfortunately, war brings us to these kinds of 
conclusions. We just wish that all of those like Chad will never be 
forgotten for the service they gave to our country.
