# REFLECTIONS FROM 2009
## `62982ede462dea52ce3ad4886239b7d8`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 December 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in the rush of a debate in an 
earlier 1-minute, I was not able to capture the somberness of the 
moment. As our colleagues have finished their work and have, in fact, 
recognized the need of this Nation, I think it is important to 
summarize how important it is to keep our minds focused as we return 
back in the new year.

We know that this country is a resilient country. People are tough, 
and they've gotten tougher. We are blessed by the fact that we have a 
country of laws. We're a democratic Nation. If there is oppression in 
our Nation, we have a court system to seek to be redeemed. We have the 
amenities of life, technology, transportation, clean water. But in 
every country comes a time when things are not as good as they need to 
be, and I think we should clarify what has been done over these last 
couple of months.

I was here during the past two Presidential terms. When I say ''two 
Presidential terms,'' the past and former Presidents. I voted for the 
1997 Budget Reconciliation Act that generated an enormous surplus and 
created an opportunity for millions of our children to be insured. That 
was 1997. We had a surplus as that previous administration, the Clinton 
administration, left office.

We had a tragedy on 9/11, and we had to respond to that enormous 
tragedy, a terrorist act, and I joined with my colleagues to respond to 
that by allowing our Nation to defend itself by going into Afghanistan. 
I did not support the detour into Iraq. However, I support the men and 
women, and I mourn for those families who have lost loved ones.

So what have we done over this year? We have fought for America, and 
that is why there was the political sacrifice. Some people say that's 
your job, to vote for the TARP--not willingly. We didn't want a fat-cat 
bill. We didn't want a bill that paid people to stuff their pockets. We 
wanted to ensure that businesses stayed open, that we had the 
opportunity for small businesses, my friends and neighbors, my 
constituents to get money to keep those jobs.

All right, it wasn't perfect, but the numbers don't fib. We did 
create jobs. We kept businesses open. The President has gone to the mat 
by saying to these fat cats, Look, we are in a capitalistic system. I 
understand that. But he's gone to them and said, You have to lend to 
small businesses.



Mr. Speaker, we have done a lot. And in doing a lot, we have provided 
the opportunity for the kinds of dollars coming to the districts.

So let me just say this: $48 billion in highways, transit and other 
infrastructure. We are going to be able to stop the bleeding by keeping 
our teachers, our police, our firefighters and job training. That's $27 
billion. We are going to guarantee the loans, guarantee loans to ensure 
that we will have the opportunity to loan money to our small 
businesses. That's an important statement.

And I wanted to be sure by looking at what I have to let my 
constituents know of the kind of projects that come out of the Defense 
bill. Because someone would make the argument, why support a Defense 
bill? Let me tell you. I've already spoken about the first post-
traumatic stress disorder center in an African American hospital for $1 
million, $800,000 for the Center for Research on Minority Health-
Prostate Cancer research project, jobs; $800,000 for high-efficiency 
solar energy generation and storage, jobs; $1.6 million for science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics initiative, jobs. And then $1 
million with a private collaborator that is independent of Federal 
dollars that will give $1 million to one of the poorest school 
districts in my community, public and private partnership, Mr. Speaker.

Let us not leave this place in shame. We came from the deep darkness 
of an economic recession. We have saved jobs. We are creating jobs. We 
are moving forward. And I want to stop reading articles about mothers 
who are on the front pages of our newspapers who cannot turn on the 
lights and cannot feed their children.

Let me wish everyone, again, as I have done, a happy holiday and say 
that this Congress deserves the recognition for those who have put 
themselves on the line to be able to help the needy. I look forward to 
us coming back, passing health care, and going on with the jobs effort.



