# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `62a4a011020398537d13b97b83d8041e`
`Mrs. BOXER — 13 November 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Thank you very much, Mr. President.



Mr. President, I thank Senator Harkin because I know he is going to 
be speaking shortly, and I wanted to follow Senator Sanders.

As the Chair of the Environment Committee, I was very interested in 
his presentation. I thank him for caring so deeply about global 
warming. The thing we have to do around here is get a good bill down to 
the floor. Because everything Senator Sanders talks about--geothermal, 
solar--everything he talks about--green jobs--depends on our ability to 
get a good bill to the floor of the Senate.

What also is interesting is that Senator Sanders called the 
Lieberman-Warner bill a very strong bill. I agree with him. It is a 
very strong bill. And that is before we even make some perfecting 
amendments out of subcommittee.

I think it is interesting, it is the evening time now. Senator Harkin 
is on the floor, and Senator Cardin is the Presiding Officer. Senator 
Harkin is a cosponsor of the Lieberman-Warner bill. Senator Harkin is 
truly a great conservationist, as we are going to hear from him. He 
gave a presentation to us at our caucus lunch that showed how deeply 
committed he is to this country's environment.

The fact that he is on the Lieberman-Warner bill gave a great lift 
and a great boost to that piece of legislation. Mr. Cardin, the Senator 
from Maryland, sitting in the chair, our Presiding Officer, has played 
a tremendous role already in moving forward the legislation if we are 
going to address global warming.

There is not any question that the ravages of global warming are 
around the corner. Is it going to be 20 years? Is it going to be 10 
years? Do we already see it? Some say yes--in Darfur, in some of the 
weather patterns, in some of the fires, in some of the floods, in some 
of the droughts--because the scientists tell us that unfettered global 
warming will lead to extremes in weather. So it is coming down the 
track right at us.

We have some options in this Senate as to what we are going to do 
about it. We can hold out for the ''perfect'' bill. I can say, as 
someone who wrote a bill with Senator Jeffords, and then Senator 
Sanders: Oh, I know which bill is perfect for me; it is the bill I 
wrote. I know my friends in the Senate each could take their turn at 
writing a bill, and that bill would be ''perfect'' for that Senator. 
But this is a legislative body, and if you have 100 ''perfects,'' and 
we cannot agree to come together on a very good bill, we get nothing 
done.

I would suggest that for those who, very well-intentioned, decide to 
turn their back on a very good bill because it is not their idea of 
''perfect,'' I think that is an irresponsible position to find yourself 
in. I feel very strongly about that.

There is much about the Lieberman-Warner bill I am going to work to 
strengthen in the full committee. If the bill gets to the floor, I am 
going to work hard to strengthen it. But I know, as long as it is a 
very strong bill, we need to move it forward.

So we could hold out for the ''perfect.'' That is very dangerous 
because that leads to no bill. And no bill--doing nothing about global 
warming in the face of all the science--would be very irresponsible.

The next thing we could do is have a bill that is very weak. I think 
a very weak bill is dangerous because people will think, ''Oh, they 
have taken care of global warming,'' when, in fact, we have not. You 
may be stuck with a weak bill, and you cannot strengthen it, so that is 
a problem too.

So it seems to me we could hold out for the ''perfect,'' and that 
means no bill, we could have a dangerously weak bill, which is a very 
bad option, or we could have a very good bill. We know that. We have 
people who are saying: Wait a minute, this bill, Lieberman-Warner, is 
too weak. We heard some of that on the floor tonight. It is too weak. I 
want an 80-percent cut in 2050, and it is 65 percent. So is the 
solution to do nothing? I say no. Then we have many people on the other 
side who say this bill is too strong. It is kind of like the three 
bears--what is just right?


I think what is just right is a very strong bill that moves us 
forward, that asserts the real dangers of global warming, and we know 
what that is: sea level rise. Those of us who went to Greenland saw 
what could happen if that sheet melts. We could see huge increases in 
sea level for all of us who represent coastal States, and the whole 
country and the world will suffer. The intelligence community, the 
Department of Defense--they are saying to us: With a few feet rise in 
sea level, we are going to have refugee problems, we are going to have 
every problem in the world. So the fact is, we can't turn our backs.

We had a hearing on the public health implications of unfettered 
global warming. The star witness was the head of the CDC, Julie 
Gerberding, Dr. Gerberding. She is the top doc of the country. She had 
very strong views that we have to look at the public health impacts. 
For example, what is going to happen to our elderly when heat levels 
rise and they can't seek refuge? What is going to happen to our 
children when they are swimming in lakes and streams and rivers and 
those bodies of water are so warm that dangerous amoebas live in those 
waters? What is going to happen to them? What is going to happen to the 
people of the world when they can't get the food they need?

So what happened was the White House redacted page after page of 
their own head of the CDC--they redacted page after page of their own 
head of the CDC. Her testimony was redacted. When we wrote and asked 
for it, the answer came back from the White House Counsel: Oh, no, we 
couldn't possibly send you this. This is a breach of executive 
privilege and the rest.

Can you believe, Mr. President, that the people of this country who 
pay the taxes for the CDC employees cannot hear what the top doc has to 
say about the ravages--the potential ravages--of global warming? This 
is what we are facing. Yet we see signs that the people who think our 
bill doesn't go far enough are going to team up with the people who 
want to kill this legislation. What a tragedy that would be. And who 
loses? The people of the United States of America. These new 
technologies that are going to save us, the ones Senator Sanders talked 
about--he talked with great passion about solar and wind and all the 
rest--you are not going to get it, folks, unless you have a bill that 
puts a price on carbon. If you hold out for your version of the 
perfect, trust me, it isn't going to happen, and you give false hope to 
people--false hope to people.

So I would just say to my colleagues who may be listening that we 
have a golden opportunity in the Environment Committee. We have held 
more than 20 hearings on global warming. We have this bipartisan bill. 
We have gotten it through the subcommittee. We are working to make it 
better, get it through the full committee and onto the floor of the 
Senate, where we will see where people stand. We will have amendments 
that range from one extreme to the other, and we will see where people 
stand on global warming.

I would say to you, Mr. President, coming from a State that has done 
so much about this already, we are late to the game. We are late to the 
dance. We are late to the party. But we are not too late, unless 
everybody stands up and says: If I don't get it my way, then I will 
show you the highway. We have a lot of that going on already. We have a 
President who really won't talk to us about anything. He won't talk to 
us about Iraq; he won't meet us halfway there. He won't talk to us 
about CHIP; he won't meet us halfway there. He won't talk to us about 
education funding; he won't meet us halfway there. Won't, won't, won't, 
won't, won't. He vetoed the Water Resources Development Act. We 
overrode it. He still has never said he was wrong. There is too much of 
that. We in the Senate have to show that we are adult enough to admit 
that the perfect cannot be the enemy of the good, particularly when 
there is so much at stake.

So I am excited about the work of the Environment Committee, and I am 
so pleased we had a bipartisan breakthrough. I am so grateful to all 
the groups out there who are helping us, who are giving us the courage 
to move forward, because, believe me, special interests are going to be 
pounding us, pounding us, pounding us.

To wrap this up, there are always people who say no to the science. 
There are always people who say: Oh, no, HIV doesn't cause AIDS, I 
don't believe it.


There are always people who say cigarette smoking doesn't cause lung 
cancer. I am sure there were people who said to Jonas Salk: Your 
vaccine idea is just not going to work. We have to go with the 
consensus view, and we have it on our side. We know we have to act.

So it is going to be an exciting time in the Environment Committee. 
It is going to be an exciting time here on the floor when this 
legislation comes to the floor. I don't know exactly when that will 
happen, but it will happen, and when it does we will have a chance to 
fulfill our responsibility not just to our generation but to our kids' 
generation and our grandkids and future generations. I see young people 
sitting here on the floor of the Senate helping us out every day. Their 
generation has so much at stake.

I met with some young people from the UC system, UC Santa Cruz. They 
are going to 100 percent renewable energy to run UC Santa Cruz, and all 
of the different campuses, UC campuses, are going to try to do that. So 
whether we vote here or we don't vote here, the people are way ahead of 
us. How sad it is if we were to walk away from this challenge because 
it wasn't just right on page 102 or page 6. It is never going to be 
perfect, I say to my colleagues, but we have an obligation to come 
together. We did it with the Clean Water Act years ago, the Safe 
Drinking Water Act, and the Endangered Species Act. We have really 
moved forward, and we became a leader in the world. We are behind the 
world today, and the world is looking to us.

So I am excited about this challenge, and I thank Senator Sanders for 
his passion, for coming down and making the case for solar energy, 
making the case for wind energy. But I will say to him and everyone 
else within the sound of my voice that it isn't going to happen unless 
this Congress sets up a cap-and-trade system with mandatory cuts in 
carbon. It just isn't going to happen the way it should.

Thank you very much, Mr. President, and I thank, Senator Harkin for 
this time.

I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.