# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `62aad6dfa7225d67ccbb418f7fe672cc`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 8 November 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to 
talk about something that has been a priority for me and for many of my 
colleagues; that is, our veterans. As we all know, Sunday is Veterans 
Day, the day that is designated for us to thank our Nation's heroes for 
their service to our country. It is also a time to ask whether our 
country has done enough to repay our veterans for all they have given 
to secure our safety.

As thousands return home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, some 
now from their fifth tour of duty, I wish I could say the answer to 
that question is yes. But, tragically, this has not yet been an issue 
of priority for this administration. We have too often failed to 
provide the care our heroes have earned. From the shameful conditions 
at Walter Reed and VA facilities around the country we saw earlier this 
year, to a lack of mental health counselors, to a benefits claims 
backlog of months--and I am even hearing years--our veterans have had 
to really struggle to get basic care. Fighting overseas takes a 
tremendous toll, as we know, on the lives of our troops and their 
families.

It is unacceptable to me that those heroes have had to fight their 
own Government for the treatment they have been promised. So today I 
wanted to come out on the floor to talk to my colleagues and to talk to 
President Bush about the hurdles our veterans have faced. As we 
approach this Veterans Day, I hope all of us, especially the President, 
will reaffirm our commitment to our veterans by providing the money, 
the attention, and the leadership they deserve.

I know from personal experience how military service affects veterans 
and their families and how the wounds veterans suffer from their 
military service will shape their lives forever.

When I was a student in college at Washington State University, I was 
there during the Vietnam War, and I chose to do my internship at the 
Seattle VA. I was 19 years old when I headed off to the Seattle VA, a 
time when men and women who were my own age were coming home wounded 
from Vietnam. Every day I got on the elevator at the VA Hospital and 
rode up to the seventh floor and walked into the psychiatric ward, 
where those big, heavy doors shut behind me. Day after day, during my 
entire internship, I sat and watched these young men and women, who 
were my age, as some of them just stared blankly, some of them


screamed in anger, many of them felt cut off from their own country, 
and most of them felt their lives had changed forever. As a volunteer 
at the VA during that time, I learned how some of these veterans can 
easily slip through the cracks.

That experience also taught me that the doctors and the nurses who 
are there at the VA are really dedicated to trying to take care of 
these young men and women. It convinced me that the VA system is where 
our veterans can get the best care. Our VA system is uniquely 
positioned in this country to recognize and treat those specialized 
injuries, those medical conditions, and those mental health challenges 
which are caused by combat and military missions. Private medicine 
doesn't always have the knowledge base or the resources to deal with 
the unique challenges of a war. That is one reason I will continue to 
fight for better access to the VA, access that allows our veterans to 
get the care they need without the endless waits and redtape. Rather 
than kicking our veterans into yet another maze of processing and 
another maze of paperwork, we ought to be working every single day 
until we get it right, to provide better access to one of the best 
health care systems in the country to those men and women who have 
answered the call.


I know from my own experience in my own family veterans are sometimes 
reluctant to seek attention or care they need. My own father was a 
veteran of World War II. He was one of the first soldiers into Okinawa. 
When he arrived, he was greeted with mortar. He was injured quite 
badly. He was put on a ship and sent to Hawaii, where he was in a 
hospital for weeks, recovering from those wounds. I believe he was 
there about 3 months. At the end of that time, he was then sent back to 
war.

He was a courageous young man of 19 at the time. I didn't know him, 
obviously. He hadn't yet married my mother. I wasn't even a thought for 
him. I grew up with my dad. He was a disabled veteran. He was in a 
wheelchair for most of my life. Yet the story I told you he never told 
me. How had I found out that my dad was wounded and sent to a hospital 
and recovered under painful circumstances and sent back to war? I found 
out after he died, when I found his diary. That is the typical thing I 
hear from veterans. They are reluctant to tell us of the heroes they 
are.

Those two experiences in my life, working at the VA when I was 19 and 
finding my dad's diary years later, help to illustrate a larger lesson 
that applies to many of our veterans that we need to remember in the 
Senate and Congress as we develop our policies, and that is often these 
veterans do not want to call attention to their service. Sometimes they 
are suffering so much they don't ask for the help they need.

That is why I am so devoted to making sure we have a VA system that 
is ready and able and capable of taking care of all the men and women 
who served our country--all of our veterans. Sadly, as we both know, we 
are now 5/1/2/-plus years into the war in Iraq. Today we know that the 
VA is struggling to provide some of the basic services for our 
veterans. It is surprising to me it took President Bush nearly 3 months 
to announce his head of the VA to lead this beleaguered system. For 3 
months, our VA has been languishing without strong leadership to 
address the challenges they have. His lack of leadership on that 
critical appointment sent a signal to me, and to a lot of people, that 
he is not focused on that cost of war and he is not focused on our 
aging veterans who are now going into the system, who are facing long 
waiting lines and not getting appointments. It underscores to me his 
failure to count our veterans as a part of the cost of this war.

This week we learned the year of 2007 will go down as the deadliest 
year of the war in Iraq; this year, right now, the deadliest year of 
the war in Iraq. I know my heart and the heart of the Presiding Officer 
go out to the families of nearly 4,000 brave Americans who have made 
the ultimate sacrifice in this war and to the tens of thousands more 
who have returned with physical and mental illness.

The physical wounds our veterans have suffered in Iraq and 
Afghanistan are horrendous. I have worked, along with the Presiding 
Officer, as a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee to help shine a 
light on the mental wounds so many of our veterans are suffering from 
this war. As he and I know, these injuries are very deep and very 
personal and they can be very devastating, both to that servicemember 
and to his family.

This problem is still not getting the attention it needs from this 
administration. We all know our troops are under tremendous strain. In 
the past, we were always able to give our servicemembers a break in 
service to allow them time off from the frontlines to recover from 
their physical or psychological or emotional demands. We also know some 
of them are now serving in their third and fourth and even fifth tours 
in this war in Iraq. All of that increases the likelihood they will 
suffer post-traumatic stress disorder or other mental health conditions 
when they come home. In fact, according to our VA's own numbers, fully 
a third of all our returning Iraq veterans suffer from a mental health 
condition.

That is an astounding statistic, one-third of the men and women who 
have gone to Iraq and Afghanistan come home with mental health 
conditions that need treatment and support. But I also know that 
statistic is probably too low. That is because many of our veterans 
today do not seek care, either because of the stigma of mental health 
problems or because they live in a community where they do not know 
whom to ask. Today the VA is not reaching out and trying to find these 
men and women, to bring them in, to give them the support and services 
they need. I have talked to one too many veterans myself who has told 
me: I didn't know that I could get care at the VA. I didn't know whom I 
could call.

We have a lot of work to do. Earlier this year, I went to Camp Murray 
and spoke with some of the National Guard members who told me they did 
not want to be labeled with PTSD or traumatic brain injury. They had 
gone to Iraq and come home and they were deathly afraid of having that 
label on them because they thought it would hurt their career. One 
soldier even told me that to be labeled with a mental trauma, 
''jeopardizes his life outside the service.''


Clearly, this administration and every American needs to work to 
change that perception, because a soldier who is at home and doesn't 
seek the needed care is an explosive timebomb in his family and his 
community. More than that, we owe them the support and care they 
deserve. That is part of our job, to make sure these soldiers aren't 
lost when they come home.

We have a lot of work to do as well to ensure that when our 
servicemembers do try to get care, they do not have to struggle to 
navigate this horrendous system they are thrown into to get the 
treatment they need. So far we have not seen that happening. Last year, 
a VA official revealed some of the clinics in this country do not 
provide mental health care or substance abuse care. Or, if they do, and 
this was a VA official himself who said this, ''waiting lists render 
that care virtually inaccessible.'' In other words, that VA official 
was saying, because the care is not there, we are denying the 
servicemembers the treatment they need.

I held a hearing on the issue of mental health care in Tacoma, WA, my 
home State, a few months ago. Dan Purcell--he is an Iraq veteran--spoke 
to me and summed up the frustration I think is felt by so many of the 
servicemembers I have taken the time to talk to. He said to me he felt 
like he was being ''treated as a tool that could be casually discarded 
when broken or found to be no longer useful.''

Can you imagine? A young man who went to serve his country in Iraq, 
served all of us, fought for our safety and security--no matter how we 
feel about this war--felt like he was discarded when he came home. That 
is not how any of us want the men and women who serve this country to 
feel.

I think it is shameful our veterans today, across this country, are 
forced to fight to get the mental health care they need. A lot of them 
struggle to even see a doctor, and they are forced to wait months or 
even years to get their claims processed.

Across the country, veterans who have health problems are given 
different ratings and different benefits. In 2003, the administration, 
surprisingly,


closed the door to VA health care for new Priority 8 veterans. Some 
veterans tell me it feels like the VA is fighting them instead of 
fighting for them. That is unconscionable.

When this war ends--and we all pray it will be soon--when the news 
fades and the conflicts become another page in our history books, we 
have to be here to make sure the commitment to our veterans does not 
fade along with that.

I wished to come to the floor this afternoon to highlight, on 
Veterans Day, how important it is that we recognize the men and women 
who serve us; how important our job is to make sure we provide the 
care. But I am not here just to say what they should do. I think it is 
important to talk about what we should do.

I think there are three clear areas where we can do a much better 
job, where we can improve. First of all, I believe we can work to make 
sure the mental health care needs of our veterans are met. We need to 
work to make sure the VA does all it can to raise the awareness of 
post-traumatic stress disorder and combat-related stress. We have to do 
everything we can to make sure they hire more counselors to help treat 
everyone, from the 20-year-old veteran returning from Iraq to the 
Vietnam veteran who is still struggling with his legacy of war.

We need to make sure all the employees throughout our VA system 
understand PTSD, so it isn't the receptionist who answers the phone 
who, when a veteran says to her: I can't get to sleep at night or I am 
having nightmares or I can't remember where my keys are or my kids 
don't understand me anymore, says: Well, let me see if I can get you an 
appointment. We have one 3 months from now. We need everyone, including 
the people who answer the phone, to understand post-traumatic stress 
syndrome and make sure we are reaching out and finding these veterans 
and getting them the care they need.

Next, we need to work with the VA to clear up that horrendous backlog 
of complaints our veterans are facing so they can finally get timely 
care. I hope the President signs legislation soon to ensure the 
Department of Defense and the VA are working with the same disability 
rating system and that records are not lost between those two systems.

We have worked hard in the Senate to address that issue, since the 
Walter Reed scandal broke. That legislation is within the Defense 
authorization. I hope we can get it to the President soon, that he 
signs it, and that the VA and DOD finally break apart those barriers 
that tell them they cannot talk to each other or will not talk to each 
other, and they can figure out a disability system that does not put 
our veterans into some kind of chaos between two bureaucratic systems.

Finally, most important, we, Congress, have to provide enough money 
so our veterans do get the quality health care they deserve. The Senate 
has approved a bill that provides about $4 billion more than the 
President asked us for that is going to take some important steps. It 
is going to improve the conditions at our VA facilities around the 
country--such as we saw at Walter Reed. That was symbolic of what is 
happening in our country, and we have to put the resources into these 
VA facilities so our veterans do not face these dilapidated conditions. 
We have to invest in new ways to treat military health ailments such as 
PTSD and traumatic brain injury. We don't know the best care for our 
veterans yet. We don't know all the outcomes of PTSD and all the 
treatments available, and our VA has to have the dollars to do that 
research so we can provide the best care possible.

That bill provides funding for better prosthetics for thousands of 
troops who have lost limbs in battle. I know the Presiding Officer and 
I have both talked with veterans and I have to tell you, the veterans 
coming home today who lose a limb in this war, they want to be able to 
climb Mount Rainier. They want to be able to run in a marathon. They 
want to be able to get up and be part of our society, our communities, 
and their families. We owe that to them, and better research on 
prosthetics and the capability of providing that to them is incredibly 
important. We provide for the research and the dollars in this bill to 
do that.

It is so frustrating to me that this administration has ignored these 
problems for so long. We, in the Democratic-controlled Congress, came 
in this year and we have taken action so now I hope the President 
supports this critical bill and proves his commitment to veterans as 
well.

The men and women in uniform have answered the President's call to 
serve in Iraq and Afghanistan without hesitation or complaint. They 
have left their loved ones for years. They have put their own lives on 
the line. Some have come home without limbs; others have returned with 
mental scars. Some, thankfully, have escaped without any injury. But 
everyone, to a person, has earned the respect and the best care 
possible when they come home. If we do not care for our servicemembers 
now, we will be weakening our military for decades to come.

President Bush has been more than willing to use our veterans as 
props when he argues in favor of this misguided war. I think it is time 
to turn that lipservice into reality and give our veterans the care 
they need and they deserve. We owe it to our country to ensure we are 
there to support our servicemembers, to support our veterans, and to 
support their families every single step of the way. Mr. President, I 
know, as you do, that this country is willing to do that, unlike in 
some of our previous conflicts.


I did not support the war, but I support the men and women who serve 
in it, and I will work every day to make sure we do our job to care for 
them when they come home, and I know all Americans feel the way I do. 
The men and women who serve us are part of the cost of war, and may we 
never forget that.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.