# PRODUCT SAFETY
## `62af208d860a248d912ecbe185ced14b`
`Mr. BOND â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I appreciate all the comments of my 
colleague. He had some very interesting things to say. I don't believe 
I can let it pass, as vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee, 
without clarifying some of what has been said about the danger to this 
country.

First, we have never taken our eyes, our efforts off getting the 
leaders of al-Qaida. There were times in the past, in the nineties, 
when we had an opportunity to get him, and apparently, according to 
published reports, from one of the people who was with Osama bin Laden, 
we came close, but we have not been able to find him. I can assure you, 
without going into the details, that we continue to make a major effort 
to find Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, the No. 2 man. If any 
Senator wants to come to the Senate Intelligence Committee in Hart 219, 
we will be happy to brief them on the efforts made there.

As far as the threat to the United States, the greatest threat to the 
United States from abroad is having al-Qaida establish a safe haven 
where they can recruit, have training facilities, issue command-and-
control orders, and develop weapons of mass destruction. We have no 
better authorities than Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri that they 
still seek to establish that headquarters for their effort in Iraq 
because this is where they believe their caliphate should be 
headquartered. They would be far more capable of operating against the 
United States and others if they could go back to establishing their 
safe havens in Iraq, as they had in Afghanistan prior to our 
eliminating the Taliban.

I believe anybody will tell you that this country is safer because we 
have denied them a safe haven. Yes, some of the leaders are hiding out 
in the rugged mountains in that region. Their communications are very 
difficult. Their training facilities have been interrupted from time to 
time by our and allied efforts. We continue those efforts. They know 
they cannot operate safely there with impunity, but they are denied the 
operational freedom of a safe haven in Iraq. That is their goal--that 
and attacking the United States. Establishing a foothold in Iraq would 
give them not only the training facilities and recruiting and command-
and-control capacities, but it would give them access to tremendous oil 
reserves, so they would have the funding from the oil resources, 
potentially putting tremendous economic pressure on us if they cut off 
Iraq's oil supply to the free world. But they would have the oil 
resources.

As far as Iraq is concerned, the intelligence we had before we went 
in was not good. We pointed out in the Intelligence Committees where it 
fell short. But we have also had the report of the Iraqi Survey Group, 
David Kay, which said Iraq was a far more dangerous place even than we 
knew. Before we went in and took out Saddam Hussein, we did not know 
the chaotic system in that country. The fact that there were terror 
groups operating in that country who sought weapons of mass 
destruction--and we know Saddam Hussein not only manufactured but used 
weapons of mass destruction--those terrorist groups in Iraq were 
seeking to get weapons of mass destruction from Saddam Hussein's 
operations and his just-in-time inventory system.

There is a lot more to the story than we just heard, but I can assure 
my colleagues, from the intelligence standpoint, we are not giving 
anybody any safe haven where we have any reasonable knowledge of where 
they stand or in what way they are operating.

I wanted to make those comments. I thank the Chair. I note another 
colleague has asked to speak.

I yield the floor.

