# None
## `62d77b1dc360577da0786554272be578`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I support this resolution, which condemns both Syria 
and Iran for their continuing campaign of murder and intimidation aimed 
at anti-Syrian politicians and public figures of Lebanon. It warns them 
against interfering either directly or through their many 
representatives in the Lebanese presidential elections scheduled for 
later this month.

Over 2 years after the Cedar Revolution, and despite the withdrawal 
of Syrian troops, Lebanon's fragile government continues to be targeted 
for destruction by internal and external threats. Hezbollah has 
continued to carry out its strategy of assassinating anti-Syrian 
Lebanese politicians. The aim is to gain a parliamentary majority that 
would allow both Syria and Iran to impose their choice for a president 
on the Lebanese people.

Furthermore, the inclusion of pro-Syrian, Iranian and terrorist 
organizations such as Hezbollah in the Lebanese political process only 
empowers the Syrian and Iranian regimes and holds Lebanon hostage to 
their whims. Allowing a terrorist entity to use the political process 
and legitimize itself without first demanding a renouncement of 
violence has only served to perpetuate and enhance the threat.

We support the underlying intent of this resolution, which is to 
advocate for the sovereignty and political independence of Lebanon. The 
Lebanese people deserve the right to be free of interference and 
intimidation by any outside country or terrorist group. However, 
despite supporting the resolution, we are concerned about language in 
this resolution referring to the entire Lebanese Parliament as 
''democratically elected,'' because it sets a dangerous precedent by 
both legitimizing and providing congressional approval for the role of 
a foreign terrorist organization in the political process in Lebanon. 
Sadly, it legitimizes current election law which was constructed by the 
Syrians and imposed on the Lebanese people.

Finally, it undermines the very essence of United Nations Security 
Council Resolution 1559, aimed at truly removing Syria from the 
Lebanese political process. Elections conducted under a Syrian-
controlled electoral process where foreign terrorist organizations are 
allowed to participate without first requiring them to lay down their 
weapons should not be considered ''democratic'' by this Chamber.

Madam Speaker, the United States and other responsible nations must 
encourage the Government of Lebanon and leading Lebanese policymakers 
not to compromise on their commitment to reform the political process 
by purging from it the influence of Syria, Iran and Hezbollah. Our 
support for the Lebanese people and the pro-democracy forces in Lebanon 
is vital to counterbalance the pressures surrounding Lebanon.

The brave people of Lebanon continue to stand against the tyrannical 
regime in Damascus, and they deserve nothing less than our support. It 
is for this reason that, despite reservations about the implications of 
some of the clauses in this resolution, I will vote for this 
resolution, and ask my colleagues to do the same.

I especially remember Congressman LaHood being prophetic. Last year I 
attended a White House meeting with the President of members of both 
parties giving reports on their recent trips to Iraq. Congressman 
LaHood pointed out progress in Iraq, but he also stated the public 
needed reassurance of the capture or killing of the al Qaeda leader in 
Iraq, Zawahiri. Just as he concluded, National Security Advisor Stephen 
Hadley, sitting next to me, received an important cell call which he 
took and then several hours later could announce: the butchering 
beheader Zawahiri had been killed by a successful American airstrike.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.