# None
## `62dab0ff6c69354d6d4e5146920b8e5d`
`Mr. AKIN — 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. I thank the gentleman, and I appreciate your comments. And 
I think that, as we have been trying to discover more and more what is 
in the bill; now, it is a secret what is in the bill, in spite of the 
discussions about transparency and the chance that people will have a 
48-hour window to actually read what is in the bill. Yet, the bill we 
still have not seen it. There have been people out saying, well, here 
is the deal we cut. But in terms of transparency and 48 hours, that of 
course was just campaign rhetoric, apparently.

But what it seems like, as we look more and more at this thing, is 
that this is really a form of financial infanticide, because what we 
are going to be doing is burdening not only our children but our 
grandchildren.

But I would like to back up just a minute on the gentleman from Iowa, 
a man that has been a small business owner, a great Congressman, and a 
great commonsense guy, and I want to just sort of back up because there 
is two theories about how to treat the situation. And I think it is 
important that we state that, as a Republican, and I believe you as a 
Republican gentleman, believe that this is a serious situation that we 
are facing.

At a town hall meeting, a little girl stood up and she said, ''My 
daddy just lost his job from 40 hours to 24 hours. Is there anything in 
this bill that is going to help my daddy?'' And the answer to that 
question is, ''no.'' And that is exactly the reason why we have to vote 
''no,'' because it doesn't solve the problem.

Now, there are two theories about how you approach the situation that


our economy faces right now. And one of them, this word Keynesian, 
which is some old musty historical guy, some Lord Keynes from England, 
I suppose, and he had a theory that was convenient for government 
people; and that was, the more government money you spend, the better 
off you are. And the guy who really tried that theory, worked for FDR. 
He was Secretary of the Treasury. His name was Henry Morgenthau.

Henry Morgenthau went out and, boy, did he spend money. And he did 
just exactly what the Democrats are doing he said that they want to do, 
and that is to build schools and to do all of these different public 
works projects. And at the end of 8 years, he appeared before the Ways 
and Means Committee. Now, this guy was doing Keynesian economics before 
Keynes even made it popular.

At the end of 8 years he appears in the Congress here before the Ways 
and Means Committee and he says, ''It did not work.'' He said, ''We 
have spent money and spent money for 8 years, and I am telling you, it 
does not work. The unemployment is just as bad now as it was 8 years 
ago, and, to boot, we have a tremendous debt.'' Now, that was our first 
experiment with the idea that you just go out and spend tons of money 
and everything is going to be okay.

Now, I don't know too many households in America, Congressman King, 
that have such a lack of common sense that when their family budget 
gets in trouble, that they go buy a brand-new car, take out a second 
loan on their house, buy a motorboat, and just go spend money to make 
it better. There are not too many people that have that little common 
sense. And yet, right here in Washington, D.C., we seem to have all of 
them that doesn't have any common sense ready to jump on this idea that 
just spending a whole lot of money is going to make the problem better.

Now, we haven't even talked about what we are spending the money on 
yet. The theory is that we are going to do stimulative things, such as 
building roads and bridges and stuff, which in fact most of this bill 
has nothing to do with that at all, just expanding entitlements. I 
really don't understand how millions and millions of dollars spent on 
sexually transmitted disease education is really going to put people to 
work.

But aside from that, I just wanted to mention one other thing, and 
that is something that is a problem of scale. Sometimes numbers get so 
many zeroes behind them that people get a little batty and don't 
realize what they are talking about. So let's try and put this $800 
billion into perspective. And it is not $800 billion; it is going to be 
more than $1 trillion, because what this does is it commits us to all 
kinds of additional spending which it is not going to stay anywhere 
near. But let's just say we talk about $800 billion. What does that 
mean?

Well, one of the things we have heard for the last 7 years is all of 
the money that we have wasted on the war in Iraq and how much money the 
war in Afghanistan has cost us. So let's start, first of all, go back 
to the beginning of the war in Afghanistan 7 years ago, the beginning 
of the war in Iraq 6 years ago, let's add it all up. Add all of those 
two wars up from the beginning of when they started, and it is less 
than what is in this bill. So that 800-some billion dollars, that is a 
pretty fair amount of money.

Let's put it in other terms. Let's picture, we now currently have 11 
aircraft carriers in the military. Those are considered the most 
valuable assets, other than just the American cities that we have. We 
really try to protect our 11 aircraft carriers. How many aircraft 
carriers could we build for $800 billion? Well, if we got them at the 
old price, about 250. Can you picture 250 aircraft carriers end to end? 
But let's say we get the newest, most fancy brand-new aircraft 
carriers. Still, even with no discount for buying a large number, we 
are talking 100 aircraft carriers. The debt service in one year on this 
$800 billion would buy us 9 aircraft carriers.

And so what are we going to do? We are talking about protecting mice 
in the Speaker's district, and we are talking about all of these things 
that have nothing to do other than just spending a whole lot of 
government money.

So, first of all, the question is: Does spending a lot of money do 
any good? And the answer is: Historically, the Japanese tried it and it 
didn't work for them, either, any better than it did for FDR. They 
turned a recession into a depression using this theory.

And so what the common sense is, the Federal Government has got to 
stop spending so much money. That isn't too complicated. People are 
saying Republicans don't have an answer. We have got an answer: Don't 
spend all this money. What part of ''don't spend money'' don't you 
understand? It seems so simple. Everybody else in America can figure it 
out. Why can't we figure it out?

We don't want to spend a lot of money. What we want to do is we want 
to let the capital, the money, remain with the people that actually 
create the jobs. Don't we?

And I see that you have got a number of other really qualified people 
to join you on this hour. I just thank you for taking the time to try 
to get the truth out on a bill that is still smoke and mirrors.