# SUPPORTING AMERICAN LEGION DAY
## `62e72f07d55fa471e5ab1e10871bc320`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia â€” 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my 
strongest support for H. Res. 679, a bill that recognizes American 
Legion Day and commends the exemplary service of the veterans of the 
United States Armed Services. The American Legion was granted a charter 
by this body on September 16, 1919, and since that time the Legion has 
remained active on the local, state, and national level as a volunteer 
service organization for our nation's veterans.

Today, it is an honor to express my deep sense of gratitude to the 
thousands of veterans who are members of the American Legion. The 
American Legion provides many volunteer opportunities for our nation's 
troops when they retire from the Armed Services. Some of these include 
donating millions of man hours to the medical facilities of the 
Veterans Administration, sponsoring Boy Scouts of America troops all 
around the country, and awarding millions of dollars for college 
scholarships. These incredible volunteers give back to the very 
communities that they have already sacrificed so much for throughout 
their careers.

Community involvement is only one aspect of the American Legion. 
These Legionnaires also provide an extraordinary amount of support for 
troops returning from war in Iraq and Afghanistan. Legion Posts all 
around the nation have been involved with providing financial 
assistance to veterans displaced by natural disasters or families of 
veterans that are struggling to pay for basic needs such as housing. 
The American Legion has a Family Support Network that provides much 
needed assistance to families of members of the Armed Services, and the 
organization focuses on reintegrating troops returning from deployment 
into the workforce in the United States.

It is appropriate that we take a moment to recognize and say thank 
you to the active duty members of our Armed Forces for their 
dedication, sacrifice, and honor. Each and every day, they keep this 
great nation safe and protect the freedoms that we enjoy. We are proud 
of all of our servicemen and women and are eternally grateful for their 
efforts in the Global War on Terror. Furthermore, let us not forgot 
those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice, and let us say a gracious 
thank you to them for their willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice 
for liberty.

The families of those who serve our country on the front lines also 
deserve the admiration and appreciation of each and every citizen. 
These family members often watch their loved ones travel to far away 
lands in support of a cause and an ideal so much greater than any one 
individual. Indeed, our democratic form of government is a testament to 
the courage and valor of our Armed Forces. The support given to our 
servicemen and women by their loved ones is irreplaceable, as it is the 
foundation for the bravery inherent in those who labor steadfastly in 
the defense of liberty.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that the brave men and women who sacrifice--
and have sacrificed in the past--for our present freedoms deserve our 
fullest support. Our nation's servicemen and women represent the best 
our country has to offer, and they must be treated with the respect and 
honor they deserve. Recognizing American Legion Day in 2009 is just one 
small reminder of the invaluable contributions made by our troops at 
home and abroad, and it is my hope that we will continue to do all we 
can and more for the veterans of our Armed Forces. The American Legion 
is an exceptional organization for veterans and communities all around 
the nation, and we now reaffirm our commitment to these heroes by 
recognizing this day.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution.
