# None
## `62ef253949cff72d5589643b43d3f1cf`
`Mr. GINGREY — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. The gentlewoman remembers, I think we all remember, 
hopefully, that last year the Congress asked for the Iraqi government 
to meet certain benchmarks. And this is exactly what Representative 
Blackburn is talking about now in regard to certain laws that their 
parliament would need to pass. It was sort of like a, you know, we'll 
only continue to help you if you promise by a date certain that you 
will have provincial elections, that you will pass a de-Ba'athification 
law, which essentially meant that those Sunnis, those brave soldiers 
that we are calling now and referring to as sons of Iraq, and as I say, 
mostly Sunnis, that they would have an opportunity to be included, 
maybe to be officially a part of the Iraqi security force.

So the government had to get over the fact that there was this 
rivalry, if you will, between the Shias in the majority and the Sunnis 
in the minority and the Sunnis led by the brutal dictator. Saddam 
Hussein had suppressed, oppressed, murdered so many of the Shias for so 
many years of his reign of terror that it's difficult to all of a 
sudden reach out an olive branch, but that's what we asked them to do 
in regard to de-Ba'athification, and I think it's important. And also 
asking them to share the oil revenue with all parts of the country, not 
just where the oil is found in the oil-rich Kurdish region but also in 
the west where there's very little oil and in the south as you have 
sharing.



So that's what the gentlewoman is talking about, and I yield back to 
her.

I just wanted to say that, and I'll make this one last point before I 
yield back, if the gentlewoman will bear with me just a second. It was 
said that those benchmarks needed to be met before we would provide 
additional troops and security and help stabilize things on the ground. 
But you couldn't have an effective parliament, an effective government 
until the people on the ground, in the towns, in the villages felt that 
their new government that they voted for could protect them, that had 
the ability, had the military strength, had the training that they felt 
secure and that they could go forward with this government. So the 
provision of security on the ground was first and foremost, and that's 
what the surge was all about.

I yield back to the gentlewoman from Tennessee.