# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `62fc5dd77f57f4a146e106bfd1923f12`
`Mr. DREIER — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume; 
and I will say again to my colleagues that, as we look at this 
challenge, this is a very difficult one. It is one that we seek to 
address in a bipartisan way, Mr. Speaker, Democrats and Republicans 
coming together.

Now, our former colleague, Mr. Hamilton, co-chairman of the Iraq 
Study Group, has made it very clear that the


work product which was unleashed, turned over last December, is still 
applicable today. This notion of saying that we need to look at 
bringing this group back together, I don't have it with me here, but I 
have one downstairs in my office. We have the volume, the work of the 
Iraq Study Group, that we've all gotten copies of; and all we're 
asking, Mr. Speaker, is that this bipartisan work product be able to be 
voted on and supported here.

Now, what is it that we have before us? We have a closed rule. And 
I'm saddened greatly to report to the House, by virtue of this closed 
rule having come from the Rules Committee, reported out last night, we 
have by far exceeded the doubling, the doubling of the number of closed 
rules in this Democratic majority than we had in the Republican 
majority at this time at the beginning of the last Congress. It saddens 
me.

Again, I will say that, Mr. Speaker, while we hear about this great 
new day, a sense of openness, transparency, accountability, what is it 
that we've gotten? We may not have been perfect when we were in the 
majority, but under this new majority that promised all of these great 
things to the American people, we have gotten now more than twice as 
many closed rules in the first 7 months of the year than we had in the 
first 7 months of the 109th Congress, and I just think it's a sad 
commentary on where we are.

Now to the issue at hand, Mr. Speaker. As we look at the challenge 
that the families of those loved ones face, I would like to share the 
remarks of some of the families that I have heard.

There is a young man who was killed tragically in the battle of 
Fallujah. His name is J.P. Blecksmith from San Marino, California. His 
father, like J.P., was a Marine; and after his son was tragically 
killed, Ed Blecksmith said to me, he said, David, if we don't complete 
our mission in Iraq, my son J.P. will have died in vain. And he said, 
we need to do everything that we possibly can to ensure victory.

And I will tell you that what we're doing here today under this 
closed rule, I believe, creates the potential for undermining the 
success that, as was pointed out and as I said in my last statement, is 
outlined in the remarks in the article in the New York Times, the op-ed 
piece written by Ken Pollack and Mike O'Hanlon, and there's another 
statement that was made.

I met a woman just a couple of months ago. Denise Codnot is her name. 
She came here to Washington, and she walked into my office, Mr. 
Speaker, and her son Kyle was killed in Iraq, 19 years old. He was in 
the Army. And she looked me in the eye and said, my son wasn't killed 
in Iraq. My son proudly gave his life, proudly gave his life for the 
cause of freedom. And she said to me, we must do everything within our 
power to ensure success and victory.

This war on terror has been very painful for us, Mr. Speaker, very, 
very painful for everyone involved, especially the families of those 
men and women in uniform. But we know there is an interconnectedness of 
this war on terror, and that is the reason that on this rule we are 
going to continue our quest to deal with modernization of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act.

Now, I know that my colleagues last night in the Rules Committee, we 
passed out a special rule that will allow for consideration of possible 
negotiations that would take place on this issue, but, Mr. Speaker, we 
have been waiting since April of this year when the statements began to 
come forward from the Director of National Intelligence, Mike 
McConnell; from the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, 
Michael Hayden; from the Secretary of Homeland Security, Michael 
Chertoff, the three Michaels I call them, who have come forward with 
this urgent plea for us to take the very antiquated, three-decade-old, 
three-decade-old 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and 
modernize it.

I am going to move, Mr. Speaker, to defeat the previous question, and 
I would like to yield 1/1/2/ minutes to my colleague from Albuquerque, 
New Mexico (Mrs. Wilson) whose legislation will be made in order if we 
are successful in defeating the previous question.