---
---

# None
## `62ffca5bfe5207f9c56a8171d2729514`
`Mr. HAGEL — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, we have before us one of the most important 
issues that has ever faced our country, certainly in modern times. The 
future of Iraq will affect the United States, the Middle East, and the 
world for decades to come.

No one in Congress and no one in the United States wants to see 
America humiliated, defeated, or in any way lose its purpose. The issue 
of Iraq involves all of us. The Congress of the United States must have 
a role to play.

Our responsibility is to join together in a bipartisan effort to work 
to develop a consensus to deal with the great challenges of our time. I 
know of no challenge that is greater today, before this country, than 
Iraq. When a Nation commits its men and women to war, it is the 
greatest challenge that any of us will ever deal with in our time in 
the Congress.

We owe it to the American people to help find a bipartisan consensus 
of purpose, to help develop a policy worthy of our men and women in 
uniform. The American people not only deserve but they expect a 
consensus. This resolution is not about trying to assign blame on the 
Administration. It is not about replaying past mistakes. This 
resolution is about moving forward. It is difficult but it is our 
responsibility.

Some of us believe that the course that the President announced 
Wednesday was not the appropriate course. I do not believe that the 
United States should be sending more American troops into the middle of 
the tribal, sectarian civil war that is occurring in Iraq.

Senators Biden, Levin, and I have focused personally on writing this 
resolution because we felt it must reflect a responsible, forward-
looking, and constructive approach. We must remain focused on a 
strategy which seeks to advance America's national interests and allow 
America to leave Iraq honorably.

The American people look to its government for responsible policy. A 
policy that can be sustained. A policy that reflects a clear consensus 
of purpose regarding our objectives, our strategy and our policies. 
This is what our resolution seeks to achieve.