---
---

# CONGRATULATING LITHUANIA ON 1,000TH ANNIVERSARY
## `6300f818a30f10d5f46a2587786db40a`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 285, 
and urge its immediate adoption. This resolution, introduced by friend 
and home state colleague, Chair of the House Baltic Caucus, Congressman 
John Shimkus, congratulates the people of the Republic of Lithuania on 
the one thousandth anniversary of their country, celebrates the rich 
history of this nation and its people, and highlights the valuable 
relations Lithuania maintains with the United States.

As Co-Chair of the Central and Eastern European Caucus, and 
representative of a large Lithuanian community, I have a special pride 
in being a cosponsor of this measure, and rising in its support. The 
Balzekas Museum of Lithuanian Culture, which is a major player in 
Lithuanian cultural life and scholarship in the United States, is 
located in my district. And Chicago is home to more Lithuanians outside 
their native home than any other location.

As few know, the name ''Lithuania'' first appeared in Europe in the 
year 1009--a historical timeline unfathomable to many Americans. The 
state of Lithuania was established as early as 1236, and became at 
times the largest country in Europe. The modern establishment of 
Lithuania as a sovereign and democratic state occurred in 1918.

While Lithuania, along with Latvia and Estonia, were forcibly 
incorporated into the Soviet Union in 1940, this did not diminish 
Lithuanians' national pride, their valor or spirit. Despite Soviet 
persecution and barbaric assaults on their freedoms, Lithuanians 
persisted, aided by the support and prayers of millions of Lithuanians 
in the United States and elsewhere.

In 1990, after decades of oppression and occupation, Lithuania became 
the first Soviet-controlled republic to break away and declare its 
independence.

Since that time, Lithuania has developed into a free and democratic 
society. Its free market economy has experienced strong growth, and has 
joined the United States in pursuing knowledge-driven opportunities, 
including biotechnology and other high-tech sectors.

The United States has and continues to maintain a strong and positive 
relationship with Lithuania. Our nations have held 85 years of 
continuous diplomatic relations. Lithuania has supported international 
peace and security efforts, and has contributed to civilian and 
military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, Georgia, and elsewhere, for 
which the United States government is highly appreciative.



In that vein, I would like to extend the warmest congratulations to 
Ms. Dalia Grybauskaite, who was elected as the new President of 
Lithuania in May of this year with over two-thirds of the vote. The 
first female President of Lithuania, Ms. Grybauskaite was sworn in on 
July 11, 2009. A former European Union Budget Commissioner, finance 
commissioner in Lithuania and a diplomat in Lithuania's U.S. Embassy, I 
congratulate her and wish President Grybauskaite success in her new 
role.

I look forward to joining my constituents and other Chicago-area 
Lithuanians in celebrating this 1000th anniversary in September. 
Lietuviu Dienos Chicago 2009, a community celebration led by Mr. Andrew 
Bucas--owner of Grand Duke's Lithuanian restaurant--and the Chicago 
Consul General of the Republic of Lithuania, will be held at Summit 
Park, in the Village of Summit located in my district, on September 20, 
2009. Prominent Lithuanian-American Joe Kulys has been instrumental in 
organizing this celebration and has been a key leader in the 
Lithuanian-American community.

I wish Lithuanians and Lithuanian-Americans alike the best wishes and 
hearty congratulations in the celebration of 1000 years of Lithuanian 
history and progress.