# THE AMERICAN PEOPLE KNOW WHAT THE BOTTOM LINE IS
## `630834681d62f61a8a3e949614acd863`
`Mr. ARCURI — 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Thank you. Thank you for organizing this today and for 
the advocacy that you do on behalf of not only your constituents but of 
all Americans.

I would like to just associate myself with the words of my former 
colleague from the Rules Committee, Ms. Sutton. I think no State has 
been hit as hard as Ohio has over the years, and I think her remarks 
certainly ring true for all of the country, including my district that 
I represent in upstate New York.

As the economy falls deeper into recession, economists tell us that 
we must act quickly and that we must act boldly. That is exactly what 
the House did last month when we voted on the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009. We must--and I repeat this--we must send 
a final bill to the President's desk this week. Every day that we wait 
and every moment that we hesitate come more and more layoffs to regular 
people. These are working people in our backyards. These are people who 
we go to church with on Sundays. These are people who we work with and 
who we see at the supermarkets. These are people who we know are losing 
their jobs. Let me just talk a little bit about that because, to my way 
of thinking, nothing is more important and nothing is more significant 
than trying to help the people who have lost their jobs.


In my district, I represent about eleven counties, all or part of 
eleven counties, actually, in upstate New York. Broome County, which is 
where Binghamton is located, has an unemployment rate of 7.1 percent. 
Almost 7,000 people are unemployed there. Tioga County has 7.2 percent. 
In Herkimer County, it's 7.7 percent. In Oneida County, it's 6.7 
percent. Nearly 7,500 people are out of work in Oneida County. In 
Cayuga County, it's 7.4 percent. In Chenango County, it's 8.2 percent. 
In Otsego County, it's 7.3 percent. In Seneca County, it's 6.9 percent. 
In Ontario County, it's 6.8 percent. In Tompkins County, it's 4.7 
percent, and in Cortland County, it's 9.1 percent.

These are real people. These are more than 35,000 people in my 
district in upstate New York who are out of work. This is why we need 
to stop talking, why we need to stop debating and why we need to put a 
bill on the President's desk.

Last year, more than 2.6 million jobs were lost here in the United 
States, and economists warn us that without immediate action here in 
Washington those numbers will and can be significantly higher in 2009. 
In fact, we have already seen a significant jump in the number of job 
losses over the last 3 months. The numbers that I just gave you were 
for December. That's the frightening thing. They were for December when 
employment is supposed to be lower as a result of people going to work 
at the holidays.

What will the numbers be like in January? Congress must support an 
economic recovery package that creates and saves 3 million to 4 million 
jobs over the next 2 years.

You know, I want to talk about something. I was in my office, 
listening to my colleagues just a little while ago. I don't like to 
point fingers, but there was a point when I just had to respond. They 
talk about the deficit's being $9.7 trillion. They're right. It's very 
high. But where have they been? We've been talking about that deficit 
for years. We've been talking about the problems of spending, spending, 
spending. Yet they continue to vote for it.

The thing that troubles me so much is that they had no problem at all 
in voting to build roads in Afghanistan, that they had no problem in 
voting to fix the water systems in Iraq and that they had no problem in 
voting to build schools to help educate children in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan. That is noble, but you know what? It is just as important 
to educate and to make sure that our children have the very best 
schools, that our roads are safe, that our bridges are safe, and that 
our water systems work. This stimulus plan not only will employ 3 or 4 
million Americans, but it will restore the infrastructure in this 
country to the degree that it needs to be. It will help to fix our 
education system.

Domestic spending is important. How is it that people on the other 
side of the aisle have absolutely no problem whatsoever in voting for 
funding for foreign countries, and yet, when it comes to domestic 
spending, they stand up here and poke fun at it and say it's not 
necessary? I would submit it is critically necessary to this country, 
that it is critically necessary to our future and that it is critically 
important to the 35,000 people in my district who are out of work.



We cannot afford to wait, as some of my Republican friends suggest. 
Economic experts have warned us that the longer we wait, the more 
difficult it will become for the economy to turn around. The time for 
talk is over; the time for action is upon us.

Madam Speaker, we cannot afford to delay. Congress must act this week 
to begin the long process of saving and creating jobs.