# None
## `630cf07dd9e261b0cf50a90c9e9f9596`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. When people say this is being held up and it is 
irresponsible and you shouldn't do this, I am just quoting a number of 
Members of Congress. I am just quoting the President. I am just 
pointing to a human rights situation that our Ambassador to Iraq will 
go into, and saying, isn't this reason enough to go with somebody such 
as General Zinni instead of Ambassador Hill in this situation?

Also, we haven't been able to get information from the State 
Department. I had asked for the instructions they had given to 
Ambassador Hill. He had stated in committee testimony here that at one 
point in time he called it ''inaudible'' in the negotiations, and in 
that ''inaudible'' he made a change. We wanted to find out what State 
Department instructions were to him, or what they were to him on human 
rights issues, and that hasn't been received by my office. We haven't 
been able to get those back.

A number of my colleagues don't remember, or they don't cite to the 
period of time that Ambassador Hill was working on the Korean desk, but 
they do cite to what he did in Bosnia and say, OK, he was a successful 
diplomat, he did this; North Korea is tough, we are going to ignore 
that; and now let's put him in Iraq. Well, there are some real 
questionable records of what he did in the situation in the Balkans and 
in Bosnia. Here I have an article, dated March 22, of this year. I 
think it is very interesting and quite troubling. This is about one of 
the people who is charged with war crimes and his dealings with 
Ambassador Hill. I am going to quote from this article and enter it 
into the Record.




 Every time Radovan Karadzic, the onetime Bosnian Serb 


 leader, appears in court on war crimes charges, he has 


 hammered on one recurring claim: a senior American official 


 pledged that he would never be standing there being charged 


 with war crimes.



 The official, Richard C. Holbrooke, now a special envoy on 


 Afghanistan and Pakistan for the Obama administration, has 


 repeatedly denied promising Mr. Karadzic immunity from 


 prosecution in exchange for abandoning power after the 


 Bosnian war.



 But the rumor persists, and different versions that 


 recently emerged that line up with Mr. Karadzic's assertion, 


 including a new historical study published by Purdue 


 University in Indiana.



 Charles W. Ingrao, the study's co-editor, said that three 


 senior State Department officials, one of them retired, and 


 several other people with knowledge of Mr. Holbrooke's 


 activities, told him that Mr. Holbrooke assured Mr. Karadzic 


 in July 1996 that he would not be pursued by the 


 international war crimes tribunal in The Hague if he left 


 politics.



 Mr. Karadzic had already been charged by the tribunal with 


 genocide and other crimes against civilians.


Now, you say, OK, that is charging Mr. Holbrooke, but let's see what 
the report writers go on to say about this.




 The Purdue University study, ''Confronting the Yugoslav 


 Controversies: A Scholars' Initiative'', instructed his 


 principal assistant, Christopher Hill, to draft the 


 memorandum to be signed by Karadzic, committing him to give 


 up power--


in exchange for not being charged with war crimes.

The author of the study said Mr. Holbrooke used Slobodan Milosevic, 
the then Serbian leader, and other Serbian officials as intermediaries 
to convey the promise of immunity and to reach the deal with Mr. 
Karadzic. ''The agreement almost came to grief when Holbrooke 
vigorously refused Karadzic's demand, and Hill's appeal, that he affix 
his signature to it,'' the study says, citing unidentified State 
Department sources.

Chris Hill's name again.

The study, the product of 8 years of research by historians, jurists, 
and social scientists from all sides of the conflict, was an effort to 
reconcile disparate views of the wars that tore the former Yugoslavia 
apart in the 1990s, Mr. Ingrao said.

The former official said Mr. Karadzic wanted written assurance that 
he would not be pursued for war crimes and refused to sign without 
them.

''Holbrooke told the Serbs, 'You can give him my word he won't be 
pursued,' but Holbrooke refused to sign anything,'' the official said. 
Mr. Holbrooke could make that promise because he knew that American and 
other western militaries in Bosnia were not then making arrests, the 
official said.

Neither Mr. Hill nor Mr. Goldberg responded to requests for 
interviews for this article.

Here is another insertion of Mr. Hill on a huge problem with human 
rights. This one in the Yugoslav, the Balkans theater. There it is 
again--North Korea, the Balkans, and we have a brewing situation taking 
place in Iraq, and we are going to send him there.

I ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the Record at 
the end of my statement.