---
---

# NATIONAL BOMBING PREVENTION ACT OF 2009
## `6330ce0f50940a454b2fe1e3f1dcd195`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 3 February 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and 
am privileged to address you, Mr. Speaker, and to rise in support of 
H.R. 549, the National Bombing Prevention Act.

This is something that certainly arises out of 9/11, when we watched 
in horror as the twin towers burned, the Pentagon was attacked, and the 
plane was crashed in Pennsylvania. It's changed the focus of this 
Nation. It's changed the priorities that we have.

One would think that government would simply look at this and make 
sure that all the gaps are filled, that we were able to analyze 
capabilities and maintain a database, identify those gaps. The list of 
the things in this bill goes on.

I'm looking at the risk to America and the energy that brings this 
bill to the floor, Mr. Speaker, and I think about this country in the 
broad terms. What do we need to do to take America to the next level of 
our destiny? How do we nurture the things that protect us? And how do 
we enhance the components that improve us?

And I can't help but reflect, Mr. Speaker, as I stand here that we 
are unanimous in our support in protecting the American people. We 
disagree sometimes on the tactics--and I don't think we much disagree 
on these tactics--but I think that there are greater risks out there to 
America that cry out for an urgent approach rather than H.R. 549, the 
National Bombing Prevention Act.

Some of those greater risks come from overseas. They come on our 
American military that are today in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the whole backdrop of that. We have


poured a significant amount of resources in, and we've seen great 
success in Iraq in particular. We have a tough battle to fight in 
Afghanistan. That's the habitat that breeds the people that would like 
to penetrate through our shield.

That's something we cannot always see but it's a tangible enemy 
because we have seen the results of that tangible enemy.

Mr. Speaker, I can't watch this bill move through debate without 
raising the issue of the intangible enemy that we have, the enemy that 
we have from within, the enemy that creeps up on us and sneaks up on 
us, and the one that causes us to revert to security and trying to find 
a safer future. Whenever we see a bump along in our economy, when we 
see the stock market take a dip, when we see some unemployment numbers 
that go up, the first thing that happens is those who have been lying 
in wait for an economic disaster pounce upon that as an argument that 
the free markets are not the solution, that a managed economy is the 
solution.

And we're in the middle of a pivotal debate in America today, Mr. 
Speaker, and that pivotal debate rests not so much on the physical 
security of the American people, as it does the economic opportunity of 
the American people.

And in the name of economic security, we are watching trillions of 
dollars being invested in programs that have not shown any pattern of 
being successful. There was a $150 billion stimulus plan not quite a 
year ago and then a $700 billion stimulus plan that came out before the 
election, the bailout plan as it's commonly known, and now we're 
looking at perhaps a $900 billion stimulus that has with it at least 
$347 billion in interest attached to it over the next 10 years which 
takes us to $1.3 trillion.

Just add the $700 billion on from the bailout from last fall, and 
we're at $2 trillion, $2 trillion in debt and burden which is just one 
leg of a multi-legged stool as we know from President Obama that has to 
be constructed by that approach.

And I will submit that as much as we'd like to provide for the safety 
and the security of the American people--and I will continue to support 
and work together hand-in-hand across the aisle on those issues--I do 
oppose the idea that government can spend money better than people can, 
and I oppose the idea that creating new government programs and 
spending trillions of dollars. And this one-leg of a multi-legged stool 
is a $2 trillion leg, Mr. Speaker.

How many more trillion dollars before we get all the legs built on 
this stool that may look like a centipede and our debt may look like 
it's insurmountable into the future?

We've got to revert to the things that made this Nation great, the 
foundations of the American exceptionalism. And those foundations have 
been--and if we're to have a future will be--the free markets, the 
markets, the free enterprise system, and our faith in those markets. 
And at some point, we have to look back at history and understand that 
no matter how deep we can dig into the old ''New Deal'' of the 1930s, 
that the best that can be said for it was it may have slowed and 
diminished the depths to which we sunk during the Great Depression, but 
the tradeoff was that it delayed the recovery.



And now we are looking at a new, uber, new, new deal that's coming, 
that is multitrillions of dollars, that may or may not diminish the 
depths, but it will certainly delay the recovery.

So that is my greatest fear for America, Mr. Speaker. I appreciate 
your attention.