# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6332154cd45fa01c5b22b1cf1572045c`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, we know that this conference report before us will be 
vetoed by the President because of the Iraqi withdrawal language and 
the many unrelated and costly spending items that have absolutely 
nothing to do with the global war on terror or recovery efforts in the 
gulf coast.

It is no secret that many Members of the House and Senate, both 
Republicans and Democrats, have strong reservations about the manner in 
which this legislation undermines the authority of the President, our 
Commander in Chief. Members are also rightly concerned about how this 
legislation places military decisions in the hands of politicians 
rather than the military commanders in the field.

As I have said many times before, this legislation ought to focus on 
our troops. It ought to focus on providing those in harm's way with the 
resources they need to complete their mission successfully. It ought to 
respect, not micromanage, our combatant commanders in whom we place the 
ultimate responsibility for prosecuting military actions.

My colleagues know that I have great respect for my friend, Mr. 
Murtha, but I strongly disagree with his assertion that we ought to 
have 535 Members and Senators micromanaging the war in Iraq. With all 
due respect, that is not our job.

Let me again remind my colleagues, we are not generals, we are not 
the Secretary of State, and we most certainly are not the Commander in 
Chief. It is tragically ironic that the House is considering this 
conference report the same day that General David Petraeus met with 
Members in closed session on the current situation in Iraq.

It was on January 26 of this year, just 3 months ago, that the Senate 
voted 81-0 to confirm General Petraeus to be the top military commander 
in Iraq. One would have thought that Members and Senators would trust 
his judgment following such an extraordinary vote of confidence over 3 
months ago. Senator Reid, who supported the General's confirmation, now 
says, and I quote, ''I don't believe him.''

Recent history reminds us that the enemy we face in Iraq, in 
Afghanistan and other countries that harbor terrorists will stop at 
nothing to seek opportunities to attack the United States and our 
allies. Have we not learned anything from the original World Trade 
Center bombing in 1993, the Khobar Towers bombing, the attack on USS 
Cole or 9/11 itself?

Al Qaeda will view this legislation as the first sign of the United 
States backing down from its commitment to the war on terror. It will 
view the withdrawal provisions contained in this conference report as 
America signaling retreat and surrender. Indeed, al Qaeda will view 
this as a day that the House of Representatives threw in the towel, 
waved the white flag and signaled retreat and surrender in Iraq.

Our failure to learn the lessons of history, our failure to lead 
today, will result in devastating consequences, including an even 
greater loss of lives, and even more resources needed to fight 
tomorrow. Just as we have only one top General in Iraq, one Secretary 
of State and one Commander in Chief, we only have one Speaker of the 
House at a time.

Speaker Pelosi and I have been friends and have served as colleagues 
on the Appropriations Committee for many years. The Speaker played an 
important role in supporting the development of unmanned aerial 
vehicles, a critical and successful military capability that is a key 
element to the war on terror. She and I worked on that in the 
Intelligence Committee together years ago. It is puzzling to me that 
the Speaker would not only openly question the judgment of General 
Petraeus, Secretary Rice, and our Commander in Chief, but that she 
would also willingly work to undermine their efforts to secure a 
successful outcome in Iraq.

My colleagues, it is absolutely essential that America, the last 
remaining superpower on Earth, continue to be the voice for peace and 
freedom in our shrinking world. Our success is critical. Walking away 
will further signal to Syria, Iran, Afghanistan and others that the 
United States is no longer committed to a successful outcome in Iraq.

In closing, I ask Speaker Pelosi and my friends in the majority to 
weigh the implications of supporting this conference report. Even as I 
hold hope that the Speaker might have a road-to-Damascus conversion, I 
ask her to weigh the enormous consequences of putting our troops in 
peril. I strongly urge a ''no'' vote on this emergency supplemental.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.