---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `63424eeda3ba8ce39598f022a2203491`
`Mr. SERRANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman starts off as we suspected 
by assuming that Members of Congress have no ability and no 
understanding and no knowledge, enough certainly to make an 
appropriation called an earmark. That assumes that only Federal 
agencies and the folks who work in those agencies know what a good 
program is.

I think every so often we have to remind ourselves what a so-called 
earmark is. An earmark is when a Member of Congress determines that in 
his or her district there is a program worthy of Federal support. But 
on so many occasions, as certainly has been the occasion in my district 
in the Bronx, those Federal agencies, for one reason or another, don't 
pay the attention they should, so a Member gets involved in directing 
some dollars. And it is some dollars compared to the total budget.



In this particular case, we're talking about an organization in the 
Youngstown area that was originally set up to deal with the fact that 
in the southwestern Pennsylvania region, there has been a mass exodus 
of people between 25 and 30 years of age. Furthermore, with the demise 
of the steel and coal industry, the region has seen very high levels of 
unemployment. New and small businesses are necessary to the economic 
well-being of the citizens of this area.

Now, JARI's efforts have directly led to an increase in small 
businesses formed in the region and jobs created and retained in the 
region. There has been an increase in longevity and sustainable efforts 
for small businesses. Business folks have been given the ability to 
grow. And yes, while the gentleman seems to think that it is a bad 
thing to have Federal dollars go in and then assist in reaching other 
dollars, well, that just shows that they know how to work the system 
and work it properly. There is nothing wrong with that. But the whole 
notion that only people and Federal agencies know how to direct 
dollars, and that only they know what a good program is is really a 
misconception.

Now, the gentleman from Arizona will be here for quite a while, we 
see he's setting up his presentation. And it will be a good, strong 
presentation, but it is only based on the belief that Members of 
Congress are not intelligent enough to know a good program, to know a 
good use of Federal dollars.

Interestingly enough, the same folks who will get up today and attack 
earmarks will not attack the fact that there are large number of 
earmarks that come directly out of the White House directing Congress 
to spend money on something; and that most have voted for the largest 
earmark of them all, the war in Iraq, which has earmarked hundreds of 
billions of dollars with very little, incidentally, accountability in 
many, many cases.

So, I stand in opposition to the gentleman's amendment. He knows that 
he and I have a friendship, a personal friendship and respect. But on 
this one, as last time, he is totally wrong. I stand in opposition to 
his amendment and in support of this particular earmark.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

