# SERGEANT PAUL SAYLOR POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `634b23949d9751369967fdab8f913fae`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Ohio (Mr. 
Turner), the ranking member of the subcommittee, for yielding. I also, 
Mr. Speaker, want to thank my good friend from Illinois, Representative 
Davis, for the kind words that he just expressed toward Sergeant Paul 
Saylor and for allowing this bill to come forward today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6092, a bill that I 
introduced to honor the life of Paul Anthony Saylor by designating the 
post office in Bremen, Georgia, in Haralson County, as the Sergeant 
Paul Saylor Post Office.

Mr. Speaker, thankfully we are at a point today where the Iraqi 
Government is proving to be more and more capable of securing its 
country and where al Qaeda terrorists are on the verge of being 
completely routed. But we can all agree that the road on which we have 
traveled has been anything but smooth. Indeed, we have lost 4,166 of 
our Nation's greatest treasures in Iraq, the lives of the patriotic, 
heroic men and women who have served there.



They are not just statistics, Mr. Speaker. There is a story behind 
each and every one of the brave men and women who have died serving our 
country in this global war on terror. I have come to know Paul's story 
very well over the last 3 years. You have heard the stories of other 
fallen heroes today who are being honored in the same way.

Paul Saylor's story is indeed one of courage, kindness, generosity, 
and devotion to his family and to his great country. Paul was a beloved 
son to his parents, Jamie and Patti; a beloved brother to Little Jamie, 
his big brother; and a beloved nephew to Linda Kirkland. He enjoyed 
playing high school football with his older brother, and was known for 
his smile and his caring heart. My colleagues, I want you to look at 
Paul Saylor in this poster. He is, indeed, a kind young man.

Since Paul's death, many have spoken of his penchant for standing up 
for others who were being bullied, for picking people up when they were 
down. It is a testament to the affection that others had for Paul that 
of the 5,000 citizens of Bremen, Georgia, his hometown, over 1,500 
attended his funeral.

Mr. Speaker, it was Paul's sense of duty that led him to join the 
Georgia National Guard following his attendance at North Georgia 
College and State University. Upon joining, Paul probably had no idea 
he would be called upon to defend his country and our freedom in Iraq, 
but when he was, he bravely answered that call.

He served our Nation in Iraq as a member of the Georgia National 
Guard's 48th Infantry Brigade Combat Team. Paul lost his life on August 
15, 2005, almost 3 years ago, while on patrol in Al Mahmudiyah, Iraq, 
when the vehicle in which he was traveling rolled down an embankment 
into a canal. He and two of his fellow scout team members died that 
day. Paul was 21 years old.

Sadly, Mr. Speaker, upon being returned to his family, Paul's remains 
were in a state of advanced decomposition and they were not able to see 
him that one last time for the final good-bye.



His family has worked tirelessly since then to assure that the 
improved treatment of the remains of all fallen soldiers would ensure 
that no family, no family would ever have to experience a similar fate 
of not being able to view their son or daughter one last time.

As I worked with Paul's family to address any potential shortfalls in 
our mortuary process, I have visited the mortuary facility at Dover Air 
Force Base in Delaware, as well as Mortuary Affairs Collection Point in 
Iraq, exactly where Paul fell, to try to evaluate the current processes 
and the procedures and identify any areas where improvements could be 
made. And those efforts led eventually to the inclusion of a provision 
last year in the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2007 requiring that all medical personnel be thoroughly trained not 
only in saving lives but also in remains preservation before they are 
deployed into the theater.

This training is currently being carried out in the medical training 
facilities at Fort Sam Houston and the Brook Army Medical Center in San 
Antonio, Texas. On a recent visit last month, I was able to determine 
that the Army is solemnly carrying out this duty, and I am proud to 
report that to my colleagues.

While we could never do enough to support and honor Paul's sacrifice, 
it is the least we can do to ensure that we honor the remains of our 
fallen heroes with the dignity and respect that they deserve. Our 
Nation will be forever indebted to Sergeant Paul Saylor. I know he is 
here with us today, and I would like to say to him, Thank you, Paul. 
Thank you for your service. And I want to thank his family. Paul, your 
spirit lives on, and you will never be forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me today in honoring 
Sergeant Paul Saylor. Vote ''yes'' on H.R. 6092.