---
---

# IN HONOR OF STAFF SERGEANT JAMES WOSIKA
## `634f07d7de6fd3775f6678151cbd150a`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the life of 
SSG James Wosika. Sergeant Wosika was killed on January 9, 2007 while 
on foot patrol in Fallujah, when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near him. Due to his bravery and self-sacrifice, the nine 
other soldiers in proximity to Sergeant Wosika were not injured.

Sergeant Wosika was serving his 10th month in Iraq with the Minnesota 
National Guard. He graduated from Highland Park High School in St. Paul 
in 2000. In school, he was a State champion wrestler and football 
player and he is remembered by his loved ones as a wonderful young man 
who would do anything for his friends and family.

Sergeant Wosika was warm, brave, and dependable. He loved his country 
and honored his family, many whom served in the military before him, 
when he enlisted in the National Guard after high school graduation. To 
his fellow soldiers, his friends, family and all Americans, Sergeant 
Wosika was a hero.

Madam Speaker, Minnesota has lost 49 soldiers since the beginning of 
this war. The Minnesota National Guard has also just been informed that 
their tour in Iraq has been extended by 4 months.

It should be the top priority of Congress to keep our families safe--
in our communities, while serving our government, and while serving our 
country overseas. I will continue working with my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to ensure this remains our focus throughout the 
110th Congress.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring the life of this brave and 
honorable young man. Along with all Americans, I extend my prayers and 
deepest condolences to the friends and family of SSG James Wosika.
