---
---

# None
## `63640940afbed42fc78be1e6586cf8ef`
`Mr. REID — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, we all recall that when we had the debate 
a couple of weeks ago, the issue was could the Republicans offer 
amendments to the antisurge resolution that was on the floor. The 
purpose of that, of course, was to divert attention away from the 
antisurge resolution. The House and the Senate voted on the antisurge 
resolution, and 56 percent of the Senate and 56 percent of the House 
voted against the surge.

I was of the understanding that following the discussion--following 
the legislation that was completed on that matter, Republicans wanted 
the opportunity to offer McCain, which was pro-surge; Warner, which was 
middle ground; and then Judd Gregg, which was a feel-good amendment. At 
this stage it appears they have changed their opportunities.

I say this: This war has been going on for 48 months--48 months. This 
war


will soon be beginning the fifth year. As of less than 2 weeks, the war 
will be in its fifth year. When the Democrats were in the minority, we 
tried lots of ways to get the President to refocus on this war, to 
change course. We have been in the majority for 8 weeks and what have 
we done? We have had almost 50 hearings on Iraq. These are hearings 
that should have been done a long time ago. We have 3,200 dead American 
soldiers, 25,000 of them wounded. We are now focusing on Walter Reed, 
and the same type of oversight we have at Walter Reed and our other 
military facilities, taking care of our wounded veterans, and then 
being, some of them, dumped into the Veterans' Administration system 
prior to their being able to be in that system.

We are being criticized for wanting to go forward on the debate, as 
we thought the minority wanted. General Petraeus, today, from Iraq--it 
was on all the news--what did he say? He said the war in Iraq cannot be 
won militarily. He said that. I didn't say that, he said it. It can 
only be won politically.

We believe, as does an overwhelming majority of the American people, 
that President Bush wants to change course in Iraq. That is why we want 
to debate that. We don't want to take a lot of time. It will be very 
short. But the mission in Iraq has changed dramatically during these 4 
going on 5 years. I am disappointed that again the minority does not 
want to debate on Iraq.

I say this: There will be a debate on Iraq. The House and Senate, a 
majority in the House and Senate agree that the course in Iraq must 
change. Today, the House propounded what they want to do. Today, we 
propounded what we want to do. They are basically the same thing. 
Theirs is a little different because they are getting on to a 
supplemental appropriations bill. We cannot do that. But it is the same 
principle--change course in Iraq and redeploy these troops.

We will have other opportunities to debate Iraq. But at this stage I 
am very disappointed we are not going to be able to set up a time next 
week to go forward. In the meantime, I have spoken to the managers of 
this legislation now before the body. Hopefully, we can move forward.

I say to everyone here, any bags that were packed for weekend travel 
should be put on hold. Save that for some other time. We could be in 
here over the weekend. We could have as many as three cloture votes 
over the weekend. One will be on the package of bills that has had no 
hearings or anything else. We will do that. I guess it is an 
opportunity--filing that cloture--to see if November 7 was correct; did 
the Democrats win? I guess that is what that first vote will be. I 
think it will be that they did win. Then we will go to cloture, if 
necessary, on the bill, and then on the substitute.