---
---

# IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN VETERANS MEMORIAL POST OFFICE
## `6378d9168e8f8bfc05c9fe9d05b5b9f2`
`Mr. BOSWELL — 15 September 2009`

---


Mr. BOSWELL. I would first like to thank the chairman and ranking 
member for moving this bill along. I might add, Mr. Issa, that we did 
have an individual request for this, and we thought about it long and 
hard. Then we thought about the multitude, the many that have served, 
and felt like it was appropriate to do this.

So I do rise today and honor those who have nobly served the Nation 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, and ask colleagues to support H.R. 3386, 
which, as has been said, will designate a post office in Des Moines, 
Iowa, as the ''Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans Memorial Post Office.''

Having spent some 20 years myself in the Army, and a couple tours in 
Vietnam, I understand the sacrifices, and so do you, Mr. Issa, and so 
do many others, made by our servicemembers.

Our Armed Forces have many assets--whether it's our aircraft 
carriers, fighter planes, missiles. However, oftentimes one of the 
greatest military assets is overlooked, and that's our military 
personnel.

Our servicemen and -women stand ready to defend the freedoms we hold 
dear. Our all-volunteer force is made up of brave individuals who know 
all too well the sacrifices that we have asked them to make. Yet time 
and again, with this knowledge, they continue to put our freedoms above 
what they give up. These brave young men and women who have fought in 
these wars, many having lost their lives, deserve recognition for their 
service and their sacrifice.

Renaming the post office in downtown Des Moines, Iowa, will create a 
memorial for all Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, and each day Iowans 
will be reminded of our neighbors who courageously fought on our 
behalf. By renaming this post office, we honor those who have served, 
but also those who have given the ultimate sacrifice--their lives. To 
date, more than 50 Iowans have made that sacrifice.

Those who have or are serving in our Armed Forces are committed to 
serving our Nation with courage and honor. We must make that same 
commitment to them.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3386. We must 
never forget.

