# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `6390921946d5657c47d04bc1d3e6a0cf`
`Mr. McKEON — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I rise with the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
Skelton), my chairman, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. I 
join with my colleagues from the Foreign Affairs Committee and my 
colleagues from the Armed Services Committee in opposition to this 
resolution. I am very disappointed that the House Democratic leadership 
would allow this resolution to come to the floor at this time for a 
vote. One only has to look at the headlines to know that our military 
forces are making progress in their offensive against the Taliban 
insurgents in Helmand province, even as they face snipers, mines, 
improvised explosive devices, and a skeptical Afghan population.

The Kucinich resolution does nothing to advance the efforts of our 
military commanders and troops as they work side by side with their 
Afghan and coalition partners. Representative Kucinich's resolution, if 
enacted into law, would mandate the withdrawal of all U.S. troops from 
Afghanistan by the end of 2010. Why consider this resolution now? Why 
second-guess the Commander in Chief and his commander so soon after the 
announcement of a new strategy? Four months ago, the President reminded 
us why we are in Afghanistan. It was the epicenter of


where al Qaeda planned and launched the 9/11 attacks against innocent 
Americans. The President recommitted the United States to defeating al 
Qaeda and the Taliban and authorized the deployment of 30,000 
additional U.S. forces. A portion of those forces have arrived and 
others are readying to deploy.

Like most Republicans, I support the President's decision to surge in 
Afghanistan. I believe that with additional forces, combined with 
giving General McChrystal the time, space and resources he needs, we 
can win this conflict. We do not have a choice. We must defeat al Qaeda 
and the Taliban. This means taking all necessary steps to ensure al 
Qaeda does not have a sanctuary in Afghanistan or Pakistan.

At the end of last year, I had hoped that the war debate in this 
country had ended, and we would give a chance for that strategy to 
work, we would give a chance for those soldiers, marines, airmen, 
sailors who have been sent there to carry out their mission, to be 
successful. I had hoped, as a Nation, we could move toward a place of 
action; we wouldn't be in a position of second-guessing before we even 
had a chance to complete that mission. During the debate last year, no 
one said that it was going to be easy.

The current operation in Afghanistan has been successful but has not 
come without challenges. However, as we stand here today, the Afghan 
flag is flying in Marjah city center. The Taliban flag has been 
removed. This lone flag sends a clear message to Afghans that the 
central government is committed to people there, that we're not going 
to cut and run. We're going to be with them and help successfully 
conclude this mission so that they can finally have peace.

Some have compared our efforts there to Russians or others in the 
past and have talked about the defeat of other nations in this country. 
We're not there to take over this country. We're there to provide them 
freedom. That's why we're going to be successful.



However, this debate is not being conducted in a vacuum. Our troops 
are listening. Our allies are listening. The Taliban and al Qaeda also 
are listening. And finally, the Afghan people are listening. This 
resolution sends the message, ''Pay no attention to the flag over 
Marjah. America cannot be trusted to uphold its own values and 
commitments.''

I will be attending a funeral Saturday. Each of us I am sure here 
have had to perform that duty. It is not one I am looking forward to. I 
have attended several in the past. But at this point, for me to go to 
that funeral and tell the Geligs that their son, Sergeant Gelig, lost 
his life over an effort that we are going to cut and run from is 
something I cannot do.

Mr. Speaker, I want to send a clear message to the Afghan people and 
government that our coalition partners, our military men and women, 
this Congress believes in you, we support you, we honor your dedication 
and your sacrifice. I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this 
resolution.