# RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION CIVILIAN MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `639ad419f378dbb92fc0da40dc20e79b`
`Mr. BERMAN â€” 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 6 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I want to first thank our colleague and friend from 
California, a valuable member of the Appropriations Committee, an 
individual who has always had a long-term interest in the issue of 
capacity building in our international relations effort, Congressman 
Sam Farr, who introduced this vitally important legislation and who has 
an unwavering commitment to restoring the strength and expertise of 
U.S. civilian agencies.

Since the end of the Cold War, the United States has been engaged in 
a stabilization or reconstruction operation once every 18 to 24 months. 
During the same period, the backbone of America's diplomatic and 
development might, the State Department and the U.S. Agency for 
International Development, has been substantially weakened by staff 
cuts, hiring freezes and consolidation.

Despite new hires, there are only 6,600 professional Foreign Service 
officers in the State Department. According to Secretary of Defense 
Gates, this is less than the personnel of one carrier battle group, and 
allegedly less than the number of active military band members.

Likewise, at a time when the United States is engaged in two massive 
stabilization and reconstruction efforts and countless other 
emergencies, USAID, America's premier development agency, barely has 
1,000 Foreign Service officers. Compare that number to the height of 
the Cold War, when it had more than 4,500 Foreign Service officers with 
expertise in engineering, agricultural development, rule of law, and 
civil administration. In essence, we have created a situation where 
those who are best suited for complex stabilization missions simply 
aren't there.

Mr. Speaker, this personnel imbalance is unacceptable and dangerously 
shortsighted. Stabilization operations require expertise in smart 
skills, such as job creation, rule of law programs, fortification of 
police forces, and good governance training, which lies within 
America's civilian agencies. Amazingly, at a time we need to call on 
this expertise the most, the U.S. Government capacity for these skills 
is at its weakest.

We need look no further than Iraq to see the dangers of overburdening 
our military with stabilization and reconstruction activities for which 
they were not trained, nor for which they are best suited. As Secretary 
Gates aptly observed, ''Brave men and women in uniform have stepped up 
to the task, with field artillerymen and tankers building schools and 
mentoring city councils, usually in a language they don't speak. But it 
is no replacement for the real thing, civilian involvement and 
expertise.''

The U.S. needs experienced police officers to train local Iraqi 
counterparts. We need USAID personnel to assist with municipal 
administration, sewage treatment, banking, electricity, and thousands 
of other tasks. This bill aims to successfully address upcoming threats 
and prosecute the long-term fight against terror by fortifying the U.S. 
Government's civilian capacity to deal with instability, particularly 
in areas where terrorists thrive.

The Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2008 
authorizes the establishment of a Readiness Response Corps to plug the 
gap regarding civilian capacity. The corps will include active and 
standby components composed of Federal employees, and a reserve 
component made up of civilian experts from State and local governments 
and nongovernmental organizations.

To effectively establish the corps, the bill includes several 
innovative personnel provisions which ensure that the State Department 
and other Federal employees will not be prejudiced by joining the corps 
and that the Secretary of State will have unambiguous authority to hire 
personnel appropriate for the corps, including experts from Federal, 
State and local agencies. The bill also authorizes the President to use 
up to $100 million in any given fiscal year for the purposes of 
furnishing assistance to stabilize and reconstruct a country or region 
at risk.

Finally, the bill codifies the establishment of an Office of the 
Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization within the Department 
of State.

Mr. Speaker, we expect this bill to accomplish two key goals. In the 
short term, the bill will ease the burden on the Armed Forces by 
allowing the State Department to deploy civilians in crisis situations 
previously staffed by the military. In the long term, the bill will 
enable the U.S. Government to project ''smart power'' in situations 
that cry for such civilian expertise.

For these reasons, I thank my colleague, Mr. Farr, for introducing 
this legislation, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this 
legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.