# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `63a14c0e382fd1f4f7eb3f8ada308ab1`
`Mr. VOINOVICH â€” 21 December 2010`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, a number of experts I have consulted 
with have pointed out--and I have agreed with--the need for the 
President to provide public assurances regarding the U.S. commitment to 
a robust missile defense system. So I was pleased with the President's 
letter to our leadership reiterating such support. Here I quote 
directly from the President's letter:




 Pursuant to the National Missile Defense Act of 1999, it 


 has long been the policy of the United States to deploy as 


 soon as is technologically possible an effective National 


 Missile Defense system capable of defending the territory of 


 the United States against limited ballistic missile attack, 


 whether accidental, unauthorized, or deliberate.


With regard to the Russian assertion--and we have heard this--that 
the treaty's preamble prohibits the buildup in missile defense 
capabilities, the President has stated in very clear language that the 
''United States did not and does not agree with the Russian statement. 
We believe the continued development and deployment of U.S. missile 
defense systems, including qualitative and quantitative improvements to 
such systems, do not and will not threaten the strategic balance with 
the Russian Federation. . . . we believe the continued improvement and 
deployment of U.S. missile defense systems do not constitute a basis 
for questioning the effectiveness and the viability of the New START 
Treaty, and therefore would not give rise to circumstances justifying 
Russia's withdrawal from the Treaty.''

Mr. President, as I have discussed, I know many of my colleagues have 
concerns about the treaty. But after my own research and consultations 
with current and former Secretaries of State and numerous foreign 
policy experts, including many conservative experts, as well as 
yesterday's 3-hour closed session in the Old Senate Chamber, I support 
this treaty and do not believe the concerns that we have heard from 
some of our colleagues rise to the level at which the Senate should 
reject the treaty.

The President signed the treaty in April. It is now December, and we 
are coming up on 1 full year without any verification regime in place. 
I believe we should work to get this treaty done because these 
verification procedures are needed now. I am not the only one who 
believes this. I recently received a letter from Bulgaria's Ambassador 
to the United States, Elena Poptodorova. I have known her a long time 
and worked with her to get Bulgaria into NATO. She wrote:




 A failure to swiftly ratify the treaty would mean 


 discontinuation of the verification regime that could result 


 in negative consequences in the nuclear disarmament, 


 especially taking into consideration the significant 


 strategic nuclear advantage of Russia.



 In my view, it will also put at risk the future cooperation 


 with Russia and will impede the negotiations on priorities, 


 such as conventional forces and tactical nuclear weapons in 


 Europe. It is of utmost importance that Russia be kept at the 


 negotiating table beyond the scope of the New START Treaty, 


 in particular on issues like Iran, Afghanistan and other 


 global security challenges.


I ask unanimous consent that her letter be printed in the Record.