---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `63a5bffc9aadec2724cc6eb6d696e644`
`Mr. SOUDER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Mr. Speaker, I thank our leader from the Homeland 
Security Committee for yielding.

No congressional decision is more difficult than a vote related to 
war, and this vote is no different. It is especially difficult when you 
disagree with the President of your own political party.

I voted to support this war because I believe Iraq presented a direct 
threat to the United States. Iraq had, was developing, and was 
attempting to develop weapons of mass destruction.



Iraq was, at a minimum, cooperating with the funding and harboring of 
terrorists committed to our destruction. Saddam Hussein was repeatedly 
defying U.N. resolutions, contesting no-fly zones and blocking WMD 
inspectors. Our intelligence estimates, never 100 percent accurate, in 
any case, apparently overstated the immediate risk.

But the basic facts remain the same. Knowing what we know now, 
perhaps we could have waited another 6 to 12 months, which would have 
given us valuable time to solidify position in Afghanistan. But the 
decision to go to war was still the right decision, just possibly 
premature.

I would not have supported this war had the initial selling point 
been a goal of establishing democracy in Iraq. Advancing freedom has 
always been an ideological goal of our Nation ever since our founding. 
We have long supported, from the days of Jefferson and Monroe, the 
causes of dissident freedom fighters. We did this in occupied Eastern 
Europe, in Saddam's Iraq and Soviet-occupied Afghanistan.

But there is a difference between aiding people fighting for freedom 
and doing most of the fighting for them. I stated from the beginning 
that after removing the direct threat of the Saddam government, it 
would be in our national security interests if a republican form of 
government, a unity government respecting the rights of others, could 
be established in Iraq. If this government of diverse Iraqis could 
prevail,


it would be a model for the entire region. We needed to give them a 
chance for self-governance. But, and this is a big qualifier, it would 
ultimately be their decision, not ours.

On the news we often see Iraqis saying that Americans need to do this 
or that to provide security. Men and women from Fort Wayne and the rest 
of Indiana and America can do most of the fighting for the freedom of 
Iraq only for so long. It is the Iraqis' country.

We should have known this would not be easy. It is self-evident that 
democracy in the Muslim world is not common now nor in the past. A 
little bit hubris and more humility when we sent our soldiers into this 
conflict would have been helpful. This is not just hindsight. For 
example, the distinguished senior Senator from Indiana, Senator Richard 
Lugar, raised concerns over and over again that pre-planning was 
insufficient.

Certain basic arguments being made by the administration are simply 
not accurate. To insist that the war in Iraq is not a civil war when 
the entire world and the Americans all understand that it is, continues 
to undermine the credibility of those who make it.

From the beginning, it had elements of a civil war. The Sunnis had 
persecuted the majority Shia as well as the Kurds. Vengeance was 
inevitable. The United States correctly demanded that the sectarian 
militias be eliminated from the Iraqi national police and the military. 
I, like many other Members, was asked by the administration to deliver 
such messages to Iraqi government officials during my visits to Iraq.

Our government knew full well that a civil war was going on, even 
among people we selected to run the government. We had hoped that the 
early smaller scale civil war could be countered by a strong central 
government. It is now a large scale civil war, eroding the already 
limited power of the Iraqi Government. It is now absurd to deny it is a 
civil war.

Making exaggerated statements of progress in Iraq also does not pass 
the basic credibility test. While we have made sporadic progress, a 
school or a project here and there, it is apparent to any Member of 
Congress who visited Iraq a number of years ago and again recently 
visited that security has deteriorated.

Baby boomer Americans especially tend to see everything as Vietnam. A 
government that denies basic realities has little hope of persuading 
even its friends. We want our government to tell the truth, pleasant or 
not. These facts are foundational to the fundamental question currently 
before us.

It is not whether a surge can root out terrorists. Our brave men and 
women can do this in door-to-door bloody combat, if necessary, and we 
may be able with extra troops to stabilize some areas temporarily. But 
then what? The President has also said that unlike past efforts, this 
time we will hold our gains. With whom? With what?

This is the basic underlying issue. Assuming some militias are 
defeated and others just melt away, how do we plan to keep them from 
coming back? Is the surge permanent? Even if it were so, far fewer 
troops are required to root out terrorists than to hold gains. Will we 
need tens of thousands of additional soldiers to hold any gains?

The obvious premise offered by the President is that the Iraqis 
themselves can hold the gains. Based upon everything we have seen to 
date, other than in isolated cases, there is no evidence that the 
Iraqis will fight and die to defend their central government. I have 
repeatedly heard from returning soldiers that when the gunfire starts 
the Iraqis by and large disappear. They only seem dedicated when Shia 
get to kill Sunnis and vice versa.

By being bogged down as the main security force in Iraq and 
increasingly hostile cities, we are undermining our long-term potential 
to fight the war on terror.

For years, we have now been utilizing our National Guard and our 
Reserves as if they were regular military. Many are about to enter 
their second 12-month-plus tour of duty in combat, something 
historically many regular military veterans did not do. Because of the 
heavy usage, we are starting to short training funds and repair funds 
for those units. We are finding that employers are getting increasingly 
nervous about disruptions to their firms. Family objections are 
becoming more intense. Recruiters are running into increasing 
resistance.

As for our overused regular military, they are facing near 
exhaustion. What will be the long-term impact on these forces? What 
impact will this continued burning up of huge sums of military dollars 
do to our long-term ability to fight?

It has been said many times by defenders of this surge that Iraq is 
the place the enemy has chosen to fight, and this is the place that we 
must fight. That is partly true. Hezbollah has chosen to fight us on 
many fronts. Iran is a threat itself, not just in funding Iraq. 
Terrorists attacked in Madrid, London, Afghanistan, Pakistan and many 
other places throughout the world, and they continue to try to attack 
us in the United States. Iraq is not the only place terrorists have 
chosen to fight.

Furthermore, we face threats from North Korea, as the new Castro, 
Hugo Chavez, presents other challenges. We are sobered by the recent 
destruction of a satellite by China, potentially the most significant 
threat we face.

If we burn up the support of the American people, our military's 
ability to recruit, the usage of our Guard and Reserves in Iraq, how do 
we defend ourselves elsewhere?

It is not that this effort in Iraq is a failure, as some liberals 
claim. We have seen the governments in Libya and Pakistan significantly 
alter their ways when it comes to supporting terrorists. Hostile 
governments that harbor terrorists have to ask themselves whether it is 
worth the risk of military action by the United States, something Iran 
appears to be debating. And, most importantly, this fact is 
indisputable: Since 9/11, terrorists have not succeeded in any attacks 
on American soil.

Because of the bravery and valor of our soldiers in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, we have disrupted the terrorists' ability to gather and plan new 
methods of attacking us. If they surface, we get them.

During this period, we have had time to make significant progress in 
homeland security. While you may have heard that our Southwest border 
is not exactly airtight, progress certainly has been made. Every month 
we make additional progress. Our airports are more secure. Our ports 
are more secure. The PATRIOT Act has given us the ability to track and 
hunt down terrorists. We have improved both inside the U.S. and around 
the world our ability to track finances, communications and movement of 
terrorists.

The sacrifice of our brave men and women in the military and their 
families bought the United States Government valuable time to further 
prepare our domestic and worldwide ability to cope with terrorism. We 
will never achieve 100 percent success. But the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq took the battle to them, rather than requiring us to fight at 
home.

But we cannot sustain this intense effort indefinitely. Complete 
victory over terrorism is unlikely ever to occur. Sometimes you have to 
reposition and prepare for the broader battle, not exhaust yourself on 
just one front and then risk defeat in the overall conflict.

I beseech our President, Secretary Gates, Secretary Rice and others, 
never to give up the war on terrorism, but to understand that without 
significant tactical drawdowns in Iraq our entire counterterrorism and 
military efforts are threatened. Our Nation can ill afford another 
decade of defeatism and retreat that seized the United States after 
Vietnam.

All this said, I am going to vote ''no'' on the resolution. The 
resolution is no surge protection. The battle has already begun. Most 
of us have individually clearly stated our views and continue to do so.

For the United States Congress as a corporate body to deliver a 
public rebuke to the Commander in Chief during a battle that is already 
commenced would potentially put our soldiers at additional risk and 
confuse the world.

It is one thing for us to argue about strategy and tactics. It is 
another to have Congress openly defy the President. The world already 
knows we have deep divisions in America. The terrorists already know we 
disagree. But they also need to know that when the


fight starts, as Americans we stand united.

The fact is while I do not believe that the surge will succeed, none 
of us actually knows that it will not work. At this point it seems to 
me that our position as a Congress should be to encourage success in 
this mission. We need to support the Iraqis as they take increasing 
responsibility. What the world should see from us at least is shared 
hope for victory, not defeatism.

But the President does need to understand that opposition to the 
surge is not just among Democrats. It is even among his strongest 
supporters. Some of us who deeply share his passion to fight terrorism 
fear that he is potentially endangering his past successes, as well as 
our Nation's ability to continue the war on terror beyond this 
administration.

I hope and pray that the surge succeeds. But if it does not, we need 
to try a dramatically different approach that does not totally abandon 
Iraq, the region or the war on terror.