---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `63b9bf262531e4e163fba7c75fb7565d`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman very much 
for the time and for her charity and her leadership on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor this evening with a whirlwind of 
senses and emotions. I am disappointed. I am disappointed by the 
emptiness and the hypocrisy of this resolution.

Our men and women in the field, valiantly serving to protect our 
freedom, they deserve more than this. They deserve a real debate that 
honors the job that they are doing.

Instead, what we have this week is a resolution that is eight short 
lines, eight lines, that in their entirety stab at the motives and 
undermine the difficult work that our patriot military is doing. I am 
so disappointed in a majority party that has no more respect for our 
military than that.

This debate has been called historic, and historic it is. It is 
historic in its hypocrisy. If you truly believe that this is not 
winnable with what has been proposed, then it is incumbent upon you to 
do everything that you can do to stop it and stop it now. Doing 
anything less belies your duty and your responsibility.

This resolution says we support you but we are going to hang you out 
to dry, and this from the folks who say they want a new direction. What 
a disgrace to the integrity of this body. How disappointing.

I am saddened. I am saddened by the apparent fact that everything 
done by the majority is absolutely political, all form, no substance. 
Is there nothing above politics? Surely the defense of our Nation and 
the preservation of freedom should be above politics.

How did a once proud party, the party of FDR, who said, ''We have 
nothing to fear but fear itself,'' and the party of JFK, who said, 
''Let every Nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we 
shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any 
friend, oppose any foe, to assure the survival and the success of 
liberty,'' how did a once proud party drop to such a depth? How very 
sad.

I am astounded by the seeming lack of desire to study and to call 
upon historical events for a basis upon which to develop policy. 
America is a great and a good Nation, and we are great and good because 
we have been blessed to have been led by men and women who until now 
did their level best to utilize all the information available.

I urge my colleagues to be true to the oath that we took just a few 
weeks ago. Don't you remember, we stood right here and said, ''I do 
solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the 
United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic?'' All enemies, 
foreign and domestic.

What is a glimpse of the recent history of our current enemy? 1983, a 
truck bomb kills 241 Marines in their barracks in Beirut; 1993, six 
killed in the first World Trade Center bombing; 2000, al Qaeda's attack 
on the destroyer USS Cole, killing 17 American sailors; and then 
September 11, 2001, al Qaeda's hijackers fly planes into the World 
Trade Center and the Pentagon, while passengers on a fourth plane bring 
it to a crash landing in Pennsylvania, total number killed, 2,973.

Since then, there have been attacks in England and Spain and 
elsewhere, and just last summer, Scotland Yard in Britain arrested a 
couple who planned to destroy 10 civilian planes over the Atlantic. 
They were going to use their 8-month-old baby to disguise the bomb 
material as baby food. We as a Nation are ill-prepared for the ferocity 
and the hatred of people who will kill their own baby in order to get a 
chance to kill us.

American public policy failed to grasp the scope of the threat posed 
by radical Islam until September 11, 2001. On September 11, we reaped 
the consequences of decades of inaction against the very real threat 
posed by militant Islam.

These are extremely challenging times. Some would credibly suggest 
that these are more difficult times than we have faced since World War 
II, with the demographics of our society, the changing nature of the 
world and globalization and the nature of our competitors, all 
overshadowed by the nature of our avowed enemy, those who have publicly 
stated their goal to see the end of the Western world and America and 
who are working to secure the means to accomplish that goal.

I am perplexed. I am perplexed by the apparent inability of many in 
Congress to grasp this fundamental fact. We are currently facing an 
enemy who is calculating, patient, indiscriminate and murderous, an 
enemy actively waging war against us.

That is not just an opinion. That is not just my opinion. That is 
their stated purpose and fact.

In their own words, Osama bin Laden said, ''Hostility toward America 
is a religious duty, and we hope to be rewarded for it by God . . . I 
am confident that Muslims will be able to end the legend of the so-
called superpower that is America.''

Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman said, ''Oh, you Muslims everywhere, sever 
the ties of their Nation, tear them apart, ruin their economy, 
instigate against their corporations, destroy their embassies, attack 
their interests, sink their ships, and shoot down their airplanes. Kill 
them in land, at sea, and in the air, kill them wherever you find 
them.''

So the impact of this resolution, Mr. Speaker, is to give aid and 
comfort to the enemy and to dishearten our own military.

In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on January 23, General 
David Petraeus, now commanding officer in Iraq, agreed that a 
resolution of disapproval for this new strategy would ''give the enemy 
encouragement.''



What are the consequences of failure? The consequences of failure 
would be catastrophic to the region, to the United States, and yes, to 
the world. The consequence of the next step of this majority party plan 
is defeat. They may say it is inevitable or unavoidable, but it is, 
nonetheless, a strategy for defeat.

What message does that send to our allies around the world? What will 
the Chinese think of our commitment to Taiwan? Will the North Korean, 
the Iranians, the Syrians, the Venezuelans, will they be more cautious 
or will they be bolder after an American defeat?

It is inconceivable to me how a remarkably weakened United States in 
the eyes of the world is a good thing for us or will result in a less 
emboldened Iran or North Korea or al Qaeda. The consequences of failure 
are clearly unacceptable.

So I am disappointed, I am saddened, I am astounded and I am 
perplexed, but I am also enthusiastic and I am optimistic, Mr. Speaker. 
I am enthusiastic in my support of our valiant men and women who defend 
our freedom day in and day out, and I am optimistic because I believe 
so strongly in the United States and in her people, and I am optimistic 
because I am certain that they will appreciate and recognize the 
consequences of this debate and the remarkable differences in our 
approach and our desire to defend America.

Thomas Paine said, ''He that would make his own liberty secure, must 
guard even his enemy from oppression; for if he violates this duty, he 
establishes a precedent that will reach to himself.''

So, Mr. Speaker, let us honor our troops. Let us honor all who work 
for freedom on our behalf. Let us work together for liberty. Let us 
recall and recommit ourselves to our oath and our duty to defend our 
blessed Nation. It is that action, and that action alone, with the 
grace of God, that will ensure the wonder and the survival of our great 
Nation.

