---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `63be5f44c1242192b769f25dd7230fa9`
`Mr. DORGAN — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today in two 
ways, and I will send the bills to the desk following my comments. The 
first bill is called the Iraq Self-Sufficiency and American Energy 
Independence Act, and, the second is called the Rescission of Unneeded 
Iraq Reconstruction Funds Act of 2008.

In a nutshell, the bills say this: We are going to take up to $11.48 
billion that has been appropriated but not yet expended for Iraq 
reconstruction, funds that are American taxpayers' dollars and that the 
Iraqi Government says it does not need, and bring that money back to 
this country. In the first approach, we would use the funds to 
substantially increase our renewable energy and make us less dependent 
on foreign sources of oil. Alternatively, in the second approach, we 
would use those funds to reduce the deficit. Either is fine with me, 
and I am introducing it both ways.

Here is the Special Inspector General Report for Iraq Reconstruction. 
This report shows that there are now $11.48 billion in U.S. funds 
destined for Iraq reconstruction.

And let me quote, if I may, the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq: ''Iraq 
does not need financial assistance.''

That is for sure. The price of oil has gone way up like a Roman 
candle. They are producing 2 million barrels a day in Iraq. They have, 
by all accounts, somewhere around a $49 billion surplus in bank 
accounts for the Government of Iraq, and there have been estimates that 
will reach a $79 billion surplus. Meanwhile, our country is deep in 
debt, and yet we have money going to Iraq for reconstruction coming 
from American taxpayers' dollars while Iraqi money sits in the bank? It 
doesn't make any sense to me.

There is $11.4 billion that has already been appropriated and is as 
yet unspent. My feeling is let's take the Iraqis at their word: ''Iraq 
does not need financial assistance.''

All right, I agree with that. Then let's not provide that financial 
assistance, and let's tell the Iraqis they have the capability to use 
their own surpluses to invest in their country.

It is interesting to me that we are now funding something like 900 
water projects in the country of Iraq, and President Bush, in his 
budget, says let's cut back water projects in our country by a very 
substantial amount. We are going to take American taxpayers' dollars 
and build water projects in Iraq and stop building infrastructure in 
this country at a time when they have a big surplus and we have a big 
deficit? I don't think so.

I have a chart that shows what has happened to the price of oil from 
July 2003 to July 2008: $27 a barrel to $128 a barrel. The country of 
Iraq is producing 2 million barrels a day, and therefore their treasury 
is fattening in a way that is very significant.

I have a New York Times story on August 6, just a month ago:




 Soaring oil prices will leave the Iraqi Government with a 


 cumulative budget surplus of as much as $79 billion by year's 


 end, according to an American federal oversight agency. But 


 Iraq has spent only a minute fraction of that on 


 reconstruction costs, which are now largely borne by the 


 United States.


That makes no sense to me. It just makes no sense. I want to show 
something on page 10 of the special inspector general's report, which 
is a description of what is going on in Iraq. This is a picture of 
something called the Whale. This is referred to as the Whale in Iraq. 
It is actually the Kahn Bani Sa'ad Correctional Facility. U.S. 
taxpayers paid $40 million to build that prison in Iraq. I am told the 
Iraqis said they don't want the prison, but $40 million went to the 
Parsons Corporation.

Take a look at this photo. I will bring it to the Senate floor in a 
chart. It is in unbelievable disrepair. Apparently, after the $40 
million, they kicked the contractor off the site, brought another 
contractor in, and spent another $10 million. So they have $50 million 
invested in something called the Whale, a prison the Iraqis did not 
want, is not now being used, will never be used, and sits in the desert 
rotting with 50 million of American taxpayers' dollars having been 
spent on it. Reconstruction, American taxpayers' dollars, construction 
in Iraq, in some cases even construction Iraqis don't want.

The question, it seems to me, for us is, are we going to continue 
this? At some point, is some common sense going to prevail? We 
shouldn't take money from American taxpayers and send it to Iraq, a 
country that has substantial surplus in the bank, and build projects in 
Iraq even while we cut infrastructure projects in our country.

The legislation I am introducing will say we will take $11.48 billion 
that is appropriated but as of yet unspent and rescind that spending 
and use it either to reduce this country's budget deficit or use it to 
substantially change our energy future so we are less dependent on that 
part of the world for our energy future.

The funds I am proposing to eliminate are in three categories. One is 
the IRRF2. It is called the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund, which 
covers many projects, including, as I just described, the prison which 
sits unused and falling apart, a $50 million prison called the Whale. 
The ISFF is the Iraq Security Forces Fund. A country with currently 
about $50 billion in the bank in surplus surely should have the ability 
now, after these long years of the American taxpayers footing the bill, 
to provide for infrastructure for their own army and their own police. 
Finally there is the ESF, the Economic Support Fund, which includes 
funding for provincial reconstruction teams, microfinance, and so on.

I would note that I am not proposing to cut the Commander's Emergency 
Response Program, which gives field commanders some discretion to 
provide funds for local projects.

But I do suggest it is long past the time for this Congress to use 
just a small amount of common sense. Instead of shoveling money out the 
door in support of reconstruction projects in Iraq, money we don't 
have, money we are borrowing from the Chinese and Japanese, by the way, 
instead of shoveling money out the door to provide money in a country 
that is piling up its


own surpluses from oil sales, let's decide that which we previously 
decided to spend will no longer be spent and brought back home. It 
seems to me we must do that if we are going to begin to put this 
country's fiscal house in order.