---
---

# MILITARY AND VA APPROPRIATIONS
## `63c2856780eaf583f603d87f1f408b7a`
`Mr. BOND — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, in this ever-difficult era of economic 
recession


and troops engaged overseas, I am proud to introduce this amendment 
with Senators Udall of New Mexico and Bingaman which addresses a dual 
front plaguing our country's war heroes. That dual front emerges from 
two troubles that exist for our veterans dealing with the horrors of 
war abroad and lack of affordable housing at home.

This sad duality has a dark and tragic reality. To date, one out of 
every three homeless men sleeping somewhere in our cities and 
communities is a veteran. Veterans make up a significant and 
disproportionate amount--over 20 percent--of our country's homeless 
population. The number of homeless Vietnam-era veterans is greater than 
the number of service persons who died during that war. Regrettably, 
this dark shadow cast behind our Nation's veterans is stretching 
because we are seeing homelessness spread to veterans returning from 
the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Instead of receiving the 
services and benefits they deserve, veterans from Iraq and 
Afghanistan--as well as many American families--are at greater risk of 
homelessness due to a number of factors, such as the economic downturn, 
the acute shortage of affordable housing, and lingering mental health 
illnesses. Further, despite the efforts of the federal government and 
its partners at the State and local levels and their progress in 
addressing homelessness, there remain too many gaps in our safety net 
system to prevent homelessness.

For our troops and their families to whom we owe so much, who make 
great contributions to defend our country, and who risk their lives; is 
homelessness an acceptable outcome for them? Clearly, the answer is no. 
That is why I am proud to support this amendment with my colleagues 
from New Mexico and I value the work I have been a part of with my 
other colleagues and friends like Senators Murray, Mikulski, Reed, and 
Hutchison.

This amendment sends a clear and strong message that we cannot allow 
our veterans to return to their communities without providing them the 
support they need. This is why we introduced this amendment which 
combines the necessary support and housing services to help our 
veterans. Veterans need a comprehensive approach that begins with 
secure and stable housing in order to provide them the opportunity to 
reintegrate into society and support their families. Our amendment 
fully funds the Homeless Grant and Per Diem Program, which is 
administered by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and promotes 
the development of supportive housing and services with the goals of 
helping homeless veterans achieve residential stability, increase their 
skill levels and income and develop greater self-determination. In 
closing, I thank my colleagues from New Mexico and the managers of the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill for 
their support. I sincerely believe that the passage of this amendment 
will be another example of our shining and unwavering commitment to our 
veterans.
