---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `63c98edb5f0a8e436827f9c4094e4e53`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to share some 
thoughts on what is probably the most important decision the Senate 
will make in the war on terror for decades to come, not just for the 
next election. I have a framework in my mind about what is going on in 
Iraq and how it fits into a global struggle. Quite frankly, I think it 
is unshakeable. I am not pursuadable on this issue. I will put my bias 
right up front. The outcome of what happens in Iraq is part of an 
overall global struggle called the war on terror. That is not just my 
view; it is the view of the al-Qaida members who have gone to Iraq to 
destabilize this infant democracy.

It is being billed all over the Mideast as the struggle between 
moderation and extremism. We have Sunni extremists trying to get back 
in power. They reigned during the Saddam era, and some of them do not 
want to give up power. They want to destroy this democracy so they can 
rule again as a minority within Iraq because they had a taste of it 
before--that power--and they do not want to give that up. The Shia 
extremists, who are a minority of the Shia community, have a hope to 
create a theocracy in Iraq, not be the dominant political party in a 
democracy. They have a religious agenda for Iraq very similar to Iran. 
Then you have foreign fighters, including al-Qaida, who see a democracy 
in Iraq as the biggest threat to their overall agenda.

What we are talking about is withdrawing from a central battlefront 
in the war on terror. What would be the consequences of redeploying--
whatever word you would like to use--in the overall effort called the 
war on terrorism?

I think it would be the worst signal you could possibly send to the 
insurgents, to the extremists, and to al-Qaida members who are involved 
in this fight, who are watching this fight. Redeployment means 
surrender. If you think we are in the middle of a civil war that is a 
hopeless endeavor, cut off funding and get the hell out.

This idea of trying to go somewhere where it is safe for Americans is 
folly. If you are in uniform in Iraq, there is no safe place for you. 
Wherever we move to, they are coming after us. We have this illusion 
that there is a place we can go inside of Iraq or some other country in 
the Mideast that will provide safety. I can assure you our enemy is 
intent on proving to us there is no safe place for us in the Mideast. 
When I say ''us,'' I mean those men and women wearing the uniform.

The goal of the extremists in Iraq--some are limited to the country 
of Iraq. Other extremist groups within Iraq have a wider goal. Their 
goal is to drive American forces out of the Mideast. So there is no 
place, in my opinion, you can redeploy within Iraq that would not be a 
signal to the people we are fighting that we are surrendering and 
retreating.

This war is about not killing terrorists from an American point of 
view alone, it is about empowering moderates. The Bush administration 
has made plenty of mistakes. The biggest mistake we made after the fall 
of Baghdad was not appreciating how much Saddam Hussein had raped his 
own country, how hard it would be to build a democracy out of ashes of 
a dictatorship, doing this on the cheap, assuming the best, never 
planning for the worst, and not having enough troops on the ground to 
provide security, which is essential to democracy.

It is so easy to beat on the Iraqi political leadership. They deserve 
to be pushed, and they deserve to be challenged. But one thing I can 
tell my colleagues, they represent a better Mideast than the groups 
trying to literally kill them. Our goal is not to just destroy 
terrorist organizations; it is to empower moderates.

The Democratic Congress is about to trump any mistake Bush has made 
by a factor of many. If they, as a Democratic Congress, set in motion a 
resolution that would undercut General Petraeus's ability to reinforce 
Iraq in a way that makes sense, then they have made a much bigger 
mistake than President Bush has ever made. If my colleagues are trying 
to pass a resolution that would make it impossible for moderates to 
reach political consensus because security is no longer certain, then 
my colleagues have made a much greater mistake than President Bush.

Now why not cut off funding? I guess the only reason we are not 
cutting off funds is because the American people, through polling, say 
that is a bad idea. But I know there are many on the other side who 
want to cut funding. To be honest, I respect them immensely; I just 
disagree with this idea of taking a middle position that has as its 
basis that there is a safe way to redeploy and not affect the outcome 
of Iraq. That, to me, is just folly. It is unconstitutionally sound. It 
destroys the ability of the commander on the ground, General Petraeus, 
to do the job we sent him over there to do. It will be a sign of 
weakness to those we are fighting. Moderates will start hedging their 
bets. My belief is that the stronger we are in Iraq, the bolder the 
moderates


will be. The weaker we become, the more uncertain they will be.

It took us from 1776 to 1789 to write our own Constitution. When the 
product was written, women could not vote, and African Americans had no 
standing in the law. So I know there are religious problems in Iraq of 
a longstanding nature. I know this: Before al-Qaida bombed the Samarra 
mosque, the third most holy Shia holy site in Samarra, there had been 
generations of Iraqis, Sunnis and Shias, living together, 
intermarrying. I do not believe Sunnis and Shias are born to kill each 
other.

I do believe, like other places in history, other times in history, 
and other places on the planet, people are divided--sometimes by race, 
sometimes by religion--and our country needs to come to the aid of 
those who want to live together and reject religious bigotry.

The idea of dividing the country based on race, not many people in 
this body would say: Yes, that is a good idea, that will bring about 
peace, because it is giving in to bigotry. The idea of trying to give 
in to religious differences is insurmountable, is giving in to 
religious prejudice. I do believe the Iraqis can overcome their 
differences because it is in their best interest. But I do believe, if 
we do not reinforce this infant democracy at a critical time in its 
formation, we are going to lose in Iraq and the war just begins, it 
does not end. If you think withdrawing or redeploying ends this war, 
then I think you are going to be proven wrong in history.

I know what awaits those who are involved in the surge: more risk, 
more blood, and more treasure. On the other end of this surge, my hope 
is that we will provide enough security--holding areas previously 
cleared--and the Iraqi Government will step to the plate and start 
sharing the oil, doing the things politically they need to do to 
reconcile their country.


No one believes 21,500 troops are going to solve the problems of 
Iraq. Military power has its limitations, but we need to reinforce Iraq 
politically, economically, and militarily. The general we have sent to 
do the job has told us what he needs. He has a plan to accomplish his 
mission. The Congress is undercutting him at every turn.

This is the 17th resolution. I do not know what the magic number is 
to find the resolution that fits the political moment, but I can tell 
you this: The resolution in Iraq is not about the political moment; it 
is about decades to come in the Mideast if we can empower the moderates 
who are fighting and dying for their own freedom.

I say firmly and boldly to these Iraqis who have joined the military, 
who have joined the police, who are wanting to be judges, to those 
political leaders trying to find common ground between the three 
factions: You have my admiration and support because I know what it is 
like to be challenged in politics, when special interest groups try to 
take your job away from you because you will not do what they tell you. 
I cannot imagine what it is like to make political decisions knowing 
they are trying to kill your family.

I do believe the outcome in Iraq is part of a global struggle and 
that we need to reinforce Iraq on all fronts to have a chance, our last 
best chance to get this country up and running under democratic 
principles.

Talking to the neighbors is a wonderful thing. Somebody needs to be 
talking to Iran about their nuclear program and deal with this nut who 
is the President of Iran, who goes into the United Nations and says 
openly: I would like to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth, and who 
is challenging the world openly today that he will not give up his 
nuclear ambitions. It is clear to me, and I think anyone else who has 
looked at Iran, they are trying to develop a nuclear weapon to change 
the balance of power in the Mideast, and they are involved deeply in 
Iraq because their biggest nightmare, from the Iranian point of view, 
is a stable, functioning democracy. The theocracy in Iran does not have 
a shared interest with the United States or the Iraqi people when it 
comes to forming a democracy. If we can get them involved to help us 
provide security, let's give it a whirl. Let's give it a try. I do not 
believe they really have that as their goal.

Syria is trying to undercut this infant democracy called Lebanon. 
They are playing hard in Iraq because they are a police state.

I believe that the neighbors, Syria and Iran, are part of a global 
challenge to freedom-loving people. They are not the solution; they are 
the problem.

Where we find moderates in the Mideast, we need to stand boldly with 
them and give them the ability, the best we can, to change the course 
of the Mideast. This effort to withdraw and redeploy is the worst 
possible signal you could send to moderates or extremists. This is a 
war which has religious components to it.

There is one group who has proven they can live together in Iraq in 
peace, willing to live with us in peace. There are plenty of moderate 
forces throughout the Mideast who want to live on the planet with the 
rest of us and have a desire to do so. There is a minority who have 
hijacked a great religion, who have no place for us--moderate Muslims, 
Jews, or anybody else who is different. They want to destroy Israel 
eventually. They are not kidding.

I wish we could go back in time--not just to Lebanon, but I wish we 
could go back into the 1930s and take Hitler for what he was. I wish we 
would understand who our enemy is and take them for what they are. They 
are barbarians who kill without conscience. They have an agenda in 
writing. They are hell-bent on achieving that agenda. That agenda goes 
like this: Destroy anything or anybody that embraces a concept called 
democracy or is sympathetic to the West, to moderate governments where 
they exist in the Mideast; turn your attention toward America, drive us 
out of the Mideast; establish a religious-dominated Mideast with a view 
of religion that is harsh to everything and everybody; and destroy 
Israel. I am not making this up. This is not my theory of what they 
want to do; this is what they said they will do.

Iraq is the chance to turn it around. Iraq is a great opportunity for 
us, the Iraqi people, and the world at large to stand up to the 
extremists and beat them politically, militarily, and economically.

This resolution we are about to consider or may consider sends the 
worst possible signal at the most important time in the war on 
terrorism. Whatever mistakes President Bush has made in his 
administration--I think they are well documented--the biggest mistake 
is yet to come, and that would be passing this resolution.

I yield the floor.