---
---

# IRAQ
## `63d21f606c5e988270f51fc9efcdc4c8`
`Mr. BENNETT — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BENNETT. Mr. President, last week a group of us, both Senators 
and Members of the House, Republicans and Democrats, had the 
opportunity to sit down with Frederick Kagan, who is a fellow at the 
American Enterprise Institute, and listen to his comments about where 
we are with respect to Iraq.

At the end of that very illuminating session, he gave us each a copy 
of a new report that he has authored called ''No Middle Way, The 
Challenge of Exit Strategies from Iraq.'' The report is too long for me 
to ask consent that it be printed in the Record, but I recommend it to 
all my colleagues. It is one of the most thorough and thoughtful 
examinations of where we are in Iraq I have seen. I will be quoting 
from it, but I wish to make a few observations about the situation in 
Iraq before I do.

The Iraq debate seems to be mired down in arguments about past 
decisions and whether they were right. These kinds of arguments are 
useful, and they are particularly useful in the hands of historians who 
are reviewing an entire situation from a vantage point of years 
afterward, but they are not necessarily that valuable as we are 
addressing the question of what do we do now.

If I can play the historian for a moment and give examples of how we 
have entered into conflicts and seen the situation on the ground change 
and, therefore, strategies change, let me go back to the Revolutionary 
War. At the time of the Revolutionary War, the original strategies the 
Commander in Chief, George Washington, applied didn't work. Indeed, the 
Continental Army was defeated again and again and


again by the British troops, and Washington was forced to acknowledge 
that his original strategic decisions were the wrong ones. This did not 
mean we lost the war because Washington adjusted to the conditions on 
the ground, adopted new strategies, and ended up winning the war.

In the Civil War, when Abraham Lincoln made the decision to provision 
Fort Sumter, he did not understand how long the war would last, how 
difficult it would be, how much life and treasure it would claim. He 
was forced to change again and again in reaction to the results that 
came from the battlefield.

In Iraq, we made some decisions based on intelligence at the time 
which have proved to be wrong. Spending our time in this Chamber 
arguing over those decisions instead of recognizing how conditions have 
changed on the ground becomes a self-defeating exercise.

As I look at the decisions that were made prior to the decision to go 
into Iraq, the one that strikes me as being the most significant was 
our failure to understand the degree to which Saddam Hussein had 
destroyed that country, not just physically, not just in terms of its 
infrastructure but psychologically.

We believed there were Iraqis who could step forward and lead a 
resurgence of that country if we simply freed them from the heavy hand 
of Saddam Hussein. That was a false belief. We found Iraqis so 
shattered by 37 years of one of the most brutal dictatorships we have 
ever seen that the leadership vacuum was huge. For us now to spend our 
time saying, well, we made the mistake, therefore we have to cure the 
mistake by getting out, is to ignore the conditions on the ground that 
have evolved as a result of getting into the war in the first place.

Mr. Kagan makes the point that there is no middle way. We are trying 
to find a middle way in these Chambers. There are those who say the 
only way is to withdraw immediately, and there are others who say, no, 
the only way is to stay the course. That phrase has been hackneyed; it 
doesn't work anymore. So it is natural for many of us to say: Let's 
find some middle way. Let's stay in there somewhat, but let's eliminate 
a good portion of the American footprint in Iraq and see if that 
doesn't help us get out without absolute withdrawal.

Mr. Kagan makes the point that the conditions on the ground rule out 
such a middle way. I find his arguments persuasive, and I would like to 
share some of them with my colleagues today.

He looks not at the question of did Saddam Hussein have anything to 
do with 9/11, a question we hear debated a great deal. He says: Is al-
Qaida engaged now in Iraq? The answer is overwhelmingly yes. Whether 
al-Qaida and Saddam Hussein had any ties prior to our invasion in Iraq 
is now irrelevant. Al-Qaida is in Iraq. Al-Qaida is a major player in 
Iraq.

There are those who say Iran is the major threat, and we should be 
looking at Iran. He points out that Iran is very much involved in Iraq 
at the present time. These are the conditions on the ground. We are not 
debating 9/11. We are not debating the U.N. resolutions. We are 
debating conditions on the ground that very much involve both al-Qaida 
and Iran. So those are the conditions to which we need to pay 
attention.

If I may quote from Mr. Kagan's report, he says:




 A precipitous American withdrawal from Iraq will likely be 


 portrayed in the region as a defeat for the United States and 


 as a victory for Iran. Arab states are already concerned 


 about the growth in Iranian power and pretensions in the 


 region, but few have the capability to do more than 


 complain. The Saudis and the Gulf states are no match for 


 Iran militarily and would almost certainly seek an 


 accommodation with Tehran rather than allowing themselves 


 to be drawn into a major confrontation.


That is a very interesting thing to contemplate as you look ahead--
Iran expanding its power in the region, making some kind of 
accommodation with the Saudis and the other Gulf States in order to 
consolidate its power. Is that something America wants to look forward 
to?

He goes on:




 A possible side effect of the U.S. withdrawal is the 


 establishment of Iranian hegemony in the Middle East. Tehran 


 certainly seeks a predominant position in southern Iraq, 


 including Baghdad, and it would be in a position to put great 


 pressure on Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States in the absence 


 of a large American presence in the region following a 


 visible U.S. defeat. That pressure might include efforts to 


 deny the U.S. the use of bases or to support Iranian 


 initiatives in the region and in the nuclear realm. The 


 perception of an American defeat at the hands of Iran is 


 likely to fuel seismic shifts in the politics of the Middle 


 East, none of them to our advantage.


We are having a great debate about what to do about Iran. We are 
showing great concern about the possibility of Iran getting a nuclear 
weapon. The new President of France, Mr. Sarkozy, has talked about the 
unacceptability of Iran having a nuclear weapon, even to the point of 
suggesting that military options should be on the table. Military 
options with respect to an Iranian nuclear weapon, if it comes to that, 
will undoubtedly involve more American troops and more American 
treasure than are currently at stake in Iraq.

In the conclusion section of Mr. Kagan's report, he says:




 It is simply not possible to design a militarily feasible 


 plan to draw down U.S. forces dramatically and on a rapid 


 timeline that still permits the accomplishment of America's 


 vital interests in Iraq and the region. The CNAS report--


The report he discusses in the group that tries to find a middle 
way--



 has raised the extremely important question of devising a 


 sound plan for transitioning to an advisory role, and this 


 question deserves a great deal of careful study in the months 


 ahead. But now is the time to start thinking about that 


 transition, not to start implementing it prematurely.


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 2 minutes.