---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MAJOR BRIAN SHARP
## `63de8021d71aa89718aeb5534ebf1592`
`Mr. SKELTON — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, it has come to my attention that Major 
Brian P. Sharp will be leaving his position as Assistant Marine Corps 
Liaison to the House of Representatives and will be continuing his 
military education at the Command and Staff College in Quantico, 
Virginia.

Major Sharp has been a valuable asset to the Marines since his 
enlistment in the Marine Corps Reserve in 1991. He attended the School 
of Infantry, Camp Geiger, MCB Camp Lejeune where he received the MOS of 
0341 mortar man. He was assigned to Company G, 2nd Battalion, 25th 
Marines for 4 years and


was accepted into Officer's Candidate School in 1995. He has also 
received a B.A. in History from Ramapo College in New Jersey and was 
selected for Career Level School through which he attended United 
States Army Field Artillery School, Captain's Career Course in April of 
2002.

Upon graduation from the Basic School, Major Sharp reported to the 
United States Army Field Artillery School and was designated a Field 
Artillery Officer. In his first tour, he reported to Battery E, 2nd 
Battalion, 11th Marines and served as forward observer, Guns Platoon 
Commander, and Executive Officer. During this tour, he was deployed to 
Okinawa, Japan in support of the 31st MEU (SOC). Major Sharp has also 
served as S-3A/Battalion Fire Direction Officer following the 
completion of his tour at 2nd Battalion, Target Information Officer for 
the 15th MEU Command Element, MEU Liaison to the United Nations for 
conducting operations to stabilize the new nation of East Timor in the 
spring of 2000, and Fire Support Officer following September 11, in 
which he assisted in the planning and execution of the seizure of 
Forward Operation Base Rhino, Afghanistan, to include combat 
operations.

Upon his graduation from Career Level School, Major Sharp was 
assigned to Battery B, 1st Battalion, 10th Marine Regiment and served 
as Commanding Officer. While he served this position, Major Sharp and 
Battery B were deployed with Regimental Combat Team 2, Task Force 
Tarawa, in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and participated in the 
Battle of An Nasiriyah. Upon his return to CONUS, Major Sharp assumed 
the duties of the Battalion Logistics Officer, and then Battalion 
Operations Officer.

Major Sharp's decorations include the Navy-Marine Corps Achievement 
Medal with Combat ''V'' and two stars and the Navy Marine Corps 
Achievement Medal.

Madam Speaker, I know that the Members of the House will join me in 
thanking and honoring Major Sharp for his exceptional commitment to the 
United States Marine Corps and wishing him luck in his future 
endeavors.
