# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `63dfeb594b440f6743054347eb834e3d`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the Iraqi 
supplemental. I want to discuss this briefly with my colleagues. I will 
vote against the conference report with a deadline in it. A conference 
report with a deadline in it, if it passes, and sending it to the 
President to sign--he is not going to sign it, but if he does sign it, 
if he would sign it--would be the day al-Qaida would declare victory. 
The day the deadline is set would be the day they would declare 
victory. I think it is the wrong way for us to go, and that is why I 
will be voting against the supplemental.

I am very pleased to support the President in his efforts not to set 
a deadline. I want to take the brief time I have to talk about a way 
forward because I think there is a bipartisan way forward. Once we get 
through this, and once this is forced upon the President, once he 
vetoes it, and once the veto is upheld--and I think these are motions 
we should not be going through because they take away precious time 
from focusing on a way forward, on a political solution that involves 
both sides of the aisle--we should focus on federalism in Iraq. It is 
something Senator Biden has spoken often about on the Democratic side, 
and I have spoke about on this side: federalism that will require a 
longtime presence by the United States in Iraq.

I have spoken several times on this floor about how Iraq is more than 
three groups in one country: a Kurdish group, a Sunni group, and a Shia 
group. It has been held together for much of its history--not 
altogether but in much of its history--by exterior forces that have not 
wanted it to fly apart, who still don't want it to fly apart. I think 
we should recognize these realities as we did in the former Yugoslavia, 
as we are today in Sudan where the south is going to vote to secede, 
and recognize these political forces and put in place a federated 
system: one country, three states, Baghdad as a Federal city where 
powers devolve to the states, and recognize that it will require a 
long-term U.S. military presence to ensure that it will work. It is a 
route forward, and it is a route forward that we can agree upon as a 
body. It is a route forward that has allowed for the Iraqi 
Constitution, with a distribution of oil revenues equally distributed 
throughout the country, to be able to help hold things together. It is 
a route forward that can get us to a political equilibrium, that can 
get the violence down, that can give each of the groups their area, 
their region, and allow us to move forward. It requires a long-term 
U.S. military presence such as what happened in Bosnia and the Dayton 
Accords, where 15 years later we are still there and we are going to be 
there for some period of time because if we are not, they are going to 
go back to the violent ways they have had, and they have done 
previously.

This is a realistic route that both sides of the aisle, that both 
parties, and the executive and legislative branches, could embrace.

I met last week with the Vice President about it. I talked with the 
National Security Adviser about it. Many of my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle are saying: What is the plan? What is the exit plan? 
How do we get out? Here is a route to be able to deal with this. But 
they have to admit, as well, on their side that a timeline, a deadline 
will not work. We cannot do that. We cannot hoist it upon the 
President, and it will not work in that region. As soon as you set that 
deadline, as I said, al-Qaida will declare victory and people in the 
region will start looking for security in other places. They will be 
going to militias and different groups, and it will further fragment 
the country.

If we would just set our partisanship aside for a little while and 
think about this, we would recognize that this is the situation we are 
in and this is the only viable solution forward. We don't want to bring 
back a dictator or allow one back into Iraq. We don't want Iraq to 
devolve into a full-scale civil war with a terrorist state taking place 
in that country. We don't want to turn it over and just have the Shia 
run the whole place and run over the Kurds and run over the Sunni in 
the region. That is not realistic.

The other options are not viable and will not work. This is a route 
forward. I urge my colleagues that this prospect, this federalism that 
is enshrined in the Iraqi Constitution--the Iraqi Parliament passed a 
federalism law last year--the Kurdish regions in northern Iraq show 
that it is possible for Iraq and deepens its commitment to a Federal 
system. I urge my colleagues to embrace this after this is vetoed.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.