---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `63e93c0f991ad0fc6c0f31ac23950803`
`Mr. CARNAHAN — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARNAHAN. Mr. Speaker I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here and to be part of this debate. 
I wanted


to congratulate the bipartisan way in which this resolution was brought 
before this House with two Members of the Armed Services Committee, the 
chairman, Ike Skelton from Missouri, and Republican Member Jones from 
North Carolina, and also Chairman Lantos of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee. I congratulate them in their leadership.

At a recent send-off of troops being redeployed from my home district 
in Missouri, I told the families that I would work in Congress to bring 
their loved ones home safe, sound and soon. However, this proposed 
military escalation flies in the face of that intention.

As we enter the fifth year of this mismanaged war in Iraq, with an 
ill-defined plan, it is irresponsible to think that an escalation is in 
the best interests of our troops. The Bush escalation plan is yet 
another indication that the President has failed to listen to the 
American public, military experts, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, and 
Democrat and Republican Members in this Congress.

Even General Colin Powell, the former Secretary of State, said, I am 
not persuaded that any surge of troops in Baghdad for the purposes of 
suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war will work.

It is my solemn responsibility to act on behalf of Missouri 
constituents and their overwhelming desire for change. I am proud to 
see the new Congress has begun to systematically analyze the 
President's proposal regarding the war in Iraq.

Since the beginning of the year, we have already held 52 hearings in 
this Congress about the war in Iraq. Evidence this new Democratic-led 
Congress is exercising real oversight and demanding accountability on 
the Iraq war. We will continue to ask the tough questions about the 
President's plan, continue to insist on a new direction while always 
putting our troops first.

We have the best military in the world, and we owe our troops a clear 
mission. Our men and women in uniform have done their job two and three 
times over, and our civilian leadership must provide a clear, 
achievable objective so they can come home soon.

This Congress has a grave duty to listen and take action. Recently, 
the mother of a young soldier being deployed back to Iraq told me, 
Congressman Carnahan, I am one of those mothers who is against the war 
in Iraq, but my son volunteered to serve his country. Please be sure 
they get the support and equipment they need to come home quickly and 
safely.

That mother's heartfelt request is a powerful example of our national 
unity and resolve to support our troops and oppose this escalation 
policy that is not making the Iraq Government more self-reliant. In 
fact, it is using us further as a crutch.

It is not making the Middle East region more stable. In fact, many of 
our military leaders say our very presence there is fueling the 
insurgency, and it is not making our country safer. Today, the House 
begins a detailed deliberation on House Concurrent Resolution 63, which 
is only the beginning of this Congress's oversight of the President's 
strategy in Iraq.

This straight-forward resolution plainly expresses our support for 
the brave men and women who are currently serving or who have served in 
the Armed Forces. In my home State of Missouri, over 27,000 men and 
women have been deployed to serve in Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraq Freedom since September 2001.

It is our duty as Members of Congress to ensure they have the 
necessary training, equipment, resources and support while in harm's 
way and when they return home.

When debate concludes this week, it is my firm hope that the result 
will be a bipartisan vote reflecting both our unwavering support of our 
troops and the reality that a fourth U.S. escalation is the wrong 
direction for our country.

As the new majority, we have the opportunity to develop a 
comprehensive and commonsense solution to enable us to protect our 
troops, maintain our obligation, and end this conflict as quickly as 
possible. We stand ready to provide real peace of mind for the American 
people by securing our homeland and changing course in Iraq.

Great change is possible when this Congress acts in unison with the 
American public. In the weeks and months ahead, this Congress will act 
in a bipartisan way to carefully and thoroughly examine the President's 
proposals and pass decisions through hearings, debate and oversight 
using all tools available to change the direction of this war.

Most importantly, we will continue to support our troops in hopes of 
de-escalation of the war and escalation of the political solution for 
Iraq. Working together, Mr. Speaker, great change is possible.