---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `63e9c23e7fe91b25bc85b57daa5e9244`
`Mr. MARKEY — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq is a disaster. We are 
engaged in a war that should never have been fought and that was 
presented to the American people and this Congress over 4 years ago 
wrapped in falsehoods and mendacity. Our military is being drained of 
personnel and materiel in an occupation that, we were told, would never 
occur because we would be greeted as liberators.

To say that the President's prosecution of this war has been 
mismanaged misses the much more important point that President Bush 
exercised extraordinarily poor judgment in initiating an unnecessary 
war of choice. Our soldiers, their families, and indeed the entire 
country, now bears the legacy of the President's headstrong rush into 
this quagmire.

The President, with the Iraq War supplemental appropriations request, 
has again asked the Congress to give him a blank check to continue an 
endless and bottomless war. But that is not what the President will get 
with this bill. Instead of a blank check, the Congress is providing a 
much needed check and balance to the Executive Branch.

The bill before us today requires the President to certify to the 
Congress that certain tough benchmarks have been met. If he cannot so 
certify, an immediate redeployment of U.S. forces must commence. Under 
the bill, by July 1, 2007, the President must certify that Iraq has met 
political and military benchmarks, including the implementation of a 
program to disarm the militias. By October 1, 2007, the President must 
make another certification of Iraq's progress, including that militia 
control of local security has been eliminated. And even if the 
President is able to make both certifications to Congress, this bill 
requires that U.S. forces begin withdrawing from Iraq by March 1, 2008 
and complete that withdrawal no later than by the end of August 2008.

These limitations on the President are important, as they will pave 
the way for the United States to finally withdraw from Iraq.

This bill also prohibits permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq, which 
is an essential precondition for the reestablishment of public trust in 
the United States within the Middle East and especially Iraq.

Particularly significant to me is a prohibition included in this bill 
which bars the use of funds from this supplemental in contravention of 
the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman 
or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. I have had to fight to include 
this provision in previous appropriations bills under the Republican 
Congress and I would like to thank and commend Chairman Murtha for his 
leadership and courage on this issue. In this bill, my restriction on 
the use of funds for torture also includes a specific ban on the use of 
funds to carry out renditions, which the President has used to transfer 
detainees for interrogation or other purposes to countries known for 
the use of torture.



Mr. Speaker, I don't want to see the war continue another day. I want 
our troops home immediately, and I am frustrated beyond words by the 
President's continued intransigence in the face of overwhelming 
evidence and opinion. The bill that this House is debating today will 
take us closer to the moment when every American soldier, sailor, 
airman or Marine in Iraq can be brought home.

I urge adoption of the bill.