# CONSOLIDATED NATURAL RESOURCES ACT OF 2008
## `63ea00a3913726ee02c80770f6227358`
`Mr. BECERRA â€” 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. BECERRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 2739, the 
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, which includes a provision 
to establish a commission that will report to Congress on the 
feasibility of creating a National Museum of the American Latino.

Recently, the Senate passed this legislation. The House of 
Representatives already voted unanimously for the National Museum of 
the American Latino provision in the form of H.R. 512 on February 4, 
2007. And today, we get the chance to do it once again.

The passage of S. 2739 will ensure that a full, rich, and inclusive 
story of American Latinos will be told in our nation's capital soon. 
Tomorrow, as many families and educators celebrate El Dia de los Ninos, 
a day on which families and educators celebrate our children, it is 
important to consider a valuable learning tool that until now has been 
somewhat neglected. Our national museums influence what Americans and 
foreign visitors know and believe about this nation's collective 
history and cultural life. My largest disappointment is that the 
official narrative portrayed in our museums still fails to recognize 
and exhibit the significant contributions made by Latinos to the 
culture and history of the United States.

This National Museum of the American Latino Commission Act included 
in S. 2739 creates a bipartisan Commission tasked with looking at 
whether our national museums are doing all they can to provide future 
generations a more complete portrayal of American Latino contributions 
to American life. The 23-member Commission of experts would examine 
whether and how to establish a new museum dedicated to the art, 
history, and culture of the American Latino population of the United 
States. Within two years of the bill being signed into law, the 
Commission will report their findings and recommendations to Congress, 
detailing a recommended plan of action on how to move forward with 
taking the museum from concept to reality.


In passing this legislation, we are laying the first cobblestones in 
what many hope will ultimately create a National Museum of the American 
Latino. Though American Latinos' contributions span centuries and 
economic sectors, many people are unaware of the role Americans of 
Latino descent played, and continue to play, in America. This 
legislation offers an extraordinary opportunity to better understand 
the historical and significant contributions that make this country 
great.

It is my hope that children who visit Washington, DC's museums go 
home with a more complete understanding of what it means to be an 
American. We hope one day our children can learn from our national 
museums that:

Latinos' contributions to the United States of America date back to 
1565, when the Spanish established the first permanent settlement in 
the territorial United States in St. Augustine, Florida--four decades 
before the establishment of Jamestown and Plymouth Rock.

From General Bernard de Galvez who supported General George 
Washington's rebellion against England to the 500,000 Hispanics who 
served in the Armed Forces during World War II to the soldiers like 
Jose Antonio Gutierrez who was among the first casualties of American 
troops in Iraq, Latinos have played a pivotal role in every major U.S. 
military war.

The sacrifices and honor of our Latino service members represent a 
proportionately larger number of our Nation's Congressional Medal of 
Honor awardees than any other ethnic group.

Latino astronauts, such as astronauts Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, Sydney 
Gutierrez, and Dr. Ellen Ochoa, have soared into space.

During Hispanic Heritage Month in October, 2003, I first sponsored 
this important legislation with my good friend, Representative Ileana 
Ros-Lehtinen. I thank her and my Senate colleagues, Senators Ken 
Salazar, Bob Menendez, and Mel Martinez for their work as lead 
champions of the National American Latino Heritage Museum Commission 
Act in the Senate. To Senator Jeff Bingaman and Majority Leader Harry 
Reid, I send my appreciation for their help both in including H.R. 512 
as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 and in 
ensuring the bill's safe Senate passage.

Mr. Speaker, we are moving closer to the day when we can confidently 
say that the mosaic portrayed in Washington, DC's museums truly 
reflects America. I thank you for allowing the consideration of S. 
2739, which includes the National Museum of the American Latino 
Commission Act to have its time on the House floor. I strongly 
encourage my colleagues to vote in support of S. 2739, so that we can 
clear this final congressional hurdle and move forward a broadly 
supported effort to ensure that American Latinos are included in our 
national narrative.