# None
## `63f1ad6a05b8bb464e610b3514a63250`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 23 October 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Well, I thank the gentleman for yielding and I thank 
him for his leadership on the security issues that affect our great 
Nation.

And, Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman from California knows, national 
security is one of the major issues that we hear about every single 
day. Our constituents want to be certain that America, that our 
interests, that our communities are safe, and certainly, as we are 
looking at FISA, this is an issue that is coming before us.

One of the things that we hear regularly from constituents is, what 
are you doing about it? What are you doing about tracking down these 
terrorists? What are you doing about finding those that want to kill 
us? What are you doing?

Well, we did some good things last year. As the gentleman from 
California mentioned, the provisions that we passed, Admiral 
McConnell's recommendations, the pathway forward for us, how we were to 
proceed to be certain that we could use the information that we 
had. And now the RESTORE Act, and I do like the acronym that he is 
using, Repeal Effective Surveillance Techniques Opposing Real Enemies. 
That is an appropriate acronym for the bill that they brought forward.


And I think, Mr. Speaker, that our colleagues across the aisle forget 
that it is FISA. Maybe they think it is the U.S. Intelligence 
Surveillance Act, or USISA. They forget that it is FISA, Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act.

We do seek to find those who would seek to do us harm and end our way 
of life. That is something we should be about every single day.

Now, we've heard from lots of people on the FISA issue, and the 
gentleman


from California brings such a wide range of knowledge on this, and I 
know he is going to be joined by others, others of our colleagues who 
are going to touch on this issue. Many of them are from the Republican 
Study Committee, and they're going to bring their expertise to bear on 
this.

I want to touch on one quick point. The gentleman from California 
highlighted some of Admiral McConnell's recommendations and procedures 
that we took to be certain that we closed the terrorist loophole. And 
the measure that the liberal leadership brought forward, the RESTORE 
Act, would reopen the terrorist loophole. The Democrat FISA bill 
creates a process by which a court order is required for U.S. persons 
who are outside the United States.

As the gentleman from California mentioned, if a foreign target 
operating overseas, such as Osama bin Laden, has either had contact 
with a U.S. person or called a U.S. number, our intelligence officials 
would be required, if this bill passed, to obtain a FISA court order to 
listen to those communications.

Well, in Tennessee, we would say that just doesn't make good sense, 
and it doesn't, Mr. Speaker; and it is frightening to think that there 
are those among us who may want to deal with terrorists more delicately 
than they would handle the welfare and well-being of our communities.

I would also highlight the New York Post and a comment that they had 
as we were working through the FISA overhaul and looking at these 
situations dealing with these cumbersome legal requirements. The New 
York Post quotes in an October 15, 2007, article: ''A search to rescue 
the men was quickly launched. But it soon ground to a halt as lawyers 
obeying U.S. strict laws about surveillance cobbled together the legal 
grounds for wiretapping the suspected kidnappers. For an excruciating 9 
hours and 38 minutes searchers in Iraq waited as U.S. lawyers discussed 
legal issues and hammered out the 'probable cause' necessary for the 
Attorney General to grant such 'emergency' permission.''

We know the emergency. We know the probable cause. Men were under 
attack and they needed to be found. We are in a time of war. The 
terrorists are there to end our way of life. We have to stay a couple 
of steps in front of them, Mr. Speaker; and as the gentleman from 
California has so eloquently said, the way we do this is with a 
commonsense approach and very thoughtful approach to our intelligence 
surveillance that we have on our foreign enemies.

