---
---

# None
## `64031ffac28e8a5e476f078df90feb47`
`Mr. FORTUNO — 5 May 2008`

---


Mr. FORTUNO. I thank my colleague.

I want to begin by thanking Chairman Berman for ushering H.R. 3658 
through the committee process. In his short time as chairman, Mr. 
Berman has shown intelligence, generosity and strong bipartisan spirit, 
the same leadership qualities displayed by his predecessor, the 
irreplaceable Tom Lantos.

I want to thank my good friend, Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, 
as well. I continue to marvel at her devotion to her constituents in 
south Florida and at her tireless efforts to help light the lantern of 
freedom in dark places around the world.

I also want to thank the representatives from the other U.S. 
territories, all of whom are original cosponsors of H.R. 3658. And I 
want to thank you, Ms. Watson, and you, Judge Poe, for your support for 
this bill. I note that Ms. Watson served as a U.S. Ambassador to 
Micronesia and therefore brings a special expertise to this subject.

Mr. Speaker, the specific purpose of H.R. 3658 is to permit Foreign 
Servicemembers to take rest and recuperation travel, known as R&R, in 
the five U.S. territories. The broader objective of the bill is to 
ensure that Federal employees from the U.S. territories enjoy the same 
rights and privileges as their fellow citizens from the 50 States.

I am pleased that the American Foreign Service Association supports 
H.R. 3658, and that the State Department does not oppose its passage.

Mr. Speaker, the Foreign Service Act lists the instances in which the 
State Department may pay the travel-related costs of Foreign 
Servicemembers. One section of the FSA states that the Department may 
pay the travel costs incurred by Foreign Service personnel for what is 
known as home leave. The purpose of the home leave is to ensure that 
Foreign Servicemembers who have been sent abroad undergo a period of 
reorientation to the United States. The FSA provides that home leave 
may be taken in the 50 States and the U.S. territories.

Another section of the FSA states that the Department may pay the 
costs incurred by Foreign Servicemembers for R&R travel. Unlike home 
leave, which is granted to all Foreign Servicemembers who serve abroad, 
R&R is granted only to those stationed at hardship posts. Under the 
current FSA, R&R may only be taken in locations in the United States. 
State Department regulations have interpreted this phrase to exclude 
U.S. territories.

Mr. Speaker, there is no principled basis for allowing Foreign 
Servicemembers to take home leave but not R&R in the U.S. territories, 
and H.R. 3658 amends the FSA to eliminate the distinction. Just as they 
proudly serve in our Nation's Armed Forces, residents of the U.S. 
territories also represent this great country abroad as diplomats. 
These men and women from the territories take the same risks and endure 
the same long absences from their families as their colleagues from the 
States. Making certain that our laws treat these public servants on 
equal terms is the only right thing to do.

Mr. Speaker, I ask you to consider the case of Mr. Ramon Negron. Mr. 
Negron is a U.S. citizen born and raised in Puerto Rico, a graduate of 
West Point, and a lieutenant colonel in the Army Reserve. Mr. Negron 
currently serves as a political economic officer at the U.S. Interests 
section in Havana, Cuba, which is a hardship post. Mr. Negron's next 
posting, to begin this summer, is as the Embassy Office Director in 
Basra, Iraq. It is neither sensible, nor fair, that under current law 
the State Department will not cover the cost of airfare so this U.S. 
citizen, U.S. soldier and U.S. diplomat can travel home to Puerto Rico 
to be with his family before leaving for the Middle East. H.R. 3658 
will correct this disparity.