---
---

# None
## `640401cd48a169239fb2d23b88700d18`
`Mr. REED — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I recognize the 125th anniversary of 
the U.S. Naval War College. The Naval War College was established on 
October 6, 1884, in Newport, RI, to provide an advanced course of 
professional study for both military officers and civilians. The 
mission has evolved over the years to include developing strategic and 
operational leaders, helping the Chief of Naval Operations define the 
future Navy, strengthening maritime security cooperation, and 
supporting combat readiness.

The Naval War College serves as a center for research that develops 
advanced strategic, warfighting, and campaign concepts for future 
deployment of maritime, joint, and combined forces. The Naval War 
College works closely with the Navy Warfare Development Command and the 
Chief of Naval Operations Strategic Studies Group in developing and 
analyzing national security issues. Through the Naval Command College 
and the Naval Staff College, naval officers from around the world come 
to prepare for high command responsibilities, and to learn about the 
U.S. Navy's methods, practice, and doctrine. The Naval War College also 
supports combat readiness among the U.S. Navy's commanders through 
operational planning, analysis, and war-gaming to respond to changing 
operational environments.

Some of our Nation's greatest military and civilian leaders have 
attended the Naval War College including FADM Chester Nimitz, the 
Commander of the Pacific Fleet during World War II; RADM Alan Shepard, 
the first American in space; Ambassador Christopher Hill, the current 
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq; and Marine Corps GEN James Cartwright, the 
current Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Indeed, even our 
two combatant commanders in Afghanistan and Iraq, GEN Stanley 
McChrystal and GEN Raymond Odierno, are both graduates of the Naval War 
College.

I am proud of the talented men and women who have made the Naval War 
College the strong institution it is today, and I congratulate the 
entire Naval War College community on this important milestone.
