# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `6419135476cb1eae0b40cc4218929d4d`
`Mr. LEVIN — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, we have an unbroken tradition on our 
committee, 48 consecutive national Defense authorization bills. It is 
never easy to get this bill through the legislative process. But with 
perseverance, a lot of good-faith work has never let us down.

We maintain our focus because we are acting on behalf of our true 
heroes, the men and women of our Armed Forces and their families. The 
enactment of this conference report is going to provide the men and 
women of our Armed Forces, both Active and Reserve, and their families 
with the pay and benefits they deserve, the equipment and training they 
need.

The conference report includes $164 billion for military personnel, 
including costs of pay, allowances, bonuses, survivor benefits, and 
military health care. It would authorize a 3.4 percent across-the-board 
pay raise for our troops, a half a percent above the budget request and 
the annual increase in the employment cost Index.

The conference report would authorize $130 billion in funding for our 
ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It would provide 
more than $2.0 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Fund, to help take on the threat that has claimed so many American 
lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. It would fully fund the President's 
request for $7.5 billion to train and equip the Afghan National Army 
and the Afghan National Police.

This legislation sends a vital message to our men and women in 
uniform that we, as a nation, stand behind them and appreciate their 
service.

We are at this point because all our dedicated Members and all our 
dedicated staff members--on both sides of the Capitol--were all willing 
to hit on all cylinders and keep this bill rolling along.

Of course, I want to start by thanking my partner and my friend, 
Senator McCain, as well as all committee members, for their active 
roles in getting us to this point. Our counterparts on the House side, 
Congressmen Ike Skelton and Buck McKeon and the House Armed Services 
Committee staff lead by Erin Conaton and Bob Simmons, also have our 
gratitude. Senator McCain and I are extremely grateful to our own 
committee staff members who so willingly put all their legislative 
expertise into this bill. Not only is there a tremendous amount of 
legislative craftsmanship involved, but there is a mind-boggling number 
of administrative details that have to be meticulously tracked in this 
massive bill.

I again thank my partner and my friend, Senator McCain, as well as 
all committee members for their active roles in getting us to this very 
historic moment when there is much in this bill that is so important to 
our troops, as well as a number of other provisions which are 
critically important to success in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Our dedicated, hard-working staff assistants in particular deserve a 
special mention for their extraordinary efforts in this regard. As a 
visible sign of the high regard in which we hold our staff, I ask 
unanimous consent to have all staff members' names printed in the 
Record. I offer here a list of the staff of the Armed Services 
Committee for that purpose.