---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `642aeed42d0d1f6cc8e6f07766d8f24a`
`Mr. McCAIN — 22 May 2008`

---

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, before us today is a supplemental 
appropriations bill that would provide vital funding for the men and 
women fighting valiantly on our behalf abroad. Yet instead of acting on 
the needs of our military in an expeditious and efficient manner, we 
find ourselves considering a bloated bill, loaded down with extraneous 
provisions unrelated to the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Sadly, this has become an unfortunate and reoccurring trend in recent 
years.

Congress has an obligation to provide our servicemen and women with 
the resources they need to fulfill their mission. Yet we have, once 
again, chosen to abrogate our duties and use this bill as a vehicle to 
fund various domestic projects that were not requested by the 
President, nor are they authorized, and have not been handled through 
the appropriate legislative process.

The President has already stated his intention to veto this measure 
if it arrives at his desk in its current form. Rather than 
demonstrating true bipartisanship and working together to produce a 
bill that meets the needs of our military and one that has the 
potential of becoming law, the Senate intends to pass a bill will be 
passed that is sure to be met swiftly by the President's veto pen, 
unnecessarily prolonging the delay in funding our troops.

Let us not underestimate the necessity of providing this funding to 
our military promptly and the consequences of delaying such payment. In 
a recent letter to Congress, Under Secretary of Defense Gordon England 
stated in no uncertain terms that if this funding is not provided, 
''the Army will run out of Military Personnel funds by mid-June and 
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funds by early July.'' In order to deal 
with these depleted accounts, the Department of Defense--DoD--would be 
required to borrow funds from other service branch accounts, hampering 
ongoing DoD activities around the globe. Under Secretary England goes 
on to state in his letter that by late July, the entire Department will 
have ''exhausted all avenues of funding and will be unable to make 
payroll for both military and civilian personnel .
.
. including 
those engaged in Iraq and Afghanistan.'' Let us understand what this 
means. If this appropriations measure is not enacted in a timely 
manner, thousands upon thousands of men and women in uniform will stop 
receiving a paycheck and our ability to conduct operations throughout 
the world will be severely restricted.

When we should be working together to produce a clean bill that 
provides our servicemen and women with the vital resources they need to 
fulfill their duties, we have instead reverted to the same old 
Washington habit of loading spending bills with billions of dollars 
going to unrequested, non-emergency projects. Examples include: $75 
million not requested by the administration for expenses related to 
economic impacts associated with commercial fishery failures, fishery 
resource disasters, and regulation on commercial fishing industries. 
This comes after Congress appropriated $128 million in 2005 for 
commercial fishery failures, $170 million in 2007 and included an 
additional $170 million in the Farm bill. Since 2005, Congress has 
provided almost $300 million for commercial fisheries disasters not 
including the $75 million in this supplemental and the proposed $170 
million from the Farm bill. Additionally, questions remain by some 
commercial fishermen if this funding can be used to offset high gas 
prices which may be considered a disaster. The disaster here is that 
the American public isn't receiving any assistance on high gas prices.


Other examples are: $10 million not requested by the administration 
for Educational and Cultural Exchange programs; $75 million not 
requested by the administration for rehabilitation and restoration of 
Federal lands; more than $451 million not requested by the 
administration for emergency highway projects for disasters that 
occurred as far back as Fiscal Year 2005; $210 million not requested by 
the administration for the decennial census and $3.6 billion for 15 Air 
Force C-17 cargo aircraft. We have looked to the administration to 
inform Congressional budgetary decisions and the Department of Defense 
has been quite clear regarding the purchase of more of these cargo 
aircraft--they do not want them, because there is no military 
''requirement'' for them and buying more C-17s is contrary to the 
Pentagon's current budget plan. DOD Secretary Gates, the DOD Deputy 
Secretary, and the Department's top acquisition official have all 
stated that additional C-17s were not necessary. Yet the Air Force 
continues to appeal to the parochial interests of Members of Congress, 
and once again the taxpayers find themselves on the wrong end of a bad 
decision. I am troubled by the Air Force's apparent disregard for 
proper acquisition policy, practice and procedure and seeming eagerness 
to further contractors' interests. As evidence of this, the Department 
of Defense Inspector General has an open investigation regarding how 
senior Air Force officials may have inappropriately solicited new 
orders for C-17s contrary to the orders of the President and the 
Secretary of Defense.

While I do not doubt the importance some may see in the various 
provisions included in the underlying bill, I strongly disagree with 
their inclusion in a war supplemental funding bill. Instead of 
attempting to hijack this vital legislation, the authors of these 
extraneous provisions should pursue their objectives through the normal 
legislative process and as part of appropriate authorizing and spending 
vehicles.

I also want to express my concerns about the authorizing legislation 
included in this emergency supplemental regarding veterans' educations 
benefits, commonly referred to as the Webb bill. There have been a lot 
of misrepresentations made about my position on this issue--not only on 
the Senate floor by the majority leader, who has alleged that I think 
the Webb bill is ''too generous,'' which is absolutely false, but most 
recently in an ad by VoteVets.org, which offers a complete 
misrepresentation of the facts and is a disservice to our Nation's 
veterans. I will once again attempt to set the record straight.

I believe America has an obligation to provide unwavering support to 
our veterans, active duty servicemembers, Guard and Reserves. Men and 
women who have served their country deserve the best education benefits 
we are able to give them, and they deserve to receive them as quickly 
as possible and in a manner that not only promotes recruitment efforts, 
but also promotes retention of servicemembers. I would


think we could have near unanimous support for such legislation and I 
am confident that we will reach that point in the days ahead. But 
adding a $52 billion mandatory spending program to this war funding 
bill without any opportunity for amendments to improve the measure is 
not the way to move legislation nor will it expedite reaching an 
agreement in an efficient manner. Our vets deserve better than this.

On numerous occasions I have commended Senators Webb, Hagel and 
Warner for their work to bring this issue to the forefront of the 
Senate's attention. Their effort has been for a worthy cause, but that 
does not make it a perfect bill, nor should it be considered the only 
approach that best meets the education needs of veterans and 
servicemembers. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that 
if their bill is passed, it will harm retention rates by nearly 20 
percent. That is the last thing we need when our Nation is fighting the 
war on terror on two fronts.

Senators Graham, Burr and I, along with 19 others, have a different 
approach, one that builds on the existing Montgomery GI Bill to ensure 
rapid implementation of increased benefits. And, unlike S. 22, we think 
a revitalized program should focus on the entire spectrum of military 
members who make up the All Volunteer Force, from the newest recruit to 
the career NCOs, officers, reservists and National Guardsmen, to 
veterans who have completed their service and retirees, as well as the 
families of all of these individuals.

We need to take action to encourage continued service in the military 
and we can do that by granting a higher education benefit for longer 
service. And, we need to provide a meaningful, unquestionable 
transferability feature to allow the serviceman and woman to have the 
option of transferring education benefits to their children and 
spouses. S. 22, unfortunately, does not allow transferability. As a 
matter of fact, 2 days ago, Senators Webb and Warner agreed that 
transferability is a serious matter that merited change. What they 
proposed, however, does not go far enough and would only provide for a 
2-year pilot program. Their efforts underscore the need for debate and 
further discussion on this important issue. But I applaud them for 
acknowledging the Congress needs to take a proactive stance and allow 
transferability of earned education benefits to a spouse or children.

We cannot allow this important issue to be hijacked by the anti-war 
crusade funded by groups like MoveOn.org and VetsVote.org who are 
running ads saying that that I do not ''respect their service.'' The 
accusation is wrong, they know that it is, and they should be ashamed 
of what they are doing to all veterans and servicemembers. I respect 
every man and woman who have been or are currently in uniform.

It is my hope that the proponents of the pending veteran's education 
benefits measures can join together to ensure that Congress enacts 
meaningful legislation that the President will sign and as soon as 
possible. Such legislation should address the reality of the All 
Volunteer Force and ensure that we pass a bill that does not induce 
servicemen and women to leave the military; but instead bolsters 
retention so that the services may retain quality servicemen and women. 
It must be easily understood and implemented and responsive to the 
needs not only of veterans, but also of those who are serving in the 
active duty forces, the Guard and Reserve, and their families. Their 
exemplary service to our nation, and the sacrifice of their families, 
deserves no less.

As we move forward with consideration of this supplemental 
appropriations legislation, we must remember to whom we owe our 
allegiance--the soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines fighting bravely 
on our behalf abroad. These brave Americans need this appropriation to 
carry out their vital work, and we should have provided it to them 
months ago. The Congress, which authorized the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, has an obligation to give our troops everything they need 
to prevail in their missions. Unfortunately, it seems we have failed to 
live up to this obligation today, instead producing a bill fraught with 
wasteful spending more attuned to political interests instead of the 
interests of our military men and women.