---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `642c2987b2cf34c01afe9bf6f0d8daf7`
`Mr. REID — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, yesterday I spoke on the floor indicating 
that I thought it was really too bad that the Republicans held up 
another bill, this one dealing with veterans health benefits. We have 
hundreds of thousands of veterans returning from Iraq. Twenty percent 
of them have severe problems as a result of post-traumatic stress 
syndrome, many of them caused by those terrifying explosions over there 
that occur all the time, around them and to them. We have 150,000 men 
and women now in Iraq serving our country bravely.

The veterans' benefits legislation was reported out of the committee 
9 months ago, and we have been trying to get permission from the 
Republicans to bring it to the floor, and they have refused. It expands 
eligibility for traumatic injury insurance; extends eligibility for 
adapted housing for those who have been severely burned; it increases 
benefits for veterans pursuing apprenticeships or on-job training 
programs; and 80 other provisions that are very important. But we 
learned yesterday from the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee that the reason they have held this bill up and intend to 
continue holding it up is because this legislation restores veteran 
status to Filipino veterans who served under U.S. command during World 
War II.

This legislation is important. While our Republican friends are 
stalling for time, trying to maintain the status quo, our veterans--men 
and women, young and old--who served with distinction continue to wait 
for the support, care, and services they have earned. They are waiting 
for Congress to act.

As I have indicated, the Republicans have followed the lead of the 
ranking member of the committee and opposed the provision in the bill 
that provides pensions to Filipino veterans who fought by our side in 
World War II.

I say what I said yesterday: If you know nothing else about World War 
II, watch Tom Hanks' documentary of


World War II, what went on in the Philippines. We depended on the 
Filipinos. They fought bravely, valiantly by our side. So I find this 
opposition baffling. With threats emerging from every corner of our 
complex world, America needs allies. We need to set an example that we 
stick by our friends. We should be sending a message to the world that 
we need you to stand with us. We cannot fight the global war on terror 
alone.

What kind of example does this set? What better message can we send 
to our global allies than we will honor the past service of men and 
women born on foreign soil who rallied around our flag and fought for 
our freedom?

My friend from North Carolina, distinguished Senator Burr, argues we 
should not be providing pensions for Filipino soldiers who served our 
country but who were not injured during World War II.

World War II was a different war from the war we are fighting now. In 
Iraq, everybody is fair game to the terrorists. It was not that way in 
World War II. Only 20 percent--one in five--served on front lines 
taking enemy fire. The other 80 percent provided support services and 
engaged in intelligence gathering. They transported and maintained 
equipment. They took care of the ammunition. They repaired combat 
vehicles. They were in the Quartermaster Corps making sure the uniforms 
and other equipment the soldiers needed got to where they were supposed 
to go. They cooked the food. They acted, as we know, as nurses. It 
cannot be argued those 80 percent were any less a part of that war. It 
cannot be argued that sacrifices do not count. It cannot be argued that 
these men and women are less entitled to the benefits of veteran 
status. This legislation would give them $300 a month. Don't they 
deserve that? Doesn't this country owe that to them?

I urge my Republican colleagues to break away from this foolishness 
and join us in providing a pension for the brave Filipino troops who 
stood with us, fought with us, and helped us win World War II. I hope 
the Republicans will support all components of this legislation. It is 
good legislation, but it should be known that I have reached out to 
Republicans on this issue on many occasions, with no takers.

As I said to Senator Burr on the floor yesterday, if he does not like 
this provision, why hold up the whole bill? We should have been on the 
bill Thursday night, Friday, Monday. It is Tuesday now. Offer an 
amendment. Say: I don't believe these people who were not front-line 
soldiers deserve anything. They are old. The average age is 84. They do 
not deserve anything. Let's strike that with an amendment.

Let's have a debate on it and vote on it, not hold up the whole bill. 
But that is what is being done. If a majority of the Senators vote for 
the amendment, the bill will be altered. That is how the legislative 
process is supposed to work. We should not have to invoke cloture on a 
motion to proceed simply to begin to legislate.

So I hope cloture will be invoked and, if it is, we do not have to 
use the postcloture 30 hours to sit around and do nothing. We should be 
able to start legislating on this bill. I am not even asking 
Republicans to support the bill at this point, just support allowing us 
to move to the bill so we can start legislating.

This is an example; almost 70 times in a little over a year, the 
Republicans have stopped us from moving legislation. Is it any wonder 
that today it is reported ''Bush's disapproval rating worst of any 
president in 70 years''? That is no surprise. Holding up legislation, 
even legislation with which they agree, hold us up, just to stall, to 
maintain the status quo. What is the status quo giving the American 
people? Nothing. And that is how they feel about President Bush. That 
is why we see this headline in today's paper.
