# SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
## `64313ab256afd0f5b297cb7b26a6d389`
`Mr. DURBIN — 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this morning 7 years to the minute since 
the terrorist attacks on the Nation, I attended the inauguration and 
dedication of the Pentagon Memorial. There have been countless personal 
memorials over the years. The Pentagon Memorial is America's first 
national memorial to those who died on that heartbreaking day. It is a 
beautiful, peaceful patch of land on the very spot where American 
Airlines flight 77 smashed into the west wall of the Pentagon. In that 
quiet place, there are 184 stainless steel benches, one bench for each 
of the 184 innocent victims who died at the Pentagon and on that plane 
that struck it 7 years ago today.

Thousands of people were at that ceremony this morning marking the 
dedication and opening of the Pentagon Memorial. They, of course, 
included the President and Vice President, the Cabinet, leaders in 
Congress, top military leaders, scores of Members of Congress, along 
with the survivors of the Pentagon attack and rescue workers who were 
the true heroes of the day. Most poignantly, we were joined by hundreds 
of husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, friends of the 
loved ones who perished at the Pentagon.

While 9/11 comes once a year, for 9/11 families, every day brings 
painful reminders of what and whom they have lost. Their pain is still 
heartbreaking.

It was the families of the Pentagon victims who spearheaded the 
effort to create the Pentagon Memorial. We all hope they can find some 
measure of peace and comfort in their fine work in the creation of this 
memorial.

Yesterday afternoon I had a chance to visit in my office with a man 
with a small company near Chicago, IL, who worked for over a year to 
finish and polish the 184 stainless steel benches that make up the 
Pentagon Memorial. He lives and works in Elk Grove Village in Arlington 
Heights, and his name is Abe Yousif.

Abe came to America 29 years ago from Iraq. Abe's beautiful wife 
Angela moved to America 27 years ago, also


from Iraq. The 23 employees of their little company, many of them are 
immigrants, too, from Mexico, Bosnia, and many other countries.

For more than a year, they have worked for this day when there would 
be an official opening of this Pentagon Memorial. Their job was to take 
these raw metal benches, 184 of these benches, and polish them as 
smooth as glass. Abe calculated for me the amount of time he and his 
employees put into this work. They worked nearly 17,000 hours grinding 
and polishing these stainless steel benches, transforming them into 
perfectly uniform, flawlessly smooth memorials.

Abe and his workers hoped that by making each bench perfect, they 
might be able to give something back to a country that has given them 
so much. They hope that the calm, clear lines of their work might bring 
a sense of healing to a wounded nation and bring some beauty to a place 
scarred by tragedy.

Many people will look across this memorial. They will see these 
finely polished stainless steel benches and assume somewhere there was 
a machine that just churned them out. No, it was the hard work and 
sweat of Abe Yousif and his employees who took this on not just as 
another project but as a project of love.

When I think of 9/11, I recall, as every American does, what I was 
doing. I was just a few steps away from here in the Capitol Building in 
a meeting of the Democratic leadership with Senator Tom Daschle. The 
meeting had just started when we heard about the planes crashing into 
the World Trade Center in New York.

As the meeting continued, Tom was handed a note that we were going to 
have to evacuate the Capitol. We looked down The Mall toward the 
Washington Monument and saw black, billowing smoke coming from across 
the river. We didn't know what happened. We thought perhaps a bomb had 
been detonated. In fact, it was American Airlines flight 77 that 
crashed into the Pentagon causing so many deaths of so many innocent 
people.

We evacuated and raced to the yard outside the Capitol, people 
milling around not knowing where to turn. We heard the sonic booms from 
jets that were being scrambled and wondered if there were detonation of 
bombs or something worse. We just didn't know.

One of the staffers I had at that time was Pat Sargent. Pat is an 
officer in the U.S. Army. Occasionally, the Army will detail some of 
its professionals to work on Capitol Hill for a short time. Pat was 
terrific, one of our best employees. But he had a special interest in 
the Pentagon that day because his wife Sherry, also in the U.S. Army, 
was working there.

When Pat heard about the smoke and damage at the Pentagon, he raced 
out to catch the last commuter bus that runs between Capitol Hill and 
the Pentagon, the last one to make it across the bridge. He was 
desperate to find his wife.

He went there, and there was a sea of humanity, of people who 
evacuated the Pentagon lined up on the hills around it. He searched and 
searched until he finally found her, and she was safe. That was the 
good news of the day, along with the tragedy that so many of her fellow 
workers had died.

Sherry had been in the room near the spot where that plane crashed. 
She lingered for a moment to watch the scenes of New York on television 
while some of her fellow workers went back to their desks. Those 
workers perished when the plane crashed into the Pentagon. She was 
spared.

Of course, they appreciate the heroism of those who responded, and 
all the memorials that were given to this country, but I want to give a 
special tribute to Pat and Sherry and their daughter Samantha for their 
dedication to this country. You see, when Pat left my office, he 
continued to serve in the U.S. Army. He is in Iraq today in a command 
position with major responsibilities for the medical care of our troops 
and the people of Iraq. He is a true American hero, as is his wife. 
They have given so much to this country.

I thank the Lord that they were spared that day; that they were able 
to continue in their service to the country, along with so many others, 
but I do remember those who worked right alongside her who were not so 
fortunate. That is what our gathering was about today. Every year on 
September 11 we remember the horror and shock of that day and the grief 
that followed. But we remember something else. We remember the 
tremendous sense of unity that enveloped our Nation.

Buck O'Neill was a man who was legendary in the Negro League as a 
baseball player. Of course, in those days, a Black man couldn't make it 
to the majors. He became a scout for the Chicago Cubs and signed, among 
other people, Hall of Famers Ernie Banks and Lou Brock. In 1962, he 
became the first African-American coach in Major League Baseball 
history. He wrote a newspaper column. He has passed away now, but he 
wrote a newspaper column about a year after the 9/11 attacks, and he 
said:




 One thing about it is, the attacks brought us together. For 


 a little while there after September 11, it didn't matter if 


 you were Democrat or a Republican. It didn't matter if you 


 were white or black. Yeah. We were Americans. We gave blood. 


 We gave money. We cried. We all cried. That's the America we 


 can be. This is a wonderful country.


He remembered from his youth some hateful things that were done to 
him because of his race. He said:




 When I was a young man, I used to see the way hate ripped 


 this country apart. A man would hate me just for the color of 


 my skin. I didn't feel angry. I felt sorry for that man. I 


 wanted to say to him ''Don't you know how great America would 


 be if we could all just get along?'' That's what I saw after 


 September 11. We all got along. I wish we could hold on to 


 that feeling.


There were strong emotions today at the Pentagon, I am sure in New 
York, in Pennsylvania, and across the Nation as we remembered the 
seventh anniversary of 9/11. But let us remember 9/12. Let's remember 
this Nation when it did come together with its allies around the world, 
the strength that we felt here at home, and the projected strength we 
felt around the world. Those days can return, and they should return. 
It is up to each and every one of us, whether we are elected officials 
or people going to work every day to raise a family, to do our best to 
make that spirit of coming together after 9/11 return.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.