# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `646c0557e7c8e10399cd06828c31313e`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I intend to vote against the current 
emergency supplemental spending bill--the second one of this fiscal 
year--and I would like to briefly list my concerns before explaining 
them in more detail. For years I have been fighting to bring an end to 
our involvement in the misguided war in Iraq. While I am pleased that 
President Obama has provided a timeline for redeployment of our troops, 
I am concerned that he intends to leave up to 50,000 of the United 
States troops in Iraq. I am also concerned that this supplemental may 
pad the defense budget with items not needed for the war. We should be 
paying for such items through the regular budget, not running up the 
deficit to purchase them. Finally, while the President clearly 
understands that the greatest international security threat to our 
Nation resides in Pakistan, I remain concerned that his strategy 
regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan does not adequately address, and may 
even exacerbate the problems we face in Pakistan, problems made even 
more clear by the current rising tide of displaced civilians.

I do want to make clear, however, that there are a number of 
provisions in the bill I support, including funding for humanitarian 
and peacekeeping missions. In addition, I am pleased that the bill 
addresses the increased demand for direct farm loans through the USDA's 
Farm Service Agency, FSA. As of May 7, the FSA reports backlogs of 
nearly 3,000 loans, including $250 million in ownership loans and over 
$100 million for operating loans. With many States having already 
completely utilized their initial fiscal year 2009 allocations of 
direct loan funds, the emergency addition of $360 million for direct 
farm ownership loans and $225 million for direct operating loans in the 
supplemental will help ensure that credit is available to farmers and 
ranchers. I was also encouraged that an additional $49.4 million was 
included for the costs associated with modifying existing


FSA farm loans, which will help ensure that FSA is able to work with 
farmers who are viable to avoid foreclosure.

Let me start by focusing on Iraq. President Obama has taken a 
necessary and overdue step by outlining a schedule to safely redeploy 
our troops from Iraq. This will help us focus on al-Qaida and its 
affiliates elsewhere, which continue to be the main threat to U.S. 
national security. I was disappointed, however, that the President 
decided to draw out the redeployment over 3 years. Furthermore, recent 
press reports indicate that in order to meet the June 30 deadline for 
U.S. combat troops to be out of Iraqi cities, certain military 
officials may redraw city borders instead of relocating nearly 3,000 
Americans, as required under the Status of Forces Agreement. This kind 
of fluidity is troubling as it would further delay an already too long 
schedule for redeployment. While we have an obligation to help 
stabilize the region over the long term, we must not lose sight of the 
fact that our very presence has a destabilizing impact and the vast 
majority of Iraqis support a prompt withdrawal of U.S. troops. I am 
concerned that if the United States does not appear to be moving to 
redeploy consistent with the bilateral agreement negotiated with Iraq, 
there could be a surge in violence against the troops of the United 
States.

Finally, I note that the Bush administration chose to negotiate that 
deal as an executive agreement when its scope clearly exceeds that of 
any previous Executive agreement and extends far beyond the kinds of 
issues addressed in a mere status-of-forces agreement. It should have 
been submitted to the Congress as a treaty and been subjected to the 
requirement of approval by two-thirds of the Senate. The Congress 
always retains the ultimate authority to determine whether to continue 
to fund military operations abroad so it is in the interest of the 
President to seek Senate approval. Our national security is best served 
when the two branches work together to determine our policy on matters 
of such profound importance to the United States. The Congress should 
make clear that, in the future, any such agreements must be submitted 
for ratification.

President Obama's strategy review for Afghanistan and Pakistan 
finally focuses the Government's attention and resources where they are 
most needed. After years of our country being bogged down in Iraq, 
President Obama has brought to the White House an understanding that 
the key to our national security is defeating al-Qaida, and that to do 
so we must refocus on this critical region.

But while the President clearly understands that the greatest threat 
to our Nation resides in Pakistan, I am concerned that his announced 
strategy has the potential to escalate rather than diminish this threat 
without making things better in Afghanistan. According to credible 
polls, the majority of Afghans do not support a surge in U.S. forces 
and a majority in the south even oppose the presence of U.S. troops. 
For years, the Bush administration shortchanged the mission in 
Afghanistan, with disastrous results. But we cannot simply turn back 
the clock. Sending significantly more troops to Afghanistan now could 
end up doing more harm than good--further inflaming civilian resentment 
without significantly contributing to stability in that country.

Furthermore, sending 21,000 additional troops to Afghanistan before 
fully confronting the terrorist safe havens and instability in Pakistan 
could very well make those problems even worse. And don't just take my 
word for it. When I raised this point with Ambassador Holbrooke during 
a recent hearing, he replied:




 [Y]ou're absolutely correct that . . . an additional 


 [number] of American troops, and particularly if they're 


 successful in Helmand and Kandahar could end up creating a 


 pressure in Pakistan which would add to the instability.


By providing additional funds for our troops in Afghanistan, this 
supplemental may actually undermine our national security as increasing 
numbers of the Taliban could seek refuge in Pakistan's border region. 
Already, the Taliban's leadership has safe haven in Quetta, while the 
Pakistani military fights militants in the north. Without a concurrent 
plan for Pakistan, the movement of Taliban across the border could 
further weaken local governance and stability, while a flood of 
refugees from Afghanistan would compound Pakistan's already dire IDP 
problem. And let's not forget, we are talking about instability in a 
country with a nuclear arsenal that according to the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff is being expanded.

The emergence of a new civilian-led government offers the United 
States an opportunity to develop a balanced and sustained relationship 
with Pakistan that includes a long-term counterterrorism partnership. I 
am pleased that this administration, unlike the last, has extended its 
engagement to a broad range of political parties and encouraged the 
development of democracy. I am also pleased that there are efforts to 
significantly increase nonmilitary aid and to impose greater 
accountability on security assistance. After years of a policy that 
neglected Pakistan's civilian institutions and focused on short-sighted 
tactics that were dangerous and self-defeating, this is a refreshing 
step in the right direction. Make no mistake about it, the threat of 
militant extremism has been and continues to be very real in Pakistan, 
but by embracing and relying on a single, unpopular, antidemocratic 
leader we failed to develop a comprehensive counterterrorism sustained 
strategy that transcended individuals. As a result, we must now recover 
from a policy that led Pakistanis to be skeptical about American 
intentions and principles.

While I support efforts to build a sustained relationship with 
Pakistan, I remain concerned that, even as we continue to provide 
support to the Pakistani military, elements of the Pakistani security 
forces remain unhelpful in our efforts to cut off support for the 
Taliban. During a recent hearing before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, Senator McCain asked Admiral Mullen if he still worries 
about the ISI cooperating with the Taliban. Admiral Mullen responded 
that that he did. This bill contains over $1 billion for the Pakistani 
military, and while we must not over generalize or take an all or 
nothing approach, it would be unwise and very dangerous to convey to 
the Pakistani military that it has our unconditional support.

That would be especially dangerous now as recent fighting between 
militants and Pakistani forces has reportedly displaced nearly 1/1/12/ 
million people--the greatest displacement there since 1947. This is 
very troubling, and has potentially grave strategic implications for 
U.S. national security. As General Petraeus has said, ''We cannot kill 
our way to victory.'' As we continue to provide assistance to 
Pakistan's military, we must ensure they--and we--have the support of 
the Pakistani people. No amount of civilian aid after the fact can make 
up for military operations that are not tailored to protect the 
civilian population in the first place.

We must also recognize that, while the Pakistani security forces are 
undertaking operations in the Swat Valley, there are individuals in 
Baluchistan who also present a significant threat to our troops in 
Afghanistan. When I asked Ambassador Holbrooke if he knew whether the 
Pakistani Government was doing everything it could to capture Taliban 
leaders in Baluchistan, he replied that he did not know and that while 
they have ''captured . . . killed and eliminated over the years a good 
number of the leaders of the Taliban and al-Qaida [while] others have 
been under less pressure.'' I encourage the Obama administration to 
engage in tough negotiations with the Pakistani Government on this 
issue and to prepare contingency plans in the event that we continue to 
see members of the security services supporting militants.

We must continue to ensure al-Qaida and the Taliban are the key 
targets in Pakistan, but strategic success will also depend in part on 
the ability of the Pakistani military to demonstrate they are pursuing 
a targeted approach that seeks to protect the civilian population. For 
example, we should work to ensure that the Pakistani Government has 
taken steps to detain known militant leaders and is providing 
assistance to those who have been displaced by the ongoing violence. On 
the civilian side, working to help reform and strengthen vital 
institutions, including


the judiciary and education and health care systems, is essential. We 
must also work to reform the police, whose permanent presence in the 
community is less likely to engender hostility than the military's. In 
short, we must focus on helping to build the civilian institutions that 
are part of a responsive, accountable government needed to ensure al-
Qaida and militant extremists do not find support among the Pakistani 
people.

Lastly, I would like to address an issue that has received much 
attention. A number of my colleagues have spoken on the floor in 
opposition to the President's commitment to close the detention 
facility in Guantanamo bay. I believe it is time for Guantanamo to be 
closed. Senator McCain, Senator Graham, Colin Powell and James Baker 
share this view. The facility has become a rallying cry and recruiting 
tool for al-Qaida. It contributes to extremism, anti-American sentiment 
and undermines our ability to build the international support we need 
to defeat al-Qaida.

Secretary Gates has testified that ''the announcement of the decision 
to close Guantanamo has been an important strategic communications 
victory for the United States.'' The Director of National Intelligence, 
Admiral Blair, has stated that:




 The detention center at Guantanamo has become a damaging 


 symbol to the world and that it must be closed. It is a 


 rallying cry for terrorist recruitment and harmful to our 


 national security, so closing it is important for our 


 national security.


And, former Navy General Counsel Alberto Mora testified to the Senate 
Armed Services Committee in June 2008 that




 There are serving U.S. flag-rank officers who maintain that 


 the first and second identifiable causes of U.S. combat 


 deaths in Iraq--as judged by their effectiveness in 


 recruiting insurgent fighters into combat--are, respectively 


 the symbols of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.


There are many unresolved questions about the process we will use to 
prosecute these detainees. We need to resolve those tough questions, 
but we should not use them as an excuse to avoid taking a step that is 
so important to our national security.