# EXPRESSING APPRECIATION OF CANADIAN FRIENDSHIP AND COOPERATION
## `646d7cf7056c86cd53ecf9949387063c`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
legislation, and I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Let me begin by thanking the gentleman from Michigan, Bart Stupak, 
for introducing this important resolution and for his steadfast 
leadership in support of a strong U.S.-Canada relationship.

H. Res. 519 congratulates the Canadian people and their government on 
Canada Day, the anniversary of the establishment of the union of the 
British North American provinces in a federation called Canada. It also 
expresses the appreciation of both the people and the Government of the 
United States for the longstanding cooperation and shared history with 
their Canadian counterparts. This provides an important opportunity for 
all Americans to recognize the common ideals and beliefs that unite our 
two nations economically, socially and politically.

Canada's sacrifices in Afghanistan are only the latest examples of 
the strong bond between our two nations. Since their initial deployment 
in 2002, Canadian troops have worked tirelessly to maintain security 
and to rebuild in Afghanistan, particularly in Kandahar province.

Canada has also been a leader in the global effort to promote a 
solution to worldwide carbon reduction, an issue which affects us all 
and which draws us even closer together as nations that share a common 
border. Canada's plan to reduce carbon emissions and their work through 
the United Nations' Framework Convention On Climate Change has been a 
significant step in the right direction.

The recent negotiations that took place between Canada and the United 
States concerning the water quality in the Great Lakes region further 
solidifies the bond between us as we must work collectively to improve 
the condition of that shared natural resource.

My district in south Florida benefits from a strong U.S.-Canadian 
relationship. Canada is Florida's top trading partner, and it is 
Florida's number one source of inbound tourism. According to a recent 
Canadian Government study, the Canada-Florida relationship is 
responsible for 432,000 direct and indirect jobs in Florida, 
representing 5.4 percent of all of Florida's employment.

This resolution advances the continued partnership that the United 
States hopes to maintain with the Canadian people and with their 
government. I would like to extend my personal congratulations and 
gratitude to the Canadian people, and I would urge all of my colleagues 
to do the same by supporting H. Res. 519.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.