---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6475843f4f778a653f13c776bb3ecaa4`
`Mr. BIDEN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, I was interested in the last exchange. 
Let me just say that one of my heroes is the Senator from Arizona. I 
mean this sincerely. We use the phrase around here ''my friend.'' I 
consider him my friend. I believe if neither he nor I were Senators and 
I picked up a phone and


called him and said: I need you to show up at such-and-such a place, I 
can't tell you why, he would be there. I do not pretend to be his best 
friend in the world, but I admire him.

But I think I should point out a couple of things. No. 1, the Senator 
from California is not poll-driven. As I remember it, when the whole of 
the country was clamoring to go to war, the Senator from California 
stood up and voted against going to war. If I am not mistaken, it was 
viewed as political suicide at that time. I know the Senator from 
California, and I know she needs no defense, but I know her. If I know 
anybody who is not poll-driven, it is the Senator from California, No. 
1.

No. 2, Henry Kissinger, Lee Hamilton, and Baker--all these people 
mentioned--they all say get out. None of them think the policy of this 
President makes any sense. So let's start off where they are. Henry 
Kissinger has endorsed the Biden plan and the Boxer plan and all the 
rest who have done it. They need a political solution.

I remind everybody that the Baker-Hamilton report set a date of March 
2008 as a goal to get the majority of our troops out, if not all of 
them out. They talked about drawing down our troops. The President 
rejected that policy.

I don't know a serious person--there probably are--I don't know of 
any in the international community, I don't know of anybody in the 
foreign policy establishment in the United States of America, from 
Colin Powell, a former Secretary of State, to former Secretaries of 
State and Secretaries of Defense in Republican administrations, who 
thinks this policy makes any sense.

Madam President, I say to my colleagues, to quote Gravel--I was here 
in 1972 while my friend John McCain, God love him, was in a prisoner-
of-war camp. I was a 29-year-old Senator. Nobody agreed with Gravel. 
Give me a break. Quoting Gravel as the voice of the left--he was the 
voice of his voice. God love him, as my mother would say, and he still 
is the voice of his voice. Who agrees with Gravel? Maybe somebody does. 
But to quote him as if it was the Democratic position on Cambodia--go 
count the votes, how many votes Gravel got. That is not representative 
of even the left. This is a man who, God love him, nominated himself 
for Vice President. Come on. Come on.

And who is calling for a precipitous withdrawal? If I am not 
mistaken, the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee is 
not voting for a precipitous withdrawal. This is what we call, in the 
law business, which I have been practicing 34 years, a red herring.

The question is, Do we continue to send our kids into the middle of a 
meat grinder based on a policy that is fundamentally flawed? I don't 
think there are a dozen Republicans on that side of the aisle who agree 
with the President's strategy, nor do I believe, if the President had 
followed the recommendation of the Senator from Delaware and then the 
Senator from Arizona back before there was a civil war to put enough 
troops in to solidify the situation on the ground, we might not be 
here. The rationale he offered and I offered, if I am not mistaken, 
was: Mr. President, you don't have a strategy. Secretary of Defense, 
these are not a bunch of dead-enders, they are not a bunch of thugs. 
They are thugs, but you have a big problem, Mr. President.

If I am not mistaken, I heard the Senator from Arizona make those 
speeches 4 years ago. I heard him, along with me, call for more troops 
back then in order to get out sooner. We predicted there would be a 
civil war if we didn't gain control. Surprise, surprise, surprise. We 
have a civil war.

Look, I understand the political dilemmas in which we find ourselves: 
We have a President of our own party we have a problem with. I have 
been there. It never kept me from speaking up. If my colleagues recall, 
my friend from California, who is presiding, remembers, to use the 
trite expression, I beat President Clinton up and about the head, as 
they say in the neighborhood where I come from, to use force in Bosnia, 
to end a genocide. The President didn't agree with me. I was told: Calm 
down, don't put him in that spot. I am accustomed to taking on 
Presidents in my own party, and I know it is hard. It is hard. But I 
tell you what, name me any one of the people who were quoted here who 
thinks the policy we are pursuing now makes any sense.

Ever since the Democrats took control of the Congress back in 
January, we have been working to build pressure on the administration 
and, quite bluntly, on our Republican colleagues to change course in 
Iraq because I have reached a point where I think the President is 
impervious to information. There is a great expression, I believe it 
was Oliver Wendell Holmes referring to prejudice--and the President is 
not prejudiced, but I make the point. He said prejudice is like the 
pupil of the eye: the more light you shine upon it, the more tightly it 
closes. This administration is like the pupil of the eye: the more hard 
facts you give them to prove their policy is a failure, the tighter it 
closes and the less inclined to change they are. More and more 
Republicans--more and more Republicans--have stopped backing the 
President and started looking for ways to work with us to bring our 
soldiers home in a responsible way so we don't merely trade a dictator 
for chaos.


Let me say something I am going to be reminded of, I am sure, again 
and again and again. Having been here for 34 years, I know you should 
not make statements I am about to make lightly, but I am reminded of it 
by the comments made about Cambodia. On this, we have a sell-by date. 
You know when you buy milk, it says sell by a certain date or it turns 
sour? There is a sell-by date here, folks, for us to change policy. 
Because if we do not change policy in a radical way in this calendar 
year, I believe we will be left with one of two alternatives.

We have a chance now to change policy and maybe salvage--maybe 
salvage--a circumstance in Iraq, whereas we gradually leave, and we 
will not have traded a dictator for chaos and the possibility of a 
regional war. That is alternative one. I think that alternative two is 
Saigon revisited. We will be lifting American personnel off the roofs 
of buildings in the green zone if we do not change policy and pretty 
drastically.

There is not a single person in here that knows anything about the 
military who can tell me they think there is any possibility of us 
sustaining 160,000 forces in Iraq this time next year. What my friend 
from Arizona did not say--and he knows a great deal about this--is that 
leading generals in the military say straightforward that we are 
breaking--let me emphasize that--breaking the U.S. military--breaking 
the U.S. military. Let me put it another way. We have more 
professionally trained academy graduates, such as my friend from 
Arizona, leaving the military after 5 years than we have had any time 
in the last 30-plus years. The cream of the crop are being broken by 
this failed--this failed policy in Iraq.

What is worse is not that it is a failed policy, but it is impervious 
to recommendations made by the most informed people in both political 
parties inside and outside Government. What did the President do with 
the Baker-Hamilton Commission? Picked it up, gave it real lip service, 
and flipped it on the shelf. Who was on that commission? Two former 
Secretaries of State, who were Republicans; the present Secretary of 
Defense; some of the leading conservative voices in America on military 
matters; along with mainstream Democratic leaders. What did they do? 
What did they do? They blew it off. Now they are revisiting it. Now 
press reports are that maybe we have to have a plan B.

Look, it matters profoundly how we end this war. It matters to our 
soldiers, it matters to the Iraqis, and it matters to America's future 
security. As I said before, I don't want my son, a captain in the Army, 
going to Iraq, but he will go, if called. But I also don't want my 
grandson going. How we leave will determine whether my grandson goes. 
So far this President has offered absolutely no political solution to 
Iraq. None.

What does he say? He says surge troops. Why? To give the Iraqis 
breathing room. Why? So the Iraqis will get together and form a unity 
government that can be trusted by all the Iraqi people to govern the 
nation, allowing us to leave.

Not in the lifetime of anyone on this floor, including these talented 
young pages, will there be a unity government in Baghdad that has the 
confidence of all the Iraqi people, able to


maintain security, provide opportunity, and have a stable unity 
government. It will not happen.

I had a proposal over a year ago--and I have been roundly criticized 
for it, except for the Presiding Officer and a few others--wherein I 
laid out--and not because I am so smart; I happen to be chairman of the 
Foreign Relations Committee because I have lasted longer than others--
but I laid out a comprehensive proposal. What does everybody say in 
this body? Everybody says, in and out of Government, that there is no 
military solution to Iraq, only a political solution. Name me a single 
person who has offered a political solution, except the Senator from 
California, myself, and the Senator from Kansas, Mr. Brownback. Name me 
anyone. What is the political solution? What is the political solution 
my friend is offering? What is it?

The political solution is that somehow the Iraqis will have an 
epiphany--and I know Muslims don't have epiphanies; that is a Christian 
thing--they will have an epiphany and all of a sudden they are going to 
get together, realizing what is at stake, and form this unity 
government that can deliver.

I met with al-Maliki last year. I have been to Iraq and Afghanistan 
eight times. I am heading over there again shortly. I sat with al-
Maliki, and when I came back, the President asked my views. He was kind 
enough to ask what I thought. I said, I don't think al-Maliki has it in 
his bone marrow, in his heart or his brain to desire to reconcile with 
the Sunnis. Even if he did, he doesn't have the capacity.

What have we rested everything on here? We are about to have a report 
that was going to be filed this June 15, pointing out the Iraqis 
haven't met a single benchmark. Isn't that strange? What did we do? 
Every opportunity we had to help them along, we walked away from. I 
remember after they voted on their Constitution. I was there for the 
official vote, I stuck my finger in the ink that does not come off your 
finger. I went to the polling places. The Iraqis voted overwhelmingly 
for a constitution. Know what it says? I wish somebody would read it 
once in a while. It says, I believe it is article 1, we are a 
decentralized federal system. Then in articles 15, 16, 17, and 18, if I 
am not mistaken--this is from memory--it lays out how any 1 of the 18 
governates, political subdivisions, basically, in Iraq can become a 
region, vote for their own constitution, and have their own local 
security. It also implies there will be an allocation of the oil 
resources through a constitutional amendment.

I remember immediately after that vote, coming back from my third or 
fourth trip, then meeting with the administration and saying: What are 
you going to do? And being told: Oh, it is too premature to push any of 
that. I said: Whoa, let me get this straight. How are you going to 
bring these folks together unless you help them implement the 
Constitution? No, no, too tough now--too tough.

This administration has not made, when given a choice, a single 
correct decision on Iraq. Hear me. That is a bold statement. I cannot 
think of a single decision when they have been faced with a choice that 
they have made the right choice. I cannot think of one. Way back, when 
the President asked me why I was calling for Rumsfeld's resignation, 
and the Vice President was in the room, in the Oval Office, I said: 
With all due respect, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, if, Mr. Vice 
President, you were not a constitutional officer, I would call for your 
resignation too. He looked at me and said: Why? I said: Because, Mr. 
President, name me one piece of advice either Rumsfeld or Cheney have 
given you in Iraq that has turned out to be right. Name me one. One. 
One. It is not about retribution, Mr. President, it is about 
competence. If all the advice you have been given is bad, don't you 
think it is a good idea to look for new advice--new advisers?


Look, I believe there is a comprehensive strategy to end this war 
responsibly and it has three parts. First, is a roadmap to bring most 
of our troops out and home by early next year. Two, is a detailed plan 
for what we leave behind, a political solution. Three, is the 
commitment that so long as there is a single American--a single 
American soldier--in Iraq, we should do everything in our power to 
protect them.

Let me go through this very briefly. First, bringing our troops home. 
Instead of escalating the war with no end in sight, we have to start to 
bring our troops home now and withdraw most by next year. This was the 
Baker-Hamilton recommendation.