---
---

# None
## `647a4396a267c82b9d654b519cb3f9a5`
`Mr. KANJORSKI — 1 December 2009`

---


Mr. KANJORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today to ask you and my esteemed 
colleagues in the House of Representatives to pay tribute to Mr. Albert 
Caswell, of Street, Maryland, who is employed as a U.S. Capitol tour 
guide, and SSG Earl Granville, of Scranton, Pennsylvania, a member of 
the U.S. Army 109th Field Artillery, Pennsylvania National Guard, who 
was severely wounded during deployment in Afghanistan.

Mr. Caswell met Sergeant Granville while doing volunteer work at 
Walter Reed Army Hospital. Mr. Caswell was deeply impressed with 
Sergeant Granville's devotion to military duty and subsequently wrote a 
poem to express his appreciation for the sacrifices citizens like 
Sergeant Granville make in the defense of our Nation and the freedoms 
we hold dear.

Madam Speaker, please join me in congratulating Mr. Caswell and 
Sergeant Granville. As a soldier, Sergeant Granville represents our 
Nation's finest and most courageous citizens, willing to venture into 
harm's way to protect this nation and ensure that our liberties survive 
and flourish. And Mr. Caswell represents the gratitude that we all 
share for our men and women in uniform. May we all be inspired by these 
two fine Americans.

The poem that Mr. Caswell wrote follows:

 Standing Guard--In Honor of SSG Earl Granville, an American Hero, the 
 Pennsylvania National Guard, the United States Army, 28th ID-1/109th/















INF-103rdAR












 (By Albert Carey Caswell)



 Standing Guard! Standing Strong!


 Standing Hard! Standing long!


 On Guard!


 A band of brothers another world away, such burdens bear . . 





 .


 As into the face of death, they so stare!


 As they Stand Guard!


 Stand Strong!


 As the word Hero to them so belongs . . .


 And if ever I have a son, I but pray he could be like this 





 fine one . . .


 Who will stand?


 And who will fall?


 And who will but give their all?


 Who will give up their fine lives, and strong arms and legs 





 so freedom can thrive?


 For that's only how freedom is made!


 By only all those who stay, And Stand Guard!


 For as long as our nation has been . . .


 There have always been, such splendid men . . .


 Men, who must Stand Guard!


 Men of honor, with hearts of courage full . . . of steel over 





 evil rule . . .


 Men such as Earl Granville, from that great state of 





 Pennsylvania so true . . .


 Men of such faith, who death so view . . .


 Who for all of us go off to war . . .


 But, for this our Country Tis of Thee . . . such burdens 





 bore!


 All for our freedom, to insure . . .


 As They Stand Guard . . .


 With but their fine hearts of courage, pure!


 Standing strong, all the more . . .


 Who but with only their most heroic hearts . . .


 Right all of those wrongs, as is their part!


 And all of the ones, who come back home . . .


 Without arms and legs, as to them such beautiful hearts 





 belong . . .


 As we Witness their most heroic songs.


 Teaching us all how faith stands strong.


 As up from the ashes they do rise . . .


 With but tears of valor all in their eyes . . .


 As but the full measure of the word hero comprised . . .


 Standing Strong, while blessing all our lives . . .


 As they reach us . . . as they teach us . . .


 As to great heights their heart's beseech us . . .


 As on this day Earl, you so teach us . . .


 Even the Angels up in heaven, Wipe the tears from their eyes 





 . . .


 For in life, what do we so stand for?


 And for what, will we so rise?


 To face death, when all upon us so much relies . . .


 While, Standing Guard all in time . . .


 So but our children might but find a better life realized . . 





 .


 All so they will not have to fight. . . .


 All so that they might sleep peacefully this night . . .


 Because, somewhere out there . . .
