# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `647f0a7026043400fe0d3030907a151d`
`Mr. BERRY — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. BERRY. I thank the gentleman from California.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage everyone to keep in your hearts and minds, 
certainly in your prayers, our men and women in uniform and their 
families, especially those on the battlefield today; and to reach out 
to them and their families, and let them know that you understand and 
appreciate the sacrifice and commitment that they make out of the 
goodness of their heart.

Our Kansans have done their part to protect our freedom, contributing 
heavily to the war efforts since the conflict began. Our State alone 
has roughly 1,500 soldiers currently overseas, we have deployed 15,000 
since September 11, 2001; 45 of our Kansans have paid the ultimate 
price, and 350 more have been seriously wounded. Congress cannot forget 
the sacrifice of these men and women. We will continue to support our 
Nation's servicemembers and provide them with every resource that they 
need.

After listening to President Bush's recent proposal to escalate troop 
levels in Iraq, I am even more concerned with his failure to recognize 
the severity of this conflict and what it really means.

Recent short-term troop escalation proposals in Iraq have not stopped 
the violence from getting worse. President Bush has said nothing to 
convince me, or almost no one else, that his latest strategy will 
result in success.

Our military forces deserve a policy commensurate with the sacrifices 
that they have been asked to make and have made. Regrettably, the 
President has not provided that policy or plan. Our leaders need to 
think long term and make strong commitments to diplomacy with all of 
the other countries in the region and the world community. Our 
credibility as a Nation must be restored.

As the Iraq Study Group concluded, this is an international conflict 
that cannot be solved by U.S. military strategies alone. Furthermore, 
President Bush's proposals will create additional strain on our 
military readiness, as well as our military personnel and their 
families.

There is already a shortage of military equipment that jeopardizes 
the safety of our men and women in uniform. We cannot and should not 
send more troops overseas without providing the equipment and support 
they


need to safely and effectively accomplish the mission that is charged 
to them.

I oppose this escalation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
God bless the men and women in uniform.