---
---

# None
## `648e089abc3003690df074072295c9d8`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. I appreciate the gentleman's comments and your 
perspective on it. It is chilling. Slow bleed is chilling, because it 
is not just slow bleed for our allies. It is slow bleed for our troops 
and our military. You talk about the consequences of failure. This is a 
list of the consequences of failure. This doesn't come from the 
national Republican Party or the House Republican Caucus. This comes 
from the National Intelligence Estimate.

What it says clearly crystallizes what would happen if the majority 
party here enacts the slow bleed policy that is promoted by their 
leadership. It says: ''Coalition capabilities, including force levels, 
resources and operations, remain an essential stabilizing element in 
Iraq. If we fail in Iraq, the Iraqi security forces would be subject to 
sectarian control, interference by neighboring countries in open 
conflict,'' which means Iran and others would pour into Iraq, ''massive 
civilian casualties and population displacement.''

That is what the colonel was talking about earlier happened after the 
conflict in Vietnam.

''Al Qaeda in Iraq would plan increased attacks inside and outside of 
Iraq and spiraling violence and political disarray, including Kurdish 
attempts at autonomy in Kirkuk.''

But the spiraling violence is again the important thing to 
concentrate on, because that is not our conference, that is not our 
caucus saying that. That is the National Intelligence.

Colonel, if you would like to comment and make a few words, then I 
know we have Congressman Davis here.