# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `64909d0a15243cc7c33463233cb76830`
`Mr. DODD â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, let me say to both my colleague from 
Wisconsin and my colleague from Arizona, I was the floor manager of the 
McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform legislation. I feel as though, 
in a sense here, I am assuming the role again as the manager between 
the McCain and Feingold camps on this question. They were two people 
who joined forces together on a critical issue before our country, and 
I was honored and pleased to manage the legislation which was named for 
them.

We find ourselves here again on a different subject matter and 
assuming different roles. I am not managing the issue, but I would be 
remiss if I didn't also express my deep respect for my colleague, the 
Senator from Wisconsin, for his leadership and my affection and respect 
for my colleague from Arizona, with whom I have worked on a number of 
issues over the years.

I rise in support of the Feingold-Reid amendment. I believe it is a 
very important amendment. This may be the critical vote, candidly, on 
whether we are going to persist over the coming months, until January 
2009, in a policy that has failed--or whether we can actually make a 
difference here, and change the direction of this policy, and give our 
Nation a sense of new hope, new optimism, and give those who have 
served so valiantly an opportunity to come home or to engage in an area 
where their leadership is needed. This is the moment. This may be the 
one opportunity we have between now and 2009 to make a difference on 
this issue. This is no small proposal; this is a serious one.

For those who would like to wish it were a little bit this way or 
that way, that is no reason to be against it. Senator Feingold, once 
again, has offered us an opportunity here to make a difference in this 
policy. This may be the one real opportunity we get to do that. My hope 
is that in the next hour and a half, those who are listening to this 
debate, thinking about this, will understand the moment before us, and 
take advantage of this opportunity, and make a decision that could 
affect the future of our country in this century.

Out of 2 full days General Petraeus spent testifying before Congress, 
I think the most telling exchange took only four lines. There were 
hearings that went on in the House of Representatives. We had hearings 
in the Foreign Relations Committee and hearings in the Armed Services 
Committee. There were very good questions raised by members of both 
parties, but I commend my colleague from Virginia, Senator John Warner, 
the former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the ranking member 
today, for his simple question. We have often seen this happen in 
history. It is one simple sentence, one simple question--not the 
complicated, multiphrase question, which gets into all the nuances and 
details of an issue--that will shed the most light on where we stand.

Senator McCain said something a minute ago with which I totally 
agree, and Senator Feingold reiterated it. The primary purpose, the 
fundamental issue before this body, before every Member here and 
certainly before the President of the United States, is the issue of 
the safety and security of our country. That is our paramount 
responsibility above all else--to keep our country safe and secure. So 
the four-line question that was raised to General Petraeus in his 
testimony on September 11 was the most important question, in many 
ways, that was asked of him.




 Senator Warner: Do you feel that [the Iraq war] is making 


 America safer?



 General Petraeus: I believe that this is indeed the best 


 course of action to achieve our objectives in Iraq.



 Senator Warner: Does it make America safer?



 General Petraeus: I don't know, actually.


''I don't know, actually.'' It could be the epitaph of this war. And 
to the families of the 3,791 men and women who lost their lives in 
Iraq, it must be cold comfort indeed that the commanding general has 
not even convinced himself that this war serves our security. But in 
another sense, General Petraeus gave precisely the right answer. He has 
no opinion because it is his job to have none.

His job is to execute a mission--work that he has done with great 
fortitude and intellect. But the job of deciding whether the mission 
serves our interests--deciding what our interests are, deciding what 
the mission itself will be--that is a task for the general's 
superiors--that is, the President of the United States, this body and 
the other, and the American people, who are our superiors.

This amendment is our best attempt--maybe the only attempt--to give 
voice to their shared conclusion: that our current course has failed to 
make Iraq safer, has failed to make America safer, and so must change 
dramatically. The amendment would accomplish two critical things.

One: Redeploy combat forces from Iraq.

Two: Focus those forces remaining on counterterrorism, training Iraqi 
forces, and force protection for U.S. personnel and infrastructure.

I will not rehearse for you the administration's ever-shifting 
justifications and stalling and stonewalling that have brought us, with 
a battered military and an equally battered reputation, to this sad 
point. It is enough to say that they have been given every chance. For 
months and months, they denied that there was a civil war in Iraq. 
Then, when denial became impossible, and when the bipartisan Iraq Study 
Group report gave them a unique chance to change course, they scrapped 
the report and gambled on a surge.

Then we were told that, despite the administration's catastrophic 
policy failures, we should take their word for it--that we couldn't 
judge this new tactic's success until American forces had ''surged'' to 
their maximum levels. And that would take up 6 months.

Once the surge was at full force, we were told yet again that the 
time wasn't right, that we had to withhold judgment again and wait 
until General Petraeus's report. And last week, General Petraus came 
before Congress and told us--to wait some more.

For what?

Early this month, Comptroller General David Walker testified that 
''the primary point of the surge was to improve security . . . in order 
to provide political breathing room'' for the Iraqi Government.

Seven hundred American service men and women sacrificed their lives 
for that breathing room, and nearly 4,400 took wounds for it. What has 
the Iraqi Government done with it? It failed to meet its own political 
benchmarks, failed to enact oil legislation, sustained a mass 
resignation of Sunni politicians, leaving more than half of its cabinet 
seats vacant, and enjoyed a month-long vacation.

At the height of the surge, a BBC poll reported that 60 percent of 
Iraqis--and 93 percent of Sunnis--think it is justified to kill 
American troops. It is no surprise that Walker concluded that ''as of 
this point in time, [the surge] has not achieved its desired outcome.''

That is what the surge has gotten us. What has it gotten Iraqis? At 
the very best, a reduction in violence to still-catastrophic early-2006 
levels. And even so, the statistics we saw last week were extremely 
subject--as are all statistics--to the biases of those compiling and 
categorizing them. According to the Washington Post, ''Intelligence 
analysts . . . are puzzled over how the military designated attacks as 
combat, sectarian, or criminal''--difficult categorizations that, I 
might add, make all the difference to selling the surge as success, or 
recognizing it as a failure.

Comptroller General Walker added that ''there are several different 
sources in the administration on violence, and those sources do not 
agree.'' One intelligence official put it succinctly: ''Depending on 
which numbers you pick, you get a different outcome.'' In that context, 
it is significant that the military cannot track, and does not track, 
Shiite-on-Shiite and Sunni-on-Sunni violence. And in Baghdad alone, 
according to the Iraqi Red Crescent, ''almost a million people . . .


have fled their homes in search of security, shelter, water, 
electricity, functioning schools or jobs to support their families.''

And those are the results with the surge--a surge that, given the 
exhausted state of our military, cannot physically be sustained. The 
administration's supporters need to explain to us: Without the surge, 
what could possibly happen, that has not taken place already, to bring 
political reconciliation to Iraq?

What more could possibly happen to quell the violence between and 
among Iraq's Sunnis and Shiites? What new development could possibly 
change the face of this war? We all know the honest answers to those 
questions.

And so the choice we have today is not, as some would have it, 
between victory and defeat. That has never been the issue. We can 
choose indefinite war for invisible gains; or we can choose to cut our 
losses here and recognize that there is a better opportunity with a 
different course of action. I can't remember a more painful choice in 
all my years in this body. But to govern is to make just such painful 
choices, without fear or flinching. And I believe the American people 
are far ahead of us on this issue--they've made their choice. We must 
make ours as their Representatives.

This amendment seeks to put that choice into action and to stop 
Iraq's downward spiral. First, it sets firm and enforceable timelines 
for the phased redeployment of combat troops out of Iraq.

The redeployed forces would be comprised of a majority of the 
deployed Army Brigade Combat Teams and the Marine Expeditionary Force 
currently in theater. Some may claim that such a redeployment is 
logistically impossible within the timeframes laid out in the 
amendment. But I would remind them that in the ramp-up to the first 
gulf war, the Department of Defense coordinated the movement of over 
500,000 troops, and 10 million tons of cargo and fuel in the same 
timeframe that this amendment grants to redeploy a force one-fifth the 
size.

In January of 1991--1 month alone--the Transportation Command moved 
132,000 troops and 910,000 tons of equipment. So it is clear that we 
have the wherewithal to end this war, if Congress could find the will. 
At the same time, we cannot simply wish the conflict away. We do have 
enemies in Iraq, enemies equally committed to killing Americans and 
sowing sectarian violence. That is why this amendment carves out 
exceptions to the general redeployment.

Using the name of al-Qaida is a means to frighten Americans into 
buying a far broader agenda of continuous occupation. It's no 
coincidence that, in President Bush's televised remarks on Iraq last 
week, the word ''al-Qaida'' crossed his lips some 12 times in a speech 
roughly 15 minutes long.

The amendment makes three noncombat exceptions: first, conducting 
counterterrorism operations; second, training and Iraqi forces; and 
third, protecting U.S. personnel and infrastructure.

It is beyond clear that continuing our course in Iraq harms America 
in the broader fight against terrorism. In an article in the Financial 
Times, Gideon Rachman summarized the key ways the war in Iraq has 
actually strengthened terrorism: by diverting resources from fighting 
al-Qaida in Afghanistan; by turning Iraq into a failed state and 
terrorist-incubator; by delivering al-Qaida a potent recruiting tool; 
and by harming America's standing with its traditional allies, whose 
cooperation is necessary to foil terrorists. All four reasons are 
clearly being enhanced because of our continued military presence in 
Iraq.

On the other side of the coin, tightly focusing our Iraq mission 
actually aids our security in the long run.

That certainly is the case when you consider the quote from a recent 
IPS article on CENTCOM's commander, ADM William Fallon--General 
Petraeus's superior, I might add. Admiral Fallon ''believed the United 
States should be withdrawing troops from Iraq urgently, largely because 
he saw greater dangers elsewhere in the region.'' With al-Qaida 
reconstituting itself on the Pakistan-Afghan border, I could not agree 
more.

With redeployment complete, I want our military to begin to regather 
its strength. After a one-time redeployment cost estimated by the 
Congressional Budget Office at $7 billion, which is about equal to this 
war's cost every month, our Armed Forces will have the resources needed 
to prepare for future challenges.

Those resources are sorely needed. Long, arduous deployments are not 
only testing the morale of our troops and families, they are taxing 
critical stocks of aircraft, vehicles, and other equipment. Two-thirds 
of the U.S. Army--two-thirds of the U.S. Army--is unable to report for 
combat duty.

According to the National Guard Bureau Chief, LTG Steven Blum, ''88 
percent''--his words, not mine--''88 percent of the Army National Guard 
forces that are back here in the United States are very poorly equipped 
today.''

That shortage affects National Guard units in every State, and every 
one of our colleagues knows it. It is the picture of a military that 
has been ground into the dirt, unit by unit, machine by machine, 
soldier by soldier.

Do the President's supporters think this can go on forever? Will they 
come to this floor and claim we are invulnerable? If General Petraeus 
does not know, actually, whether this war is making us safer, let's ask 
another question: Is this war endangering our security?

Our military's top generals and admirals know the answer to that 
question. They have submitted to Congress a list of critical priorities 
that President Bush's budget ignores. As we squander billions of 
dollars every week in Iraq, they are calling out for help to meet our 
military's needs to repair the damage this administration has caused.

Our top generals and admirals know better than anyone how deeply our 
military is hurting. We must meet these obligations to our war-fighters 
because it is, in the end, our obligation to keep safe the people we 
represent.

As I said at the outset, the question from Senator John Warner--the 
simple, one-line question asked of General Petraeus--was the single 
most important question asked during 2 days of hearings: Are we safer? 
The answer, tragically, is no. What a disaster if this war of choice 
ultimately left us unready and unarmed to fight a war we did not 
choose.

Clear data, long experience, and common sense tell us all how to 
answer the question that General Petraeus could not. I do not blame him 
for staying silent. It is his duty, in that moment, to be agnostic. I 
understand that. But it is our duty not to be agnostic. We do not have 
that luxury as Members of the Senate charged with the responsibility of 
deciding whether this conflict goes on.

We cannot remain silent. We cannot beg off the answer to that 
question: Are we safer? Are we more secure? We know what the answer is. 
Now we bear the responsibility to this generation and to history to 
answer the question. It is our duty to choose, a duty to choose at this 
moment, even when there is heartache in either hand. I choose to draw 
the line here because I cannot stand to lose one more life in the name 
of misplaced hope and blind faith.

I call on our colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, not to lose 
this moment. This will be the only moment, I suspect, before January of 
2009 to answer this question. How many more lives will be irreparably 
damaged and lost because we failed to answer the question posed by our 
colleague from Wisconsin, which I am proud to join him in asking today. 
Let us bring this tragic chapter in our history to a close and offer 
new hope to this country, and the Iraqis, and that desperate region.

I yield the floor.