# IRAN: A CLEAR AND PRESENT THREAT
## `649ab57118c28722590268cacb57c6d7`
`Mr. McKEON — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Thank you, Mike. And thank you for holding this Special 
Order.

I think you have done an outstanding job of getting out to the 
American people the problem with cutting our missile defense system at 
a time of war. I have been here a little bit longer than you. I came in 
1992. In 1992, we had 18 Army divisions. We are down to 12 now. 
Actually, in 1998, we were down to 10. We've built it back up in the 
last 10 years. We had 24 fighter wings; we now have 12. We had 546 Navy 
ships; we now have 283. Do you detect a trend?

Historically, we have cut our defenses after a war. We did that after 
World War I, so that when World War II came along, we were training 
with wooden dummy rifles and it took us a


while to get built up into that fight. By the end of the war, we were 
building hundreds of planes a day, but it took a long time to get 
there.

But the world has changed. We're not in a situation now where we can 
build up defenses after the fact. We have to be prepared ahead of time. 
We had a golden opportunity to do that. The President, earlier this 
year in the Democratic Congress, passed an $800 billion supplemental 
that was supposed to help us get out of the financial system that we're 
in. The President called for shovel-ready projects, things that could 
be done immediately to help the economy. Well, just a couple of things.

I also serve on the Education Committee, and we had about $14 billion 
in that supplemental for education, education programs, the Pell 
Grants, which are very important. But to put $12 or $14 billion into 
IDEA and the same amount into Pell Grants--those are long-range things 
that will help in the long run--it showed where his priorities are, 
which it's good to find out where his priorities are. But at the same 
time, out of $800 billion, $300 million went into defense; $300 million 
out of $800 billion. Now, that $300 went to MILCON, which are important 
projects, and we need to build on military bases. Nothing went into 
weapon systems.


When I came to Congress, we were building the B-2 bomber, and it was 
supposed to be 132 planes. That was what was needed for defense of our 
Nation. That was planned out. Everybody bought into it. Everybody 
agreed on it. They ended up building 21. At the same time, we were 
planning a new fighter because we needed it to compete worldwide with 
things that Russia and China were doing, and we were going to build 750 
F-22s. In this last budget that was just passed in the House--hasn't 
finally become law yet. We're still in conference, but they have made a 
decision that now we don't need 750; we can get by with 187.

I don't know what's changed in the world to make it all of a sudden 
much safer to give us 187, that that will now satisfy the need. It's a 
trend that's very disturbing, cutting $1.2 billion out of our ballistic 
missile defense. Historically, as I said, we have cut our defense after 
a war. I don't know that we have ever in our history cut our defense 
during not one, but two wars which we have going right now in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and as you've mentioned, the problems that we see with 
Iran.

Today's announcement that Iran has a covert uranium enrichment 
facility should really come as no surprise. Why develop a covert 
enrichment facility if Tehran claims its program is solely for civilian 
purposes? Why don't they tell the world? Why don't they brag about it 
if that's what they're doing? I think people understand there's a 
reason why they're doing it covertly. This deception shows a clear 
intent by Tehran to hide a growing nuclear weapons capability.

In the unclassified judgments from December 2007 National 
Intelligence Estimate on Iran's nuclear intentions and capabilities, it 
was assessed that ''Iran probably would use covert facilities, rather 
than its declared nuclear sites, for the production of highly enriched 
uranium for a weapon.'' However, the NIE went further to say that ''we 
judge that these efforts were probably halted in response to the fall 
2003 halt, and that these efforts had not been restarted through at 
least mid-2008.''

Well, what I heard this morning in the President's speech is that 
they had been building this plant secretly, covertly, to enrich uranium 
for years. These efforts have been restarted. Today's announcement 
means that previous estimates on when Iran could achieve a nuclear 
weapons breakout are now inaccurate.

This disclosure also highlights just how uncertain our intelligence 
can be. Just a week ago, the administration explained that its primary 
reason, as you said, for scrapping the European missile defense system 
to be located in Poland and the Czech Republic was because the threat 
was now downgraded. In December 2007, our intelligence community judged 
that Iran didn't have a covert uranium enrichment facility. Now, less 
than 2 years later, it does. How, then, could the administration be so 
confident in its assessment that Iran can't develop a long-range 
ballistic missile by 2015, or maybe buy one from somebody?



We need to be skeptical of policy decisions based solely on 
intelligence. Intelligence can be wrong as much as it can be right. We 
have to take into account that it cannot be, even with the best efforts 
of our Intelligence Committee, the sole basis for a decision. I mean, 
you can also look at human nature. You can look at past history. You 
can look at how they reacted in the past. Based on that, how can we 
expect them to react in the future?

We've witnessed Iran successfully use a long-range rocket to launch a 
satellite into space, work closely with the North Koreans, who 
themselves appear to be pursuing ICBMs and continuing to expand their 
nuclear capabilities. What other covert facility programs does Iran 
have under its sleeve?

Apparently, they came up with this information because they found out 
that we had already known about it, so now they're telling the world. 
What else do they have going on that we don't know about or that 
they're not telling us or that we're not finding out about?

It's time for the Obama administration to do something concrete about 
it beyond pinning their hopes on upcoming talks and relying on Russia 
to protect our security interests. This starts with: stronger sanctions 
against Iran right now; robustly funding missile defense so that now we 
have defenses in place before 2018 or 2020, unlike the administration's 
plan; and an Iran containment strategy, working with our allies, which 
will deter Iran and will dissuade allies and friends from 
proliferating.

I want to commend you, Mike, for the job you're doing as ranking 
member on the subcommittee. It's a very important job. I appreciate 
your holding this Special Order and getting this information out to the 
people. The American people have to understand this important issue.

Our defense is our main responsibility. We do a lot of other things 
around here, but the defense of this Nation is our number one 
responsibility. We do a lot of things that we're not obliged to do by 
the Constitution, but this is our responsibility.

I commend you for the job you're doing. Thank you for holding this 
Special Order.