---
---

# CHECKLIST FOR CHANGE
## `649e30a3eb834d3dbacbcccfa835f60e`
`Mrs. McCASKILL â€” 18 June 2008`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, the United States is so lucky to have 
the senior Senator from Maryland in this august body. She is smart and 
feisty, and she is not willing to yield any


ground when she thinks the people she represents are not being treated 
as they should be.

For women in this country, she has been a tremendous beacon of light 
and hope to finally get over some of the barriers that have held women 
back historically. So to the dean of the Senate women, I thank her for 
her leadership as we work on this checklist for change.

One of the things we want to check off the list is fiscal 
accountability. It sounds kind of boring, fiscal accountability. It 
sounds like this is where the numbers drone on and one loses track.

This is a big deal. This administration has driven us into an 
economic ditch. The numbers, frankly, are so big it is hard to believe 
they are real. Federal spending since President Bush took office has 
increased by almost $1 trillion. Let me say that again. Federal 
spending under this President and under the leadership of the 
Republican Party has increased by $1 trillion. Our debt has gone up by 
$3.7 trillion. We now have a debt of $9.3 trillion.

This is change that is not just important, it is urgent. We must be 
fiscally accountable for taxpayer money. It sounds nice, right? It is a 
moral imperative for our kids. It is the right thing to do for the 
generation that comes behind us, for our children and grandchildren. We 
are presenting them with a train wreck of unprecedented proportion if 
we don't get our fiscal house in order.

So how do we do that? The Checklist for Change is all about being 
tough and accountable with taxpayer money. The way you do that is: 
First, how do you spend it? Do you give out contracts based on whom you 
know? This administration has. Is it about cronyism? Too often it has 
been. Is it about no competition? Unfortunately, yes. Is it about cost-
plus contracts? As a former auditor, I will tell you, cost-plus 
contracts have no place in Government. Cost-plus means, hey, you can 
charge the Government whatever you want, and then you get to make money 
on top of that.

Believe it or not, that is the kind of contracting that ruled the day 
in Iraq. As we were faced with a war that we did not have enough men 
and women to fight, we had to contract out such as our country has 
never contracted out in a time of war. What happened? We lost--and I am 
being conservative now because auditors are conservative by nature--
literally, over $150 billion that went up in smoke to waste, fraud, and 
abuse.

War profiteering. There has been an orgy of war profiteering during 
this conflict in Iraq. If we focused on the Department of Defense and 
the way they contract, we could realize enough savings so every young 
person in America could have help going to college, so every young 
child in America could have preschool--if we paid attention to the way 
we do contracting in the Department of Defense.

I will tell you, today is a good day. I wish to say to my colleagues, 
today is a good day because today a decision was rendered that shows we 
can get it right if we force companies to compete and we enforce the 
provisions of those contracts.

A major, expensive contract was the tanker deal at the Department of 
Defense. There was a competition--good news. A company was awarded the 
contract--fine. There were problems. So what happened? The losing 
company went to GAO, under our process of procedures, and said: 
Auditors, take a look at this. You tell us whether this contract was 
done fairly.

The good news is, GAO, as it always does, did its work 
professionally, and they announced their decision today and said Boeing 
was, in fact, treated unfairly in the tanker deal, that Boeing did not 
get a fair shake under that competitive contract, and that, in fact, 
the Air Force must change its decision as it relates to Boeing and the 
tanker deal.

Do I think that is important? Yes. But why is it important? It is 
important because what we have said from the beginning is compete these 
contracts. Do it fairly. Respect taxpayer money. Get a bargain. That is 
what women in America relate to because we are all about getting a 
bargain for our families. We need to treat taxpayer money the same way.

I am proud to be part of the Checklist for Change. I am proud to be 
emphasizing fiscal accountability.

I yield the floor.