---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `64a2189bccac89f4ba6817ae427dad0a`
`Mr. McHUGH — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. McHUGH. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very roughly, you owe me a few.

Madam Speaker, listening to this debate tonight, it becomes obvious 
that kind of like life itself, those of us in Congress have moments of 
high drama and great importance, and by any measure, the date this 
evening and tomorrow and the days that follow and, most importantly, 
the vote that will attend it, is just such a moment.

I would observe, Madam Speaker, in the now nearly 231 years that this 
great Union has endured, this House has encountered few sessions 
demanding greater honesty, greater selflessness, and greater wisdom 
than that of occasions of war. And as I said, this is such a time.

But this debate really does stand alone. It is unique over the more 
than two centuries and three decades of our history, because from my 
study at no time in this Nation's history has the Congress considered 
the matter before us this week. The question of shall we resolve, in a 
nonbinding resolution, that this House disagree with a mission, duly 
designated by the constitutional authority vested in the President, as 
Commander in Chief, in the conduct of the war, that this same Congress, 
in an earlier session has, in fact, expressly endorsed.

I have listened today with great interest. I have enormous respect 
for all Members on both sides of the aisle. But I have heard about how 
wherever they are, many Members tonight will go to the well when they 
ultimately vote and try to send the President a message, try to signify 
to the administration that this war has not been conducted in the 
appropriate way. It has not achieved the objectives that we all felt 
were possible, in fact, absolutely necessary at its outset.



I would say, Madam Speaker, I understand that perspective; not only 
understand it, in many ways I strongly share that perspective. But I 
have to argue the fact of the matter is, for all of the good intentions 
we have here tonight, the negative aspect of such an action is going to 
far outweigh, far outweigh whatever good it might attempt to achieve.

The reality is, if this message is heard at all at the other end of 
Pennsylvania Avenue, it is going to speak in whispers. Whispers. But in 
other lands, in other continents, in other cities, far, far away, when 
this resolution comes before us, and if it is passed, it is going to 
crash like thunder. In places like Ramadi and Basra, from Baghdad and 
beyond, friend and foe alike are going to hear something far different 
than what we intend.

They are going to hear that through this vote we have abandoned the 
Iraqi people. They are going to hear that America has forsaken this 
struggle. They will hear that we disavow our military objective in 
Baghdad really before it has meaningfully begun, and most importantly 
in the shadows where our enemies lurk, in places like Tehran and 
Damascus, the message will fail where its authors intend, but it will 
succeed very, very mightily where they wish it would not.

Madam Speaker, for all of the good intent embodied in this proposal, 
it will not bring a single soldier home sooner. This vote, no matter 
what the tally, no matter what this board shows as to green and red at 
the end of the day, will not shorten this conflict by a single month, 
not by a week, not by a day. It will not change the course of a single 
battle. It will not even alter a pebble that lies on the battlefields 
in which those struggles will be fought.

It will, however, say to the insurgents, the Saddamists, the radical 
Islamic militants and their patrons that time is on their side. It will 
say that America has no stomach for this fight. And somewhere in a cave 
in Afghanistan, or in a hut on the Afghan-Pakistan border, Osama bin 
Laden is going to smile.

His words of a failure of America will be that much closer to 
reality. As he has said: ''The epicenter of these wars is Baghdad, the 
seat of the caliphate rule.'' They keep reiterating that ''success in 
Baghdad will be success for the United States, failure in Iraq the 
failure of the U.S. Their defeat in Iraq will mean defeat in all their 
wars and a beginning to the receding of their Zionist crusader tide 
against us.''

Those are bad messages, Madam Speaker. But I would suggest 
respectfully to all of my colleagues for all the wrong messages this 
resolution will send to our enemies, nothing it contains will be more 
devastating than what it says to our troops, to our military, those 
brave men and women in uniform who answered the call to arms, issued 
not by some ephemeral entity, but by us, by this Congress.

And how do we say through the resolution we are considering here 
today, we support your needs, but we reject your mission? We allow for 
your deployment but we shun the premise of your departure? And what do 
we say to the wife or husband? How do we respond to the father or the 
mother or the loved one of the next warrior lost in battle who asks, 
why did you oppose through that resolution the job they were sent to 
pursue but did absolutely nothing from preventing them from going from 
the outset?

That is the tyranny, and I have to say it, Madam Speaker, that is the 
folly of the resolution before us for all its lack of practical result, 
for the fact that this resolution will do absolutely nothing. Never has 
this Congress in its history of war considered an action of such 
dramatic consequence.

Now, it is said during the Civil War that the great Southern general, 
Robert E. Lee, was really tired, and I think we can all relate to this, 
of the criticism, the second-guessing that was directed at his 
leadership through the major newspapers of his time.

And he observed, Apparently all my best generals had become 
journalists. Today, tonight, I think it can be fairly said of some, 
apparently all of our best generals have become Congressmen. My 
colleagues, we are not generals. The Constitution of this great Nation 
does not provide for 535 Commanders in Chief, yet that is the reality 
lost in the proposal that we are considering this night in this week.

But I would suggest, instead of being diminished by that fact, 
instead of being lessened by what we are not, we need to be empowered 
by what we are. And I say to my colleagues tonight on both sides of the 
aisle, we indeed have a grave responsibility in this matter. But it 
does not lie in nonbinding resolutions that send wrong messages to our 
troops and absolutely wrong messages to our enemies. It rests in the 
authorities vested in us by the Constitution of this great land, the 
power to fund or not all matters of government, especially war.

Like all of us here tonight, I want this war to conclude. I represent 
the 10th Mountain Division, the most deployed division in the United 
States Army. I was there 3 weeks ago. I know the pain. I know the 
suffering. And like all of you, I am frustrated by the path we have 
traveled to this point, and I am troubled by the course that apparently 
lies ahead.



And we can, we must have, a different approach, one that especially 
places responsibility for success where it rightfully lies, and I have 
heard my colleagues tonight speak about that, with the Iraqi people. I 
propose an amendment to the supplemental appropriations bill that will 
just do that, require the Iraqis to step forward, to stand up, to stop 
the talking, and to begin to act.

It will fully fund the needs of our troops and provide for us, the 
Congress, the rightful role and expedite an opportunity to review the 
Iraqis effort and to judge the progress of this new mission in Baghdad. 
These things have to be done. But this resolution, in my judgment, in 
my judgment, is what must decidedly not.

This weekend I took the time to reread John F. Kennedy's Pulitzer 
Prize-winning work ''Profiles in Courage.'' And in those pages our 
martyred President spoke: ''In no other occupation but politics is it 
expected that a man will sacrifice honor, prestige, and his chosen 
career on a single issue.''

My friends, this is such a moment. I accuse nobody in this Chamber, 
Madam Speaker, of any kind of transgression, honorable people, good 
people. We will disagree, as I expect they will on this and other days, 
but I do plead that every Member in this House vote on this resolution, 
not for themselves, not for gain or posture through politics, not 
because of their alleged attention to public opinion, because it is 
right.

We can do better. We must. But this resolution is not the path to 
that objective.