---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `64b113e223190f562aafaf5718dbb1d9`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, I rise today to express my opposition 
to this emergency supplemental. My colleagues know that I have the 
highest level of respect for my chairman, Mr. Obey. Together we worked 
as partners in the 109th Congress, passing appropriations bills through 
the committee and through the House. Indeed, the Appropriations 
Committee is at its best when each of us works together across party 
lines and rises above purely partisan politics.

During the last Congress I was privileged to serve as chairman of 
this great committee, and Mr. Obey was our distinguished ranking 
member. Today, our roles are reversed, and Mr. Obey is now our 
chairman.

There is no question that if my friend from Wisconsin were permitted 
to write this bill on his own, this would be a much better product. 
Instead, the House is being asked to consider a spending bill that 
reflects the priorities of Speaker Pelosi and a deeply divided 
Democratic Caucus. It attempts to bridge these widening divisions over 
the war in Iraq by delivering billions of dollars in unrelated and 
unauthorized spending under an emergency designation.

This legislation ought to focus on our troops. It ought to focus on 
providing those in harm's way with the resources they need to complete 
their mission successfully. It ought to respect, not micromanage, our 
combatant commanders in whom we place the ultimate responsibility of 
prosecuting military actions.

Instead, this legislation ties the hands of our Commander in Chief 
during a time of war, places military decisions in the hands of 
politicians, and attempts to buy votes for its passage on the left and 
on the right by literally promising something to everyone.

If the majority's goal is to end the war or withdraw our troops, then 
that should be addressed in a separate piece of legislation. The 
majority cannot have it both ways, pretending, on the one hand, to 
support our troops, while on the other undercutting their ability to 
prosecute their mission.

Men and women of good conscience can disagree about the war in Iraq. 
But on one thing we must all agree, our men and women in uniform must 
continue to receive our unqualified support and the resources they need 
to complete their mission successfully.

My colleagues, consider carefully the consequences of our actions 
here today. Passage of this measure in its present form will signal to 
insurgents and terrorists that the United States doesn't have the 
political will to continue supporting this fledgling Iraqi democracy.



Al Qaeda and other enemies of freedom will simply lay in wait until 
our troops are withdrawn. And with the collapse of this fragile 
democracy, our efforts, and the sacrifices of our troops, will have 
been for nothing.

The fight in Iraq is also critical to the future of Israel. A failure 
in Iraq will further destabilize the region, posing a direct threat to 
Israel. We must not let that occur to our friend and ally.

There should be no carrot big enough to force Members into choosing 
between their principled support for our troops in the field and 
funding for the many unrelated and parochial items sprinkled throughout 
this bill.

Republican Members in the House are simply not going to abandon our 
principles, and troops in the field, for the promise of pork back in 
our districts. To their credit, many Democrats also continue to express 
grave reservations about this approach and about this legislation.

Last year Congress sent the President a clean supplemental bill for 
our troops. This Congress, and our country, would be better served by 
producing a clean bill free of extraneous spending and unrelated 
legislative provisions.

There is no question that the President will veto this bill. In the 
meantime our troops will face the uncertainty resulting from the 
majority's mixed signals and lack of a clear commitment.



I am also deeply concerned that the Democrat leadership has brought 
this emergency supplemental to the House floor under a closed rule 
without opportunity for Members on both sides of the aisle to offer 
amendments.

During my tenure as chairman, the House considered six emergency 
supplemental appropriations bills. Of these six bills, the two largest 
bills, H.R. 1268, was $81.2 billion; the other was a $91.8 billion 
supplemental. Those two bills primarily focused on the global war on 
terror. In both instances I worked closely with my leadership and the 
Rules Committee in seeking rules that permitted open debate, including 
amendments, on the House floor. And in both instances, these 
supplemental bills were considered under an open rule. The remaining 
four bills were noncontroversial and bipartisan in nature and were 
considered by unanimous consent on the Suspension Calendar.

I assumed that Chairman Obey would continue in the longstanding 
tradition and practice of the committee to advocate open rules on all 
appropriations bills. Members on both sides of the aisle benefit by a 
process that supports a fair, honest, open, and transparent debate on 
the House floor. I was disappointed that Mr. Obey's first bill as 
chairman, the fiscal year 2007 continuing resolution, was considered 
under a closed rule, with only 1 hour of debate and no opportunity for 
amendments.

Consideration of this supplemental under a closed rule is 
unprecedented and leaves the minority little choice but to walk away 
from the tradition of comity that has marked our longstanding work on 
this committee.

By denying Members, both Democrats and Republicans, their right to 
offer amendments to this legislation, I can assure you that all bets 
are off on getting our committee work done this year. It simply will 
not happen. There will be no unanimous consent agreements on the fiscal 
year 2008 bills. I spoke personally with Mr. Obey about this and asked 
him to carry that message directly to the Speaker.

This legislation is simply too important to have it rushed through 
the House with no debate and no opportunity for the body to consider 
amendments. Consideration of this legislation under a closed rule 
signals to the House, and to the public, that the Speaker has imposed 
martial law on the people's House.

Lastly, I would be remiss not to highlight my reservations about the 
budgetary aspects of this bill that proposes more than $22 billion in 
emergency spending items that are completely unrelated to the global 
war on terror or legitimate emergencies in the Gulf Coast region.

I ask my colleagues what does a $25 million bailout for spinach 
producers, $60 million for the salmon fishing industry, or $5 million 
for fish breeding have to do with the global war on terror?

This legislation also includes authorization language to increase the 
minimum wage. Again, I ask my friends why can't the committees of 
jurisdiction in the House and the Senate meet in open conference to 
resolve the differences between these bills? What place has this 
provision in a wartime supplemental?

In short, much of what is included in this bill is completely 
unrelated to the global war on terror and has no place in the bill. 
Sadly, many items are being designated as emergencies for no other 
reason than to make more room for additional spending on the part of 
the Democrats under the fiscal 2008 caps.

I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to consider 
thoughtfully the precedent set by this legislation. Weigh in your 
conscience the effects of undermining the authority of the President, 
and future Presidents, and putting at further risk our men and women in 
uniform.

Our Congress, and our country, would be better served by sending the 
President a clean supplemental free of extraneous spending and 
unrelated legislative provisions.

While I respect Chairman Obey, I cannot support this legislation as 
it is presently written. I strongly urge a ''no'' vote.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.