# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `64b2dc409206b34de8a825822f8fc8dd`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I thank the Chair for recognition and 
want to continue the discussion on the very important piece of 
legislation that is now before the Senate.

I do believe the immigration system is comprehensively broken. I have 
said for some time we need a comprehensive solution to it, to 
comprehensively reform it, but to reform it in a way that will actually 
work, that will do it with principles we can adhere to in the future, 
that will move us from a lawless system of immigration.

Most people may not know but 1.1 million people are arrested each 
year entering our country illegally. Think about the cost and personnel 
involved in processing that many people. It is a system that is not 
working. We know many people are getting by the border and not being 
apprehended.

It rightly causes the American people to question how serious we are 
in Congress when we say we want to do something about it. They believe 
we should do something about it. We say we want to do something about 
it, but eventually, as time goes along, for one reason or another, 
little ever seems to occur that actually works.

I have stated more than once we can pass a lot of legislation in this 
Senate dealing with immigration, but if you offer something that will 
actually work, to actually fix the problem, to actually be effective, 
we always have much wailing and crying and gnashing of teeth, and 
usually those things do not become law.

Last year, I was very critical of the bill that was offered. I said 
it was fatally flawed. I said it should be withdrawn and urged my 
colleagues that if we drafted a bill for this session of Congress it 
should not be based on last year's fatally flawed bill but that we 
should start over and create a system that would create a genuine 
temporary worker program, not the flawed program that was there last 
year, that would move us toward a Canadian-based system where people 
all over the world could apply to our country, and they would be 
selected based on their merits and the skills and abilities they bring 
that would be valuable to our country.

I noted that we needed, of course, effective border enforcement as 
well as workplace enforcement, and we ought not to create a system that 
gives someone who enters our country illegally every single benefit we 
give to those who come to the country legally. The legal people do 
deserve to be treated in a different way than those who come illegally.

Now, I know as a matter of compassion and practicality we have to 
wrestle with the 12 million people here. I never doubted that. Nobody 
doubts that. How we deal with it, though, is a matter that will 
determine what policies we, as a nation, adhere to. It will send a 
signal to people all over the world that we are actually going to 
insist that we have a legal system of immigration and we intend to 
enforce it.

It is one thing to have a law, but if you are not prepared to enforce 
it and go through the process that is oftentimes painful to catch 
someone who violated the law and then have them deported--oftentimes 
that is a painful process--you either are going to do that or we might 
as well admit here we have no intention of enforcing any laws.

I do not think that is what we do. Almost every Senator has stated 
they want a lawful system of immigration, Republicans and Democrats. I 
do not think we have a problem. I would say yesterday and last week I 
had a very great concern that a plan was afoot to get cloture on the 
bill yesterday. The old bill, which I steadfastly believe is not an 
effective piece of legislation, would then be substituted by a new 
piece of legislation. That happened last night. It is approximately 300 
pages of fine print and maybe 1,000 pages of the kind of legislative 
bill language we normally use here. It is one of the largest pieces of 
legislation to be introduced since I have been in the Senate. I think 
the Presiding Officer, Senator Landrieu, might remember some of the 
omnibus bills may have been that big, but I cannot remember a single 
piece of legislation since I have been in the Senate that would be 800 
to 1,000 pages.

So the scheme or the plan was to try to move that through this week. 
I am


glad Senator Harry Reid, a man whom I enjoy working with, did agree 
last night he would not try to move this bill through this week, that 
we would be able to talk about it this week, that we would be in recess 
for Memorial Day, and the next week after that we would have another 
full week of discussions. I think we need more than that.

Madam President, I see my colleague Senator Inhofe is in the Chamber. 
I say to the Senator, I know he has a tight schedule, and when he is 
ready to make his remarks, I would be pleased to yield to him.

We are on the track now to have a full week of discussion. But it 
would be unfortunate, indeed, if my colleagues in the Senate, if the 
American people, were not to utilize that time to ask seriously what it 
is we are about in this ''grand compromise'' that has been proposed for 
us.

I think there is a possibility that good legislation could yet come 
out of this that would be worthy of passing. I am aware, as so many of 
us are, of the language from the supporters of this compromise that, 
well, they say: Nothing is perfect. The perfect is the enemy of the 
good. There are a lot of things in the bill I don't like. I think there 
are things that could be better, and that sort of thing, but I am for 
it.

I would ask why it is we do not take out those things that are not 
good? Why it is we do not create a bill we can be proud of and that 
eliminates weaknesses and problems? Because like jumping across a 10-
foot ravine, jumping 9 feet is not good enough. If you jump 9 feet, you 
still fall to your doom. So let's create a system that will work. Many 
of the defects are of such a nature that could actually undermine the 
very principles that have been stated as the basis for this compromise. 
If we cannot accomplish those principles, why do it?

There are some good things in the bill and some things I am very 
troubled with. We will talk about them more as we go along.

Madam President, I see the Senator from Oklahoma. We serve together 
on the Armed Services Committee and I admire him greatly. He cares 
about our soldiers and has spent more time in Iraq than any Member of 
the House or the Senate, I suppose, meeting with our soldiers and 
trying to figure out the best way to handle our efforts there. I admire 
him greatly, Senator Jim Inhofe.