---
---

# None
## `64b4e509a06089ce17e0c989410964b9`
`Mr. OBEY — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I had not wanted to take a lot of time here today, but 
I am moved to take a couple of minutes to respond to a couple of things 
that I've heard on the floor today.

We have heard several lectures about the President's fiscal policy 
and about his economic policy and about his international economic 
policy. I find it kind of difficult to take economic lectures from the 
same folks who have driven this country's economy into the ditch.

The President has inherited a very dicey situation both 
internationally and domestically. It is always hard in life to clean up 
other people's messes. It is especially hard to do that when you have 
the responsibilities as heavy as those that weigh on the shoulders of 
the President of the United States.

I don't understand why he should be expected to take lectures from 
the people who helped put the economy into the ditch or, for that 
matter, to take lectures from the same people who brought us the most 
unnecessary war in America's history, the people who took $6 trillion 
in projected budget surpluses and turned them into the largest deficits 
in the history of the Republic, the people who are now sniping at 
virtually everything that the President does to try to deal with both 
his international challenges and his domestic challenges.

I don't think anybody wants to see any of those prisoners at 
Guantanamo ''released'' into the United States. I do think we have a 
legitimate question about where they should be tried and about where 
they should be imprisoned after they are found guilty. Because we 
wanted to have more specific answers from the administration on that 
score, this committee has already removed all of the money that could 
be used to close Guantanamo until we do get a specific plan from the 
administration.

Having said that, I would suggest that the average American family is 
much more in danger of being hit by the flu pandemic than they are of 
actually being hit by any person who would be imprisoned in a maximum 
security prison here in the United States. I, frankly, would be kind of 
interested to see some of those terrorists exposed to the wonderful 
''charms'' of some of our prison inmates in our own prisons. I don't 
think they would like the experience very much; but nonetheless, that 
is not what is at issue here.

What is at issue is simply whether or not we will go about our 
business of going to conference and of producing a supplemental 
appropriation bill that will meet the basic needs of our troops and 
that will meet our basic diplomatic necessities as well. That's why I 
think there is a problem with this motion.

This motion, by the time it sets aside money for military 
construction and defense, would not leave us with enough money on the 
table to respond sufficiently to the pandemic flu problem. It would not 
leave us with enough money on the table to deal with the necessity to 
provide assistance to Mexico in order to deal with the drug problem 
there, which is certainly a national security threat to us, and it 
certainly would not leave us with sufficient funds to strengthen and 
buttress our political and diplomatic activities in Afghanistan and in 
Pakistan. It would not leave us with enough money, for instance, to 
fully fund the funding for the new Embassy in Pakistan, which is 
desperately needed given the fact that we just had a bombing in 
Peshawar of the Pearl Hotel where most of the American diplomats 
stayed. We need to protect diplomats just as much as we need to protect 
soldiers. That's what the conference will try to do if we can ever get 
to it.

So I would simply say, Madam Speaker, as I said earlier, I intend to 
vote against this motion, but I am not going to be particularly 
bothered if other people want to vote for it because they supported one 
piece or another of this proposal. I, myself, would probably support 
two of the provisions in here but not all of them. So Members are 
certainly free to vote however they prefer. This is a place where we 
like to state our first preferences as often as possible, but sooner or 
later, we have to compromise. That means most of us, including the 
ranking member and the Chair, will not be able to get all of the first 
preferences that we would prefer.

So, if the gentleman is prepared to close, I will yield back my time.

