---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `64bda65cb9e889fbae3e7642c34a628c`
`Mr. WAMP — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, oftentimes in life it's more important what you do with 
your second chances than what you do the first time around. Neither 
Chairman Edwards, who spoke so eloquently in a comprehensive way about 
this bill and his commitment to our veterans, our men and women in 
harm's way and their families--neither he nor I took advantage in our 
younger years of serving in the uniform of our Armed Forces. However, 
fate has it that we would have a second opportunity to serve by serving 
those who are serving us, past and present, through this bill; making 
sure that those great American patriots, past and present, have what 
they need--and are entitled to and deserve because of their commitment 
to this great Nation.

It is the highest compliment of my professional life to serve as the 
ranking member of this subcommittee. I want to thank Chairman Lewis--
former Chairman Lewis, now Ranking Member Lewis--for this privilege 
because without him and his support I wouldn't be here. I want to thank 
Mr. Wicker, who was the ranking member of this subcommittee last year, 
and I want to thank whoever helped him become a Senator to open up this 
subcommittee opportunity for me, and for Chairman Edwards, who, as you 
just saw on the House floor, is a class act, with a true commitment to 
the men and women in uniform and a determination to do whatever is 
necessary to honor their commitment.

And I can report today, as I did at the full committee, that when I 
go home and people ask me in 2008, in my new position, are we honoring 
our Nation's veterans and the men and women in uniform serving in an 
asymmetrical war on two fronts in Iraq and Afghanistan, with head 
trauma and IED injuries and amputations--double, triple, extraordinary 
injuries--stress from unfair deployments, unsustainable deployments, 
stress on the family, are we honoring our commitment to them? And I 
don't think a few years ago, regardless of party, that the answer to 
that question was yes. We had problems at Walter Reed, we had problems 
at Fort Stewart, we had problems across the board.

We still have many challenges. The deployment ratios have got to 
continue to improve. But I can tell you in this bill there is a 
bipartisan commitment to honor their commitment. And I believe we are 
making great progress at ensuring our men and women in uniform and 
their families have what they need and deserve, and when they come home 
as veterans, that we take adequate care of them--not adequate, but 
responsible care of them. And I think we're making great progress.

I want to thank the majority for doing something that people in the 
hinterland wouldn't even understand, but they put the Military 
Construction bill back in with the Veterans bill where it belongs. When 
I served on the subcommittee 10 years ago, this was not the case.

But when the Military Construction bill funds quality of life needs 
and child care centers and polytrauma centers and housing needs, the 
veterans piece being in with it in the same bill allows the continuum 
of care to come together so that we can look at the whole picture from 
today's men and women in harm's way and what their quality of life 
needs are--which is number one for us--all the way through the end of 
their life as a veteran with our VA system. It needs to all be 
together.

That was an amazing success, bringing Military Construction and 
Veteran's Care back together--my hat's off to the Speaker for doing 
that, first and foremost, for Chairman Edwards for his leadership, and 
for Chairman Obey for his commitment.

I do agree that over the 100 hearing hours Chairman Edwards and I had 
a hands-on with these amazing Americans, we produced a work product, 
this bill--at roughly $48 billion for the VA and $25 billion for the 
military construction needs around the world--that is very strong, and 
an encouragement to all those in harm's way today and those that have 
been in harm's way in the past.

I will say that the President's budget request for veterans was a 
record level. Now, the chairman said that it wasn't enough, and I agree 
with that. And we did increase it by $3 billion, but it was at a record 
level. So today there is an encouraging bipartisan proliferation to see 
who can do more for our Nation's veterans. And that's a good thing for 
our Nation's veterans, that we're in competition to see who can do more 
for the men and women coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan and those 
that have served in the past.

But I was blown away over the last few months with the quality of the 
servicemembers and veterans. First, we hear from the chiefs of the 
respective services, the top enlisted personnel, the commanders from 
around the world, like the Commander of CENTCOM, who is now General 
Petraeus, with two wars under his command in Iraq and Afghanistan, we 
hear from all these leaders about the needs on the ground and what 
investments they need the Congress to make for them to do their job 
successfully. And then from the military families, that talk about the 
stress felt when we had a 15-month in, 1 year out deployment, now it's 
back to 1-1, it's going to 2-1. We need to get to 3-1 to make it 
sustainable, meaning 1 year in theater fighting, 3 years back in a 
noncombat station. This is so important that we work towards these 
objectives and that we honor this commitment.

Now, on the subcommittee, we've got extraordinary support. Former 
chairman of the full committee, who will speak in a minute, Bill Young 
from Florida, sits with us every hearing, hands on, fully engaged. 
Ander Crenshaw from Jacksonville, Florida, who will also speak, John 
Carter, from Texas, Kay Granger from Texas on the Republican side. I 
want to compliment not just Chairman Edwards, but Sam Farr, the vice 
chairman; who was really engaged, and a man who understands the world; 
he does an outstanding job.

You mentioned all the staff, I won't repeat their names, but both 
sides of


the aisle, just outstanding work. Members of the subcommittee--Mr. 
Mollohan, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Bishop--everyone's engaged on your 
side; and contributed to great bipartisan cooperation. And the quality 
of these people that are serving in uniform and their families is just 
extraordinary.

What we heard this year is that the value of the dollar is really 
hurting us around the world. Our money that we're investing won't buy 
what it used to buy all over the world, and that's a big problem. And 
we've known that it was getting worse, but it's really causing a budget 
pinch for our military construction around the world.

We heard, as we've continued to hear--which has held up the 
appropriation process--that energy costs are unsustainable. That's a 
huge burden on this budget. We're trying to help with those needs.

Most importantly, though, we heard about the stress of the 
deployments from the families, that they're unsustainable, that they 
put a huge burden on the servicemembers and families. That's why these 
child care centers and these housing issues are so important and we 
have prioritized in this bill.

I want to say one word of caution, because whether it's a $3 billion 
increase in VA or $13 billion increase in VA, the Veterans 
Administration is a long-standing bureaucracy. It is very large. And I 
have traveled, I've been to the sites, I've worked with the VA for a 
number of years, and they're not as efficient as they can be or must 
be. Money is not the only issue. I'm grateful that we came together to 
give them more money, but I want to make sure, and so does Chairman 
Edwards, that each and every year we hold them more accountable, and 
the subcommittee takes a greater hands-on role at looking for 
efficiencies. We worked with Ranking Member Buyer this year on the 
Authorization Committee on ways for the VA to recapture more third-
party payments that they're entitled to to help with their bottom line; 
things like that we must do because the VA has to be more efficient and 
more accountable because they are a government bureaucracy. So it's not 
just money, it's oversight. And I believe we share that commitment.

I think Secretary Peake is doing a very good job as the Secretary. 
Sometimes these positions are political; I don't think he is, I think 
he's hands on. He understands the VA system from a health care 
perspective, which is possibly the most important piece of it. I just 
want to thank everyone. Again, the staff has really produced a great 
bill.

Member projects in this bill mirror those included in the House Armed 
Services Committee's bill. The projects all are authorized. We married 
them up, so there's no Member-advanced initiatives here that don't meet 
all the tests of authorization. That's important. So that makes this 
bill special.

It is special, too; we're the only Appropriations bill that's going 
to move off the House floor before we go home. I wish they all would 
have. But we're closing on a positive note because this bill is 
positive for our men and women in uniform. And they're out there facing 
the threats that are out there. And it's like never before. It's 
asymmetrical.

I don't know what's next, but I hope and pray we can bring them all 
home very soon. But as long as they're in harm's way and as long as 
they're willing to volunteer to serve, Chairman Edwards, you and I are 
going to work together, in this second chance of ours, to serve those 
who serve us. And we're going to honor their commitment fully. That's 
what this bill is about.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.