# HIGHLIGHTING PASSAGE OF H.R. 1, IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF
## `64c06863669ecd09b32945f57e0ded7c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 27 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. As usual, let me compliment the Speaker for 
her leadership and her service to America.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight the passage of the Homeland 
Security Commission report in H.R. 1, Improving America's Security Act. 
If I had to give an acronym, I would say 
R-E-L-I-E-F, it spells relief to the American people.

Now we know that we have a committed and unified war and effort 
against the war on terror. We have the resources and the mindset, the 
policy and the unity, six years after 9/11, 6 years after all of us 
stood awestruck, humbled, seemingly powerless, frightened, saddened and 
emerged with grief over the loss of so many. Families today still 
suffer. Children are without parents, husbands are without wives, wives 
are without husbands, and many, many extended family members.

So my first response is to salute the 9/11 families, for many times 
they probably were received in less than a jovial manner. But there is 
something about having that steadfast and courageous point of view that 
you never give up. You never give up.

Let me thank the chairman of the full committee and the ranking 
member for working to bring us all together, and the conference and the 
conferees, of which I was a part of, in understanding that our goal was 
to be Americans united.

So today I can salute the fact that this bill has passed. There is a 
greater distribution of Homeland Security Grants to States and high-
risk urban areas, a risk-based analysis on how we distribute those 
funds. Each State is guaranteed a minimum of a certain amount, but it 
is based on risk. There is a $1.8 billion authorization for FY 2008 to 
assist States in high-risk urban areas in preparing for terrorist 
threats. Planning. More planning. More ways of looking ahead.

After we saw the strange video regarding the airport in Arizona where 
there was not around-the-clock Transportation Security Administration 
staff screening of people going into the airport, we know that we have 
to be forever planning and forward thinking. I am glad that solution is 
being addressed, and I am asking for an inventory as the subcommittee 
chair, of all airports in America, the top 400, to determine whether we 
are securing that airport 24 hours a day.

We can always work more smart and more effectively, but I am glad 
that we have a dedicated interoperability grant program to improve the 
communications that did not happen on 9/11; firefighters not being able 
to talk to other firefighters, or firefighters not being able to talk 
to police officers or Port Authority police. That money is in the bill.

$4 billion over 4 years for rail, transit and bus security grants. 
What a celebration. We worked very hard to ensure that we would have 
Transportation Security Grants on those properties, on those vehicles 
that move Americans across the United States. Every day Americans get 
up and use some form of public transportation, and we are delighted 
that we have focused on that.

Might I just say, with the tragedy of the steam explosion in New 
York, it exploded and a bus exploded. But it is important to note that 
if you were to have a tragedy on a bus or a train, look at the impact 
around the area.



I am very glad that the Houston port will now be a beneficiary of the 
many, many dollars that have been put in to provide more resources for 
our ports to have 100 percent screening of port cargo that comes into 
the United States. And it can be done. It won't stop the commerce that 
so many people are concerned about.

Then, of course, I think it is important to note that we are working 
with the intelligence community so that we have an exchange of 
intelligence, because that is the first line of defense, to know what 
is going on.

But I have one point, Madam Speaker, just to conclude on, and that is 
to be reminded that we need to consolidate the jurisdiction of the 
Homeland Security efforts.

The Department of Homeland Security participated in a total of 141 
hearings all across the lot, all the different committees. DHS 
participated in a total of 42 hearings where multiple witnesses from 
DHS testified. DHS has provided a total of 195 witnesses. DHS has 
provided approximately 1,554 briefings. We need a single seam of 
jurisdiction for that particular department.

Then, it is important as we fight the war on terror, that we bring an 
end to the Iraq war; we begin to deal with political diplomacy; we 
begin to include the neighboring states around Iraq to take 
responsibility for safety in the region; we bring our troops home; we 
provide a safety net, if you will, for remaining Americans, but we 
include Kuwait, and Qatar and Jordan, all of these nations, Saudi 
Arabia, who are interested in some resolution to this conflict.

Almost 4,000 dead. Almost 4,000 of our brave men and women are dead. 
They are our heroes. We should declare a military success, bring our 
soldiers home and begin a diplomatic healing of that region.

Madam Speaker, let me just say, we have finally moved forward on the 
fight for real homeland security and the fight against the war on 
terror.
