---
---

# None
## `64c2f8183d5d28bc4fda1b13327280ee`
`Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts — 4 May 2010`

---


Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. Mr. President, I rise today to say a few 
words about a hero: Massachusetts Army National Guard SGT Robert J. 
Barrett who was killed in Afghanistan on April 19. I had the sad honor 
of attending his funeral this past weekend.

So everyone knows, Robert was on foot patrol south of Kabul when an 
IED exploded, killing him and injuring eight of his fellow soldiers of 
1st Battalion, 101st Field Artillery Regiment. He was 21 years old.

Robert was from Fall River, a city of 90,000 in the southeastern part 
of Massachusetts. He was a long-time member of the 54th Massachusetts 
Volunteer Regiment. He geared his life toward helping others, 
especially veterans.

He was selected for the regiment's honor guard in early 2008 and took 
part in more than 350 events honoring our fallen soldiers, including 
marching in the President's inaugural parade a little more than a year 
ago.

His primary mission in Afghanistan was of the utmost importance. He 
was training Afghan soldiers so they would be able to stand up and 
provide security for their own country. Rather than spend his free time 
relaxing, he gave of his time and knowledge by volunteering at local 
orphanages and


schools. Robert was a shining example of ''selfless service,'' one of 
the seven Army values.

Before his deployment, Robert wrote several lines that summarized his 
thoughts about his service and our mission overseas. I wish to take one 
final moment to read one of his thoughts:




 I volunteered to put my life on the line for freedom and 


 country. For my fellow soldiers, for my little girl, for my 


 weeping mother and father. I am going to a land where 


 American freedom is just a dream, a hope, a slow reality. I 


 am an American Soldier.


That was by Robert J. Barrett before he mobilized.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.