---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `64c31cd70fb9c63f25fd048e78a57d10`
`Mr. RAMSTAD — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. RAMSTAD. Mr. Speaker, the President has said for more than 4 
years that he would follow the advice of his commanders on the ground 
with respect to troop levels in Iraq. That is why I am both surprised 
and disappointed the President did not follow the advice given as 
recently as 2 months ago by the Army and Marine Corps Chiefs of Staff, 
as well as General John Abizaid, General George Casey, and General 
Colin Powell. All of these highly respected commanders expressed their 
opposition to increasing the number of U.S. troops in Iraq.

As General Abizaid, the top commander in the Middle East said, an 
increase in U.S. troops would be counterproductive because it will 
perpetuate the dependency of Iraqi forces, create more targets and 
stretch our military too thin.



Until recently the top ground commander in Iraq, General George 
Casey, has said that sending more American troops into Baghdad and 
Anbar province would increase the Iraqi dependency on Washington. As 
General Colin Powell, one of the most respected military leaders of our 
generation put it, a surge was already tried in Baghdad last fall and 
it failed. Now it will only further delay Iraqis taking control of 
their own security.

''It will only further delay Iraqis taking control of their own 
security.'' That is from General Colin Powell, who also noted that he 
had not heard any generals on the ground in Iraq ask for more troops.

Mr. Speaker, the original mission of U.S. troops in Iraq was to 
liberate the country and turn it over to the Iraqi people. We need to 
get back to that original mission. Our brave troops have done an 
absolutely heroic job of liberating the people of Iraq. Now our troops 
should get back to the original mission of training Iraqi security 
forces so they can secure their own country and turn it over to the 
Iraqi people. General Casey has long argued that the principal emphasis 
of American policy should be training Iraqi security forces and handing 
over responsibility to the Iraqis.

Mr. Speaker, the resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq that 
we passed in the fall of 2002 was never intended to authorize the use 
of American troops to police a civil war. It was never intended to 
provide justification for sending 21,500 more American troops into the 
middle of a civil war. As former Navy Secretary in Virginia, Senator 
John Warner, put it: ''Whom do they shoot at, the Sunni or the Shia?'' 
With 325,000 Iraqi security forces already trained, Mr. Speaker, that 
is according to our Defense Department, it is time for Iraqi troops to 
step up to the frontlines in Baghdad, Anbar province, and Fallujah. It 
is time to accelerate the training of Iraqi security forces and the 
turnover of security to the Iraqis so our troops can come home with 
their mission completed. It is time for enforceable benchmarks to 
measure the progress of Iraqi security forces. Mr. Speaker, it is time 
for a surge in diplomacy, not a surge in troops to mend a broken 
country. It is time for a stepped-up regional peace effort in the 
Middle East to settle this conflict.

Mr. Speaker, Congress should listen to our commanders on the ground. 
We should follow the advice of the Army and Marine Corps Chiefs of 
Staff. We should follow the advice of General Abizaid, General Casey, 
and General Powell when they spoke up in December. It is time for 
Congress to step up and express our strong support of our brave troops, 
our continued support of the original mission, and our opposition to 
the increase of U.S. troops to police a civil war in Iraq.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on the resolution.