---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MARLENE LEE
## `64c76810096082d0f68dde2b900b3f65`
`Mr. SHIMKUS — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a grateful heart to pay 
tribute to a selfless American, Marlene Lee of Boyds, Maryland.

In 2003, Marlene developed ''Operation Atlas'', a community outreach 
program for injured soldiers and their visiting families at Walter Reed 
Army Medical Center. It is through this program that I have been able 
to work with Marlene on a nearly monthly basis as she escorts soldiers 
and their families on tours of the Capitol.

Marlene is an incredibly giving person, both of her time and talents. 
Her son, Greg, has served two tours in Iraq, so she knows intimately 
the pains military families go through. Yet, she is always ready with a 
willing hand, a kind heart, and a new way to serve others. Named as one 
of the American Red Cross Volunteers of the Year in 2003, Marlene was 
recognized again in 2004 by the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. She is 
also on the board of directors of ''Operation Support Our Troops'' and 
the committee for Wheels for Warriors.

Through her time spent with wounded and recovering soldiers, Marlene 
recognized the need to reach out to children ''who know of, care about, 
or just plain love a wounded warrior.'' She went back to school, 
earning a master's of arts in thanatology, the study of death, dying, 
and bereavement, from Hood College.

With the motto of ''Children 'serve' and sacrifice, too'', Marlene 
has written two books for children on dealing with the loss of a loved 
one in the Armed Services: The Hero In My Pocket and That's My Hope. 
She donates a portion of the proceeds from book sales to selected 
organizations that assist military families.

I am honored by the time that I have been able to share in service 
with Marlene. She is a dedicated and humble person who goes out of her 
way to bless the lives of the men, women and the children in our 
military families and communities. May God continue to bless her and 
America.
