---
---

# NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE  PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
## `64ccac8fb40a116f26501b71b799579e`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)1 of rule IX, I 
rise to give notice of my intent to raise a question of the privilege 
of the House.

The form of the resolution is as follows:




 Resolved, That Richard B. Cheney, Vice President of the 


 United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, 


 and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited 


 to the United States Senate:



 Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of 


 Representatives of the United States of America in the name 


 of itself and of the people of the United States of America, 


 against Richard B. Cheney, Vice President of the United 


 States of America, in maintenance and support of its 


 impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.

















 Article I




 In his conduct while Vice President of the United States, 


 Richard B. Cheney, in violation of his constitutional oath to 


 faithfully execute the office of Vice President of the United 


 States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, 


 and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in 


 violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the 


 laws be faithfully executed, has purposely manipulated the 


 intelligence process to deceive the citizens and Congress of 


 the United States by fabricating a threat of Iraqi weapons of 


 mass destruction to justify the use of the United States 


 Armed Forces against the nation of Iraq in a manner damaging 


 to our national security interests, to wit:



 (1) Despite all evidence to the contrary, the Vice 


 President actively and systematically sought to deceive the 


 citizens and Congress of the United States about an alleged 


 threat of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction:



 (A) 'We know they have biological and chemical weapons.' 


 March 17, 2002, Press Conference by Vice President Dick 


 Cheney and His Highness Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown 


 Prince of Bahrain at Shaikh Hamad Palace.



 (B) '. . . and we know they are pursuing nuclear weapons.' 


 March 19, 2002, Press Briefing by Vice President Dick Cheney 


 and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Jerusalem.



 (C) 'And he is actively pursuing nuclear weapons at this 


 time . . .' March 24, 2002, CNN Late Edition interview with 


 Vice President Cheney.



 (D) 'We know he's got chemicals and biological and we know 


 he's working on nuclear.' May 19, 2002, NBC Meet the Press 


 interview with Vice President Cheney.



 (E) 'But we now know that Saddam has resumed his efforts to 


 acquire nuclear weapons . . . Simply stated, there is no 


 doubt that Saddam Hussein now has weapons of mass 


 destruction. There is no doubt that he is amassing them to 


 use against our friends, against our allies, and against us.' 


 August 26, 2002, Speech of Vice President Cheney at VFW 103rd 


 National Convention.



 (F) 'Based on intelligence that's becoming available, some 


 of it has been made public, more of it hopefully will be, 


 that he has indeed stepped up his capacity to produce and 


 deliver biological weapons, that he has reconstituted his 


 nuclear program to develop a nuclear weapon, that there are 


 efforts under way inside Iraq to significantly expand his 


 capability.' September 8, 2002, NBC Meet the Press interview 


 with Vice President Cheney.



 (G) 'He is, in fact, actively and aggressively seeking to 


 acquire nuclear weapons.' September 8, 2002, NBC Meet the 


 Press interview with Vice President Cheney.



 (H) 'And we believe he has, in fact, reconstituted nuclear 


 weapons.' March 16, 2003, NBC Meet the Press interview with 


 Vice President Cheney.



 (2) Preceding the March 2003 invasion of Iraq the Vice 


 President was fully informed that no legitimate evidence 


 existed of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The Vice 


 President pressured the intelligence community to change 


 their findings to enable the deception of the citizens and 


 Congress of the United States.



 (A) Vice President Cheney and his Chief of Staff, Lewis 


 Libby, made multiple trips to the CIA in 2002 to question 


 analysts studying Iraq's weapons programs and alleged links 


 to al Qaeda, creating an environment in which analysts felt 


 they were being pressured to make their assessments fit with 


 the Bush administration's policy objectives accounts.



 (B) Vice President Cheney sought out unverified and 


 ultimately inaccurate raw intelligence to prove his 


 preconceived beliefs. This strategy of cherry picking was 


 employed to influence the interpretation of the intelligence.



 (3) The Vice President's actions corrupted or attempted to 


 corrupt the 2002 National Intelligence Estimate, an 


 intelligence document issued on October 1, 2002, and 


 carefully considered by Congress prior to the October 10, 


 2002, vote to authorize the use of force. The Vice 


 President's actions prevented the necessary reconciliation of 


 facts for the National Intelligence Estimate which resulted 


 in a high number of dissenting opinions from technical 


 experts in two Federal agencies.



 (A) The State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and 


 Research dissenting view in the October 2002 National 


 Intelligence Estimate stated 'Lacking persuasive evidence 


 that Baghdad has launched a coherent effort to reconstitute 


 it's nuclear weapons program INR is unwilling to speculate 


 that such an effort began soon after the departure of UN 


 inspectors or to project a timeline for the completion of 


 activities it does not now see happening. As a result INR is 


 unable to predict that Iraq could acquire a nuclear device or 


 weapon.'.



 (B) The State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and 


 Research dissenting view in the October 2002 National 


 Intelligence Estimate also stated that 'Finally, the claims 


 of Iraqi pursuit of natural uranium in Africa are, in INR's 


 assessment, highly dubious.'.



 (C) The State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and 


 Research dissenting view in the October 2002 National 


 Intelligence Estimate references a Department of Energy 


 opinion by stating that 'INR accepts the judgment of 


 technical experts at the US Department of Energy (DOE) who 


 have concluded that the tubes Iraq seeks to acquire are 


 poorly suited for use in gas centrifuges to be used for 


 uranium enrichment and finds unpersuasive the arguments 


 advanced by others to make the case that they are intended 


 for that purpose.'.



 The Vice President subverted the national security 


 interests of the United States by setting the stage for the 


 loss of more than 3800 United States service members; the 


 loss of more than 1 million innocent Iraqi citizens since the 


 United States invasion; the loss of approximately $500 


 billion in war costs which has increased our Federal debt; 


 the loss of military readiness within the United States Armed 


 Services due to overextension, lack of training and lack of 


 equipment; the loss of United States credibility in world 


 affairs; and the decades of likely blowback created by the 


 invasion of Iraq.



 In all of this, Vice President Richard B. Cheney has acted 


 in a manner contrary to his trust as Vice President, and 


 subversive of constitutional government, to the prejudice of 


 the cause of law and justice and the manifest injury of the 


 people of the United States. Wherefore, Vice President 


 Richard B. Cheney, by such conduct, is guilty of an 


 impeachable offense warranting removal from office.

















 Article II




 In his conduct while Vice President of the United States, 


 Richard B. Cheney, in violation of his constitutional oath to 


 faithfully execute the office of Vice President of the United 


 States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, 


 and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in 


 violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the 


 laws be faithfully executed, purposely manipulated the 


 intelligence process to deceive the citizens and Congress of 


 the United States about an alleged relationship between Iraq 


 and al Qaeda in order to justify the use of the United States 


 Armed Forces against the nation of Iraq in a manner damaging 


 to our national security interests, to wit:



 (1) Despite all evidence to the contrary, the Vice 


 President actively and systematically sought to deceive the 


 citizens and the Congress of the United States about an 


 alleged relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda:





 (A) 'His regime has had high-level contacts with Al Qaeda 


 going back a decade and has provided training to Al Qaeda 


 terrorists.' December 2, 2002, Speech of Vice President 


 Cheney at the Air National Guard Senior Leadership 


 Conference.



 (B) 'His regime aids and protects terrorists, including 


 members of Al Qaeda. He could decide secretly to provide 


 weapons of mass destruction to terrorists for use against 


 us.' January 30, 2003, Speech of Vice President Cheney to 


 30th Political Action Conference in Arlington, Virginia.



 (C) 'We know he's out trying once again to produce nuclear 


 weapons and we know that he has a long-standing relationship 


 with various terrorist groups, including the Al Qaeda 


 organization.' March 16, 2003, NBC Meet the Press interview 


 with Vice President Cheney.



 (D) 'We learned more and more that there was a relationship 


 between Iraq and Al Qaeda that stretched back through most of 


 the decade of the '90s, that it involved training, for 


 example, on biological weapons and chemical weapons . . .' 


 September 14, 2003, NBC Meet the Press interview with Vice 


 President Cheney.



 (E) 'Al Qaeda had a base of operation there up in 


 Northeastern Iraq where they ran a large poisons factory for 


 attacks against Europeans and U.S. forces.' October 3, 2003, 


 Speech of Vice President Cheney at Bush-Cheney '04 Fundraiser 


 in Iowa.



 (F) 'He also had an established relationship with Al Qaeda 


 providing training to Al Qaeda members in areas of poisons, 


 gases, and conventional bombs.' October 10, 2003, Speech of 


 Vice President Cheney to the Heritage Foundation.



 (G) 'Al Qaeda and the Iraqi intelligence services have 


 worked together on a number of occasions.' January 9, 2004, 


 Rocky Mountain News interview with Vice President Cheney.



 (H) 'I think there's overwhelming evidence that there was a 


 connection between Al Qaeda and the Iraqi government.' 


 January 22, 2004, NPR: Morning Edition interview with Vice 


 President Cheney.



 (I) 'First of all, on the question of--of whether or not 


 there was any kind of relationship, there clearly was a 


 relationship. It's been testified to; the evidence is 


 overwhelming.' June 17, 2004, CNBC: Capital Report interview 


 with Vice President Cheney.



 (2) Preceding the March 2003 invasion of Iraq the Vice 


 President was fully informed that no credible evidence 


 existed of a working relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda, 


 a fact articulated in several official documents, including:



 (A) A classified Presidential Daily Briefing ten days after 


 the September 11, 2001, attacks indicating that the United 


 States intelligence community had no evidence linking Saddam 


 Hussein to the September 11th attacks and that there was 


 'scant credible evidence that Iraq had any significant 


 collaborative ties with Al Qaeda'.



 (B) Defense Intelligence Terrorism Summary No. 044-02, 


 issued in February 2002 by the United States Defense 


 Intelligence Agency, which challenged the credibility of 


 information gleaned from captured al Qaeda leader al-Libi. 


 The DIA report also cast significant doubt on the possibility 


 of a Saddam Hussein-al-Qaeda conspiracy: 'Saddam's regime is 


 intensely secular and is wary of Islamic revolutionary 


 movements. Moreover, Baghdad is unlikely to provide 


 assistance to a group it cannot control.'.



 (C) A January 2003 British intelligence classified report 


 on Iraq that concluded that 'there are no current links 


 between the Iraqi regime and the al-Qaeda network'.



 The Vice President subverted the national security 


 interests of the United States by setting the stage for the 


 loss of more than 3,800 United States service members; the 


 loss of more than 1 million innocent Iraqi citizens since the 


 United States invasion; the loss of approximately $500 


 billion in war costs which has increased our Federal debt; 


 the loss of military readiness within the United States Armed 


 Services due to overextension, lack of training and lack of 


 equipment; the loss of United States credibility in world 


 affairs; and the decades of likely blowback created by the 


 invasion of Iraq.



 In all of this, Vice President Richard B. Cheney has acted 


 in a manner contrary to his trust as Vice President, and 


 subversive of constitutional government, to the prejudice of 


 the cause of law and justice and the manifest injury of the 


 people of the United States. Wherefore, Vice President 


 Richard B. Cheney, by such conduct, is guilty of an 


 impeachable offense warranting removal from office.

















Article III




 In his conduct while Vice President of the United States, 


 Richard B. Cheney, in violation of his constitutional oath to 


 faithfully execute the office of Vice President of the United 


 States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, 


 and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in 


 violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the 


 laws be faithfully executed, has openly threatened aggression 


 against the Republic of Iran absent any real threat to the 


 United States, and done so with the United States proven 


 capability to carry out such threats, thus undermining the 


 national security of the United States, to wit:



 (1) Despite no evidence that Iran has the intention or the 


 capability of attacking the United States and despite the 


 turmoil created by United States invasion of Iraq, the Vice 


 President has openly threatened aggression against Iran as 


 evidenced by the following:



 (A) 'For our part, the United States is keeping all options 


 on the table in addressing the irresponsible conduct of the 


 regime. And we join other nations in sending that regime a 


 clear message: We will not allow Iran to have a nuclear 


 weapon.' March 7, 2006, Speech of Vice President Cheney to 


 American Israel Public Affairs Committee 2006 Policy 


 Conference.



 (B) 'But we've also made it clear that all options are on 


 the table.' January 24, 2007, CNN Situation Room interview 


 with Vice President Cheney.



 (C) 'When we--as the President did, for example, recently--


 deploy another aircraft carrier task force to the Gulf, that 


 sends a very strong signal to everybody in the region that 


 the United States is here to stay, that we clearly have 


 significant capabilities, and that we are working with 


 friends and allies as well as the international organizations 


 to deal with the Iranian threat.' January 29, 2007, Newsweek 


 interview with Vice President Cheney.



 (D) 'But I've also made the point and the President has 


 made the point that all options are still on the table.' 


 February 24, 2007, Vice President Cheney at Press Briefing 


 with Australian Prime Minister in Sydney, Australia.



 (2) The Vice President, who repeatedly and falsely claimed 


 to have had specific, detailed knowledge of Iraq's alleged 


 weapons of mass destruction capabilities, is no doubt fully 


 aware of evidence that demonstrates Iran poses no real threat 


 to the United States as evidenced by the following:



 (A) 'I know that what we see in Iran right now is not the 


 industrial capacity you can [use to develop a] bomb.' Mohamed 


 ElBaradei, Director General of International Atomic Energy 


 Agency, February 19, 2007.



 (B) Iran indicated its 'full readiness and willingness to 


 negotiate on the modality for the resolution of the 


 outstanding issues with the IAEA, subject to the assurances 


 for dealing with the issues in the framework of the Agency, 


 without the interference of the United Nations Security 


 Council'. IAEA Board Report, February 22, 2007.



 (C) '. . . so whatever they have, what we have seen today, 


 is not the kind of capacity that would enable them to make 


 bombs.' Mohamed El Baradei, Director General of International 


 Atomic Energy Agency, February 19, 2007.



 (3) The Vice President is fully aware of the actions taken 


 by the United States towards Iran that are further 


 destabilizing the world as evidenced by the following:



 (A) The United States has refused to engage in meaningful 


 diplomatic relations with Iran since 2002, rebuffing both 


 bilateral and multilateral offers to dialogue.



 (B) The United States is currently engaged in a military 


 buildup in the Middle East that includes the increased 


 presence of the United States Navy in the waters near Iran, 


 significant United States Armed Forces in two nations 


 neighboring to Iran, and the installation of anti-missile 


 technology in the region.



 (C) News accounts have indicated that military planners 


 have considered the B61-11, a tactical nuclear weapon, as one 


 of the options to strike underground bunkers in Iran.



 (D) The United States has been linked to anti-Iranian 


 organizations that are attempting to destabilize the Iranian 


 government, in particular the Mujahideen-e Khalq (MEK), even 


 though the state department has branded it a terrorist 


 organization.



 (E) News accounts indicate that United States troops have 


 been ordered into Iran to collect data and establish contact 


 with anti-government groups.



 (4) In the last three years the Vice President has 


 repeatedly threatened Iran. However, the Vice President is 


 legally bound by the U.S. Constitution's adherence to 


 international law that prohibits threats of use of force.



 (A) Article VI of the United States Constitution states, 


 'This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which 


 shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or 


 which shall be made, under the Authority of the United 


 States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land.' Any provision 


 of an international treaty ratified by the United States 


 becomes the law of the United States.



 (B) The United States is a signatory to the United Nations 


 Charter, a treaty among the nations of the world. Article II, 


 Section 4 of the United Nations Charter states, 'All Members 


 shall refrain in their international relations from the 


 threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or 


 political independence of any state, or in any other manner 


 inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.' The 


 threat of force is illegal.



 (C) Article 51 lays out the only exception, 'Nothing in the 


 present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual 


 or collective self-defense if an armed attack occurs against 


 a Member of the United Nations, until the Security Council 


 has taken measures necessary to maintain international peace 


 and security.' Iran has not attacked the United States; 


 therefore any threat against Iran by the United States is 


 illegal.



 The Vice President's deception upon the citizens and 


 Congress of the United States that enabled the failed United 


 States invasion of Iraq forcibly altered the rules of 


 diplomacy such that the Vice President's recent belligerent 


 actions towards Iran are destabilizing and counterproductive 


 to the national security of the United States.



 In all of this, Vice President Richard B. Cheney has acted 


 in a manner contrary to




 his trust as Vice President, and subversive of constitutional 


 government, to the prejudice of the cause of law and justice 


 and the manifest injury of the people of the United States. 


 Wherefore Richard B. Cheney, by such conduct, warrants 


 impeachment and trial, and removal from office.

