# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `64daa53ff45ac973151c4fd50358422d`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I want to respond to some of the concerns 
and comments from my distinguished friend, the great Senator from 
Virginia. He and I had the opportunity to travel to Iraq and to 
Afghanistan about a year or so ago. There is no one on this Senate 
floor that I respect any more than the Senator from Virginia. I 
consider him to be a colleague and a role model in the working 
relationship that he and the chairman of the Armed Services today, 
Senator Levin, have. It is, I think, an example of how we ought


to do things on the Senate floor more often. The fact that we have a 
Department of Defense authorization bill, which is a very good bill, in 
front of the Senate today is a manifestation and a testament to the 
great work and the bipartisan spirit of Senator Warner and Senator 
Levin. It is with great respect I offer these comments on some of the 
concerns that he raised.

First, with respect to the Iraq Study Group report being simply a 
snapshot of what was happening in December, I respectfully disagree 
with that assessment of what they did. It was not as if on December 15 
or the day that the Iraq Study Group delivered their recommendations 
that they said this is a picture of what is happening in Iraq today. 
What the Iraq Study Group did is they took a look at the history of 
what had happened in Iraq. They took a look at the regional conflicts 
and at the dynamics that were driving the conflicts in that region and 
they reached a number of different conclusions which were as true in 
December as they are today, and which were as true, frankly, a year 
before December as they are today.

So it was not a snapshot, it was taking an assessment of the historic 
conflict in the region, some of which has gone on not for 4 or 5 years 
but 10 years, 100 years, 1,000 years, in some cases, in terms of the 
sectarian conflict we see today in Iraq.

It was out of that history that they came up with what they perceived 
to be the best way forward for the country in terms of how we dealt not 
only with the issue of Iraq but the very integrated issue of the Middle 
East conflict with respect to the whole future of not only Iraq but 
also the neighbors in that region.

So it was not a snapshot, from my point of view. In our dealings with 
both Congressman Hamilton and Secretary Baker, as we came forward and 
fashioned this legislation, it was their view that this legislation 
was, in fact, the best way forward. It was written in consultation with 
input from Senator Alexander. I reached out to both Congressman 
Hamilton as well as Secretary Baker. This amendment was written with 
their best thoughts in mind on how we could faithfully implement the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group.

So I daresay that the characterizations that cochairman of the 
commission, Hamilton, had to say yesterday about the importance and 
current relevancy of this recommendation of the Iraq Study Group are 
still as relevant today as they were in December. In fact, Congressman 
Hamilton said the Baker-Hamilton Commission recommendations today were, 
in fact, as relevant as they were in December and that the urgency of 
the implementation of those recommendations, if I may paraphrase him, 
was even more urgent today than it was back in December as we continue 
to drift sideways, spiral downward frankly, in the conditions in Iraq.

I do not argue it was a snapshot. It was a recommendation that came 
out after an indepth study by some of the best experts in the world, 
including our military advisers. Secondly, my friend from Virginia also 
says that circumstances have changed in Iraq, that the Iraqi Government 
may not be as functional as any of us would want the Iraq Government to 
be.

Well, the fact of the matter is that no one has sent the clear 
direction by law to the Iraqi Government that support from America to 
the Iraqi Government and to the Iraqi people is dependent on them 
making progress on the ground. This legislation does that specifically, 
as the Iraq Study Group recommends.

Thirdly, there were lots of military advisers that were involved in 
providing advice, counsel, and guidance to the Iraq Study Group. It 
included ADM James Ellis, GEN John Keane, GEN Edward Meyer, GEN Joseph 
Ralston, LTG Roger Schultz and hundreds of other people who were 
consulted for their expertise in the formulation of the recommendations 
that went into the Iraq Study Group.

Finally, I would say that of all the debate we have had on Iraq, the 
fundamental reality still remains the same. There is only the one group 
chartered, in part because of the leadership of the Senator from 
Virginia, that took a comprehensive look at the situation in Iraq and 
the Middle East and came up with a set of recommendations that were 
comprehensive in nature.

When you look at the bipartisan composition of that commission, they 
spoke on what is in the best interests of America based on the best 
information they were able to acquire from around the world and the 
best military and foreign policy experts we have. So, in my view, the 
Iraq Study Group recommendations are still as relevant today as they 
were in December.

I would urge my colleagues to join us in this bipartisan effort.

I yield the floor.