---
---

# CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF ARMY SERGEANT JOHN COOPER OF FLEMINGSBURG,  KENTUCKY
## `64e7f4756101540dac62724b0fc6f694`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the legacy 
of a brave young man from my district who recently lost his life 
fighting in Iraq. A resident of Ewing, Kentucky, Sergeant John Cooper 
lost his life in a roadside bomb attack just outside of Mosul. Sergeant 
Cooper was serving in Iraq with the Army's 2nd Squadron, 7th Cavalry, 
and was working on security operations in the area.

I recently had the opportunity to meet with John Cooper's mother, 
friends and family. They relayed to me stories of a brave young man who 
answered the call to duty by joining the Army in 1995 after graduating 
from Fleming County High School. He served in Iraq from February of 
2003 to February of 2004 before being stationed in Korea.

In October 2006, he returned on a second tour. His mother, Janice 
Botkin, told me that her son was living out his life-long dream of 
serving in the military. She spoke to me of her son's bravery, his 
dedication and absolute belief in his mission, and by all accounts, 
Sergeant Cooper was a well-respected member and leader of his unit and 
his community.

Today, as we celebrate the life and memory of this great soldier, my 
thoughts and prayers are with Sergeant John Cooper's family and 
friends. The entire Nation is deeply indebted to Sergeant Cooper. We 
thank him for his service, and we honor him for his ultimate sacrifice.
