---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `64ead7971680cc0b2642fcc970a7ba43`
`Mr. INOUYE — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, for the past 30 years, I have been 
privileged to serve on the Appropriations Defense Subcommittee with my 
illustrious partner, the senior Senator from Alaska. We have always 
done this in a bipartisan fashion. It has been so bipartisan that, 
notwithstanding the controversies involved in the bill, as the Senate 
knows very well, we passed the bill in the subcommittee in less than 
half an hour and the full committee in less than an hour and a half.

We should also keep in mind that 4 days from now, we will be saying 
thank you to the veterans of World War I, II, and the others.

This is a must bill. I think we should take the words of the senior 
Senator


from Alaska, his words of wisdom, with seriousness because it deserves 
serious consideration.
Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we are a country at war and yet it 
is business as usual in the Halls of the Congress. This conference 
report is chocked full of unrequested and unauthorized funding 
provisions while actually underfunding the budget requested by the 
President for the Department of Defense by $3.5 billion. That is 
correct, Mr. President. We are underfunding one of the most critical 
agencies to the safety and security of the American public in order to 
spend extraordinary amounts on unnecessary, wasteful earmarks and run 
of the mill porkbarrel projects. There are over 2,000 earmarks in this 
year's Defense Appropriations conference report and its accompanying 
Statement of Managers, with 24 earmarks added outside the scope of 
conference.

Today, we are engaged in a struggle against Islamic fascism and yet 
it seems that many on both sides of the aisle are placing special 
interest and pet projects before the urgent funding needs of our troops 
and providing what they need to succeed in their mission. While this 
bill has $3 billion of Katrina relief for Louisiana homeowners, it does 
not have one dime allotted for bridge funds for the global war on 
terror. I support doing what we can do to aid in the Katrina recovery. 
But we must be equally committed to our brave men and women in uniform.

Allow me to highlight some of the earmarks that are taking real money 
away from our fighting men and women: $25,000,000 for the Hawaii 
Federal Health Care Network; $23,000,000 for the National Drug 
Intelligence Center, NDIC; $20,000,000 for historically Black colleges 
and universities; $5,000,000 for the United States Olympic Committee, 
USOC Paralympic Military Program; $4,800,000 for the Jamaica Bay Unit 
of Gateway National Recreation Area; $3,000,000 for ''The First Tee,'' 
a golf foundation in St. Augustine, FL; $2,400,000 for the Vertical 
Lift Center of Excellence-Institute of Maintenance, Science and 
Technology; $2,000,000 for brown tree snake eradication; $1,600,000 for 
the New York Structural Biology Center; $1,200,000 for the National 
Bureau for Asian Research; $800,000 for extended shelf life produce for 
remotely deployed forces; and $500,000 for the Maine Institute for 
Human Genetics.

I am not questioning the merits of some of these programs and 
initiatives but they do not belong on a Defense appropriations bill. It 
is our responsibility to be faithful stewards of the taxpayers' hard-
earned dollars. Whatever position you have on the war in Iraq, the 
global war on terror or this administration, as long as our soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines are in harm's way, it is our responsibility 
to provide them with whatever is necessary for them to succeed in their 
missions around the world and come home safely. We can do better than 
this for our troops and for the American taxpayer.