# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `64ed586964022efe2e381ae3559efb91`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. Madam Speaker, this resolution affirms the obvious and 
avoids the necessary. It is obvious that the common goal of the United 
States, the House, the Senate, Republicans and Democrats, is to avoid a 
failed state in Iraq. The Senate bill affirms this, the House bill 
affirms this, and I am supremely confident that the final conference 
report will confirm it as well.

The issue, as my friend the gentlewoman from California said, is how 
do we avoid a failed state in Iraq. Sadly, the record gives us many 
examples of what not to do.

When General Shinseki told the administration that his recommendation 
was to put 300,000 troops on the ground after Saddam fell, and the 
administration ignored that request, that is what not to do; when 
leaders who had studied Iraq in our State Department, our intelligence 
agencies and our Defense Department said abolishing the Iraqi Army and 
the Baathist Party in its entirety is the wrong thing to do, abolishing 
the Iraqi Army, abolishing the Baathist Party in its entirety was the 
wrong thing to do, it increased the risk of a failed state.

Now I heard my friend, the ranking member, talk about 11,000 Sunni 
generals, and he is right. The top of the Iraqi Army, the erstwhile 
Iraqi Army, the top of the Baathist Party should have either been put 
on trial, put in prison, or, at the very least, removed from those 
institutions. But the 85 to 90 percent who ran the sewer system and the 
train system and the bureaucracy of Iraq should not have been fired all 
at once. It was not the recommendation of the Secretary of State, it 
was not the recommendation of the intelligence community, but it's what 
we did, and it's how to create a failed state.

When voices within our government and around the world said that the 
right way to transition from Saddam's corrupt and evil regime to a new 
day was an internationally supervised political process, not listening 
to those voices was the wrong thing to do, and it increased the risk of 
a failed state.

So, yes, we know all sorts of things. We have learned all kinds of 
lessons about what not to do.

What should we do? Well, I think what we should do is insist that the 
Iraqi politicians do what American troops have done with such 
excellence, to execute the job they have been given. We are thankful 
that the level of violence has been reduced. We are very grateful for 
this, and we understand that the credit for that largely goes to the 
Americans in uniform and to their Iraqi partners fighting with them. We 
are very thankful for that result.

But we are also very mindful that the Iraqi politicians who have been 
given a golden opportunity to bring peace and stability to their 
country have utterly failed to do so. They have not passed a law 
dividing up the proceeds of their oil industry; they have not 
guaranteed minority rights in their government; they have not set up 
and established provincial elections and provincial governments. They 
have utterly failed to establish a stable government, because we have 
stood there and continued to hold their coats and let them suffer the 
delusion that America's sons and daughters will stay there forever.

If you want to avoid a failed state in Iraq, change that delusionary 
perception. Say to the Iraqi politicians, the


clock is running. The time is drawing nigh when our sons and our 
daughters will no longer referee your civil war. Negotiate an end to 
it, stop it, build a stable government. That is how to avoid a failed 
state. That is the policy underlying the policy of this majority. 
Frankly, it's a policy reflected in this excellent Armed Services 
authorization bill, which I hope will promptly be on the floor, 
promptly be on the President's desk, and promptly get about the 
business of serving the people who serve us so well.