---
---

# None
## `64ee1a673cf7606847c1878f3eefb65b`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I appreciate the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek) for 
his comments and certainly his leadership on this issue, which is 
unmatched in this House. I am proud to hear your comments.

We have a situation at Walter Reed which we all came to know very 
well, of course, in the months. I had the opportunity to tour Walter 
Reed, and when you see these kids that are returning from battle and 
you think about them, one of the fantastic gentlemen that we met was a 
2005 graduate of the Naval Academy. And you can picture him just 2 
short years ago in his uniform, throwing his hat in the air, excited, 
cream of the crop, the best this Nation can put forward, and he came 
home just horrifically injured.

It breaks your heart to see these men and women who fought so 
bravely, and you think that they went home to Walter Reed, and it is 
our responsibility to give them the best medical care that money can 
provide, and we had disastrous things happening there. You think of the 
living conditions that were outlined in that Washington Post article, 
and the paint peeling from the walls and the rodents and the mold, and 
you think, how could we possibly have let this happen?

For several years, there were complaints that were made, but nothing 
was done about it. But this Congress is doing something about it. We 
have not only done the investigations and the oversight to find out 
what went wrong and to hold those accountable who are responsible for 
what happened at Walter Reed, but, just as important, we have a 
commitment in this House and in this Congress that this is never going 
to happen again.

We are going to give the necessary funding to the Department of 
Defense and to Walter Reed so that they can take care of the 
maintenance and the repair that's necessary. And we are going to do a 
top-to-bottom review of every Department of Defense health facility and 
every VA facility in this country, find out if anything similar is 
happening, if there are any problems of this sort, and fix them 
immediately, not wait for this to take place again.

Because it shouldn't take a Washington Post article. It shouldn't 
take the newspaper to bring this situation to light. We have a 
responsibility, and we are fulfilling that responsibility, to ensure 
that this never happens again. And we are doing that in a variety of 
ways, through oversight and through the funding increases that I've 
talked about.

The supplemental bill that we supported and that went to the 
President's desk, which was signed, included an increase in funding to 
help the Department of Defense health care and the VA health facilities 
fulfill these obligations. And, as I said, we are now at record levels. 
The Appropriations Committee dealing with Veterans Affairs just today 
announced that they had marked up their bill with a $6.7 billion


increase in funding for the VA which, as I said, for this 1 year is the 
largest in history and is nearly $4 billion above what the President 
had requested.

We are going to talk a little bit later about bipartisanship, and 
that is an issue of which there can be no disagreement. There are 
issues that we talk about, like immigration, like Iraq, like tax cuts, 
where there is a deep divide among us. There are serious policy 
differences among us. But every Member of this House can agree that 
there is no group that should stand ahead of our Nation's veterans when 
it comes time to make Federal funding decisions. That is an issue that 
we can all agree on.

I am proud to be a Member of this House that has, for the first time 
in a very long time, as I said, created an atmosphere where we all 
agree that veterans come first, and we need to increase the level of 
funding for the VA health facilities after years and years of neglect.

So, with that said, I would yield at this time to the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy).