---
---

# RECOGNIZING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF RADIO FREE EUROPE/RADIO LIBERTY
## `64ef8927e75d543fadb4e9bd89f77c1e`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 3 November 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today in support 
of H. Res. 641, which recognizes the 60th anniversary of the founding 
of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. I support this resolution because 
of the incredible role that Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty played in 
helping to end the cold war.

In 1949, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, RFE/RL, was established by 
the United States to promote democracy in communist-controlled parts of 
Europe. RFE/RL broadcasted unbiased and factual information and ideas, 
providing valuable reporting and demonstrating the value of the freedom 
of the press. The information provided in the broadcasts was more 
comprehensive than the information provided on state-controlled media 
sources, leading some Communist authorities to use secret transcripts 
to stay informed.

Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty played an important role in bringing 
about the demise of communism in Europe. Leaders from Russia and other 
former Soviet Union countries have extolled the virtues of Radio Free 
Europe and Radio Liberty. Former Polish President Lech Walesa famously 
said that RFE/RL's influence ''could not be described.'' Former 
President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic and former President of 
the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, have also described the 
significant role that RFE/RL played in bringing the end of communism in 
Europe. Its virtue was encapsulated by the former President of Estonia, 
Lennart Meri, who nominated RFE/RL for the Nobel Peace Price in 1991.

During the cold war, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty was subject to 
attacks by Communist governments of the Soviet Union. The Soviet 
intelligence agency and secret police, the KGB, as well as other 
Communist intelligence agencies infiltrated radio stations with spies 
and attempted to disrupt reporting by jailing and intimidating sources. 
Georgi Markov, an RFE/RL correspondent in Bulgaria, was murdered in 
London in 1978 by Bulgarian Communist intelligence service agents. In 
1981, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty was attacked when Romanian 
security agents exploded a bomb outside of the RFE/RL headquarters in 
Munich, West Germany. Such acts of violence by the Soviet Union and 
Eastern Bloc countries demonstrate the fear that the Communist leaders 
had for the democratizing influence of the free press.

Today, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty continues to operate in 
Eastern Europe, Eurasia, and Asia. RFE/RL broadcasts in 28 languages to 
over 30 million listeners in 20 countries, including Ukraine, Russia, 
Moldova, Georgia, the Balkans, Belarus, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, and 
Afghanistan. To this day, RFE/RL correspondents and employees are 
subject to violence and intimidation by regimes that consider the free 
press threatening.

In 1823, Thomas Jefferson said, ''The only security of all is in a 
free press. The force of public opinion cannot be resisted when 
permitted freely to be expressed. The agitation it produces must be 
submitted to. It is necessary, to keep the waters pure.'' From the cold 
war to today, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has demonstrated 
Jefferson's words throughout the world. By bringing the free press to 
countries with repressive governments, RFE/RL has proven for over 60 
years that governments that use censorship to protect their authority 
cannot stand forever.