---
---

# THANKS TO MINNESOTA'S MILITARY HEROES
## `64f4b229a7664215e6226709f1e58c3c`
`Mr. ELLISON — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, the Minnesota Army and Air National Guard 
have welcomed home nearly 2,600 citizen soldiers who were called to 
active duty for the war in Iraq. Most of those Minnesotans, who are 
returning from Iraq, were deployed for 22 months and many spent 16 
months in combat. The brave men and women of the Minnesota National 
Guard deserve our respect and our gratitude. The members of the 
Minnesota National Guard, their families, friends and employers have 
all endured a hardship during the past 22 months. The sacrifices they 
made, and the quiet dignity they displayed during that time, are not 
surprising to those who have had the honor of meeting them.

The State of Minnesota is very proud of the active duty, reserve and 
National Guard who enlisted from our State. The Minnesota State seal 
depicts an individual working hard on farmland. The seal is a perfect 
symbol of the strong work ethic displayed by the brave men and women 
from our State who serve in the military. Our State seal also includes 
the words ''L'etoile du Nord'' which translated from French means 
''Star of the North.'' The men and women from Minnesota served under 
various group names, such as Soldier, Airmen, Sailors, Marines, Red 
Bulls, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division, Active Duty, 
Reservist, and many more. Regardless of their military affiliation, 
those who served have shown the world that Minnesotans are prepared for 
any challenge and able to perform any task and that they are truly 
bright stars of the north.

The Minnesota National Guard served the longest continuous deployment 
of any United States military unit during Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
Members of the Minnesota National Guard completed 5,200 combat 
logistics patrols, secured 2.4 million convoy miles, discovered 462 
improvised explosive devices prior to detonation, processed over 1.5 
million vehicles and 400,000 Iraqis into entry control points without 
an insurgent penetration. The men and women of the Minnesota National 
Guard also completed 137 reconstruction projects in Iraq.

Veterans who fought in wars and were discharged many years ago have 
told me that they appreciate it when people thank them for their 
service. I do not want the men and women who return from Iraq, 
Afghanistan or other locations to wait years before hearing me thank 
them for their service. I offer a heartfelt, sincere thank you to all 
Minnesotans who served and are currently serving in the United States 
military. I welcome home all the brave individuals who have devoted 
their time and talents to defend our Nation and provide security in the 
world. Some Minnesotans deployed to combat areas and lost their lives. 
I hope all Americans remember these brave men and women and continue to 
support the families they left behind. I encourage all Americans to 
thank a veteran or member of our military for their service. I also 
encourage this Congress and all citizens to offer any assistance to our 
Nation's military personnel and their families as they transition back 
to the lives they led prior to their deployments.
