---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `64f803731cbe4838355b9b2779537ef6`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Today, I introduce the National Guard and Reserve Mental 
Health Access Act, which provides greater access to mental health 
services for our members of the National Guard and Reserve.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are taking an excruciatingly high 
toll on veterans and their families and the Nation obviously needs to 
give greater priority to their mental health needs, including the 
National Guard and the Reserve.

As of April 29, 2008, 31,848 servicemembers have been wounded in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Thirty percent of our soldiers struggle with brain 
injuries, mental illnesses, including post-traumatic stress disorder 
and depression, or a combination of these physical and mental wounds.


Earlier this month, the RAND Corporation released a report 
documenting the alarmingly high numbers of veterans who struggle with 
mental health problems and brain injuries. One in 5 of these brave men 
and women report mental health problems.

These mental health problems take various forms, including post-
traumatic stress disorder, depression, suicidal tendencies and 
substance abuse, and they can persist for months or even years after 
their service. Some will never be the same again.

It is our duty to give our National Guard and Reserves the best 
possible treatment, whatever their injury. Mental conditions should be 
treated with the same care and concern as physical conditions.

This bill calls for the implementation of the Yellow Ribbon 
Reintegration Program, which provides counseling, education and family 
services to returning members of the Guard and reservists. It 
establishes a Joint Psychological Health Program in the National Guard 
Bureau to oversee and coordinate support for Guard members with mental 
illness or brain injuries, and it creates a pilot project for providing 
new applications of technology in tele-mental health and anti-stigma 
treatment.

The National Guard and Reserve Mental Health Access Act is a three-
part approach to targeting these mental health needs, which require 
specialized access to care and services.

Our National Guard and Reserves make incredible sacrifices for our 
country and we owe them the very best access to care possible.