# GENERAL LEAVE
## `64fc4ff1821903ddfeee9c13963a03cf`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 23 January 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise vigorously to oppose 
the President's veto because of the 1 million children in Texas and the 
City of Houston that will be left out in the cold without health care.

Madam Speaker, as the chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I 
rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote in support of 
overriding the Presidential veto of H.R. 3963, the ''Children's Health 
Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' I rise in 
strong support of this legislation because I am listening, and 
responding to the will of the American people. Last November 2006, 
Americans went to polls by the millions united in their resolve to vote 
for change. They voted for a new direction and a change in the Bush 
administration's disastrous neglect of the real needs of the American 
people, particularly children who lack health insurance through no 
fault of their own. The new Democratic majority heard them and 
responded by passing H.R. 976, ''State Children's Health Insurance 
Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' The President vetoed the 
bill, basing his decision on the absurd and laughable claim that the 
program was thinly disguised ''socialized medicine'' and that it was 
too costly to provide health insurance for America's needy children.

The President's senseless veto of the SCHIP bill suggests that this 
administration is operating under the misimpression that it is entitled 
to a continuation of the ancien regime under which the Republican-led 
Congress look askance and gave the President a blank check to mismanage 
the affairs of our Nation. Following the President's first veto, the 
bill was revised to meet a number of concerns raised by the President 
including ensuring lower-income children are enrolled first and 
ensuring benefits are denied to illegal immigrants. While the bill 
again passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 265 to 142, moving to 
the Senate where it passed by a veto-proof 64 to 30, the President 
again vetoed the bill and, in so doing, denied health care to millions 
of deserving American children.

No matter how many veto threats the President issues, this Congress 
is not going to give him a blank check to escalate and continue the war 
in Iraq or to ignore the pressing domestic needs of the American 
people. It is long past time for change in Iraq and in the direction of 
the United States. Just as the people and Government of Iraq must 
accept responsibility for their own country, the people's 
representatives in Congress must take the lead in addressing the real 
problems of real Americans living in the real world.

H.R. 3963 is a necessary step in the right direction because it 
provides dependable and stable funding for children's health insurance 
under Titles XXI and XIX of the Social Security Act in order to enroll 
all 6 million uninsured children who are eligible for coverage today, 
but not enrolled. That is why I strongly support this legislation.

Madam Speaker, next to the Iraq war, there is no more important issue 
facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the 
availability of affordable health care for all Americans, especially 
children. This bipartisan SCHIP bill is supported by an astounding 81 
percent of the American people and the majority of Congress.

By vetoing the bipartisan SCHIP Authorization Act, the President 
vetoed the will of the American people. By vetoing that legislation, 
the President turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the loud message 
sent by the American people last November.

I voted to override the President's veto because I can think of few 
goals more important


than ensuring that our children have access to health coverage. I voted 
to override the President's veto because I put the needs of America's 
children first.
















 texas children


I am extremely pleased to know that the children in the State of 
Texas stand to benefit tremendously from the SCHIP Reauthorization Act. 
Texas has the highest rate of uninsured children in the Nation, and 
Harris County the highest in the State. The bill goes a long way to 
provide coverage for the 585,500 children enrolled in Texas's CHIP 
program; and to reach the 998,000 children in families with incomes 
under the 200 percent Federal Poverty Level, FPL, who remain uninsured.

Madam Speaker, this important legislation commits $50 billion to 
reauthorize and improve the Children's Health Insurance Program, CHIP, 
and cover the 6 million children who meet its eligibility criteria.

Madam Speaker, SCHIP was created in 1997, with broad bipartisan 
support, to address the critical issue of the large numbers of children 
in our country without access to healthcare. It serves the children of 
working families who earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but 
who either are not able to afford health insurance or whose parents 
hold jobs without healthcare benefits.

Children without health insurance often forgo crucial preventative 
treatment. They cannot go to the doctor for annual checkups or to 
receive treatment for relatively minor illnesses, allowing easily 
treatable ailments to become serious medical emergencies. They must 
instead rely on costly emergency care. This has serious health 
implications for these children, and it creates additional financial 
burdens on their families, communities, and the entire Nation.

This year alone, 6 million children are receiving healthcare as a 
result of CHIP. However, stopgap funding for this visionary program 
expires November 16. Congress must act now to ensure that these 
millions of children can continue to receive quality, affordable health 
insurance.

As chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I can think of few 
goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to 
health coverage. It costs us less than $3.50 a day to cover a child 
through CHIP. For this small sum, we can ensure that a child from a 
working family can receive crucial preventative care, allowing them to 
be more successful in school and in life. Without this program, 
millions of children will lose health coverage, further straining our 
already tenuous healthcare safety net.

Additionally, through this legislation, we have an opportunity to 
make health care even more available to America's children. The 
majority of uninsured children are currently eligible for coverage, 
either through CHIP or through Medicaid. We must demonstrate our 
commitment to identifying and enrolling these children, through both 
increased funding and a campaign of concerted outreach. This 
legislation provides States with the tools and incentives they need to 
reach these unenrolled children without expanding the program to make 
more children eligible.

In my home State of Texas, as of June 2006, SCHIP was benefiting 
293,000 children. This is a decline of over 33,000 children from the 
previous year. We must continue to work to ensure that all eligible 
children can participate in this important program. To this end, Texas 
Governor Rick Perry signed legislation in June which, among other 
things, creates a community outreach campaign for SCHIP.

In addition to reauthorizing and improving the SCHIP program, this 
legislation also protects and improves Medicare. Due to a broken 
payment formula, access to medical services for senior citizens and 
people with disabilities is currently in jeopardy. Physicians who 
provide healthcare to Medicare beneficiaries face a 10 percent cut in 
their reimbursement rates next year, with the prospect of further 
reductions in years to come looming on the horizon. The budget proposed 
by the Bush administration does not help these doctors, or the patients 
that they serve.

This revised bipartisan legislation addresses the concerns raised by 
President Bush's first veto. These revisions include ensuring that only 
children in families with gross incomes below $51,500 for a family of 
three will receive SCHIP coverage, consequently addressing the 
President's concern that upper-income children do not receive coverage. 
Furthermore, this revised legislation will require that lowest income 
children are served first by requiring States to enroll the lowest 
income first in order to receive bonus payments. This bill will also 
phase out the coverage of childless adults in SCHIP over 1 year, as 
opposed to the 2-year coverage phase out in the original bill. And 
finally, this bill ensures that only citizens and legal immigrants 
receive coverage by providing that if the Social Security 
Administration is unable to confirm the citizenship of the applicant, 
the applicant will be required to provide the State with additional 
documentation to confirm eligibility. If passing the Senate with a 
veto-proof margin was not enough to stop President Bush from once again 
vetoing SCHIP, then the alleviation of all his problems and issues with 
the previous version should ensure that this bipartisan revision of the 
legislation stands.

This is extremely important legislation providing for the health 
coverage of 6 million low-income children, as well as protecting the 
health services available to senior citizens and persons with 
disabilities. President Bush was wrong to veto this legislation. I 
stand strong with the children of America in voting to reauthorize this 
program. I urge all members to join so that we pass the bill with a 
veto-proof majority.