# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6515dffb5f6a96cba4552184751d67f8`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for those 
very, very poignant remarks laying the foundation for all of us to 
understand just how serious this challenge is that we are about.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose the resolution before us and urge those 
who are voting for it, or considering it, to carefully reconsider their 
decision.

Section 1 simply expresses all of our support for our troops who are 
fighting for our freedom and freedom in the world in Iraq.

All of us agree with that piece of the statement, and each of us has 
expressed our support and encouragement to our troops in our own way 
and our own time.

The second section challenges the President's, actually the Commander 
in Chief's, request for a surge in Iraq.

Much has been said about our going to Iraq because of the prospect of 
weapons of mass destruction in the hands of the madman Saddam Hussein. 
We presumed their presence, as most of the leaders of the world and 
most of the intelligence communities of the world so presumed. Not 
finding weapons of mass destruction does not set aside the importance 
of eliminating the force of Saddam Hussein from the face of the Earth.

It was my honor to lead one of the early trips to Iraq following the 
fall of Saddam. We were about to consider an $87 billion supplemental 
to help finance our presence in Iraq. I wanted to take a team of 
Members who would reflect much of the Congress, so that trip included 
conservatives and moderates and liberals. It also included within us 
Members who had voted to support going to war and those who had voted 
against it.

We visited most of Iraq, Mosul, Tikrit. We spent time in Baghdad. We 
visited the killing fields where over 500,000 bodies of Iraqis lie, 
Iraqis who were murdered by Saddam Hussein. We saw the golden palaces 
and visited the industrial sites suffering under Saddam Hussein's 
neglect. We saw the economic conditions, the handbasket conditions left 
by Saddam Hussein.

We stopped out of country on our way home to consider the fact that 
there was this supplemental appropriations before us when we returned, 
some $87 billion, discussing what we had experienced. And the 
experience had a tremendous effect upon all of our colleagues. It is 
properly summarized by the statement of one of our Members who said: 
''You all know where I have been coming from. I voted against the war. 
But after we have seen what we have seen over this long stay in Iraq, I 
am afraid what I am about to do is going to be very, very unpopular at 
home but I don't know how we can do anything else. Sometimes,'' he 
said, ''you have to be ahead of your people; sometimes we are elected 
actually to lead.''

That was almost 4 years ago. And fast forward to today. Saddam 
Hussein is gone, he is dead, and he is buried. But the extremists 
jihadi Islamic terrorists remain and continue to impact the entire 
Middle East. That is why we must succeed in Iraq. That is why we cannot 
afford to withdraw troops now.

Watching our floor debate last night, my wife turned to me and said, 
''They want us to redeploy or withdraw. They want us to retreat.'' She 
said, ''George Washington did not retreat when our country was in 
danger.'' She questioned why we find ourselves in this kind of 
circumstance today.

I was reminiscent of that early time in our history when our Nation 
was threatened. The French came to our rescue, our assistance, and 
indeed played a major role in our future Commander in Chief himself 
being successful.

Americans should never forget that. The Statue of Liberty stands on 
Ellis Island as a reminder of the French view of that young America, 
its potential, a land of hope where freedom could reign and opportunity 
indeed might abound. For that and many other reasons we love France, 
and the French people are our friends.

But France is not entirely the same country at this point in its 
history. She no longer provides such a leading light for the world. No 
longer is it presumed that the French language should be the language 
of the international world. Today, about 10 percent of the French 
population is Muslim. Much of that population is middle class and 
something less than a middle-class opportunity.

Within that group, there abounds the voice of Islamic extreme. There 
are those who advocate jihad and who would wipe France as we know it 
off the face of the Earth.

We should not consider withdrawing now, because a stable Iraq is 
vital to our national interests and is an important part of our ability 
to promote peace and economic opportunity in the entire world. It is a 
critical battleground in our war against terrorism.

If we succeed in Iraq, we will have taken a gigantic step towards 
stamping out the source of terrorism that exists in that part of the 
world. If we are not successful in Iraq, we will meet extremist Islamic 
activism elsewhere. 9/11 was only a part of a beginning. If we do not 
stop extreme Islamic jihadists in the Middle East, we will see it 
again, and most likely we will see it again here at home.


Review with me for a moment where we have been in Afghanistan and 
Iraq and where it may take us. Al Qaeda was nurtured and gained 
strength in Afghanistan. America had played a key role in forcing the 
former Soviet Union to cease its incursion in Afghanistan. The Islamic 
extremists who surround the likes of Osama bin Laden took advantage of 
the vacuum of Afghanistan, and used it as a training ground that would 
provide the terrorists an opportunity to spread their jihad around the 
world and spread terrorism with it.

America cannot allow the likes of Osama bin Laden to have places like


Afghanistan to serve as training grounds. It is in our vital interests 
to see that Iraq, for example, does not serve as a recruitment and 
training ground for the forces who oppose freedom and oppose our very 
way of life.

Make no mistake about it, there are forces in the Islamic world who 
do not believe we should exist. They may be relatively new or small in 
number, but there are those of Islamic jihadist extreme who are 
committed to the death of the nonbelievers. There are those on the 
extreme Imam fringe who teach hatred for the infidels in mosques all 
around the world.

We do not want to believe in such extremism as a country or a people, 
but the true believers want all of us to be dead, all Englishmen, all 
Germans, all French people, all Americans who are not committed to 
their belief. The heathens should be dead. How else would one be able 
to convince men, women, and children to strap themselves with bombs and 
kill the innocents by the thousands? If not death to all infidels, how 
else would a mother praise Allah as her young child explodes as a bomb 
in a crowded train station?

The war on terror goes well beyond Iraq. But make no mistake, that 
war will not be won by walking away from Iraq.

The President has called for a surge of just over 20,000 troops. That 
request does not flow from a naive presumption that maybe, just maybe 
the battle for Baghdad can be won by a few brave men.

The call for these troops is a change in strategy, a strategy that 
suggests that, with the leadership of such brave men committed to 
taking the Iraqis out front, can lead the way to a successful change in 
Baghdad, indeed, a change throughout Iraq; a strategy that the 
President would suggest involves clearing areas of Baghdad, clearing 
other areas throughout Iraq, stabilizing them, and then providing the 
real opportunity for democratic growth and change in Iraq.

A successful stabilization of Baghdad indeed is only the beginning 
point in Iraq. To me, this kind of change is the real hope for the 
people, not just of Iraq, but of the entire region. To me, that is the 
definition of success in Iraq.

If we are successful, we will have changed the face of the Middle 
East. A successful Iraq will send a great message to the likes of Iran, 
Syria, Yemen, and Indonesia.

The chance for a long-term peace and the chance for stability in the 
entire Middle East is the great strategic interest of the United States 
saving tens of thousands of lives are worth a great commitment by the 
world's only remaining superpower. The economic values that are to be 
gained from stabilizing the region are impossible to estimate, but they 
can be measured in multiple trillions of dollars.

But what happens if we walk away now? Also difficult to estimate, but 
here are but a few of the possibilities. And listen to the 
possibilities:

First, instability is replaced by a new kind of centralized 
authoritarian control potentially, perhaps an arbitrary government with 
Saddam-like controls. Shia would very likely be in charge, and force 
would be exercised in the name of stability.

Beyond that, Kurdistan in the offing; an insecure Kurdish population 
to the north would do all it could to provide for its own protection. 
The prospects of independent Kurdish region or state would create major 
tension between Turkey and Baghdad and that new region in northern 
Iraq. Beyond that, Sunni Iran would look upon the new direction of Iraq 
with great concern because of sectarian differences.



Fourth, the jihadist extremists of Islam would have increased sway in 
the entire region. The threat of terrorism all over the world would be 
a reality to those who would but look. Indeed, the prospects, to say 
the least, should be frightening to anybody who will but look.

Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker, all of our country, please realize 
that this is not the time to walk away. This is the time for the only 
remaining superpower in the world, America, to lead on behalf of 
freedom, to lead on behalf of people who are looking for opportunity 
and change for the entire world.

Mr. Buyer, I very much appreciate your extending me this time.