---
---

# OPPOSITION TO INCREASING U.S. TROOP LEVELS IN IRAQ
## `65416994d1393d9b81f9460d649c65d0`
`Mr. BOSWELL — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOSWELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to 
increasing U.S. troop strength in Iraq. As one Member of Congress who 
voted in support of the Iraq resolution in 2002, I recognize the 
pretext for going to war was based on faulty, misleading intelligence. 
I can not reverse that vote, but I can no longer acquiesce to a failed 
and tragic military exercise in Iraq.

Two months ago, Generals Casey and Abizaid stated they did not 
support increasing U.S. troop levels in Iraq. Last month, President 
Bush maintained that military policy with regard to Iraq would be 
determined by our military leaders. However, last week President Bush 
ignored his top military advisors and called for a 20,000-plus increase 
in U.S. troops to Iraq.

I, along with others, have been pressing the administration to level 
with the American people on the status of the American security forces 
being trained and ready to defend their nation. If Iraqis are trained 
and ready as we are told, we should begin a planned phased withdrawal 
of U.S. forces; if not, the administration should tell us when they 
will be trained and ready.

Sending more troops to Iraq does nothing to enhance the Iraqis' 
training; it only places more U.S. forces into harm's way to become 
additional targets for the insurgency. This failed policy must be 
stopped.

We can support our troops in the field and oppose the escalation of 
U.S. forces. I urge all my colleagues to work in opposition to the 
President's increase in U.S. forces.



