---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `65444a5e089fcfcfdb48b935fe894863`
`Mr. CONYERS — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to call for the passage of 
H.R. 4156, the ''Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Act.'' The 
war in Iraq cannot be won through the use of military force or another 
troop surge. The majority of the American people do not support the war 
in Iraq; a recent study stated that nearly 7 in 10 Americans oppose the 
war. Since the war began in 2003, 3,859 brave U.S. troops have died in 
Iraq. In 2007 the death toll has already reached 860 soldiers who have 
lost their lives, making it the worst year yet for the American 
military in Iraq. Currently, 28,400 soldiers have been wounded in Iraq 
since the war began with 12,750 suffering injuries so serious they were 
prevented from returning to duty.

President Bush's failed Iraq policies offer a war with no end in 
sight. There is no progress on political reconciliation between Shiites 
and Sunnis in the Iraqi government. Just this week, it was reported 
that the U.S. effort to organize nearly 70,000 local Sunni fighters to 
solidify security gains in Iraq is facing severe political and 
logistical challenges as the central government resists in 
incorporating them into the Iraqi police and army. Last month, the 
Shiite political alliance of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki called the 
U.S. military to halt the recruitments of Sunnis.

The bill in the house tonight will require the start of the 
redeployment of U.S. forces within 30 days of enactment, with a goal 
completion of redeployment by December 15, 2008. It will require a 
transition in the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq from primarily combat 
to force protection and diplomatic protection; limited support to Iraqi 
security forces; and targeted counterterrorism operations. H.R. 4156 
will prohibit deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully 
trained and fully equipped. The legislation also calls for an extension 
to all U.S. Government agencies and personnel of the current 
prohibitions in the Army Field Manual against torture. The bill will 
also provide to meet the immediate need of our troops, but defers 
consideration of the remainder of the President's nearly $200 billion 
request. At the current rate of expenditure, the additional funds will 
last 4 months.

Many insist that American troops cannot leave Iraq until we have 
achieved victory; and democracy has been established. History has shown 
us that civil wars and insurgencies are ended only through rigorous 
diplomacy, economic development, and national reconciliation between 
former enemies; not by a troop surge and an endless war. Diplomacy 
works, and now more then ever is the time to implement the 
recommendations of the Baker Hamilton Commission, and call for a 
regional peace summit in the Middle East.

Let's bring all parties who are involved in the conflict to the peace 
table, so they can begin to resolve their differences. If international 
diplomacy ended the intractable conflicts in Northern Ireland, the 
Balkans, the conflict between Israel and Egypt, and Rwanda; then 
international diplomacy can work in Iraq. Once we begin the strategic 
withdrawal of U.S. troops out of Iraq, and show the Iraqi people we do 
not wish to occupy their country, then and only then can we begin the 
real possibility of having an effective international peace conference.