---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6555aaf2171426f1a259e3c60bc375c2`
`Mr. GUTIERREZ — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GUTIERREZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this 
resolution.

Four years ago, President Bush plunged our Nation into a misguided, 
pre-emptive war with Iraq. I voted against authorizing it then--and I 
have come to the floor today to affirm my strong opposition to this 
irresponsible war.

Unfortunately, after 4 years of failed strategies by this 
administration, the President is now poised to confound his tragic 
blunder, and ignore the will of the American people, by attempting to 
increase our presence in Iraq. And that is why this resolution is so 
important. Because it sends a strong statement. A statement that the 
vast majority of the country supports. And that is: escalating our 
presence in Iraq will not lead to success in the region, and more blank 
checks will not make America more secure.

Madam Speaker, our brave men and women in the military have done all 
that is asked of them over the course of the last 4 years. They are 
heroes who represent the finest our country has to offer--and they 
should be treated accordingly. But, from day one, this administration 
has spent more time planning its attacks on those who offered 
legitimate criticisms of the war and its tactics, than it has on 
planning for a stable and peaceful reconstruction of the region. And 
the results have been devastating and unworthy of our brave men and 
women serving in harm's way.

Enough is enough. Troop surges have not worked in the past, and there 
is no evidence that the same failed policies will work today. In fact, 
former Secretary of State Colin Powell said in December, ''I am not 
persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad for the purposes of 
suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war, will 
work.'' Yet, this administration continues to ignore the guidance of 
military experts, the Iraq Study Group, diplomats, decorated war heroes 
and former senior White House officials of both parties.


And rather than being open to debate and discussion with these 
experts, this Administration has routinely attacked their character and 
questioned their patriotism. Many of these individuals have bled on the 
battlefield. But to this administration, and its swift boat 
strategists, they are treated merely as political pawns. It is truly 
shameful.

Because of this Administration's hubris, we have seen troops without 
proper equipment, without basic body armor, without vehicles equipped 
to deal with roadside bombs and without the appropriate veteran's 
services when they return home.

Because of their ignorance, we have seen giant banners saying, 
Mission Accomplished, when today Iraq has spiraled into a bloody, 
religious civil war.

Because of their arrogance, we were told that we were going to be 
treated as liberators, not as occupiers.

And because of their incompetence, we were told that future oil 
revenues would more than cover the cost of the reconstruction.

They could not have been more wrong. The cost of the war continues to 
grow at an outrageous rate. To date, we have spent approximately $379 
billion on this war, with estimates from some experts saying that the 
total long-term cost could exceed $1 trillion.

Think about that for a minute: $379 billion spent, more than $8 
billion a month. That is enough to fully fund Head Start--100 times 
over. To give virtually every student in America a computer. Pay for 
prescription drug coverage for virtually every senior in our Nation. 
Offer summer jobs to every teen in our country. Put hundreds of 
thousands of additional police officers on the streets. Provide 
millions of scholarships to public universities for deserving students. 
And pay the salaries of millions of public school teachers.

But what do we have to show for that $379 billion--a country plagued 
with hardened religious sectarian violence.

Madam Speaker, it is time to stop this charade. It is time for the 
truth. It is time for the administration to really level with the 
American people.

Resurrecting and rehashing failed policies of the past is not the 
answer.

Real action is needed. Leadership is needed. Courage is needed. And 
that is why we are engaged in this debate--to stand up to the deception 
and the dishonesty.

We are here today to begin to set our strategy back on the right 
course. To protect our soldiers. And to ensure that we can win the real 
war on terror.

Madam Speaker, we are here today as patriots because we love our 
country. We are here because we support our troops. And we are here 
because we want our troops to be able to come home to their families 
and loved ones.

Thank you, Madam Speaker, I urge a ''yes'' vote on this important 
resolution.