# REMEMBERING SENATOR CRAIG THOMAS
## `65654ed1083316924bf412855ad06f9e`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to join my 
colleagues in tribute to the memory of a wonderful friend, Senator 
Craig Thomas from Wyoming. For me, Craig Thomas was not only a member 
of the Senate family, he was a neighbor to the north. Because of the 
similarities between Wyoming and Colorado in terms of the rural nature 
of our States, Senator Thomas and I had the opportunity to work on many 
matters during the time we both served in the Senate. I wish to comment 
on two or three of those issues which were very important to us as we 
worked on them together.

I always saw Senator Craig Thomas as someone who was truly a fighter 
for the land, water, and people of this Nation, and the people of the 
State of Wyoming. I remember very clearly the debate we had in the 
Senate Energy Committee and the National Parks Subcommittee, which he 
chaired, about whether we were going to abandon the hundred-year 
principle that had guided the conservation philosophy of our national 
parks. It was Senator Craig Thomas who, at the point of the spear, made 
sure that the conservation doctrine of our national parks' policy 
remained intact.

I also remember the leadership role Senator Thomas took in the last 
several years when there were efforts to try to sell off our public 
lands in order to make that part of the deficit reduction for our 
Nation. While he was a true fiscal conservative, he also understood the 
importance of the legacy of our public lands, protecting our public 
lands, and making sure those public lands were not used simply for 
deficit reduction. It was through his leadership that we were able to 
turn back the efforts of those who wanted to sell off the public lands 
of our Nation.

I wish to also comment with respect to Senator Thomas's efforts for 
rural America.

There are some significant differences between the Senate family and 
the House family. I think the House of Representatives, because of the 
makeup of that body--many of them come only from metropolitan and urban 
areas. Here in our Chamber, many of our Senators represent States that 
are very rural in nature, and there are very few States that are as 
rural as that great State of Wyoming. So it was natural for Senator 
Thomas to be a champion for rural America, and it was my honor to join 
with him in working on a number of other things where we stood together 
and said that the America that had been forgotten by so many, rural 
America, was never going to be forgotten on the floor of the Senate. It 
was in that vein that Senator Thomas took a leadership role, along with 
our good friend, Senator Larry Craig from Idaho, to make sure we were 
doing right with payment in lieu of taxes so that those rural 
communities in the West, which are so dependent upon payment in lieu of 
taxes because so much of our land is owned by the Federal Government, 
that we would be providing them with the kind of compensation needed to 
keep them afloat.

It was also in that regard that I had the honor of joining Senator 
Thomas last year and Senator Craig in moving forward with the creation 
of the Office of Rural Veterans Affairs. That is because Senator Thomas 
understood that there was a great disparity in how veterans were being 
treated in the urban-suburban areas of our society and those in rural 
communities. The fact is that the VA had done a study that demonstrated 
the great disparity in health care services that were forthcoming from 
the VA to those veterans who lived in the urban communities as opposed 
to those who lived in rural communities. So it was his effort and his 
leadership that helped us lead to the creation of the Office of Rural 
Veterans Affairs.


Finally, his work on the Agriculture Committee. When I think about 
Wyoming, a State that I often travel, a State where I have often 
worked, I think about its natural resources and I think about its 
people, but I also think about its agricultural base. Certainly, 
Senator Craig Thomas will always be remembered for his great advocacy 
for agriculture and making sure we have sustainable agriculture here in 
our Nation.

I would like to thank Senator Thomas for the contributions he made to 
my State, even though I am a very new Senator here in this body. We 
worked on a number of different issues. It was through his leadership 
that we were able to hold hearings and move forward on legislation that 
created the Sangre De Cristo National Heritage Area, the Clark County 
National Heritage Act legislation, the Rocky Mountain National Park 
Wilderness Act, and the Betty Dick Resident Protection Act, and I could 
go on and on listing a whole host of other matters that were moved 
forward because of the advocacy of Senator Thomas.

Lastly, I would say this: We get to know each other in a number of 
different ways here on the floor of the Senate and while working 
together. I fondly remember traveling with Senator Reid and with 
Senator Thomas to Iraq and spending 8 or 9 days with him in that 
troubled part of the world. I remember the conversations about his 
yearning for a more peaceful and stronger world, where we would create 
a legacy for our children that was a legacy of peace for the world.

I was honored to often go to the Prayer Breakfast on Wednesday 
mornings and listen to the speakers. I knew Craig Thomas was a man of 
faith and that he was doing the duty of the people of this country and 
the duty of the people of Wyoming.

So from his neighbor to the south, I conclude by simply saying that I 
am proud of that cowboy. I am proud of Craig Thomas, and I am proud of 
the contributions he made not only to the State of Wyoming but the 
contributions he made to this Nation.

Madam President, I yield the floor.

