---
---

# None
## `656a922e033f4ffabe757959d0ef4b9b`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from the 
Rules Committee.

If a gentle breeze were to come into this room and dispel the fog of 
rhetoric that we've been listening to, we'd understand and return to 
the basic proposition that's quite simple, and that is, the budget of 
the United States Congress reflects the priorities of the United States 
Congress.

And what will be debated and the substance before the House is 
whether on the Labor-HHS budget we will appropriate and spend 2 percent 
more than was recommended by the President of the United States. What 
will be debated and decided by this House of Representatives is whether 
we will approve and spend 4 percent more for military construction in 
overdue services to our veterans. It comes to you from Chairs of 
subcommittees who are operating under the tight restrictions of pay-as-
you-go budgeting that has been adopted by this new Congress after it 
had been abandoned by the previous Congresses.

So what do the American people have to judge us by what we do? It's 
this: first, we will pay for everything on a pay-as-you-go basis; 
second, when the President says that we're spending more than he 
recommended on Labor-HHS and for our veterans, we plead guilty. We're 
paying for it, but we're doing it because we believe it's overdue and 
it's right.

Think about the lack of investment that has occurred as a result of 
the clear priorities of the administration approved by previous 
Congresses: all Iraq all of the time and impoverishing our domestic 
programs, even as Americans are struggling to make ends meet.



The Labor-HHS budget does a couple of things that are very 
straightforward. It makes a fundamental commitment in the National 
Institutes of Health. It increases LIHEAP funding, Low Income Heating 
Assistance Program. Is it needed? Oil is at $93 a gallon on a barrel.

And on the veterans budget, this Congress has made a fundamental 
decision, and it's very simple again. The cost of the war must include 
the cost of caring for the warrior.



Yes, it's true, this VA budget is the highest increase that we have 
had in the history of the VA. Why? It's because it is absolutely 
necessary to meet the obligation we have to the men and women in 
uniform.

We will have an opportunity to vote yes or no. We will have an 
opportunity to state explicitly and be judged by the American people as 
to what our priorities are, and the priorities we have are to begin to 
renew our commitment to our veterans and to renew our commitment to 
basic science and investment in the people of this country.