# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `6575ebde3e79a053fad5a236e57b26b0`
`Mr. MURTHA — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Chairman, the President requested $463.1 billion in 
total FY 2008 new budget authority for the Department of Defense and 
intelligence community programs that fall under the purview of the 
Defense Subcommittee. This is an increase of about $43.3 billion over 
last year's enacted level--a 10.3 percent increase in nominal terms. 
The lion's share of the increase over FY 2007, some 80 percent, was 
allocated to operation and maintenance and procurement programs. DoD's 
research and development program request is the same as last year's 
level, a decrease in real terms due to several major programs having 
completed their R&D phase and moved into full-fledged production.

The Committee's reported bill meets its budget authority allocation 
of $459.6 billion for FY 2008. This figure is a little more than $3.5 
billion below the President's budget request. Nonetheless, the 
Committee bill provides an increase for Defense of $39.7 billion over 
the FY 2007 enacted level, or about 9.5 percent in nominal growth. With 
respect to outlays, the Committee bill is roughly $2.9 billion below 
the allocation.

In general, meeting the budget authority allocation required shifting 
funding for certain programs between the FY 2008 base budget bill and 
the FY 2008 war supplemental, to be considered in September. This 
largely affected appropriations for the Department's operation and 
maintenance activities. The bill recommends an overall reduction to the 
operation and maintenance accounts of some $5.7 billion below the 
request. Nonetheless, the bill fully funds home-station training, 
equipment maintenance, and other key military readiness programs 
covered in these accounts. Finally, notwithstanding a slight reduction 
to the military personnel pay accounts, all other major program 
activities, such as weapons procurement and R&D, are funded at or above 
the President's request.

Meeting the allocation also required deferring consideration of 
several high profile programs until the FY 2008 war supplemental is 
taken up. These include:

The Basic Allowance for Housing shortfall.

The ground forces' strategic reserve readiness and equipment 
rehabilitation and recapitalization.

The purchase of at least ten C-l7 cargo aircraft, $2.5 billion, and 
MRAP vehicles, $4 billion or more.

The purchase of additional Blackhawk MEDEVAC helicopters.

The Department's Global Train and Equip program.

The Defense Health Program ''efficiency wedge'' shortfall.
















Funding Strategy


For some time now, the Committee has expressed considerable concern 
over the erosion of DoD's fiscal discipline. That erosion is reflected 
primarily in the Department's use of supplemental funding to cover what 
were once considered to be base budget costs, particularly weapons 
modernization and force structure costs. As such, the Committee 
endeavored to begin restoring traditional funding criteria to the FY 
2008 Defense base bill, and will do so when considering the upcoming 
war supplemental. Thus, recommendations for the base bill sustain non-
war-related activities and prepare for future threats by funding 
enduring personnel benefits, force structure initiatives, such as Army 
modularity and ''Grow-the- Force'' programs, infrastructure 
improvements, home-station training, and weapons modernization 
programs. Conversely, recommendations for the FY 2008 supplemental will 
be tailored to funding those programs and incremental costs that are 
arguably related to the war.

















 Highlights


The Committee's recommendations achieve a balance between preparing 
units for near-term deployments, supporting our military members and 
their families, and modernizing our forces to meet future threats. 
Highlights of the Committee's recommendations are:

Supporting Our Troops and Their Families: First and foremost, the 
Committee recommends robust funding for programs important to the 
health, well-being, and readiness of our forces. In addition, the 
Committee proposes several initiatives that address issues raised by 
troops, their families, and Department of Defense officials in 
testimony before the Committee and visits to military bases in the 
United States and overseas.

Funding of about $2.2 billion is recommended to cover the full cost 
of a 3.5 percent military pay raise, as approved in the House's version 
of the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization bill.

Under their ''grow-the-force'' initiatives, the Army and Marine Corps 
propose to add 7,000 and 5,000 new troops, respectively. The personnel 
costs of these increases are fully covered in the bill, as are the 
associated equipping and outfitting costs. For the Army the equipping 
costs for these new troops amount to more than $4 billion; for the 
Marines the costs exceed $2 billion.

Home-stationing training, optempo, and flying-hour costs are funded 
at robust levels. All told, the Committee's recommendations provide for 
a 13 percent increase in funding for these activities over last year's 
level.

The military services' force structure and basing infrastructure are 
in a state of transition. The Army, in particular, has been forced to 
manage significant changes in force structure, known as Army 
Modularity, base closures, and a global repositioning of forces, all 
while meeting the demands of war. Based on detailed information 
provided by the Army, the Committee recommends an important new 
initiative to assist the service in meeting this challenge. The 
Committee proposes adding $1.3 billion to the Army's facilities 
sustainment and restoration budget request to offset the growing 
infrastructure costs associated with the global repositioning of its 
forces. These funds will be used to fix barracks, improve child care 
facilities, and enhance community services at Army bases throughout the 
United States, Europe, and Korea. Funding for each project is itemized 
in the Committee report, consistent with the information provided by 
the Army. This funding, however, will only partially cover the Army's 
needs. As such, the Committee will address additional infrastructure 
cost requirements--particularly military construction costs--during 
consideration of the fiscal year 2008 emergency supplemental request. 
Further, the Committee intends to work with all the military services 
to better understand and respond to their basing and infrastructure 
needs during this time of upheaval.


Another initiative proposed by the Committee directly responds to the 
needs of our military families. Total funding of $2.9 billion is 
recommended for the military's family advocacy programs, childcare 
centers, and dependent's education programs. This amount is an increase 
of $558 million over the Administration's request, with most of the 
increase allocated to DoD's family advocacy programs. This program 
provides counseling, education, and support to military families 
affected by the demands of war, and episodes of child or spouse abuse.

The Committee's recommendations continue its long tradition of 
supporting the Department's health programs. The Committee proposes 
several initiatives and additional funding


to address health care issues raised over the past year, including 
improving the Department's electronic medical records and fostering 
better coordination between DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
enhancing preventative medicine programs, and advancing military 
medical research. Also, the Committee bill fully covers the $1.9 
billion shortfall in health funding created by the disapproval of DoD's 
proposed fee and premium increases by the House Armed Services 
Committee in its bill.

Protecting our forces abroad must be matched with a commitment to 
protect our forces and their families here at home. Thus, the Committee 
proposes a new initiative to enhance the security of military bases in 
the United States. Funding of $268 million is allocated for perimeter 
security force protection and related facility security improvements, 
an increase of $142 million over the President's budget request. These 
funds will be used to erect better perimeter fencing, provide more 
secure entry and exit controls, and improve situational awareness and 
response capabilities at military bases and hospitals.

Preparing for the Future: In 1796, President George Washington 
counseled the Nation to be, ''Taking care always to keep ourselves by 
suitable establishments on a respectable defensive posture.'' The 
Committee's recommendations abide by that counsel, providing robust 
funding for weapons systems purchases and research programs designed to 
meet future threats.

The Committee supports full funding, as requested, for key weapons 
procurements, including the F-22 and F-35 tactical fighter aircraft 
programs.

Increases above the President's request are allocated for development 
programs that address so-called ''asymmetric'' threats from weapons of 
mass destruction and cruise missiles. Additional funding of $15 million 
is provided to pursue cruise missile defense, $25 million for chemical 
and biological defense research programs, $26 million to improve 
fissile material detection systems, and $50 million for the Former 
Soviet Union Threat Reduction account to counter weapons proliferation 
and chemical/biological agents.

To support the Army's evolution to a larger, more lethal, and more 
rapidly deployable force, the Committee recommends adding funding of 
$1.1 billion to outfit a new, eighth Stryker brigade.

Testimony before the Committee revealed that our National Guard and 
Reserve forces continue to suffer from equipment shortfalls. To address 
this need, the Committee recommends providing an additional $925 
million to purchase Guard and Reserve equipment. These additional funds 
will enhance these forces' ability to meet overseas deployment demands, 
and respond to natural disasters here at home.

Economic Stability: Fostering economic stability in DoD's weapons 
modernization programs has been a consistent theme of the Committee. 
Analyses completed in recent years about DoD's acquisition program all 
conclude that, without improving stability in these programs, it's 
quite likely that the military will not be able to achieve the numbers 
of weapons systems required to equip current force structure at the 
estimated costs. As such, the Committee is proposing a series of 
recommendations that would help stabilize certain programs by adding 
funds and/or adjusting procurement or development schedules.

The Navy's shipbuilding program has been beset by planning and 
resource instability for many years, resulting in ever-increasing costs 
to the American taxpayer. Clearly, at current production rates and 
price levels, the Navy will be unable to meet its force structure 
requirements in the future. The Committee has responded by providing 
funds for an additional 5 ships. To purchase these ships, the Committee 
recommends adding a total of $3.7 billion above the Navy's request for 
shipbuilding and sealift.

The success of the Department's Joint Strike Fighter (F-35) program 
is critical to our Nation's ability to field a modern, capable fighter 
aircraft fleet for decades to come. To maintain stability in this 
program--and limit the potential for cost increases over time--the 
Committee recommends an increase of $200 million for F-35 production 
enhancements. These funds are to be used to outfit facilities with the 
latest in production line equipment and workflow technology. In 
addition, the Committee recommends adding $480 million to continue 
development of an alternative engine for this aircraft, thereby 
ensuring a competitive base for engine production.

Accountability: The Committee's fiduciary responsibility to the 
American taxpayer requires holding accountable organizations, 
officials, and programs that have performed poorly. Moreover, wasted 
resources and procedural abuses ultimately come at the expense of our 
military men and women. The Committee focused attention on the 
following issues:

Fiscal discipline: For some time, the Committee has raised concerns 
about the challenges facing the Department's financial managers. Some 
argue that fiscal discipline within the Department has eroded over 
time, severely constraining the Department's senior officials and the 
Congress' program and financial oversight. Regarding this matter, the 
Committee proposes several important initiatives to improve DoD's 
fiscal discipline and Congressional oversight. These are described in 
an appendix to this memorandum.

Contracting Out: The Committee also has registered concern about the 
Department's unabated appetite for contracting out services and 
functions once performed by military members or DoD civilians. Though 
clearly necessary to offset reductions in military and civilian 
personnel levels that occurred over time, the Committee believes that 
the Department has failed to adequately manage and oversee the growth 
in and cost-effectiveness of contracting out. It is also clear that the 
majority of DoD's service contractors has performed and will continue 
to perform well. Yet, abuses by some organizations, coupled with DoD's 
lack of an effective contractor management and oversight regime, has 
cast a pall over the service contractor community writ large. This must 
be reversed. The Committee recommends strong steps to do so. These are 
described in an appendix to this memo.


Trouble procurement programs: Several of the Department's major 
weapons acquisition programs have experienced considerable cost growth 
and/or poor execution. For each of these programs--including the Navy's 
Littoral Combat Ship, the Air Force's combat search and rescue 
helicopter, and several unclassified and classified satellite 
purchases--the Committee recommends significant adjustments to the 
Pentagon's request.

Basic research: In testimony received by the Committee, and through 
information provided by the Department and third-party groups, the 
Committee learned that the percent of basic research funding allocated 
to Department and research organizations' overhead costs has grown to 
unwarranted levels. To reverse this trend and ensure that the 
Department's basic research dollars are being used for the purposes 
intended by Congress, the Committee recommends a general provision 
limiting the percentage of overhead costs that can be covered in basic 
research contracts.











Summary of Recommendations by Title



 Military personnel

Military personnel pay and benefits accounts are allocated a total of 
$105 billion, a slight decrease of $0.4 billion to the President's FY 
2008 request, but an increase of $5.2 billion or 5.2 percent over the 
FY 2007 level.

The military personnel pay raise funded is 3.5 percent, at a cost of 
$2.2 billion. This rate is 0.5 percent greater than the President 
requested. Also, the President requests some $2.4 billion for retention 
bonuses and recruiting incentives. These incentives are fully funded.

The Basic Allowance for Housing, BAH, increases 4.2 percent to $15 
billion, which is $1.6 billion over the projected FY 2007 enacted 
level. This continues to ensure no out-of-pocket expenses for service 
personnel and supports the privatization of housing units for military 
families. Any BAH shortfall anticipated at the time the Committee marks 
up the FY 2008 war supplemental will be covered in that bill.

Army end-strength is increased by 7,000 in the base FY 2008 budget, 
to a total of 489,400, or $5.7 billion over the FY 2007 enacted budget 
amount. The FY 2007 and 2008 supplemental requests include funding for 
an additional 36,000 soldiers. By the end of FY 2008, the Army projects 
that its total troop strength will be 525,400.

The Marine Corps end-strength is projected to grow by 5,000. This 
troop increase is fully funded in the base bill.

The Navy and Air Force, on the other hand, will continue to reduce 
their manpower levels. Navy plans to cut 12,300 in 2007; Air Force 
intends to reduce their force by about 5,600.

The Special Operations Command will grow to a level of about 54,250 
personnel, up about 6,400 over FY 2007 levels. By FY 2013, the Command 
projects its end-strength to grow to about 59,000.


 Operation and maintenance

The operation and maintenance accounts are funded at a total of 
$137.1 billion, a decrease of $5.7 billion from the request, but an 
increase of $9.8 billion or 7.7 percent over the FY 2007 baseline O&M 
enacted level.

O&M continues to be one of the fastest growing accounts. The growth 
in O&M can be attributed to a number of factors, to include: 
outsourcing, increasing age of equipment, high OPTEMPO, and diminished 
Pentagon budget oversight. Note that these increasing costs are in 
addition to costs of our military deployments to Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
elsewhere.

Significant reductions are made to the military services' O&M 
accounts, particularly the Army and Air Force, for the following 
reasons:

Unjustified growth over FY 2007 funding levels, beyond amounts 
necessary to fully fund


all training, optempo, and maintenance activities.

Excessive buildups of spare parts inventories.

Excess cash in working capital funds, beyond levels necessary to 
ensure cash flow.

A 5 percent ''efficiency'' reduction to the requested amounts for 
contracted services.

The Committee bill fully funds a 3 percent civilian pay raise, which 
is scheduled to take effect January 1, 2008.


 Procurement and R&D

Procurement is funded at $99.6 billion, roughly the same amount as 
requested and an increase of $18.7 billion over last year's level. This 
is an increase of 23 percent, the largest percentage increase of all 
the major accounts in the DoD budget. R&D is funded at a total of $76.2 
billion, about $1.1 billion more than requested. Of note, funding for 
shipbuilding totals $17.8 billion, an increase of $3.1 billion over the 
President's request. The increase is a function of the Committee's 
recommendation to add 5 ships to the 2008 request. The total number of 
ships to be purchased in FY 2008 is now 10.

Funding of $3.9 billion is provided to fund the purchase of 20 F-22 
aircraft, as requested. Additionally, the Committee recommends $2.7 
billion for the procurement of 12 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft 
and $2.0 billion for the procurement of 24 F/A-18E/F aircraft.

Funding for the Missile Defense Agency decreases to $8.5 billion from 
last year's level of $9.4 billion.


 Defense health program

The Defense Health Program is funded at $23 billion, an increase of 
$0.4 billion above the President's request.

Major increases for this activity include: $66 million for the 
Wounded Warrior Assistance program; $127.5 million for peer-reviewed 
breast cancer research; $80 million for prostate cancer research; and, 
$10 million for ovarian cancer research.

HIV/AIDS research and prevention programs receive a total increase of 
$20 million in the Committee's recommendations.













 Notable General Provisions


A provision is included allowing the Department of Defense general 
transfer authority of $3.2 billion. The Department requested transfer 
authority of $5 billion.

A new provision is included permitting a competitive expansion of 
domestic VIM/VAR steel production capacity.

A provision is retained from previous Defense Appropriations acts 
which prohibits the sale of F-22 fighters to foreign countries.

A provision is included appropriating $15 million for Fisher Houses.

Funds are appropriated to the joint U.S.-Israeli Arrow missile 
defense system in Section 8077 of the bill. Also, funds are added for a 
study of future Israeli missile defense requirements.

A new provision is included which prohibits the Department from 
initiating new programs through reprogramming requests.

Another new provision is included which establishes a separate 
''major force program'' budget and program designation for DoD's space 
programs. This will improve the Committee's oversight of these 
activities.

Provisions restricting the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq 
and prohibiting torture a carried in the Committee bill. These are 
consistent with ones included in previous supplemental and base bill 
funding appropriations acts.

The bill includes two provisions regarding contracting out: (1) A 
provision restricting the payment of any award fees to contractors who 
fail to meet contractual requirements; and (2) a provision which fences 
10 percent of all O&M funds appropriated in the bill until the Pentagon 
submits a report on contracting out required in the FY 2007 Iraq 
supplemental.

A provision was approved in full committee mark-up to identify up to 
$30 million for the Impact Aid program.
