---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `659212dbd1f929d1b8e2458a0946d55a`
`Mr. WEBB — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to yield further time to the 
Senator from New Jersey, but before doing so, I would like to respond 
to some of the things the Senator from Arizona said in his statement, 
just to clarify the intention of this amendment and the environment in 
which it is being offered.

Contrary to what the Senator from Arizona said, this amendment has 
been changed since July. There is a 120-day implementation provision in 
it, after my discussion with Secretary Gates. There is also an 
exclusion of special operations units from the requirements of the 
amendment. There are, as always, clear waiver provisions in here which 
would address a number of the situations Secretary Gates mentioned.

The Senator from Arizona may believe the impact of this amendment 
would be to alter the strategy in Iraq, and he has made a few 
implications


that people cannot support our military people unless they support a 
political mission. I don't believe that is correct. I believe it is the 
role in American society to question missions when one believes they 
are heading in the wrong direction. I believe many of our troops have 
that option and also exercise it. You can look at poll after poll on 
that.

The one thing we can say about the U.S. military is that it has 
always controlled the tactical battle space into which it has been put. 
We can clearly say that in Iraq today. We can say that about other 
engagements. That is the job the military is being called upon to do.

When the Senator from Arizona talks about what is this debate really 
about, to characterize this as a debate about defeat is inappropriate. 
The narrow purpose of this amendment is not to question so much whether 
the strategy is working but how do you feed troops into an operational 
environment. Where do we draw the line? I suppose we could have a 
decision from an administration that we would put all of American 
forces in Iraq until the war was over. When does the Congress decide 
that the policies of the executive branch have reached an imbalance? 
This is a very modest amendment.

With respect to the constitutional implications, this is a tired old 
argument. I addressed it in July. I addressed it again today. There is 
a third provision in article I, section 8, which clearly gives Congress 
the authority to make these sorts of decisions.

Senator McCain rightly talks about the loss of qualified officers and 
NCOs. My experience, looking at the U.S. military today, is that we are 
now losing them permanently. If you look at the retention rates from 
West Point, they are clearly on a marked downside. That is the canary 
in the bird cage.

With respect to the letter of Secretary Gates, I respect Secretary 
Gates. I talk with him. He is a political appointee. We can expect 
political answers to a number of these questions.

When Senator McCain speaks of the implications of withdrawal, we are 
in a box, I agree. The same implications being addressed right now for 
withdrawal were the implications that people such as myself, General 
Zinni, General Scowcroft, General Hoar, and many others with long 
national security experience were warning about if we went in in the 
first place. We have a region that is on the edge of chaos. We have oil 
now at $82 a barrel. We have a situation with the Turks, who once were 
our greatest supporters in the region, being roundly critical of the 
United States, complaining about guerilla activities emanating out of 
the Kurdish areas. We need to get the Saudis to the table. We need to 
address Iran. The only way for us to do that on a permanent basis is 
through aggressive diplomacy.

I, too, read Henry Kissinger's article last Sunday. A big portion of 
it at the end was about the need to move forward more strongly with 
diplomacy.

All of those issues are legitimate. They are all going to be 
thoroughly debated. The purpose of this amendment, again, is to put a 
safety net under our Active-Duty military and our Guard and Reserve 
while these debates are taking place.

With that, I yield the floor and note the Senator from New Jersey 
wishes to speak. Perhaps the Senator from Arizona wants to speak.