---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `659e2182ed625b65d1884306ff2eb32a`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman, 
who is also the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee and 
obviously, very, very passionate and articulate on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, my constituents know that I vote my conscience. I voted 
against my party and our President when I thought that they were wrong. 
I have stood up to my leadership when my constituents knew Congress 
could do better.

But, Mr. Speaker, my vote on the resolution before us isn't about my 
party or about the President. Unfortunately, this vote and this debate 
is all about politics and providing some political cover. This vote 
does nothing to help our soldiers win. What I see here is this liberal 
leadership pandering to the vitriolic left wing of the Democrat Party.

How do I know this?

At the opening of this debate, Speaker Pelosi asked the only real 
relevant question: Will this resolution make our troops safer? In her 
remarks, and I have read and reread them, she didn't say how her 
resolution did that. I have pored over the remarks and the text of this 
resolution to find all the instances where the House will be giving 
greater resources to the troops, and it doesn't.

After I read all 60 words many, many times, I can tell you, not one 
single word in the resolution offers any more equipment, not any more 
diplomacy, or any more security for our troops.

And guess what?

It also does not bring one soldier home sooner. It doesn't demand the 
Iraqis take the lead in the fight. These omissions make it startlingly 
clear to me that the answer to Speaker Pelosi's questions, will this 
resolution make our troops safer, is absolutely no, it will not.

The Democrats have this resolution all wrong. To be more specific, 
there is not a single mention in this resolution of how we will send 
more body armor for the troops, not a single mention of new tools to 
detect IED explosives, not one word dedicated to up-armored Humvees, 
and, Mr. Speaker, not one mention of the method to fund the health care 
needs of those veterans who will come home. Not one word.

I invite the Speaker to come back into the Chamber and tell this 
House where is the additional money to make our soldiers safer and our 
Army stronger, because if she can't show me the substance in these 60 
words, then they are nothing but rhetoric, and this resolution cannot 
and will not help our troops.

This week the House is debating a useless resolution that's only 
purpose is to weaken and divide. The American people are not stupid. 
They can see through this charade for exactly what it is. It is a 
toothless effort to provide political cover for Democrats.

As a matter of fact, the Orlando Sentinel, certainly not a 
conservative newspaper, has said that this is an empty measure. It says 
the pointless House Resolution on Iraq fails to set goals. It goes on 
to say, The U.S. House launched a welcome debate this week on the Iraq 
war. It is too bad 3 days of points and counterpoints will end in a 
vote on a pointless resolution. This isn't thoughtless policy, it is 
political cover.

Believe me, the Orlando Sentinel is, by far, not a very conservative 
newspaper.

My constituents know that over these 3 days we have debated a 
resolution with no teeth, no enforcement, and it is delivered in a way 
that has no guts, no character and provides no leadership.

Mr. Speaker, if this debate were about policy, we would be talking 
about changing or creating law. If the Democrats believed what they 
were saying, this House would be debating spending and funding, not 
wasteful rhetoric. If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were 
genuine, we would be talking about benchmarks for Iraq, the Iraqi 
Government, and strict guidelines for appropriations.

I have heard some on the other side of the aisle say that this debate 
is about preventing an escalation. Is the Democrat majority so 
powerless that it cannot stop a deployment?

Before I got elected, Congress authorized this war, and with the 
force of law, this Congress could stop it. Congress' concern should be 
for our troops, not the Presidential and political ambitions of the 
Democrat Party.

It is rare when I stand on the floor and say that the Senate actually 
got it right, but I must commend them for their more thoughtful and 
less politically attuned resolution, because their resolution states 
the long-term security interests of the United States are best served 
by an Iraq that can sustain, govern and defend itself and serve as an 
ally in the war against extremists. That statement acknowledges the 
battle that we are waging and the eventual victory that we must achieve 
in the Middle East.

The 60-word resolution before this Chamber makes no such statement or 
recognition and sets absolutely no benchmarks.

My sole concern is for our troops. The litmus test for my vote is 
whether or not this resolution makes our troops safer.

Mr. Speaker, I believe every Member of this House should ask 
themselves the following questions:

Will this resolution protect one of our soldiers?

Will this resolution make one piece of armor thicker?

Will these empty words make a single IED less lethal?

Will this resolution stop one sniper or one suicide bomber from 
attacking our troops in the field?

Sadly, the answer is no. This resolution is not being debated in a 
vacuum.

We must ask the question, Could this resolution encourage our 
adversaries?

Could this debate put one of our soldiers in further harm's way?

Might some Islamic terrorist believe that the more of our troops that 
they kill, the quicker the U.S. will withdraw our forces?

If the answer to these questions is even possibly ''maybe,'' then I 
cannot vote for this resolution. We should not risk encouraging those 
who would attack our troops just for the empty gesture of partisanship.

Let's call this for what it is. This resolution puts our troops at 
risk for the Presidential aspirations of some Members of the opposite 
party.

Many Members have noticed that on the 11th day of every month I wear 
this pin. This was given to me by firefighters. It is a depiction of 
firefighters


putting up our flag in New York City after it was attacked. This is why 
we have very brave young men and women out there fighting today.

I am not a blind supporter of the President's policies. And if we 
wanted to make this debate about policy, I would be there to work with 
them.

The President knows all well my strong reservations about some of the 
policies in Iraq. But, Mr. Speaker, it has not been a perfect war.

I stand here today to let our troops know that I will hold the 
President's feet to the fire to ensure that our soldiers have the tools 
for our victory. That is what our soldiers want.

In the South, we have a wonderful saying and it goes like this: ''Git 
'er done.'' Our soldiers want to get it done and come home. And our 
President wants the same thing. And this Congress should also demand 
the exact same thing. Let's get out there and ''Git 'er done.''








 [From the Orlando Sentinel, Feb. 14, 2007]


Empty Measure--Our Position: The Pointless House Resolution on Iraq 













 Fails To Set Goals




 The U.S. House launched a welcome debate this week on the 


 Iraq war. It's too bad three days of points and counterpoints 


 will end in a vote on a pointless resolution.



 The non-binding measure simply declares that Congress 


 supports U.S. troops, but disagrees with President George W. 


 Bush's decision to send another 20,000 to Iraq. Members who 


 vote for it can say they made clear their opposition to 


 escalating an unpopular war, but didn't sell out the troops.



 This isn't thoughtful policy; it's political cover.



 In the Senate, a detailed resolution whose sponsors include 


 Michigan Democrat Carl Levin and Virginia Republican John 


 Warner, the chairman and former chairman, respectively, of 


 the Armed Services Committee, is a more constructive response 


 to the president's troop surge.



 While the Senate resolution declares support for U.S. 


 troops and opposition to the surge, it also points out ''the 


 long-term security interests of the United States are best 


 served by an Iraq that can sustain, govern, and defend 


 itself, and serve as an ally in the war against extremists.'' 


 It advocates reaching that goal by encouraging Iraq's leaders 


 to make the political compromises critical to promote 


 reconciliation and security.



 The resolution places the responsibility for dealing with 


 Iraq's civil war where it belongs, on Iraq's armed forces. 


 But it acknowledges a role for U.S. forces in battling 


 terrorists, and in training and supporting Iraqi forces.



 The resolution echoes an assertion Mr. Bush made in 


 announcing the surge: The U.S. commitment to Iraq is not 


 ''open-ended.'' But the measure goes a step further by 


 declaring U.S. help should depend on getting Iraq's 


 government to agree formally to meet benchmarks. These 


 include sending all the troops it has promised to Baghdad, 


 fairly distributing the country's oil revenues among all its 


 people, and letting the country's military operate without 


 political interference.



 Unfortunately, parliamentary maneuvering between Democrats 


 and Republicans over the Levin-Warner measure and two other 


 Iraq resolutions doomed a debate and vote last week in the 


 Senate. The chamber's leaders need to work out a compromise 


 that will allow a full discussion and roll call on all three 


 resolutions.



 We share the misgivings of many members of both parties in 


 Congress about the president's latest war strategy. But with 


 the troop surge under way, and Mr. Bush vowing to push ahead, 


 it's better at this point for Congress to raise the pressure 


 on Iraq's leaders to meet their obligations to reconcile and 


 secure their country.



 Mr. Bush insisted this week that he would not be closely 


 following the House debate. A vote for the House resolution 


 will be easy for him to dismiss. But a bipartisan endorsement 


 of the Senate's constructive measure is more likely to get 


 the attention of the president, as well as Iraq's leaders.
