---
---

# THE NATIONAL PRAYER BREAKFAST 2007
## `65a4068ce38da84ba45aca0095b94032`
`Mr. CLEAVER — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I had the privilege, with my colleague, 
Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis of Virginia, of co-chairing the 55th Annual 
National Prayer Breakfast, held here in our Nation's Capital on 
February 2, 2007. This annual gathering is hosted by Members of the 
U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives weekly prayer 
breakfast groups. Once again, we were honored to have the participation 
of our President and the First Lady and we were inspired by the remarks 
shared by Dr. Francis Collins.

This year we hosted a gathering of over 3,500 individuals from all 
walks of life in all 50 States and from many countries around the 
world. So that all may benefit from this time together, on behalf of 
the Congressional Committee for the National Prayer Breakfast, I would 
like to request that a copy of the program and of the transcript of the 
2007 proceedings be printed in the Congressional Record at this time.


55th National Prayer Breakfast--Thursday, February 2, 2007, Hilton 










Washington Hotel, Washington, DC



Co-Chairs: U.S. Representative Jo Ann Davis and U.S. Representative 













Emanuel Cleaver, II




 U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II: My name is Emanuel 


 Cleaver, and today my job will deviate slightly from what I 


 do during the week. During the week I serve as the Fifth 


 District Representative of Missouri. I am also a United 


 Methodist pastor. Today I would like for all of you, if you 


 would, to please either get out a checkbook or----(Laughter)



 No, I'm serious. In seminary they taught us when you have a 


 crowd this large, you take up an offering. We may wait--but 


 you don't seem enthusiastic. It is my honor and pleasure to 


 serve today as chair of the 55th National Prayer Breakfast. 


 My co-chair and dear friend, Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis of 


 Virginia, will not be able to join us today, and please keep 


 in mind that if you have a great experience today at this 


 prayer breakfast, it is due in no small part to the work that 


 she has done in preparing for this day. And hopefully she 


 will join us next week with her work in Washington.



 One of the basic truths of the Holy Writ is one that all of 


 us can relate to and perhaps are familiar with--you will reap 


 what you sow. You don't plant corn and expect soybeans. You 


 don't plant an apple seed and expect a pear tree. A nation 


 that sows anger will reap bitterness and division. But a 


 nation or a collection of nations that sow love and 


 understanding will reap a harvest of peace. That is what we 


 are doing here today--sowing the seeds of civility in this 


 city, in our country, and in our world. There is nothing more 


 important for us to do. The ground is already covered with 


 weeds and plants of discord. So today we are going to begin 


 to plant flowers. The best way I know to do that is with 


 prayer. If you will, please, put your food down, which you 


 shouldn't have begun to eat----(Laughter)



 If you are the person at your table who did wait for the 


 blessing, please express to the others your spiritual 


 superiority. (Laughter)



 Let us pray.



 Almighty and loving God, we are gathered here today from 


 all over the world to say thank you for your love, your 


 grace, your mercy. We confess, God, that our world is not as 


 you intended, and we have contributed to the wrongness of the 


 world because of our own sins and errors. But Lord, we know 


 the truth of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s words, that 


 humankind is ''caught in an inescapable network of 


 mutuality.'' When any of us suffers injustice, we are all 


 diminished. But in the same way, when anyone finds peace, we 


 will all benefit.



 Bless, oh Lord, what is said and sung and planted in the 


 hearts of all who share this experience today, that we can 


 make this world more of a garden of your love, and if we are 


 able to do anything good and great from this prayer breakfast 


 today, we're going to give you all of the credit, all the 


 glory and all the honor. In your name and for your sake we 


 pray, Amen.



 As the former mayor of Kansas City, Missouri, I know that 


 our cities are the rubber of our democracy, and I also know 


 that there are only a couple of positions in this country 


 superior to serving as mayor--the presidency, obviously, and 


 the Senate, of course. (Laughter)



 Of course the Senate.



 But serving as a mayor of one of our major cities places us 


 on center stage of the municipal drama. We are very pleased 


 today to have with us, for welcome, the mayor of Washington, 


 D.C., Mayor Adrian Fenty. (Applause)



 Mayor Adrian Fenty: Thank you very much, Congressman 


 Cleaver, for your generous introduction and hosting everyone 


 here today. Members of Congress, governors, mayors, religious 


 leaders, President and First Lady, it is appropriate for me 


 as mayor, especially mayor of the District of Columbia, to 


 start out this prayer breakfast. Congressman Cleaver, as a 


 mayor, said it would be okay if I asked you all to say a 


 prayer for me, because it is going to snow today. (Laughter)



 Start out by asking that all of our snow plows work here in 


 the District of Columbia.



 At a time when we have gathered with so many influential 


 people, I will reflect on one prayer, and that is Solomon's 


 prayer for influence. When Solomon said to God, make me 


 famous--and all of us politicians and public servants are 


 famous in our own jurisdictions--Solomon said, I want you to 


 spread the fame of my name and give me power and blessings 


 and make me well known. When people read that first passage 


 they say, why would Solomon ask such a self-serving thing? 


 Like all other prayers, you have to read on. Further on in 


 Solomon's prayer, he says to give him these things so that 


 the king may support the widow and the orphans, defend the 


 defenseless, care for the sick, assist the poor, and to speak 


 up for the oppressed, the immigrants and the foreigners.



 And while we are all influential and powerful, as we start 


 out this great prayer breakfast, it is important that we 


 remember what influence is supposed to be used for, and the 


 purpose of influence as Solomon taught us is to speak up for 


 those who have no influence.



 Let's have a great prayer breakfast and let's use our power 


 for those who need it the most. God bless you. Thank you very 


 much. (Applause)



 Rep. Cleaver: Thank you, Mayor, for welcoming us to your 


 city.



 It is my pleasure to introduce you to the folks seated here 


 at the head table. All of you cannot follow directions, so--


 (Laughter) I would really like for you to applaud after all 


 of those at the head table are introduced, but since some of 


 you can't do it, if you would just applaud now. (Applause)



 Thank you.



 To my left is the Reverend Dan and Kathy Mucci of Glen 


 Burnie, Maryland. My co-chair, Jo Ann Davis, is not here, but 


 she once worked with Pastor Mucci's congregation as the 


 church secretary. He will offer a prayer for the nation in 


 just awhile. You have already met Mayor Fenty. And next to 


 him is the most important person in the room, it is my wife 


 for more than 30 years, Diane Cleaver.



 On the other side of the podium here is Dr. Francis 


 Collins, our keynote speaker who I will introduce more fully 


 later. Next to him, representing our nation's governors, many 


 of whom have events just like this in their own states around 


 the country, is Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota. He will 


 be offering a prayer later for world leaders. Next we have 


 one of my distinguished colleagues from the House of 


 Representatives, Allyson Schwartz, who represents the 13th 


 district in Pennsylvania. She will be sharing a reading from 


 the Talmud. Then we have people here from the Lower House, 


 the United States Senate--(Laughter)



 Senator Mark Pryor of Arkansas, and Senator Mike Enzi of 


 Wyoming and his spouse Diana. The senators will bring a 


 greeting from their weekly prayer breakfast group, from which 


 this whole event sprang more than 50 years ago.



 Finally we have our singer, Nicole Mullen, and her spouse 


 David.



 Now join me in thanking the head table. (Applause)



 Despite all the awards she has won and all the famous 


 venues that she has performed in, Nicole Mullen just wants to 


 be known as everyday people--it's not going to work, however. 


 The title of her best-selling album is ''Everyday People.'' 


 She has amazing musical talent which she uses with a loving 


 servant's heart all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen, 


 Nicole Mullen (Applause)



 (Song: ''On My Knees'') (Applause)



 U.S. Representative Allyson Schwartz: Good morning. I am 


 very pleased to be here and share in this fellowship this 


 morning. I am Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz from the great 


 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. I am pleased to be here this 


 morning. (Applause)





 A few Pennsylvanians in the crowd.



 I sometimes believe that my first memory was when I was 


 barely 3 and my father left for the Korean War. I can picture 


 my mother, my older brother at 4/1/2/, my younger sister at 


 2, all slightly sad, not really sure why.



 But I know that my father's return more than two years 


 later, after serving in an Army MASH unit in Korea, is in 


 fact my own real, first remembrance. I was 5 years old, I was 


 in kindergarten, and my father came to school to get me. I 


 remember seeing him in uniform--how unlikely to see a man in 


 uniform at school. But what I remember most is that I did not 


 recognize him. I didn't know him. I was a little awed, I was 


 a little scared. I remember needing to be reassured by my 


 older brother--who at 6/1/2/ was in fact really my older 


 brother--that it was okay, that this man was in fact our dad.



 So I know, as I watch families see their dads, and their 


 moms, off to war, that there are tough goodbyes. And there 


 are also the not-so-easy homecomings. That reuniting families 


 is not easy. That our troops come home with experiences 


 separate from their families, some good, and some very 


 difficult. That reuniting, reconnecting, is often hard.



 So for the men and women serving and returning from Iraq 


 and Afghanistan who are struggling with changes in their work 


 lives and changes in their home lives, and for all families 


 who have experienced separation or loss, who have experiences 


 that are often not revealed and difficult to communicate, but 


 nonetheless are struggling to be as good as they can be to 


 each other and to their children, I offer a prayer for 


 healing, for overcoming the difficulties, for forgiveness, 


 for feeling connected and whole again.



 Today as we offer our public officials our prayers and our 


 support, I offer this reading for all of us. The prayer I 


 will read dates from the Talmudic period and is offered at 


 evening and Sabbath services in synagogues across the world. 


 It is a beautiful prayer for serenity and for protection from 


 danger.



 Lord our God, we pray thee that we may lie down this night 


 in peace and awake in the morning to refreshed existence. 


 Spread over us the shelter of thy divine peace and guide us 


 with thy good counsel. Help us for thy name's sake. Be thou 


 at all times our shield and our protector from harm, our 


 guardian against danger, our savior from all manner of 


 trouble and distress. Keep far from us anxiety and sorrow, 


 and shelter us under the shadow of thy wings, for it is in 


 thee alone, oh God, ever gracious and compassionate, that we 


 put our trust. Guard thou our going out and our coming in, 


 that we may live a life of peace now and evermore. Amen. 


 (Applause)



 Senator Mark Pryor: My name is Mark Pryor from Arkansas, 


 and this is Mike Enzi from Wyoming, and we bring you 


 greetings from the Senate prayer breakfast. Every Wednesday 


 morning that we are in session, all senators are invited to 


 come to the Senate prayer breakfast. It is a great time of 


 fellowship and we have different faiths and very, very 


 diverse backgrounds that are represented there. It is really 


 a great way, maybe the best way, in the Senate, to get to 


 know each other in a deeper and more meaningful way.



 Another thing that we do there is, the chaplain at the 


 beginning of every Congress hands out a prayer card that has 


 all of the names of the senators on there, and he gives us a 


 weekly schedule to pray for our colleagues. And my experience 


 is, that when I am praying for my colleagues by name, any 


 hard feelings, any bitterness, any animosity has a way of 


 just melting away. So, we bring you greetings from the Senate 


 prayer breakfast, and here is Mike.



 Senator Michael Enzi: Mark mentioned our weekly prayer 


 breakfasts. I want to tell you about our global outreach. We 


 are willing to help any parliament or group of elected 


 leaders to start a prayer breakfast. We only participate when 


 we are asked. We send a senator and some prayer supporters to 


 meet anywhere the leaders seek the uniting power of the 


 teachings of Jesus. We have seen prayer groups bring 


 different faiths together. We have seen enemies begin to see 


 each other as people, people with similar problems, problems 


 solvable through the power of God used through leaders. We 


 want to share the care, the reconciliation, the respect and 


 concern that can unite. We want to share the concentration on 


 the 80 percent that we all believe in rather than the 20 


 percent that divides people. Of course these trips of 


 faith give each senator a gift of faith greater than what 


 we are able to share. May each of you, through the power 


 of God's hand, use your gifts for the betterment of God's 


 world. (Applause)



 Rep. Cleaver: Why don't you go ahead and eat. (Laughter)



 Lord, bless the food that we are about to receive, and may 


 this food do for our bodies what your Spirit does for our 


 soul. Amen.



 We will be back with you shortly. (Breakfast)



 Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the 


 United States, and Mrs. Laura Bush. (Applause)



 Rev. Daniel Mucci: Good morning, everyone. It is an awesome 


 privilege to be here this morning to lead us in prayer for 


 the leaders of our nation. As I was reflecting on this 


 opportunity to pray, I am reminded of the truth that men 


 should always pray and not give up. For we know what is 


 impossible with men is possible with God. With these thoughts 


 in mind, let us pray for our nation's leaders.



 Almighty God, we thank you for the blessing of leadership 


 you have provided to our nation time and time again 


 throughout our history. We thank you for the men and women 


 who offer themselves to serve their fellow man and seek to 


 fulfill the higher purpose of your will here on earth as it 


 is in heaven. For these gifts we express our gratitude.



 Thank you for our president, George W. Bush, a man who 


 seeks your face. May your presence go before him, may your 


 peace sustain him, and your power keep him as he fulfills 


 your call to lead our nation during this challenging time. We 


 now lift up President Bush and his Cabinet, the members of 


 the United States Senate and the House of Representatives, 


 the Supreme Court justices, the governors of our states and 


 their respective general assemblies, the mayors of our cities 


 and towns and all those charged with the responsibility to 


 create and enforce the laws of the United States of America.



 We unite our hearts in asking that you grant America's 


 leaders the courage to stand together when tested by the 


 winds of adversity--economically, socially, politically, and 


 spiritually--for there is no overcoming without a struggle. 


 So we ask that you would give them your grace to succeed in 


 our quest for peace and progress in our nation.



 We also ask that you would grant your servants wisdom to 


 work toward unity when confusion overrides their clarity of 


 vision for the future, for there is no unity without 


 humility. So we humbly ask that you would grant them the 


 mercy and love that they need to recognize and fulfill your 


 purposes in this generation.



 We ask for the determination to win the challenging battles 


 we face, to ensure the safety and security of our citizens, 


 and for those who call on us to be partners for democracy and 


 peace, for there is no victory without perseverance. So we 


 ask you to reveal to our leaders the strategic plans for 


 success, and to supply them with the strength to endure 


 the perils of war.



 Please protect the men and women of our military who have 


 placed themselves in harm's way for the ideals of our nation. 


 And finally, with the faith of Abraham, the meekness of 


 Moses, and in the spirit of Jesus of Nazareth, give us all a 


 servant's heart to meet the needs of those who are suffering, 


 from poverty, hunger, or disease, when we have the resources 


 within our influence to relieve the suffering and to bring 


 hope and healing to our fellow human beings. We ask these 


 things in your mighty name, Amen.



 General Peter Pace: President and Mrs. Bush, and to all of 


 you here, good morning. I am Pete Pace, and my wife Lynne and 


 I are honored to be here with you this morning. (Applause)



 Since the founding of our country, generation after 


 generation of Americans have sacrificed themselves that we 


 might have the freedom to gather here this morning and pray 


 as we see fit to our God. It has been my personal experience 


 that although some may enter battle either not believing or 


 questioning the existence of God, that very few leave battle 


 with any doubt. In fact in my experience, almost the first 


 thing that those who are wounded say is, ''oh my God.'' In 


 answer to their prayer, often the compassion and love of God 


 in the midst of that most difficult of times is brought 


 forward in the form of our chaplains, who risk their own 


 safety to bring God's love and compassion to those who need 


 it. So it is with great respect and appreciation for our 


 chaplains and for their assistance, for their bringing God's 


 love to all of us daily, in battle and out, that I offer this 


 reading from the letter of Paul to the Philippians.



 ''Rejoice in the Lord always. I say it again, rejoice. 


 Everyone should see how unselfish you are. The Lord himself 


 is near. Dismiss all anxiety from your minds. Present your 


 needs to God in every form of prayer and in petitions full of 


 gratitude. Then God's own peace, which is beyond all 


 understanding, will stand guard over your hearts and minds. 


 Finally, my brothers, your thoughts should be wholly directed 


 to all that is true, all that deserves respect, all that is 


 honest, pure, admirable, decent, virtuous, or worthy of 


 praise. Live according to what you have heard, learned, and 


 accept it, what you have heard me say and seen me do. Then 


 will the God of peace be with you.'' The word of the Lord. 


 (Applause)



 Governor Tim Pawlenty: Would you please bow your heads and 


 join me in prayer for world leaders.



 Lord, this morning we bow before you with humble hearts, 


 deeply grateful that you are a God powerful enough to form 


 the earth but gentle enough to care for our smallest 


 concerns. You are an amazing God. We know, Lord, that you are 


 the source of all love and that through the course of history 


 you have poured out your love, your mercy and your grace when 


 people have humbled themselves and prayed. It is with this 


 spirit that we come before you this morning. As the light of 


 the world, you have pierced through the darkness in troubled 


 times. Lord, our world struggles. We live in troubled times. 


 We struggle against the forces of darkness. The power of sin 


 and alienation is strong, but you are stronger. Our world 


 needs your healing power and your love.



 Today, God, we pray for our world leaders. We pray that the 


 power of your love will guide their decisions. Lord, we pray 


 for your special blessing on those world leaders who are with 


 us today, Prime Minister Musa and President Bush. We also 


 pray for those in this room that will one day lead their 


 nations. Prepare them also, by your grace.



 God, as our world leaders face the troubles and enormous 


 challenges of our times, we




 pray Solomon-like wisdom for each of them. Touch their 


 hearts. Heal any brokenness.



 We pray that each world leader will be guided by your 


 spirit, your leadership. Lord, bless them, teach them, 


 counsel them, continue to love them and hold them in the 


 powerful palm of your hand. May the leaders of this world be 


 led by you every day, in every decision, big and small. You 


 are the hope of the world and the ruler of history. We pray 


 that all world leaders seek first your kingdom and your 


 righteousness. I pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.



 Rep. Cleaver: As you are continuing to eat your breakfast, 


 I would like to recognize a visiting head of state who joined 


 us today, Prime Minister Said Musa of the nation of Belize. 


 Prime Minister. (Applause)



 Thank you so much for being with us.



 And while focusing on the room, I want to recognize a 


 historic person in our midst, the first woman Speaker of the 


 United States Congress, Nancy Pelosi of California. 


 (Applause)



 Rep. Cleaver: She had to leave. As many of you know, Father 


 Drinan, who served in the House of Representatives, died, and 


 she is going to attend his funeral.



 For the Democrats who are in the House, who are in 


 Congress, if you would please let her know that I did 


 introduce her. Committee assignments have not been made. 


 (Laughter)



 If I may have your attention once again, we will continue 


 with our program. But first let me share something with you 


 that I read the other day that I hope all of us can remember. 


 William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania, said--and this is 


 extremely important; if you can remember these words, I think 


 it helps this entire nation: ''I know of no religion that 


 destroys courtesy, civility, or kindness.'' William Penn.



 In this room today we are a people of over 160 nations and 


 many religious traditions, but a common teaching of all 


 faiths and philosophies is this important word civility.



 I came to Washington and to Congress with this desire in my 


 heart, to do what I could to make this a more civil place. In 


 the intensity and tension of this place, it's really hard for 


 me and all of us to follow the biblical teachings to count 


 others as important as ourselves, and as far as it depends on 


 us, we must all seek to live in peace with all.



 I have opinions that are as strong as anyone. My challenge 


 is to state them in a tone that raises the level of the 


 conversation and honors those who disagree with me. When you 


 look at the roots of the word ''civility,'' to be civil is to 


 be a citizen, a respected part of the community. So to be 


 uncivil is to fracture the community, locally, nationally, 


 and even internationally, and that is something none of us 


 can afford to do.



 With the passing of President Ford recently, I was reminded 


 of a story of his days in the White House. He held regular 


 debates here in Washington with Democratic members of 


 Congress, but most especially with Congressman Thomas Hale 


 Boggs, at the National Press Club. At President Ford's 


 suggestion, they would actually share a cab downtown and 


 pick their topic for debate on the way. Afterwards, they 


 would often go out and eat together.



 Mr. President, I am happy you are joining us for our House 


 Democratic retreat later today. It will be good for us and 


 good for the country to break bread together. (Applause)



 Remember, we reap what we sow. I think God is pleased when 


 we as citizens of the world, and people of faith, sow 


 courtesy, civility and kindness with each other, and raise up 


 a harvest of grace and peace.



 Now, our keynote speaker. Some of us know the song that 


 says, ''we are fearfully and wonderfully made.'' Any of us 


 who studied human anatomy in junior high biology probably 


 felt more fear than wonder. My biology teachers were always 


 the worst [pause] human beings (Laughter)



 But I have grown to respect and appreciate the men and 


 women of science because they unlock the secrets of how we 


 can get more and better life out of these bodies.



 Our keynote speaker this morning is one of the heroes of 


 that effort, Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the Human 


 Genome Project. He grew up on a little farm in Shenandoah 


 Valley, Virginia, and now he heads up the most significant 


 scientific project in history. He supervises hundreds of 


 researchers from different disciplines, different 


 institutions and different countries, in the effort to map 


 the human genome and share with the world what it means. And 


 I know the President appreciates this fact--he is ahead of 


 schedule and under budget. (Laughter, Applause)



 He has also served as a volunteer doctor in hospitals in 


 developing worlds. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor for 


 me to introduce Dr. Francis Collins. (Applause)



 Francis S. Collins, M.D, Ph.D.: Thank you for that very 


 kind introduction, Congressman Cleaver.



 President Bush, First Lady, heads of state, members of 


 Congress, distinguished guests, I am deeply honored to be 


 speaking with you on this significant and moving occasion. As 


 you have heard, I am not a rock star, as the person who spoke 


 last year, and that's a large leather jacket to step into--


 (Laughter)




I didn't say anything about the sunglasses.



 I am also not a man of the cloth nor am I a political 


 leader. As you've heard, I am a physician and a scientist, 


 here this morning as a private citizen, but who had the 


 incredible privilege of leading the Human Genome Project. I 


 am also a believer in God.



 The astrophysicist Robert Jastrow started his book on 


 science and faith with the following words: ''When a 


 scientist writes about God, his colleagues assume he is 


 either over the hill or going bonkers.'' I hope and pray that 


 I am neither of those. And yet in the scientific community 


 there is an unwritten taboo about discussing one's spiritual 


 leanings, so many assume that scientists are generally 


 godless materialists. That's not actually true--a recent 


 survey found that 40% of working scientists believe in a God 


 to whom one may pray in expectation of an answer. And that 


 number has changed very little over the past century.



 Yet there are increasingly shrill voices around us who 


 argue that somehow the scientific and spiritual worldviews 


 are incompatible. I am here this morning to tell you that 


 these different ways of finding the truth are not only 


 compatible, but they are wondrously complementary.



 As the leader of the Human Genome Project, I had the great 


 privilege of serving as the project manager for a dedicated 


 team of more than 2,000 scientists from six countries. 


 Together, we determined all three billion letters of the 


 human genome, our own DNA instruction book, and we made all 


 that data freely available on the internet every 24 hours. It 


 is hard to get your mind around how much information this 


 is--three billion is a very big number, even in Washington. 


 (Laughter)



 Suppose we decided to take a little time this morning to 


 read the letters of the human genome together, just to 


 express our awe at God's creation. If we could take turns 


 reading, and we would agree to stick to it until we were all 


 done, and we would read at a reasonable pace, A-C-G-T-T-G-C-


 A-A--there are only four letters in the DNA alphabet, that 


 makes it a little easier but a little monotonous. (Laughter)



 If we all decided that was worth doing, and we even decided 


 that we would stay up all night if it was necessary, we would 


 stay up a lot of nights. We would be here for 31 years. You 


 have all that information inside each cell of your body. And 


 every time that cell divides, it's got to copy the whole 


 thing. Isn't that amazing?



 We have learned many interesting things already about this 


 human DNA instruction book, now that we have all those 


 letters. One profound observation--and it is a good one to 


 highlight this morning--is just how alike we all are. Your 


 DNA and mine are 99.9% the same, and that would be true 


 regardless of which one of you I chose for the comparison. So 


 you see, at the DNA level, we really are part of one big 


 worldwide family.



 Faced with this rapidly growing body of information, one 


 cannot help but feel a sense of awe at the amazing complexity 


 and elegance of the human body--from the intricate digital 


 DNA code to the marvelous nanotechnology machines that 


 operate inside each cell of our bodies, to that most amazing 


 organ of all, the human brain.



 But this exploration of human biology is for many of us not 


 just a sterile academic pursuit. Whether you are a Hindu, a 


 Buddhist, a Muslim, a Jew, a Christian, or still searching, 


 you would probably agree that the mandate to alleviate 


 suffering is one of our highest callings. These new tools of 


 biomedical research, many stemming from this new science of 


 genomics, now provide us with an unprecedented opportunity 


 for breakthroughs in cancer, diabetes, mental illness, 


 infectious diseases, and many other conditions, and a true 


 revolution is getting underway. Though there are legitimate 


 concerns about setting appropriate boundaries for this 


 research, we also have a strong ethical mandate to proceed as 


 quickly as possible, so long as a sick child lives somewhere 


 in the world who could be helped.



 So these are exciting times for a scientist. But my hopes 


 and dreams for all of us do not rest solely in science. I am 


 also a man of faith. Many of you probably would assume that 


 this stance stems from childhood training in a particular 


 religious tradition, as that is certainly the way in which 


 many come to believe. But that is not my story.



 I was raised, as you heard, on a small farm in Virginia by 


 wonderfully unconventional free-thinking parents who greatly 


 valued learning, literature, music and the arts, but for whom 


 religion was just not that important. As I fell in love with 


 science as a teenager, I also slipped into a worldview that 


 assumed that the only true meaning in the universe was to be 


 found in mathematics and physical laws. And so I became first 


 an agnostic and then an atheist.



 But my scientific curiosity eventually led me from 


 chemistry and physics into medicine. And there at the bedside 


 of people with terrible illnesses, matters of life, death and 


 the spirit were no longer academic. Just as it has been 


 said--and General Pace said something very much like this--


 ''there are no atheists in foxholes,'' I found that there 


 were few atheists lying in hospital beds in this little 


 hospital in North Carolina. One afternoon, a kindly 


 grandmother with only a few weeks to live shared her own 


 faith in Jesus with me, and then asked, ''Doctor, what do you 


 believe?'' Stammering something about not being quite sure, I 


 fled the room--(Laughter)



 I had the disturbing sense that the atheist ice under my 


 feet was cracking, though I wasn't quite sure why. And then 


 suddenly the reason for my disquiet hit me: I was a 


 scientist. I was supposed to make decisions based on 


 evidence. And yet I had never really considered the evidence 


 for and against faith.



 Determined to shore up my position, I began to explore the 


 path of others who before me had asked the same questions 


 about




 faith. In that search I was particularly affected by the 


 writings of the Oxford scholar C.S. Lewis, who had similarly 


 sought as a young man to defend his atheism and instead 


 became a believer.



 As I explored that evidence more deeply, all around me I 


 began to see signposts to something outside of nature that 


 could only be called God. I realized that the scientific 


 method can really only answer questions about HOW things 


 work. It can't answer questions about WHY, and aren't those 


 in fact the most important ones? Why is there something 


 instead of nothing? Why does mathematics work so beautifully 


 to describe nature? Why is the universe so precisely tuned to 


 make life possible? And it is. Why do we humans have a 


 universal sense of right and wrong, and an urge to do what is 


 right, even though we often disagree on how to interpret that 


 calling?



 Confronted with these revelations, I realized my own 


 assumption--that faith was the opposite of reason--was 


 incorrect. I should have known better. Scripture defines 


 faith as ''the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of 


 things not seen.'' Evidence!



 Simultaneously I realized that atheism was in fact the 


 least rational of all the choices. As Chesterton wrote, 


 ''Atheism is indeed the most daring of all dogmas, for it is 


 the assertion of a universal negative.''



 How could I have had the arrogance to make that assertion?



 So I had to accept the plausibility of a powerful force, a 


 creative Mind, that existed outside of nature. But was God 


 only to be found in the abstract, or did he also care about 


 me? I felt an increasing hunger to answer that question.



 After searching for two years more, I ultimately found my 


 own answer, in the loving person of Jesus Christ. Here was a 


 man unlike any other. He was humble and kindhearted. He 


 reached out to those considered lowest in society. He made 


 astounding statements about loving your enemies. And he 


 promised something that no ordinary man should be able to 


 promise--to forgive sins. On top of all that, having 


 assumed all my life that Jesus was just a myth, I was 


 astounded to learn that the evidence for his historical 


 existence was actually overwhelming.



 Eventually I concluded the evidence demanded a verdict. And 


 in my 28th year, while hiking in the majestic Cascade 


 mountains in the Pacific Northwest, I could no longer deny my 


 need for forgiveness and my need for new life, and I gave in 


 and became a follower of Jesus. He is now the rock upon which 


 I stand, the source for me of ultimate love, peace, joy, and 


 hope.



 But, some of you might say, you're a geneticist. Doesn't 


 this make your head explode? (Laughter)



 Aren't there irreconcilable contradictions between your 


 scientific and spiritual worldviews? No. Not at all! As long 


 as one uses a thoughtful approach to interpretation of the 


 meaning of Scripture in light of what science has allowed us 


 to learn about the universe, as St. Augustine compellingly 


 articulated 1600 years ago--I can't identify a single 


 conflict between what I know as a rigorous scientist and what 


 I know as a believer. Not one. Yes, science is the reliable 


 way to understand the natural world. But being a believer 


 allows me to see scientific discoveries in a wholly new 


 light. In that context, science becomes a means not only of 


 discovery, but of worship. When as a scientist I have the 


 great privilege of learning something that no human knew 


 before, as a believer I also have the indescribable 


 experience of having caught a glimpse of God's mind.



 Bernard Lonergan captured this aspect of scientific 


 discovery as ''the eternal rapture glimpsed in every 


 Archimedean cry of Eureka.'' So if this is all true, why does 


 there seem to be such a battle going on between science and 


 faith, at least in some quarters? As is often the case in 


 such battles, a bit of effort on each side to understand each 


 other would go a long way. Concrete thinkers amongst my own 


 colleagues who deny the value of a spiritual worldview would 


 be well advised to admit the ultimate impoverishment of that 


 perspective given that it offers no answers to questions like 


 ''Why am I here?'' Perhaps Jesus was thinking of such folks 


 when he said in Matthew 11, verse 25, ''I praise you, Father, 


 Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these 


 things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little 


 children.'' (Laughter)



 On the other hand, some well-meaning believers have adopted 


 the view that science is a threat to faith, and that God has 


 to somehow be defended against scientific conclusions. Is 


 this really compatible with trust in the Almighty, who could 


 hardly be threatened by the efforts of our puny minds to 


 understand his creation? God's creation is majestic, awesome, 


 intricate, and beautiful, and it cannot possibly contradict 


 itself. He is the same God whether you find him in the 


 cathedral or in the laboratory. He is in the laws of physics, 


 but he is also the ultimate source of love and forgiveness.



 On June 26, 2000, I had the privilege to stand in the East 


 Room of the White House, next to the President of the United 


 States, announcing the completion of the first draft of the 


 human genome. I was overcome with awe and a sense of history 


 that morning. As a believer, this remarkable book of life did 


 indeed seem to be written in the language in which God spoke 


 life into being.



 But that day was also one of personal mourning, for I had 


 just spoken at a memorial service for my sister-in-law, a 


 marionette artist whose wonderful light had been snuffed out 


 much too soon by breast cancer. The promise of these new 


 discoveries about the human genome had come too late for her.



 Recalling the mixed emotions of that day, they bring into 


 sharp focus the complex nature of our human condition. We 


 have great hopes for health and long life for ourselves and 


 our families, but all too often we stand at the gravesides of 


 loved ones who have been taken from us much too soon. We find 


 in the great truths of faith the kind of clear spiritual 


 water that we long for, but all too often we see that pure 


 water has been poured into those rusty human vessels, 


 distorted, and discolored. We want to believe in ultimate 


 human goodness, but all too often our hopes are dashed by 


 selfish and violent acts of our own human family against each 


 other. We cling to the promise of new scientific 


 breakthroughs to help our hurting world, but we fear that 


 some of these discoveries may be used in ways that cause more 


 harm than good. All in all, we dream of an earthly garden of 


 delight, but all too often it seems more like a vale of 


 tears.



 Yet if we put our trust in God, and resolve to put love 


 above all else, we are promised ultimate victory over all 


 these trials. ''Come unto me, all you who are burdened and 


 heavy laden, and I will give you rest.''



 So, my brothers and sisters, from every creed and nation, 


 let us here today resolve to love one another, and to 


 celebrate the beautiful and intricate world that God has 


 given us. Let us agree to protect it, even as we seek to join 


 the power of science with the warm embrace of human 


 compassion to reach out to all those who need healing, 


 whether of body or spirit.



 To conclude this homily, I propose to do something risky, 


 to ask you all to join me in singing a song. Some may find it 


 ironic that last year's speaker--(Laughter)



 --the rock star Bono, spoke about justice and world 


 economics but passed up the chance to sing. (Laughter)



 Now this year's speaker, a scientist who might be 


 considered a bit of a nerd, proposes to sing and even play 


 the guitar. But the Prayer Breakfast is where we are all 


 supposed to break out of our comfort zones. (Laughter)



 So please help me--I need it--break out of your own comfort 


 zones and sing along with me. In your program you will find a 


 little card which has three verses of a wonderful hymn. The 


 tune will be familiar to many of you and will be quickly 


 learned by the rest. Harmony is welcome. So my brothers and 


 sisters, lift your hearts and voices with me as we praise the 


 God who is the source of all faith and learning.



 (Song: ''Praise the Source of Faith and Learning'')




 [Words by Rev. Thomas H. Troeger



 From Borrowed Light: Hymn Texts, Prayers and Poems



 Copyright 1994 Oxford University Press, used by permission



 (To the tune of Hyfrydol)]



 Praise the source of faith and learning who has sparked and 





 stoked the mind


 With a passion for discerning how the world has been 





 designed.


 Let the sense of wonder flowing from the wonders we survey


 Keep our faith forever growing and renew our need to pray.



 God of wisdom, we acknowledge that our science and our art


 And the breadth of human knowledge only partial truth impart.


 Far beyond our calculation lies a depth we cannot sound


 Where Your purpose for creation and the pulse of life are 





 found.



 As two currents in a river fight each other's undertow


 Till converging they deliver one coherent steady flow,


 Blend O God our faith and learning till they carve a single 





 course,


 Till they join as one, returning praise and thanks to You, 





 their Source.



 (Applause)



 Dr. Collins: Amen. Amen.



 Rep. Cleaver: Amen.



 Although you do not have a speaking part at today's 


 breakfast, Mrs. Bush, you say more about grace and love just 


 sitting there than most of us could say in an hour. Thank 


 you. (Applause)



 Dr. Collins used the words of the New Testament, ''Come to 


 me those who labor, those who are tired, those who are weary, 


 and I will give you rest.'' The President of the United 


 States has the most difficult job on this planet, and those 


 words should be comforting to him today.



 Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States, 


 George W. Bush. (Applause)



 President George W. Bush: Thank you all. Thank you very 


 much. Now will you please join me in singing ''The Eyes of 


 Texas.'' (Laughter)



 Good morning. Laura and I are honored to join you here at 


 the 55th National Prayer Breakfast. It is an amazing country, 


 isn't it, when people from all walks of life gather to 


 recognize our dependence on an almighty God, and to ask Him 


 for blessings in our life. I think a breakfast such as this 


 speaks to the true strength of the United States of America. 


 (Applause)



 We come from many different faiths, yet we share this 


 profound conviction: We believe that God listens to the voice 


 of His children, and pours His grace upon those who seek Him 


 in prayer.





 I appreciate, Mr. Congressman, you and Jo Ann Davis, for 


 leading this prayer breakfast. And thanks for paying tribute 


 to my wife. (Applause)



 I appreciate the speaker's presence, Congressman Hoyer's 


 presence, Congressman Blunt's presence. I want to thank all 


 the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives 


 who have joined us. I appreciate the fact that we have 


 governors here, local officials and state officials. I thank 


 the members of my Cabinet for joining us--Don't linger, 


 you've got a job to do. (Laughter)



 I thank the military officials who have joined us; 


 distinguished dignitaries. Mr. Prime Minister, we are glad 


 you're here. Thank you for joining us.



 I appreciate Dr. Collins. I want to thank Reverend Mucci 


 and his wife Kathy. I appreciate Nicole Mullen. Most of all, 


 thank you all.



 We are a nation of prayer. America prays. (Applause)



 Each day millions of our citizens bow their heads in 


 silence and solitude, or they offer up prayers in fellowship 


 with others. They pray for themselves, they pray for their 


 families, they pray for their neighbors and their 


 communities. In many congregations and homes across this 


 great land, people also set aside time to pray for our nation 


 and those entrusted with authority, including our elected 


 leaders.



 In my travels, I often see hand-printed signs and personal 


 messages from citizens that carry words of prayer. Sometimes 


 it's a single little girl holding up a placard that reads, 


 ''Mr. President, be encouraged, you are prayed for.'' 


 Sometimes it's a banner held by a group of young people that 


 says, ''We are praying for you, Mr. President.'' I often hear 


 similar words when I meet people on a rope line. Isn't that 


 interesting? You're working a rope line and people come up 


 and say, ''Mr. President, I am praying for you and your 


 family.''



 The greatest gift a citizen of this country can give those 


 of us entrusted with political office is to pray for us. And 


 I thank those in our nation who lift all of us up in prayer. 


 (Applause)



 Our troops must understand that every day--every day--


 millions of our citizens lift them up in prayer. (Applause)



 We pray for their safety. We pray for their families they 


 have left at home. We pray for those who have been wounded, 


 for their comfort and recovery. We remember those who have 


 been lost, and we pray that their loved ones feel the healing 


 touch of the Almighty. During this time of war, we thank God 


 that we are part of a nation that produces courageous men and 


 women who volunteer to defend us.



 Many in our country know the power of prayer. Prayer 


 changes hearts. Prayer changes lives. And prayer makes us a 


 more compassionate and giving people. When we pray, we 


 surrender our will to the Almighty, and open ourselves up to 


 His priorities and His touch. His call to love our neighbors 


 as we would like to be loved ourselves is something that we 


 hear when we pray. And we answer that call by reaching out to 


 feed the hungry and clothe the poor, and aid the widow and 


 the orphan. By helping our brothers and sisters in need, we 


 find our own faith strengthened, and we receive the grace to 


 lead lives of dignity and purpose.



 We see this grace in the life of a young American named 


 Shannon Hickey. Shannon was one of Laura's guests at the 


 State of the Union. When Shannon was growing up, her favorite 


 priest was Father Mychal Judge, a chaplain with the New 


 York City Fire Department. Father Mychal helped Shannon 


 and her family through Shannon's struggle with liver 


 disease. On September the 11, 2001, Father Mychal lost his 


 life in the World Trade Center. In memory of her friend, 


 Shannon founded Mychal's Message, a non-profit 


 organization dedicated to sharing Father Mychal's loving 


 spirit. Over the last five years, Mychal's Message has 


 collected and distributed more than 100,000 needed items 


 to the poor and the homeless. With each gift to the needy, 


 Shannon encloses a card with Father Mychal's personal 


 prayer. It reads, ''Lord, take me where You want me to go, 


 let me meet who You want me to meet, tell me what You want 


 me to say, and keep me out of Your way.''



 Father Mychal's humble prayer reminds us of an eternal 


 truth: In the quiet of prayer, we leave behind our own cares 


 and we take up the cares of the Almighty. And in answering 


 His call to service we find that, in the words of Isaiah, 


 ''We will gain new strength. We will run and not get tired. 


 We will walk and not become weary.''



 And so I thank you for joining us on this day of prayer. I 


 thank you for the tradition you continue here today. And I 


 ask for God's blessings on the United States of America. 


 (Applause)



 Rep. Cleaver: Ladies and gentlemen, if you would please 


 remain in your seats while the President and Mrs. Bush leave, 


 and Nicole Mullen will return to the microphone. If all of 


 you would be so kind as to remain in your seats until I tell 


 you to leave. (Laughter)



 Ms. Mullen: I wrote a song based on the words of Job, who 


 had gone from hardship and back to goodness again. He simply 


 said, ''I know that my redeemer lives.''



 (Song: Redeemer) (Applause)



 Rep. Cleaver: Amen.



 Amen. He does live. Thank you so much, Nicole. Thank you 


 for blessing us.



 As we prepare to leave this place today, I would remind you 


 that years ago the prophet Isaiah gave us the word of the 


 Lord when he wrote:



 ''Stop doing wrong, learn to do right. Seek justice, 


 encourage the oppressed. Defend the cause of the fatherless, 


 plead the case of the widow. 'Come now, let us reason 


 together,' says the Lord.''



 As the light of the world, you pierce the darkness in 


 troubled times, those of you who are leaders both in this 


 country and around the world. Please know that we all 


 struggle against the forces of darkness. The power of sin and 


 alienation is strong, but you are now stronger. Our world 


 needs your healing power and your love.



 Today, oh God, I pray for our world leaders. I pray that 


 the power of your love will guide their decisions.



 And now, we ask that you go out into the world and make a 


 difference. Amen. (Applause)
