---
---

# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `65b26ee6c7ba454af9d0ef95cba949cf`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to add my 
congratulations to our chairman, Ike Skelton, for his outstanding 
service to this Congress and more than anything for his outstanding 
service to our troops. Anyone who has worked with Ike, anyone who has 
worked on this committee, knows that that is always his first priority, 
the men and women who serve in our military, and they could not 
possibly have had a better advocate through his years on the Armed 
Services Committee. He will be missed.

Once again, he has done his job and done it well. Every year he has 
made sure that we get a defense authorization bill passed, and it has 
not always been easy. Certainly it was not easy this year. But he got 
it done, I should say with the able assistance of the ranking member, 
soon to be chairman, Buck McKeon. That is one thing we agree on in a 
bipartisan way: We get this bill done.

It is always important. It is especially important when we have 
troops in harm's way in Afghanistan and Iraq to get the authorizing 
bill done, to make sure that we give our troops and the militarily the 
support that it deserves.

Now, I will disagree on the process. It is wrong and just not factual 
to blame the House leadership for the process that we have today. We 
got our job done. We did it. We passed the bill. The Senate didn't act 
on it. The only alternative we had was to put this slimmed down bill up 
today or have no bill at all, which we all agree is not acceptable. If 
the Senate had acted, we would have had a much better bill. But as it 
is, we have a very good bill because of the hard work of both 
Republicans and the Democrats on the committee.

The one issue that I do want to mention, however, is the bone of 
contention here, and that is the issue of where terrorists can be held, 
tried, or dealt with. This bill prohibits them from being brought into 
the United States.

We are not going to be able to continually offshore bringing these 
terrorists to justice. There are legal problems that can come down on 
us and jeopardize our ability to deal with them in the way we need to 
if we continue to have this blocked. Nobody wants them here, but will 
we have find a way to deal with them.

I worry that the language in this bill restricts it in a way that 
could jeopardize our ability to properly deal with these folks that 
threaten us so greatly. I hope going forward we will figure out a 
reasonable resolution to that.

But, again, I congratulate Ike Skelton. Also on our side of the 
aisle, not just Mr. Skelton, but Mr. Spratt, Mr. Ortiz, Mr. Taylor, Mr. 
Snyder and Mr. Abercrombie, who left a little while ago. We lost a lot 
of folks off the top row of the Armed Services Committee. They have all 
served our country well, and they have my admiration and the admiration 
of all Americans.