# None
## `65b6f213da74218772fa0eb88b0574ce`
`Ms. GIFFORDS â€” 14 October 2009`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Staff Sergeant Justin T. Gallegos, who was killed in action with seven 
fellow Soldiers as their remote outpost in mountainous eastern 
Afghanistan was attacked by insurgents on October 3, 2009. He leaves 
behind his mother, two sisters, brother and a 5-year-old son.

Born in Tucson, Arizona, Justin graduated from Tucson High School 
before joining the Army in 2002. Staff Sergeant Gallegos was assigned 
to Bravo Troop, 3rd Squadron, 61st Cavalry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 4th Infantry Division.

Justin was on his first deployment to Afghanistan, but he had already 
completed two previous deployments to Iraq, the first a one-year 
deployment from November 2005 to 2006 and the other a fifteen-month 
deployment from March 2007 to May 2008.

Since entering the Army, Justin had earned a reputation for being a 
good Soldier. Over his career he earned more than a dozen honors 
including three Purple Hearts, two Army Commendation Medals and two 
Army Achievement Medals. He also earned the Bronze Star for his actions 
that day in defending his combat outpost.

On this day, he was deployed to a remote base near the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border. As insurgents poured over the hilltop ridge toward his 
position and the base, Justin and his fellow Soldiers held their ground 
before the camp was partially overrun and nearly destroyed by rocket 
and mortar fire. The team held back hundreds of enemy fighters before 
ultimately succumbing to the overwhelming volume of fire.

These men fought bravely and will not be forgotten.

We remember Staff Sergeant Gallegos and offer our deepest condolences 
and sincerest prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey 
the feeling of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. 
However, it is my hope that in future days, his family may take some 
comfort in knowing that Justin's legacy reaches beyond the desolate 
landscape of Afghanistan and into the hearts of a grateful nation.

This body and this country owe Justin and his family a debt of 
gratitude and it is vital that we remember him and his fellow 
servicemembers who have paid the ultimate price.

Justin is a hero both to his country and to his wonderful family. We 
salute his selfless service, sacrifice and bravery. May he not be 
forgotten and may his mission continue in the work of this body and the 
hearts of all Americans.
