---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `65c160ab423a35a4ec1eeffac3279919`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for FY 2008. I particularly want to commend Chairman 
Reyes for his outstanding leadership, vision and work on this bill and 
getting us to where we are today. Equally important, I want to 
recognize the staff for their hard work as well.

Madam Chair, I have always believed that good intelligence is the 
pointy tip of the spear. This bill provides intelligence support for 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and strengthens information-sharing 
among Federal, State and local agencies. Most importantly, it enhances 
the full range of intelligence collection capabilities, tactical and 
strategic, near term and long term.

The United States relies heavily on satellites to gather 
intelligence. Our intelligence agencies, working with industry, have 
developed extraordinary capabilities that build upon proven 
technologies. And to ensure that we maintain our technological edge, 
this bill refocuses the Intelligence Community on evolving satellite 
technology while ensuring that our industrial base also remains strong.

And because nothing beats having eyes on the ground, this bill 
strengthens human intelligence collection capabilities by adding funds 
to both CIA and military collectors to receive training and operational 
skills in critical foreign languages while providing advanced 
technological tools that support intelligence collection.

This measure further strengthens intelligence analysis by investing 
in the people of the Intelligence Community. By establishing 
challenging career paths for intelligence professionals at FBI and DHS, 
it rewards good work and encourages America's best and brightest to 
serve. Many of these Americans, because of their personal backgrounds, 
possess a wealth of expertise on foreign cultures, societies and 
languages. But for the Intelligence Community to harness their 
potential, its staff must reflect the myriad experiences, talents and 
perspectives of the American people.

This bill takes important steps to enhance diversity in the 
Intelligence Community. For example, it requires the DNI to implement a 
multi-level security clearance system to ensure that Americans who are 
ineligible for the highest clearances because they have


relatives overseas and cannot be investigated, for instance, can still 
offer expertise in their roles.

It is a good bill, and I urge its passage.