---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `65d4930818b5eb08b0d6981308eaf42d`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Warner. I would share a 
few thoughts. You might ask why is it that generals throughout our 
history, particularly successful generals, have been as popular as they 
have been? I think it is because they are called upon to lead our 
soldiers in a life-and-death struggle. And at given times in history, 
some people's talents and gifts and understanding of the nature of the 
combat are such that they can bring us to success with the least 
possible cost and the least number of lives lost. I believe--not that 
other generals are not as good or as decent people--but at certain 
times certain people have those capabilities.

In General Petraeus we are fortunate to have one of our finest 
commanders. We are particularly fortunate that his gifts and graces and 
talents are such that they are perfectly suited to the type of combat 
in which we have been involved. He was a commander of the 101st 
Airborne. He is a warrior. He knows the nature of combat. He is a 
sensitive and decent person, but he understands the nature of combat 
and the importance of victory. He knows how to impose a cost on an 
enemy and minimize the losses to the American side. I think we are 
lucky to have him.

He finished at the top of his class at West Point, one of their 
outstanding graduates. He was No. 1 in his class at the Army's Command 
and General Staff College. He has a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 
international relations. He has taught that subject as well.

When I first met him he was in Iraq. The 101st had taken Mosul in the 
north. He had a superb grasp of the situation. He was reaching out to 
reconcile the disparate groups. He introduced me to the town council. 
One member was a Kurd and one was a Christian and one was a Sunni and 
one was a Shia. It was an effort that he understood was important: to 
reconcile the differences there. After his departure, things did not go 
as well as when he was there.

The second time I met him in Iraq was when he was in charge of 
training the local Iraqi police and military. President Bush had asked 
him to go back and do that important task. It was a critically 
important task, the President believed, and General Petraeus was one of 
the most talented people we had, so he was asked to go back. He worked 
in that capacity for a year.

He came home and then wrote the counterinsurgency manual for the 
Department of Defense. This thick manual is a doctrinal statement on 
how to confront and defeat an insurgency, a very important skill at 
this time in history. The ink was hardly dry on that document when 
President Bush and the Secretary of Defense asked him to go back to 
Iraq and command our forces.

So in February of 2007 we confirmed him by an overwhelming vote to go 
back and lead our forces in Iraq. During that time the surge was 
debated, and the Congress overwhelmingly, in a bipartisan way, 
confirmed General Petraeus to go to Iraq. And later in May we voted to 
fund that surge. The phrase often used was: to give General Petraeus a 
chance. We wanted to give him a chance to employ new tactics a and more 
classic counterinsurgency doctrine, in which he was an expert. As a man 
who had already spent 2 years in Iraq, he was already closely attuned 
to all of the difficulties in that country. He went back and had 
extraordinary success.

General Odierno has also been there all along, and played an 
instrumental role in the U.S. military's success. I had the opportunity 
to visit with him twice in Iraq, an extremely important man. In the 
Weekly Standard, Frederick Kagan and Kimberly Kagan, very astute 
observers of the scene in Iraq, referred to General Odierno, as: ''The 
Patton of Counterinsurgency.'' They said:




 With a sequence of brilliant offenses, Raymond Odierno 


 adopted the Petraeus Doctrine into a successful operational 


 art.


So we are lucky to have a good team here. The Kagans refer to 
generals coming in pairs. They noted: Eisenhower and Patton, Grant and 
Sherman, Napoleon and Davout, Marlborough and Eugene, Caesar and 
Labienus. Well, I do not know why he did not mention Lee and Jackson in 
that group. But generals do often come in pairs, and this pair is 
unique.

Now General Petraeus will be moving up to command the Central 
Command. Of course his most critical areas are Iraq and Afghanistan. 
General Odierno will be replacing General Petraeus, and I believe we 
could not have a better circumstance from a command point of view. I 
could not be happier with the team we have there. I will note that this 
May, under their leadership, we saw the fewest U.S. deaths of any month 
since the war began, and July is currently on pace to see even fewer. 
Remarkable progress has happened. We should confirm these people and be 
most thankful that we have them as leaders.