---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `65e8201453d01e37089ef914da205f3f`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the 
brave men and women in our military. Thank you, and thank you to the 
families who have made so many sacrifices.

Today we are taking the first step towards defeat. No one likes where 
we are today, but our goal should be success, not to accept the defeat 
the Democrats are leading us towards.

I am very disappointed that the new Democrat leadership will not 
allow a true debate on what should be our focus today: what can we do 
to help achieve success in Iraq, and what metrics should we use to 
measure that success. That is the debate we should be having on the 
floor this week. Our military, our children, our fellow citizens, and 
the people of Iraq deserve nothing less.

Instead, this Democrat leadership is telling the brave men and women 
who serve in our military that their efforts have not been good enough 
and that they do not think they deserve the tools to fight this war.

We've been safe in the United States since September 11, 2001. But 
that is only because the Bush Administration and Congress and our brave 
troops took the fight to the terrorists. But it is by no means over. 
The United States remains a Nation at war. It's hard for Americans who 
do not have loved ones in the military to remember that sometimes.

We are not safe simply because we have not seen an attack on U.S. 
soil since September 11, 2001. We are safer today because of the 
professionals of the worldwide network of intelligence, military and 
law enforcement officials who continue to pressure and strike al-Qaeda 
and its followers.

September 11, 2001 showed us the danger of Islamic terrorism. It also 
taught us that we can't wait for them to come to us. We have to go to 
the root cause of terrorism and sever the root.

We are blessed with an outstanding military that has taken the battle 
to the enemy. It is very important that we take the fight to them in 
places where fortunately every American carries a gun--rather than on 
the streets of New York, Washington or Wichita, KS. And make no 
mistake, Iraq is where the terrorists have to come to fight.

Our most important duty as Members of Congress is to protect our 
Nation from ever experiencing the lesson of 9/11 again. For that 
reason, we must continue to focus on improving our national security, 
our homeland security and our intelligence systems. Today's resolution 
does the opposite and sends the exact message the enemy wants to hear.

Our enemy is not going away. The war in Iraq is a tough one, as is 
the overall Global War on Terror, GWOT. That is what the terrorist have 
promised in their letter, written by Ayman al-Zawahiri.

Just because it is tough does not mean that it is not worthwhile. The 
Democrat approach is dangerous and naive. We cannot put our heads back 
in the sands. Our enemies are ready to strike. Leaving Iraq will not 
mean the end to our troubles or to our enemy's plans.

Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden's chief deputy, has stated again 
and again that Iraq is the centerpiece of Al Qaeda's strategy to 
establish dominance in the Middle East and beyond. A July 9, 2005 
letter from al-Zawahiri listed al Qaeda's objectives in Iraq. Let me 
remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle what those 
objectives are:

1. Expel Americans from Iraq.

2. Establish an al Qaeda ''emirate'' in Iraq.

3. Extend a jihad from Iraq to secular states neighboring Iraq.

4. Clash with Israel.

Senator Feingold and many other Democrats can't wait to pull out of 
Iraq and have introduced legislation to that effect. While I would like 
nothing more than to see our men and women home safely, I know that 
pulling out now would be a disaster for U.S. security and would only 
mean that those men and women would have to go back to the Middle East 
to fight a stronger, recharged enemy. Because the enemy knows that all 
he has to do is make life difficult for a couple of years and the 
United States will back down in retreat.

In this resolution, where is the Democrat plan for success, where is 
their plan to fight terrorism? What is the Democrat plan to stop al 
Qaeda from turning Iraq into a base of operations for worldwide 
terrorism if we leave? What is the plan to deal with Iran, who has 
already targeted the Shia majority, when they fund allies against 
Israel, America, you and me? These are the questions the American 
people need answers to.

Unfortunately, we have seen how the Democrats respond to terrorism, 
to those whose stated goal is to kill Americans and destroy our Nation. 
Their response is to ignore the problem and hope it goes away. 
September 11, 2001 was not the first time this enemy attacked us--there 
were numerous attacks preceding that horrible day--the first World 
Trade Center bombing in 1993, the 1998 bombing of our embassies in 
Tanzania and Kenya, and the bombing of the USS Cole in 2000. Our 
enemies are looking for signs that we will resume that attitude of 
ignorance. Today my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are 
telling our enemies that the United States does not have the 
wherewithal to fight the Global War on Terror. In fact, today's 
resolution will carry no weight--except with our enemies.

Let me put this war in perspective. On June 6th, 1944, General Dwight 
David Eisenhower sent 156,000 allied troops ashore in Normandy in the 
D-Day invasion. That is about 7,000 more troops than we will have in 
Iraq after the surge.

Now, Eisenhower was coming off of three pretty rough years in North 
Africa. The campaign there displayed the serious shortcomings in the 
Allies' ability to diplomatically engage the Vichy French, establish 
and maintain lines of communication and hold terrain in key locations. 
The Allied Forces were forced to retreat from engagements with the 
Germans in battles like the Kasserine Pass.

What if Congress, after assessing the difficulties in the North 
Africa Campaign, called on President Roosevelt to tie Eisenhower's 
hands? What if they asked Ike to pare back the D-Day landing party 
because it was just too risky?

We didn't have that problem because in 1944 Congress, like President 
Roosevelt, knew that we were fighting to secure the future of the 
world. After reading this resolution, I am convinced that the Democrats 
have yet to grasp the importance of today's struggle.

What will happen if we pull out now? What will the Middle East look 
like?

Iraq will become utter chaos, violence will only increase and 
terrorists will have an unchallenged base of operations. It is likely 
that Shia extremists would dominate Iraq. Iran is eager for this to 
happen so that it can control Iraq. This is extremely worrisome. 
President Bush was correct when he labeled Iran one of the axes of 
evil. We know that Iran is gaining


the capabilities to become a nuclear power. Iran is also collaborating 
with many radical Islamist groups, including Hezbollah and Hamas. With 
Iraq also under its thumb if the U.S. pulls out, this could cause a 
regional war that threatens Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Israel. It is hard 
to see how the U.S. could avoid being drawn into such a conflict. This 
would put our troops in an even graver situation than they are today, 
with less hope for success. It also will reverberate through our 
economy at home, with skyrocketing oil prices.

The Democrats need to understand the reverberations of defeat.

House Republicans take our role in Iraq seriously, and we want to see 
success. Our leadership has called on the Speaker to appoint a 
bipartisan select oversight committee to monitor and implement the 
effectiveness of the President's new strategy. Instead of taking this 
responsible suggestion, what is their response? Spending a week on a 
do-nothing resolution to embarrass the President and encourage our 
enemies. Even in the majority, they are still more comfortable with 
being the party of ''no'' rather than the party that governs.

Republicans on the other hand have a plan, because we know that 
success in Iraq means a safer, more secure America. We have proposed 
strategic benchmarks to measure our effectiveness. We are prepared to 
work with the Democrats to construct a plan for success in Iraq. The 
Democrat leadership will not allow us to present our plan this week 
because they do not wish to see success in Iraq, they want to pull out 
despite its effects on Iraq and the United States. We need to support 
our military, our new Secretary of Defense, and our Commander-in-Chief 
as they work to achieve success in Iraq and the Global War on Terror.

I leave you with a question a constituent asked me recently: If the 
Democrats get their wish and we pull out of Iraq without attempting to 
achieve victory, what happens the next day? Unfortunately, we know that 
answer because our enemies have made it clear: they bring the fight to 
the United States.