# CHARLIE WILSON
## `65eaed391984062265a23db520124cd6`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I'd like to recognize a former 
Member of Congress who represented the 2nd Congressional District of 
Texas which I represent. While the 2nd Congressional District has 
changed in shape over the years, I would like to take this opportunity 
to recognize a unique Texan who served his constituents and country 
well during his 24 years in the House of Representatives.

Charlie Wilson served 12 terms (1973-1997) in the U.S. House of 
Representatives. He was well known for his personality as big as Texas 
and is perhaps best known for his work to covertly direct billions of 
U.S. dollars in arms to Afghan rebels who were fighting the Soviets 
through his position on the House Appropriations Committee.

One of my favorite stories about Charlie Wilson is the story when as 
a young boy of 13 and living in Trinity, Texas, his dog Teddy got into 
the neighbor's yard. The neighbor, city official Charles Hazard, 
retaliated by mixing crushed glass into the dog's food. The dog died 
from internal bleeding. In response, Charlie decided to run for office 
against him in the next election. Charlie won by driving 96 voters from 
poor neighborhoods to the polls. Before they left the car, Charlie told 
them what Mr. Hazard had done to his dog Teddy. Charlie Wilson won that 
race by a margin of only 16 votes. This election started his political 
career.

Perhaps this event explains why he always fought for the underdog 
later in life. His efforts of aiding Afghans rebels with appropriate 
weaponry and machinery and in advocating for humanitarian aid were 
successful in helping to defeat the Soviet Union and in bringing the 
Cold War to a close. He was also a tireless advocate for Texas in 
Washington, DC and helped bring business and industry to his district 
and State.

Charlie Wilson passed on February 10, 2010 in Lufkin, Texas, from a 
cardiopulmonary arrest. We are grateful for his service in the second 
congressional district of Texas and for his tireless efforts to advance 
freedom in Afghanistan and throughout the world. His death is a loss to 
Texas, and to our Nation.
