---
---

# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `65f09313a1169b90854808c0b503c106`
`Mr. HOYER — 19 January 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

The purpose is to honor democracy. We are fighting in Iraq to honor 
democracy and allowing people to vote. I thought it was unfortunate, 
personally, that we did not continue the rule in place that we adopted 
in 1993 in the rules package. And this rule will of course extend to 
the Republican delegate, Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico, as 
well as the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia. I personally 
believe very strongly she ought to have a full vote in this House. She 
represents 680,000, thereabouts, Americans who, if they moved across 
the river to Virginia or across the line to Maryland, would have a full 
vote. I think it is inappropriate, wrong, and frankly inconsistent with 
our commitment to democracy that she does not have a full vote on the 
floor of the House.

But I say to the gentleman the purpose is to give to these elected 
representatives of constituent parts of this country, not States, but 
constituent parts of this country the ability to express their views on 
this floor. Under the Constitution, obviously, if they make a 
difference, there would be a constitutional question; make a difference 
in the sense that the margin is so close that they would make the 
difference between winning and losing a proposition. So we provided 
then and are providing now what the Court has sanctioned as the way to 
give to the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico, a Republican, as 
well as the four Democrats who represent those four areas of our 
country that I indicated, the District of Columbia, clearly a part of 
our country, and the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Guam, the 
ability to come to this floor and express their opinion. We believe 
that is consistent with the democratic principles of this country, and 
that is why we are doing it.