---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE
## `66091063165599e30156adddac5d0cff`
`Mr. BOND — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Madam President, I believe it is important to clear up for 
the record, for the benefit of my colleagues and the American people, 
some statements that were made earlier today about waterboarding, 
interrogation techniques and the Army Field Manual.

During the House and Senate conference for the fiscal year 2008 
intelligence authorization bill, an amendment--section 327--was adopted 
that would prevent any element of the intelligence community from using 
any interrogation technique not authorized by the Army Field Manual.

Earlier today, we heard that the full membership of the conference 
committee, the full membership of the House Intelligence Committee and 
Senate Intelligence Committee all came to the conclusion that all 
interrogations should be conducted within the terms of the U.S. Army 
Field Manual.



Let's be clear: this particular amendment only passed by a one-vote 
margin. The conference was sharply divided on this issue, as reflected 
by the fact that no House Republicans signed the conference report and 
only two Senate Republicans signed the report.

The problem with this provision is not that it says that 
interrogators cannot use certain techniques. Most of the techniques 
prohibited by the field manual are so repugnant that I think we can all 
agree they should never be used.

In fact, this vote is not about torture, and it is not about 
waterboarding. We all think that torture is repugnant. And whether one 
believes that waterboarding is torture is really irrelevant because 
waterboarding is not in the CIA's interrogation program.

The problem is that the provision in the conference report 
establishes a very limited set of techniques, and these are the only 
techniques that any interrogator may use.

So the vote is really about whether the FBI and CIA should be 
restricted to a set of 19 unclassified techniques, designed for the 
Army, which have not been examined fully by some agencies.

If this legislation passes and is signed into law, all of us need to 
understand fully that FBI and CIA interrogators may only use the 19 
techniques authorized in the field manual. And all of us need to 
understand that no one can say for sure that this will not impact our 
future intelligence collection.

As CIA Director Hayden has said: ''I don't know of anyone who has 
looked at the Army Field Manual who could make the claim that what's 
contained in there exhausts the universe of lawful interrogation 
techniques consistent with the Geneva Convention.''

If we are going to demand that all Government agencies must use only 
these techniques, we must make sure that the field manual does not 
leave out other moral and legal techniques needed by these agencies. 
And I don't believe that the Intelligence Committee has adequately 
pursued this issue.

Having a single interrogation standard does not account for the 
significant differences in why and how intelligence is collected by the 
military, CIA, and FBI.

Much has been made of the FBI saying that they do not use coercive 
techniques. That is accurate. The FBI operates in a different world--
where confessions are usually admitted into evidence during a 
prosecution. This means that they have to satisfy standards of 
voluntariness that do not bind either the military or the CIA.

But significant concerns have been raised about whether the FBI would 
even be able to conduct ordinary interrogations using only those 
techniques authorized by the field manual.

A time-honored technique, one that has led to countless successful 
prosecutions, is deception--for example, telling a suspect that his 
associate has confessed even though the associate has refused to 
cooperate. But, it's unclear where this type of deception is authorized 
in the field manual. So, under this amendment, the FBI could be barred 
from using this simple, yet invaluable, technique.

FBI lawyers have told us that they need more time to conduct a full 
legal review of the field manual and determine along with their 
counterintelligence and counterterrorism divisions what impact using 
only the field manual would have on interrogations. We should give them 
time to do this review before we pass a bill that could severely 
undermine their interrogation practices.


Aside from these concerns, the Army Field Manual on Interrogation was 
designed as a training document. It is changeable, which means the 
Congress--and the CIA and FBI have no idea what techniques may be 
added--or subtracted--tomorrow, next month, or next year. A moving 
document is not a sound basis for good legislation.

There are also practical consequences to applying this unclassified 
military training manual to civilian agencies; as we heard earlier, 
having one standard that can be publicly judged by the entire world. We 
are talking about intelligence interrogations. We should not broadcast 
to the world, to our enemies, exactly what techniques our intelligence 
professionals may use when seeking information from terrorists.

The wide availability of the field manual on the internet makes it 
almost certain that al-Qaida is training its operatives to resist the 
authorized techniques.

Supporters of this provision also argue that the Army Field Manual 
gives interrogators sufficient flexibility to shape the interrogation. 
Yet, some of the techniques in the field manual are allowed only if the 
interrogator obtains permission from ''the first O-6 in the 
interrogator's chain of command.'' What that means is that an 
interrogator has to get permission from an Army or Marine Corps colonel 
or a Navy captain before proceeding. So in order to have any 
flexibility, will the CIA and FBI have to bring colonels and captains 
to all of their interrogations? These interrogations will get awfully 
crowded pretty quickly.

We have been told that the field manual incorporates the Golden rule. 
Do unto others as you would have them do to unto you is an admirable 
standard. But when dealing with terrorists who have shown no regard for 
morality, humanity, and decency, it is somewhat out of place.

Do we really expect that if we restrict ourselves to techniques in 
the Field Manual that al-Qaida will do the same? While we are arguing 
about whether waterboarding is torture, they are chopping off heads and 
using women and children to conduct their suicide bombings. Now, I am 
not suggesting that we resort to their barbaric tactics. I am simply 
saying that we should not base this important decision that will bind 
all of our intelligence interrogations on the hope that al-Qaida will 
discover civility.

Let me also clarify a comment from our distinguished committee 
chairman about the interrogation of Ibn Shaykh al-Libi. It was 
suggested that al-Libi lied to interrogators because of the CIA's 
''coercive'' techniques. However, al-Libi was not in CIA custody--or 
foreign custody for that matter--when he made claims about Iraq 
training al-Qaida members in poisons and gases.

In fact, it was only when al-Libi was interviewed by CIA officers 
that he recanted his earlier statements.

I believe we still have a lot of work to do before we impose 
restrictions on CIA and FBI interrogations that could have severe 
consequences for our intelligence collection.

Now, I want to make clear what my position is here today. For the 
past several months, I have worked hard to put together a reasonable 
bill that allows the Intelligence Committees to conduct necessary 
oversight, while cognizant of the administration's concerns about 
resources and executive branch prerogatives.

I understand that no administration likes oversight. But oversight is 
essential to what Congress does: We have an obligation to the taxpayers 
to make laws and appropriate funds responsibly. And in order to do 
this, we have to know how the money is being spent and what activities 
are being conducted.

I have reviewed closely the Statement of Administration Policy on 
this bill and I am confident that we have addressed or resolved all but 
one of the concerns listed there. One provision remains that merits a 
veto and that is the amendment before us: the Army Field Manual 
interrogation techniques.

At the end of the day, if this provision is removed, I will support 
this bill. But in its current form, I cannot support it and I urge my 
colleagues to vote against the conference report.

Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Virginia, who 
has played the lead in so many things, such as the Detainee Treatment 
Act and other major pieces of legislation, for his very thoughtful 
discussion of these issues.

It has been very troubling to me to hear on the floor today some 
things about what the CIA does that are absolutely not true. We have 
heard all kinds of descriptions of techniques that are barred by the 
Army Field Manual. The techniques barred by the Army Field Manual, the 
horrors that were outlined, are not tactics the CIA uses. They do not 
use them. They would probably violate the Geneva Conventions and many 
other laws, which absolutely do cover interrogations by the CIA. When 
one raises the spectrum that the CIA may be torturing detainees, No. 1, 
it is not true; No. 2, for those who know what is going on, it is 
irresponsible; No. 3, it is the kind of thing


that fuels the media of our enemies. I would not be surprised to see 
some of these comments reported in Al-Jazeera.

What happened at Abu Ghraib was tragic. There were criminal acts by 
American troops. We punished them, but nobody talks about the fact that 
we punished them and sent them to prison. They went to the brig, as 
they should. Now we have heard discussions attributing to the CIA all 
manner of activities that are wrong, improper, not usable, and are not 
used.

I think it is important we clear the record. I wish some of the 
people who know better would say I didn't mean to say that the CIA does 
these things, because the people on the Intelligence Committee know 
precisely what is done and what is not done.