---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `661addb9ce899a12f7398b3e9725243e`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
this legislation, and I commend Chairman Obey, Chairman Murtha, and 
Speaker Pelosi for putting it before us today.

I come here also to speak to my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle. With all sincerity, no one questions your patriotism or love of 
country. And yet we hear you come down here and belittle the proposal 
that we have before us and call Democrats defeatists, when it is you 
who have surrendered your judgment. You surrendered that judgment when 
you didn't listen to Scowcroft or Eagleberger or Baker or Kissinger or 
even Powell or Shinseki.

When you don't listen to the generals or even the soldiers in the 
field, you mock men when they stand up here and in principle, like Jack 
Murtha, who you know have always stood on behalf of the troops of this 
country, and today offers more than $4 billion more that the President 
has put forward. But because of your blind, myopic allegiance to a 
failed policy, you have surrendered your judgment to what is the right 
thing.

Chairman Dreier asked us what is victory. Victory is joining with us 
in this proposal. Victory is once again standing on the Capitol steps 
hand in hand, as we all were against the war in Afghanistan, and once 
again fighting terrorists by going after the guys who actually took 
down the buildings, who hit the Pentagon.

Stand with us in the war against terrorism. End this God-awful 
situation in Iraq. Provide the Iraqis with the back bone that they need 
to stand up by giving them the tough love and the deadlines that this 
legislation requires.