# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `661cf719f67dad0f31e087aaf9ff47f2`
`Mr. BOYD — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD. I want to thank my friend Mike Ross from Arkansas, the 
communications cochair of the 47 member strong fiscally conservative 
Blue Dog Democrats.

I came down here tonight to join him to try to continue to deliver 
the message to the American people that I think in some ways this 
administration and this Congress have lost their focus on what's 
important to keep America great and strong.

I noticed today that the President of the United States and the 
minority leader and the minority whip stood before the American people 
and talked about vetoing an appropriations bill which funds the health 
and education agencies of our Federal Government simply because that 
bill would increase spending over last year at a rate, I think, of some 
$9 billion or $10 billion, which is actually below inflationary and 
population increases. At the same time, the President of the United 
States has sent in a supplemental request down here for funding for the 
Iraq war, which I believe is to the tune of $49 billion or $50 billion 
to get us through the next few months.

I think we have just lost our sense of balance, or our sense of what 
we have to do to keep America strong and keep it a great Nation. I want 
to refer, if I could, if we think about those numbers, about an agency 
of the Federal Government that helps provide health care and education 
benefits to the people of the United States of America, while we are 
thinking about that, I want to refer you to a recent report released by 
the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. In that report, 
we uncovered the waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayers' dollars caused by 
the lack of necessary oversight by the U.S. Government. This is 
something that the Blue Dogs have been focused on for a long time, is 
the government, we as a government being good stewards of our 
taxpayers' dollars that we take involuntarily from our citizens to run 
the government, to provide security, transportation and other things, 
the other functions of a government.

This quarterly report, which details progress in the U.S. 
Government's reconstruction of Iraq, uncovers continuing problems which 
have left millions of dollars, billions of dollars unaccounted for and 
a large number of products unfinished in Iraq. In fact, the Inspector 
General himself has stated that 40 percent of all projects in Iraq are 
in danger of not being completed under the original contract and 
''virtually every project in Iraq has cost more or taken longer than 
expected.''

The Inspector General also noted that some projects are never 
finished.


In one recent case, the Federal Government invested $90 million in a 
project to overhaul two giant turbines at a plant south of Baghdad. 
However, the multimillion dollar project, which is critical to 
providing power in Baghdad, has not been realized because of weak 
operations and maintenance practices by the Iraqis after the project 
was turned over in April of 2006.

This report goes on to cite several examples of the same egregious 
waste, fraud, and abuse. I want to outline some of those; I want to 
give you six specific examples of the waste, fraud, and abuse 
identified in this Inspector General report.

Number one was a 50-bed children's hospital in Basra, a 50-bed 
children's hospital in Basra, Iraq, which was originally expected to 
cost $50 million. This might be appropriate, because we have heard the 
previous speakers in the previous hour talk about how SCHIP ought to be 
vetoed, SCHIP, which would provide health care services to our children 
here.

We just spent $50 million in Iraq on a children's hospital. That 
hospital is a full year behind schedule. The contractor responsible for 
the project left the hospital only about half complete, yet 100 percent 
over the original cost estimate. We haven't heard a lot of fuss about 
that from the previous majority.

Number two, due to inefficient oversight by the State Department, the 
Federal Government spent $44 million on a residential camp for refugees 
that has never been used. Another $36 million was spent on weapons and 
equipment which are now unaccounted for.

Number three, oil contract overcharges and contract mismanagement 
recently cost the U.S. Government $263 million. Oil contract 
overcharges and contract mismanagement, $263 million.

Number four, due to poor contractor oversight, a failed oil pipeline 
project wasted nearly $76 million of your taxpayers' dollars.

Number five, according to an Iraqi estimate, $5 billion per year, 
this is according to the Iraqi estimate, $5 billion per year is wasted 
due to widespread corruption in Iraq.

Number six, after allocating $17 billion in U.S. funds to the 
security and justice reconstruction sectors in Iraq, only four of 
those, 18 of those sectors, only four have transferred to Iraqi 
control.

This quarter's report also included a financial review of large 
contractors funded by the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund. 
International Bechtel is the largest Iraq Relief and Reconstruction 
Fund contractor, and there were many examples of waste and fraud and 
abuse discovered in that report when analyzing the Bechtel contracts.

This report analyzed 24 job orders that Bechtel contracted to perform 
at a total cost to the government of $761.2 million. Of those 24 job 
orders, only 11 were successfully completed, 10 were incomplete, 
canceled or transferred to someone else, and the other three, they 
could not determine status of.

You see that there are many, many problems in Iraq. I think that the 
American people have figured out that we have some serious, serious 
problems over there, not only with the policy as it relates to how we 
keep ourselves secure, but also to our involvement over there and our 
spending of, as Mr. Ross has shown you, $135 billion on an annual 
basis.

That is $16 million an hour, $2.5 billion a week, $135 billion a 
year; and we seem to, in many cases, send that over there without 
asking a lot of questions about where the money is being spent and what 
we are getting for it. At the same time, we talk about vetoing an SCHIP 
bill which is $7 billion a year, which will go to cover 10 million 
additional children in the United States of America. I think we have 
just lost our way in terms of priorities.

I want to wind up by telling our viewing audience that recently I 
took a trip to Iraq. It was my first visit over there. I led a 
congressional delegation of five Members, three of whom had never been 
before and two, it had been several years since they had been. It was a 
bipartisan delegation, a great group of Members to work with.

We spent several days in the region, one full day in Baghdad. We 
found that morale of our Armed Forces, our uniformed personnel over 
there is very strong and very high. I am proud of that, having served, 
having worn the uniform of this country in Vietnam and served in an era 
when morale wasn't so high and we lost the support of the American 
people.

It was refreshing to me to see that our morale is pretty high over 
there. I think our soldiers are performing what they are being asked to 
do. They are performing it very well.

What I discovered is that what we are doing over there is policing 
the streets of Baghdad and refereeing a civil war in Iraq. That's not 
an appropriate role for the United States military. We don't even allow 
our military to police our streets here in America.

This role has to be turned over to the Iraqi people. General Petraeus 
told us that we can train security forces, and we can get them in 
place, and we can train them, but unless the Iraqi Government can stand 
up and give them the command and control that they need and the 
logistical support that they need to be effective, they never will be 
effective. The Iraqi Government has failed at this point in time to 
stand up because they are fighting each over their sectarian 
differences, and we have to come to grips with that.

I will close with that it kind of brought all this into focus for me 
and how out of kilter we have gotten on things. One of the briefings we 
have shown was a video that was taken in a fighter plane. I don't know 
what the cost of that Air Force plane was. It was probably maybe a 
quarter of a billion dollars, very expensive plane, delivered probably 
$50,000 to $100,000 worth of munitions to two Iraqis riding a bicycle 
out of a house.

I thought to myself that we have really lost focus on what our great 
military is supposed to be used for. We should redirect our resources 
into a strategy which will provide long-term security for us around the 
world. That strategy has to be developed, well thought out, obviously, 
developed through a great deal of diplomacy, a great deal of political 
acumen and also the appropriate leverage of our great military that we 
have.

I want to thank Mr. Ross for putting together this Special Order, but 
also for the many other Special Orders that you have done to try to 
deliver the Blue Dog message to the American people. I want to thank 
you for your service.