---
---

# None
## `66227969d0001a8d83dda2ecdf80e495`
`Mr. HOYER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding. I thank the committee 
for bringing this bill to the floor. I appreciate what my very close 
and dear friend and one of the best Members of this Congress, in my 
opinion, Maurice Hinchey, has just said. Like many Americans, he thinks 
and many Americans think this doesn't go far enough. From the 
perspectives of perhaps everybody in the Chamber, it doesn't go far 
enough towards the position they would like to take. It is not a 
perfect resolution, but then again none are.

What it does do, however, is try to say that if we are going to make 
decisions in the House of Representatives on an issue so critically 
important to our country and to the welfare of our troops that are in 
harm's way that we have the advice or at least the opinion of the 
administration as to how actions ought to be taken. Therefore, if there 
are those of us who believe, as I know my friend from New York does and 
some others, that we ought to redeploy, change course, redirect our 
efforts, the best advice and counsel that we could get on how to do 
that ought to be from our military leaders.

And what this resolution simply says is, and I agree with my friend 
from Connecticut that we can say, hopefully, with a somewhat unified 
voice, perhaps not unanimous but somewhat unified voice, if we were to 
take the position that the gentleman and I shared when we voted for 
redeployment within a timeframe, tell us how that would be done. Tell 
us how it would be done consistent with the safety of our troops. Tell 
us how it would be done consistent with trying to leave behind as 
stable a government or community as possible in Iraq. Tell us how it 
could be done to enhance the possibility of political reconciliation in 
Iraq.

The surge has not accomplished that. If the surge was intended to 
bring political reconciliation, General Petraeus said it had not. 
Ambassador Crocker said it had not.

So I congratulate and thank the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. 
Tanner), the gentleman from Hawaii (Mr. Abercrombie), and others who 
have joined in this effort to try to come to a step that will be a 
positive step. I think this is one of those steps.

And I would urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, whatever 
your particular position is, that we ought to have in front of us a 
considered, considerate plan of how we would accomplish an objective if 
this House, hopefully, could summon the votes to seek that objective 
and mandate that objective.

So I thank Mr. Skelton for bringing this to the floor. I thank him 
for his leadership on this issue, and I would urge all of my 
colleagues, understanding full well the concerns that have been 
expressed so ably by the gentleman from New York, my friend (Mr. 
Hinchey), that this legislation will send a strong message to many, 
including the administration, that we want to have the information that 
we need to make the best decisions that we can make. We may differ on 
what those decisions ought to be.

But, hopefully, what we will not differ on is that if we can have the 
best information and advice as to how to obtain an objective, then the 
legislation we pass will be better, will provide for the safety of our 
troops and provide, hopefully, for the success of a redeployment within 
a timeframe that many of us believe is absolutely essential.