---
---

# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `662450904ace0386cb6c63bf1372308b`
`Ms. WATERS — 18 January 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, shortly after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, 
the President began talking about going to war with Iraq. In the fall 
of 2002, with the midterm elections heating up, the President 
increasingly talked about the threat Iraq poses to the United States 
and its allies. On October 10, 2002, the House voted on H.J. Res. 114, 
the Authorization For Use of Military Force Against Iraq resolution. It 
passed the House by a vote of 296-133: 215 Republicans voted for the 
resolution, 6 voted against it. 81 Democrats voted for it, and 126 
voted against it.

Madam Speaker, in light of what many of our Members know today, they 
perhaps would not have voted for that resolution. As a matter of fact, 
day in and day out as I talk with my colleagues, they recount all of 
that which was told to us by the President of the United States and 
others on the opposite side of the aisle, for the most part, about why 
it was so important to go to war with Iraq.

They told us there were weapons of mass destruction. They told us 
that the troop levels that they were sending were necessary. They told 
us about the cost of the war. They told us that oil revenues would be 
paying for the reconstruction. They told us we would be greeted as 
liberators. They told us we would be able to contain sectarian 
violence.

Well, Madam Speaker, I have colleagues that are here this evening who 
will recount perhaps some of what they were being told and the way they 
trusted the Commander in Chief, they trusted our President. They were 
concerned about the safety and the security of our Nation.

So we have with us tonight some of the brightest, most hardworking, 
most respected Members of the Congress of the United States. They are 
going to remind us of what we were being told and how they came to 
their decision and what they are thinking now.

Leading that discussion will be my dear friend from Missouri, that is 
my hometown, my birthplace, who I have gotten to know very well. He is 
the Chair of one of the most important committees of this House, the 
Armed Services Committee, a highly respected gentleman, Representative 
Ike Skelton.

I yield to the gentleman from Missouri.