# None
## `6627f3ca4dc2b144095c46654e4341a0`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as has been said, this legislation cites the fact that 
the House of Representatives has passed six, one, two, three, four, 
five, six separate bills prohibiting or expressing opposition to the 
establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq, including three, 
one, two, three, which have been enacted into law by the President.

In fact, the language contained in H.R. 2929, which is before us 
today, is nearly identical to the language adopted under a Republican-
controlled Congress in section 1519 of the John Warner National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007.

This is the bill before us today. This is the law.

The fiscal year 2007 bill states:

''No funds appropriated pursuant to an authorization of 
appropriations in this Act may be obligated or expended for a purpose 
as follows:

(1) To establish any military installation or base for the purpose of 
providing for the permanent stationing of United States Armed Forces in 
Iraq.

(2) To exercise United States economic control of the oil resources 
of Iraq.''

That is law. That has been passed a couple of times. And now the bill 
before us this morning says this:

''No funds made available by any Act of Congress shall be obligated 
or expended for a purpose as follows:

(1) to establish any military installation or base for the purpose of 
providing for the permanent stationing of United States Armed Forces in 
Iraq; and

(2) to exercise United States economic control of the oil resources 
in Iraq.''

Once, twice, three times. We can pass it again. But why are we here? 
Why are we spending valuable time, Mr. Speaker, debating an issue that 
the Congress on a bipartisan basis already has agreed to, once, twice, 
three times, four times, five times, six times? The majority's attempts 
to score political points on a range of issues, including particularly 
Iraq policy, has already paralyzed precious months of military planning 
and congressional business, including the 9/11 bill.

It was only last night when the majority conferees finally agreed to 
incorporate into the 9/11 conference report critical language offered 
by the ranking member of the Homeland Security Committee, my good 
friend Mr. King of New York, which would provide immunity to passengers 
and commuters who report suspicious activities.

In a post-9/11 world, Mr. Speaker, passenger vigilance is essential 
to our Nation's security. An alert citizenry is our first line of 
defense against those who may seek to do us harm.

Yet, some of our colleagues, rather than supporting or encouraging 
such personal commitment and involvement from our citizens, would have 
preferred to leave them vulnerable to frivolous lawsuits and, instead, 
engage in debates on legislative items and policy already enacted into 
law and discussed once, twice, three times, four times, five times and 
six times.

However, since we are having this ''Groundhog Day'' discussion, it is 
important to once again note that there are no permanent United States 
bases overseas. Rather, the scope and the duration of U.S. basing 
rights are determined by individual agreements and entered into with 
host governments throughout the world.

It is also important to clarify that a policy position that does not 
support permanent bases in Iraq does not translate into either a 
prohibition against the American troop presence in Iraq, we could have 
that discussion on another bill, or a prohibition against the existence 
of any U.S. military installation in that country.

But that is not what is before us today. The bill before us in its 
''findings'' section states that the Iraq Study Group Report recommends 
that ''the President should state that the United States does not seek 
permanent military bases in Iraq.''

Correct.

The bill also specifically highlights the other component of that 
recommendation, which says, ''If the Iraqi Government were to request a 
temporary base or bases, then the United States Government could 
consider that request as it would be in the case of any other 
government.''

This legislation therefore accepts the prospect of a negotiated 
agreement for a future relationship with the Government of Iraq to, 
among other things, allow U.S. military and security forces to operate 
from U.S. installations within Iraq, including through a possible 
status of forces agreement that would define the legal status of U.S. 
personnel in Iraq and would define the rights and responsibilities 
between the United States and the Government of Iraq. Furthermore, this 
legislation before us today does not prohibit the United States from 
entering into the interoperability agreements that allow the United 
States and Iraq to share common infrastructure and bases.

Mr. Speaker, I do not object to this legislation. We have supported 
it before and look forward to supporting it again.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.