# ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
## `662f76bfaa3f3763ab3c63d92d3b138f`
`Mr. BIDEN — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, at a time when we are witnessing the 
devastating consequences of ethnic and sectarian division in places 
such as Iraq and Darfur, I believe it is vital to recognize the efforts 
of those who work to promote peace and reconciliation. In that spirit, 
I wish to commend the 53 Nobel laureates who signed an appeal by the 
Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity in support of ''tolerance, contact 
and cooperation between Turks and Armenians.''

In their appeal, the laureates call on both Turks and Armenians to 
take the steps necessary to open the Turkish-Armenian border, generate 
confidence through civil society cooperation, improve official 
contacts, and allow basic freedoms. As part of this commitment, the 
laureates call on Turkey to end all forms of discrimination against 
ethnic and religious minorities and abolish Article 301 of the Turkish 
Penal Code. This provision has been used to take legal action against 
those who speak out about the Armenian genocide, including Nobel 
laureate Orhan Pamuk and recently murdered Turkish-Armenian journalist 
Hrant Dink. There is no question that article 301 contributed to the 
toxic political environment that led up to Mr. Dink's assassination in 
January.

The laureates also note that ''Turks and Armenians have a huge gap in 
perceptions over the Armenian Genocide.'' To address this chasm of 
understanding, they call for further study and dissemination of a 
report prepared by the International Center for Transitional Justice. 
That impartial analysis of the massacres perpetrated against Armenians 
in the early 20th century concluded that the killings ''can be said to 
include all the elements of the crime of genocide . . .'' This finding 
was corroborated by the International Association of Genocide Scholars, 
which issued its own statement in 1997 to reaffirm ''that the mass 
murder of Armenians in Turkey in 1915 is a case of genocide which 
conforms to the statutes of the United Nations Convention on the 
Prevention and Punishment of Genocide.'' The existence of these 
independent evaluations of the Armenian genocide and relevant 
international law should provide an opportunity for both countries to 
accept the verdict of history and move forward.

Mr. President, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has unanimously 
passed S. Res. 65, a resolution echoing many of the sentiments 
expressed by the laureates and honoring the life of Hrant Dink, a 
leading proponent of Turkish-Armenian reconciliation up until the time 
of his brutal murder. It is my hope that the full Senate will adopt 
this important measure without further delay.

I congratulate the Wiesel Foundation for its work to produce this 
important statement and request consent that it be printed in the 
Record. I hope that the words of these Nobel laureates will encourage 
the people of both nations to recognize and ultimately transcend the 
legacy of the Armenian genocide. Once this occurs, I have every 
confidence that the people of Armenia and Turkey will be able to 
rebuild the ties between their countries and forge a new, enduring 
peace.