---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `6631274cb82c4fa8fa66c924c4d686c0`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to support the 
nomination of LTG David H. Petraeus for promotion to General and 
Commander, Multi-National Forces-Iraq. I was pleased to join with my 
colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to favorably report his 
nomination to the full Senate.

General Petraeus has been commended by his superiors and policymakers 
alike for his ability to listen, to spend money wisely and use force 
intelligently in Iraq. He will bring to this new assignment his 
experience from back-to-back tours in Iraq. Most recently, General 
Petraeus authored the Army's new counterinsurgency manual. He is truly 
one of our most impressive Army leaders today.

On January 10, the President articulated the strategy which General 
Petraeus will implement if confirmed to this important post. His 
mission will be to clear, hold and build. It will require the use of 
force, and negotiations alone won't complete this mission. I have 
serious doubts about this plan, especially the President's desire to 
send even more troops to Iraq.

Because I feel so strongly that the situation in Iraq is 
deteriorating, I have joined with colleagues to draft a non-binding 
sense-of-Congress resolution, S. Con. Res. 4, to oppose the surge


of troops into Baghdad. Senator Warner, Senator Collins and I believe 
this resolution avoids partisan rhetoric and provides the Senate a 
voice to express their disagreement with the President on his Iraq 
policy.

Importantly, this resolution holds the Iraqis accountable and lets 
them know that the U.S. commitment is not open-ended. Our resolution 
emphasizes the Iraq Study Group's valuable recommendations and 
specifically says that our strategy in Iraq ''should be conditioned 
upon the Iraqi government's meeting benchmarks that must be specified 
by the Administration.''

Along those lines, I hope General Petraeus will be vigorous in 
keeping Congress informed of progress he is making in Iraq. We need to 
know what the benchmarks are on the military side of the ledger. We 
also need to know what is expected of the Iraqis. I hope it's much more 
than just showing up; the bar can't be that low. I don't want to 
bombard General Petraeus with paperwork--we want and need him in 
Baghdad neighborhoods restoring order--but it is vital that we know if 
the Iraqis are capable of sharing security responsibilities.

During his office call last week, I told General Petraeus the 
expectations from Congress for his success are high, but the hopes of 
the American people are even higher. I feel that General Petraeus wants 
nothing less than success in Iraq and I look forward to working with 
him in the coming months to meet the needs of the troops so they have 
the tools they need to complete this mission.