---
---

# IRAQ
## `663797ae6e673c7ced358814b0a0e709`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 8 April 2008`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, the Senator from Georgia is also 
waiting to speak, so I would like to be notified at 4/1/2/ minutes, and 
I will split it down the middle with the Senator from Georgia.

Mr. President, I rise today to speak about General Petraeus' 
testimony. I was able to watch a little bit of it before I came over 
here. I was beginning to see, of course, the questioning from the Armed 
Services Committee. I think it is so important that we look at the big 
picture and what General Petraeus is saying. Also, of course, we have 
Ambassador Crocker who is doing a terrific job over there.

I was there at the end of February, just 6 weeks ago. I met with both 
of them. But what I saw was an incredible change from the other time I 
had been in Iraq. As General Petraeus said himself, from June 2007 
through February 2008 deaths from ethno-sectarian violence in Bagdad 
have fallen 90 percent. American casualties have fallen sharply, down 
by 70 percent. In the last year, the number of high-profile attacks 
have fallen by 50 percent.

All of us believe one American death is not worth the price we would 
pay if we had a choice. But every one of those who are there understand 
our mission and how important it is. Every one of those with whom I 
have met, both the people who have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan 
and the families of those who have lost loved ones, say: Do not leave. 
Do not leave without a victory, without seeing through the successes 
that we have gained.

They understand this mission. Unfortunately, it does not seem that 
the majority in the Congress see it as those who are on the ground and 
who have suffered the most do. As recently as February, the Senate 
leadership was trying to stop the surge by requiring an immediate and 
arbitrary withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq when we didn't even have 
the results. Yet those of us who have been there recently have seen the 
results.

I went to a police station with our embedded forces and to a security 
regional center with embedded forces. I did that because I was very 
concerned. I wanted to see it myself. I was very pleased with the fact 
that our troops embedded there were causing the Iraqis to come forward 
and do more and help us.

The Sons of Iraq, which are now 91,000 strong, are serving as 
neighborhood watches. They are manning the checkpoints. They are taking 
us to the weapons caches. Do you know that, since the beginning of this 
year, we have found, because of the Sons of Iraq's cooperation, more 
weapons than we discovered in all of 2006? We are making progress. Mr. 
President, 21,000 of the Sons of Iraq have now been accepted into 
security forces or government work. It is amazing that we are seeing 
military gains, and we are seeing political gains. It is not as fast as 
we would like to see it, of course, but it is progress. It is in the 
right direction.

The consequences of leaving precipitously are consequences that would 
be unthinkable. People talk about the cost of Iraq, the cost of the war 
on terror, as if the costs are prohibitive. The costs are high. But the 
cost of leaving and letting al-Qaida have a base in Iraq are much more 
expensive. We are talking about 9/11 costing over $1 trillion, if you 
put it in monetary terms, which I don't think we should--this is not 
the thing that we should even be considering. We should be supporting 
our troops, and we should be supporting the effort that would require 
complete success for our country. This is the United States of America.

I met with the Vets for Freedom who just met by Senator Bond as well. 
They are the patriots who have been there, who know what it is like, 
and who are saying stay and fight and win. It is the right thing for 
the United States of America to do.

I yield the floor.