# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `663f4cd78b0097697b40caa36493723e`
`Mr. HARKIN — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, yesterday, an overwhelming, bipartisan 
majority in the other body--reflecting the clear will of the American 
people--voted to oppose President Bush's decision to escalate the U.S. 
troop presence in Iraq. That vote was preceded by 4 full days of debate 
on the resolution. But here in the Senate, the Republican minority 
refuses to allow us even to bring a resolution to the floor for debate.

My office has been flooded with phone calls and e-mails from Iowans. 
The overwhelming majority of them are upset with the President's 
escalation plan. But they are also upset that the Senate is being 
obstructed. They simply cannot believe that Republican Senators are 
blocking debate on the No. 1 issue before our Nation, the No. 1 concern 
on the minds of the American people.

In a nutshell, callers are saying that Republican Senators have a 
right to support President Bush's war in Iraq. Republican Senators have 
a right to embrace his escalation of that war. But they do not have a 
right to block legitimate debate in the Senate on whether that 
escalation is wise or appropriate. They do not have a right to silence 
the voices of tens of millions of Americans--an overwhelming majority--
who have had enough of the quagmire in Iraq.

People in Iowa--and, I suspect, across the country--are saying that 
the election last November was a referendum on President Bush's war. 
Voters spoke loudly and clearly: They want our troops out of the civil 
war in Iraq.

The American people thought that their elected leaders in Washington 
heard this message. But they realize, now, that the Republicans simply 
don't care about the results of the election. They are determined to 
escalate the war. They are determined to prevent consideration of any 
resolution expressing disapproval of that escalation.

As a coequal branch of Government, Congress has a duty to debate this 
escalation. Out of respect for all our soldiers and Marines in Iraq--to 
keep faith with them--we as Senators have a duty to ask: Does their 
Commander-in-Chief have a credible plan in Iraq that is worthy of their 
sacrifice? Is the President's plan to escalate in Iraq in the best 
interest of the United States? Will the additional troops be sent into 
combat with proper equipment?


Unfortunately, the answer to those questions--after nearly 4 years of 
incompetence, bungling, and disastrously bad judgment by this 
administration--is a resounding ''no.''

Frankly, the President's plan to escalate is not just deeply 
disappointing, it is deeply disturbing. I am disturbed because Mr. Bush 
refuses to learn, and he refuses to listen. The Joint Chiefs of Staff 
unanimously opposed this escalation, as did our generals on the ground 
in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group warned that there cannot be a military 
solution to the sectarian chaos in Iraq, and said we should begin to 
bring our troops home. Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is on record 
as opposing an increase in American troops. Most importantly, the 
American people said loudly and clearly on November 7 that they want 
our soldiers out of the civil war in Iraq.

But Mr. Bush refuses to listen to reason. Instead, he seems to listen 
only to his gut--the same gut that got us into this misguided, 
misbegotten war in the first place.

The President asserts that this latest escalation in Iraq is ''a new 
way forward.'' But what he has proposed is not new, and it is not a way 
forward. It is the same old ''stay the course'' policy--and it will 
drag us deeper into the Iraqi quagmire.

The President has previously ordered three troop surges in Iraq, in 
2004, 2005, and 2006. Just last June, he unveiled ''Operation Forward 
Together'' to surge troops in Baghdad and secure the capital city. This 
operation was supposed to be led primarily by Iraqis, with U.S. troops 
in support. But the Iraqi forces never showed up.

Again and again, we have set goals for the Iraqi leaders. But there 
have been no deadlines, no accountability, no consequences. And, 
predictably, we have seen no positive results. The Iraqi leaders have 
reneged on their promises to rein in the militias. They have refused to 
compromise. And they have pursued their sectarian agendas with a 
vengeance.

So let's not kid ourselves. The President's latest Iraq plan is just 
a repackaging of his old, failed Iraq plans.

I am especially concerned about the impact of this escalation on our 
troops and their families, and on the U.S. military overall. Army 
brigades are supposed to be in combat for 1 year, and then have 2 years 
back home to retrain and reequip. But they have only been allowed an 
average of 1 year to regroup. And some brigades are now on their third 
deployment in Iraq.

One reason why the Joint Chiefs opposed this latest escalation is 
because of the deep strain on our combat forces. In December, the Army 
chief of staff bluntly warned Congress that the current pace of combat 
deployment threatens to quote-unquote ''break'' the Army. Meanwhile, we 
lack resources to meet any other contingency, such as a challenge from 
Iran or a flare-up on the Korean Peninsula.

Some supporters of the President's escalation claim that by debating 
the President's conduct of the war in Iraq and the merits of his 
escalation plan, we are somehow not supporting the troops.

I strongly disagree. I have complete confidence in our men and women 
in uniform in Iraq. They have brilliantly completed the tasks they were 
sent to Iraq to accomplish, and they did so despite a series of 
disastrous decisions by their civilian leaders in Washington.

But as a veteran myself, I am angry at the way these brave men and 
women have been misused and mistreated.

The President rushed them into combat without proper equipment, and 
in insufficient numbers. He has insisted on ''staying the course'' with 
a failed policy for nearly 4 miserable years. He has sent many troops 
back to Iraq for a third and even fourth rotation, with insufficient 
time to retrain and regroup. Now he insists on sending another 21,500 
troops into the middle of a sectarian civil war in Baghdad and 
elsewhere without properly armored Humvees and other essential 
equipment.

Yet despite all of these acts of mismanagement and misfeasance--
directly jeopardizing the lives and welfare of our soldiers and 
Marines--the President's supporters have the gall to say that anyone 
who opposes this latest escalation somehow ''doesn't support the 
troops.''

This would be laughable if it weren't so tragic and deadly. The 
Senate has a duty to debate the proposed troop escalation. We have a 
duty to speak up when we believe the President's policy is wrong, and 
is likely to waste lives. We also have a duty to speak up for the 
overwhelming majority of Americans, who oppose this latest escalation, 
and who consider the entire war to be a tragic mistake.

At this point, the single best way to support the troops is to tell 
President Bush: Four years of bungling, bad judgment, and 
bullheadedness are enough. We have complete and total confidence in our 
troops. But we have no confidence in your leadership.

During debate in the other body this week, Republicans repeatedly 
charged that criticism of the President's escalation serves to 
''embolden the enemy.'' And what exactly are these people saying? That 
Senators are supposed to stand silent like potted plants as this 
administration sinks us even deeper into the Iraqi quagmire?

Our enemies have indeed been emboldened. They were emboldened when 
this administration allowed Bin Laden to escape capture at Tora Bora. 
They were emboldened when this administration took its eye off the 
terrorists in Afghanistan, and diverted our military and intelligence 
assets to a reckless invasion of Iraq. They were emboldened when 
President Bush taunted the insurgents in Iraq to ''bring it on,'' and 
they successfully did just that. They were emboldened when the 
President pledged to get Bin Laden ''dead or alive,'' and failed to do 
so. They were emboldened when the greatest army in the world was 
allowed to get bogged down in a civil war in Iraq and on January 10, 
when another 21,500 troops were ordered to deploy to Ground Zero in 
that civil war.


Let's be clear: Our enemies have been emboldened by Mr. Bush's 
repeated, catastrophic mistakes, not by anyone's criticism of those 
mistakes.



The only true way forward in Iraq is to set a timetable for 
redeployment of U.S. forces. Only this will give the Iraqi leaders the 
incentive to resolve their differences and take responsibility for 
their own future.

As GEN George Casey, our commander in Iraq, told the Senate Armed 
Services Committee: ''Increased coalition presence feeds the notion of 
occupation, contributes to the dependency of Iraqi security forces on 
the coalition, [and] extends the amount of time that it will take for 
Iraqi security forces to become self-reliant.''

Mr. Bush has it exactly backward. He has said that as the Iraqis 
stand up, we will stand down. The truth is that the Iraqis will only 
stand up when it is clear that the U.S. troops are leaving.

By redeploying our troops to strategic locations elsewhere in the 
Middle East, we will be able to refocus our efforts to destroy the 
terrorists who attacked us on September 11, 2001, and who continue to 
threaten us. Redeployment would free up U.S. forces to combat the 
resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Other troops would be 
available to help respond to terrorist threats not just in Iraq, but 
also in Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, and elsewhere.

The proposed troop escalation in Iraq is not a way forward; it is a 
way deeper into a tragic quagmire. This is not in our national 
interest. It is not in the interest of the long-suffering Iraqi people. 
And it is certainly not in the interest of our troops, who will be in 
the crossfire of a vicious civil war.

The conflict in Iraq cannot be solved militarily. It can only be 
solved through political compromise and reconciliation in Baghdad, and 
through aggressive diplomatic engagement with Iraq's neighbors and 
across the Middle East.

It's time for a truly new course in Iraq. And, to that end, I urge my 
colleagues to vote for cloture, and to allow the Senate to debate this 
important resolution.

Madam President, I yield the floor.