---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `663f7a47b77211f44f5bcc1d169a5829`
`Mr. THUNE — 5 February 2009`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I rise in support of the McCain amendment. 
Before I speak a little bit to the amendment itself, I want to remind 
my colleagues why this debate is so important and why the McCain 
amendment is so important to this debate.

Again, we are talking about a $1 trillion bill--$800 billion, up now 
into $900 billion. When you add in interest, it is $1.2 trillion and 
change. It seems as if every amendment that has been offered--we have 
had a lot of Republican amendments that have attempted to cut out some 
of the wasteful spending, eliminate some of what I think is probably 
most egregious about the bill, none of which has been accepted, 
ironically. Ironically, the only amendments that have been accepted so 
far have not decreased the size of the bill. They have added to the 
size of the bill. This bill has gotten bigger.

I remind my colleagues--and I think it is important for the American 
people to tune in because we throw numbers around here in Washington in 
an abstract way: millions, billions, trillions of dollars--exactly what 
the dimensions are of what we are talking about.



A trillion dollars: If you took one-hundred-dollar bills and lined 
them end to end, you could literally go around the Equator almost 39 
times; 969,000 miles of one-hundred-dollar bills lined end to end, 
going around the entire Earth right at the Equator almost 39 
times. That is what we are talking about when we talk about the 
dimensions of $1 trillion. I might also add that if we look at where 
this is coming from, we are borrowing. Let's be honest with the 
American people. We are borrowing this money from future generations. A 
lot has been said on the floor about who is going to get hurt if we 
don't do this, and I agree there are a lot of people hurting. 
Unemployment is high. Frankly, let's think about the people who are 
going to be hurting the most, and that is the next generation of 
Americans who are going to inherit this enormous debt we are passing on 
to them.


To put it into perspective, between the Revolutionary War and Jimmy 
Carter's Presidency, the United States of America borrowed $800 
billion. From the entire time of the Revolutionary War to the Carter 
Presidency, there was $800 billion worth of borrowing. We are borrowing 
more than $800 billion for this one piece of legislation, not to 
mention what comes next. We know we have a $1 trillion catchall 
spending bill coming at us which is the first time that the 
discretionary appropriations bill is going to exceed $1 trillion. We 
know we are going to have a request for additional moneys coming from 
Secretary Geithner to stabilize the financial markets to the tune of 
several hundred billion dollars. We know there is going to be a 
supplemental spending bill request for the ongoing conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Ironically, according to CBO, the bill that was passed 
previously on SCHIP actually leads to $41 billion of deficit spending.

So all this spending we are doing, all this borrowing we are doing is 
being passed on to the next generation, and they are the people who are 
going to feel the brunt and the impact and hurt the most if we don't do 
the responsible thing here today.

I think it is important that this particular amendment Senator McCain 
has put forward and a number of us are cosponsoring be heard and fair 
consideration be given because I think there are several things about 
it that differentiate and distinguish it from the bill we are debating, 
the Democratic proposal that is on the floor.

One of the most important distinctions--and Senator McCain already 
mentioned it--is it comes in at less than half the cost: $421 billion. 
So we are talking about borrowing over $800 billion--all the time from 
the Revolutionary War to the Carter Presidency is the equivalent of 
what we are doing here--versus a much smaller approach and, in my view, 
much more fiscally responsible approach and, frankly, much more 
targeted. Because the criteria that has been laid out at the beginning 
of this debate for what makes sense in terms of a stimulus is it should 
be targeted, temporary, and timely. What we have before us is none of 
the above. It is slow, it is unfocused, and it is unending. Mr. 
President, $140 billion of this bill is going to be very difficult to 
shut off because it adds to the baseline as a lot of mandatory spending 
is included.

I wish to also show my colleagues what the President's chief economic 
adviser, Larry Summers, said. He said this in the Financial Times on 
January 6 of this year: ''Poorly provided fiscal stimulus can have 
worse side effects than the disease that is to be cured.''

Now, we have all talked about what is in this bill, and all the 
spending in it, including the $600 million for cars for Federal 
employees, the money that goes into the seven-point-whatever-billion-
dollars it is here that goes into Federal buildings--all good things. 
Senator McCain talked about smoking cessation. That is something we all 
support and believe in. But that ought to be handled in regular order. 
Those are not stimulus. Those are things that do nothing to contribute 
in the short term to creating jobs and helping get our economy back on 
track. In fact, the CBO said that 12 percent of the total amount in the 
bill we have before us would be spent in this year--2009--and less than 
half in 2009 and 2010, so much of what we are talking about is going to 
be pushed off into the future when it is not going to do anything to 
stimulate the economy.

It does create some jobs--most of them are jobs here in Washington, 
DC--at great cost. For example, there are some jobs created at the 
State Department. The average cost per job created at the State 
Department according to this is over $1 million. On average, you take 
$900 billion and you divide it by about 3 million jobs, which is the 
estimate of what this would create, and we are talking about $300,000 
per job.

Now, I might add that the average annual salary in my State of South 
Dakota is under $30,000. Imagine how difficult it is to explain to my 
constituents that we are going to borrow $1 trillion from their 
children and grandchildren to create jobs at a cost of $300,000 per 
job. That is an awfully difficult sell, particularly when they look at 
how a lot of this money is spent. We have some requests from mayors and 
city officials around the country, and these are all good things. I am 
not downplaying at all the importance of many of these projects, but 
there are requests here for 42 swimming pools, water slides, golf 
courses, all sorts of things that you can't argue we ought to be 
borrowing $1 trillion from our children and grandchildren to fund and 
to support. So it is important we have something we can be for and that 
does, in fact, create jobs; that does, in fact, add to the economic 
recovery, and that is fiscally responsible.

I wish to point out, as Senator McCain mentioned in his opening 
remarks, some of the things that are in his bill. It is appropriately 
focused on housing because we believe--and I think rightly so--that 
housing got us into this recession and housing is going to lead us out 
of this recession. It is focused on getting dollars into the hands of 
the American taxpayers. The debate about whether you want to have 
government spend the money or the American people spend the money is a 
very simple one. I happen to believe if you allow the American people 
to spend the money, you get a much better return. When we get money 
back into the hands of Americans, they will help grow the economy. Two-
thirds of our gross domestic product is in the form of consumer 
spending. You provide incentives for small businesses which create two-
thirds or three-fourths of the jobs in our economy and that helps get 
the economy back on track. That is in this bill.

Reducing marginal income tax rates from 15 down to 10, 10 down to 5, 
cutting the payroll tax in half for a year for employees gets money 
back into the hands of the American people so they can go out and help 
stimulate the economy and create jobs.

It also, as was noted earlier, makes some changes with regard to the 
underlying bill where defense is concerned. We have some very serious 
needs. Senator McCain mentioned this in his remarks and he talked about 
the defense spending in his bill. There is some, frankly, defense money 
in the Democratic proposal--about $10 billion--mostly for military 
construction projects, but there is no money for reset. We have serious 
needs out there. Senator McCain's amendment adds $7 billion for reset, 
to repair military equipment and replace direct battle losses, 
including $6.5 billion for the Army, $600 million for the Marines, $62 
million for the Navy, and $83 million for the Air Force, which adds 
money for direct repair of military infrastructure and facilities. 
These are things that need to be done and can be done quickly that will 
put money to good use, that do create jobs and serve an important 
national purpose.

Now, the other thing his bill does is it puts money in for 
infrastructure. Infrastructure arguably is something that does create 
jobs out there, if they are shovel-ready projects that you can actually 
get going quickly. I think that is a good use in a reasonable way, not 
adding all kinds of projects that you are not going to do for many 
years to come. But if you are getting money out there that actually can 
help fund projects that can get done in the short term, that is a good 
thing.

Unfortunately, much of the money in the Democratic proposal, as I 
said earlier, isn't going to get spent out for years. I offered an 
amendment last night not to fund new programs, assuming it was going to 
take new programs a long time to get implemented and up and running. 
That amendment was defeated. The point of all this is to


do things that in the short term create jobs. So there is $45 
billion in the McCain proposal for infrastructure.


The other thing I will say, which I think is critical--critical--in 
this debate, because I said earlier that if we don't put some 
restraints or some safeguards in here, this is going to get--the 
spending is going to go on forever. Senator McCain's proposal includes 
a hard trigger so that when we recognize two consecutive quarters of 
economic growth, positive GDP, this funding terminates. It is a 
fiscally responsible approach. He offered a freestanding amendment last 
night that received 44 votes. I haven't seen any evidence in this 
Chamber yet that anybody here is serious about adding any measure of 
fiscal responsibility or sanity to spending $1 trillion of our 
children's and grandchildren's money.

I think it is important that this amendment get a vote. I urge my 
colleagues on both sides to support this amendment, to try and do 
something that is fiscally responsible, that reduces the overall size 
of this, that addresses substantively the things in the bill--the 
shortcomings in the Democratic proposal--and do some things that 
actually will help stimulate the economy and create jobs. Senator 
McCain's proposal represents a much better direction in which to head. 
It costs a lot less, it does a lot more, so I hope my colleagues will 
be able to support it.

One of my colleagues on the Democratic side got up a little earlier 
and said, Well, if it costs a little bit of money this year to do this 
or that, there isn't anything in this bill that costs a little bit of 
money. Everything in this bill costs a lot of money, and the people who 
are going to get hurt the most are the next generation who are going to 
be handed the bill.

I hope my colleagues will, in fact, support the McCain amendment, and 
I yield the floor.