# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `6651dc1323febc3c0aadca2ddb93b574`
`Ms. EDWARDS of Maryland — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. EDWARDS of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support as a 
cosponsor of this amendment, and I thank Congresswoman Lee for her 
steadfast leadership on this issue.

This amendment requires that we act on evidence. And we know that 
based on the evidence, our Afghanistan policy is a failure. Numerous 
revised strategies and restated mission statements, from President 
Bush, to Prime Minister Gordon Brown, to Prime Minister Blair, to 
President Obama, restated mission statements that continue to fall 
short of the touted successes, so-called successes.

The U.S. military reported today that 102 coalition forces were 
killed in June alone, along with countless Afghanis, rivaling the 
heights of the Iraq war. It's time to cast aside a policy of increasing 
entrenchment and use our resources to bring our troops, our treasure 
home.

I want to be perfectly clear: My opposition to the war is opposition 
to the policy; it's not to the brave men and women who serve this 
country with honor. But we do them an injustice by not having a real 
debate on the floor of this House about this policy and its failure.

I have seen the conditions on the ground, just recently in May, for 
myself, and I can assure you this war will never end quickly, if at 
all. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. And whether it was 
McKiernan, McChrystal, Petraeus, it's not just about the generals; it's 
about the policy. And it's a failure.