# HONORING THE LIFE OF JOSEPH D. GAMBOA
## `665c1873ce002a50a717d4e7e9166826`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 10 April 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a 
fallen Guam son, United States Army SSG Joseph D. Gamboa, 34, from the 
village of Malesso. Staff Sergeant Gamboa was assigned to B Company, 
Ist Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, in Vilseck, Germany, and 
was killed in the line of duty on March 25, 2008, in Baghdad, Iraq, in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Staff Sergeant Gamboa is the 25th 
serviceman from Micronesia to lose his life in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. In honoring Staff 
Sergeant Gamboa, we are reminded of the ultimate sacrifice that so many 
young people in our Nation have made for our freedom.

Staff Sergeant Gamboa's dedication to serving our Nation and 
defending our freedom will be forever remembered. He now joins the 
brotherhood of heroes, a long line of soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
marines and coast guardsmen who have put their country before 
themselves and who have lost their lives in combat. We owe a debt of 
gratitude to these men and women that can never truly be repaid.

Staff Sergeant Gamboa was a loving husband, father, son, and brother. 
He was a dedicated family man who adored his family and would do 
anything for them. He joined the Army to provide a good life for his 
children and out of a sense of duty to his country. He is also 
remembered by his fellow soldiers as a wonderful friend who had a great 
sense of humor and who loved to sing.

I join our Guam community in mourning and in prayer for Staff 
Sergeant Gamboa. I offer my condolences to his wife Michelle, their 
children Krystianna Mychailla, Austin Joseph, Ashton Joseph, Savannah 
Joelle, Avery Joseph, and Isabella Jomia, his parents Francisco and 
Cecilia Gamboa, his brothers, sisters, and extended family and friends.

God bless the Gamboa family, God bless our men and women in uniform, 
God bless Guam, and God bless our country, the United States of 
America.
