# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `665d9fb4a726819ee1e635d4af5ddd8a`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to 
eight young men from Fort Carson in Colorado who perished last weekend 
in Afghanistan. This was the heaviest U.S. loss of life in a single 
battle since July 2008, when nine American soldiers were killed in 
Afghanistan.

In highlighting the lives of these young soldiers, I do not want to 
diminish the loss of other brave servicemen and women who have given 
their lives for our country. Before last weekend, Fort Carson alone had 
lost 270 soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we must continue to 
honor the courage of our fallen, our wounded, and those who continue 
the fight.

But I hope the stories of these eight young men today speak to the 
loved ones of all the brave men and women who have lost their lives in 
Afghanistan and Iraq in recent years. I honor their service, their 
courage, their dedication, their love of country and family. I thank 
their wives, husbands, children, parents, and other family members and 
friends for their support of these brave servicemen and women. And I 
want to express my deepest sympathy to them as they mourn their loss.

These eight soldiers were all from the same platoon--Bravo Troop of 
the 3rd Squadron, 61st Cav, 4th Infantry Division, based at Fort 
Carson. The 4th BCT has worked since May to secure territory throughout 
a four-province region near Jalalabad in some of Afghanistan's most 
rugged terrain, training in the nearby hills to prepare for high-
altitude battle. A major achievement included providing security for 
Afghanistan's presidential election in August, enabling local Afghans 
to go to the polls.

I met with the 4th BCT commander, COL Randy George, back in April in 
Colorado, before Colonel George and his soldiers departed for 
Afghanistan. I know how hard Colonel George worked to get these 
soldiers ready for the fight, and they were ready. These eight young 
men and their fellow soldiers fought valiantly, taking on about 200 
insurgents in their remote outpost in Afghanistan's Nuristan province.

As MAJ Daniel Chandler, the rear detachment commander for the 4th

BCT, said: ''They were attacked, the unit fought bravely, and in the 
end, they won the day.''

I would like to say a few words about each of these men.

SPC Michael Scusa of Villas, NJ, was 22 years old. He joined the Army 
after graduating from high school and was on his second tour in 
Afghanistan. A former teacher said: He was a boy any mom would be proud 
to have. He leaves behind his wife and 1-year-old son in Colorado, as 
well as immediate family in New Jersey and Nebraska. SPC Christopher 
Griffin was 24 years old. He grew up in the small town of Kincheloe, 
MI. A high school classmate said that the ''whole town'' knew that 
Christopher would enlist someday. The Army was his calling--and he was 
very proud of it. He leaves behind his family in Michigan.

PFC Kevin Thomson of Reno, NV, was 22, and joined the Army in April 
2008. Friends said that he could make anyone smile, that he valued 
friendship, and that he had a strong relationship with his mother. His 
photo hangs in Scolari's grocery store in southeast Reno, where he used 
to work. He leaves behind his family in Nevada and California.

SGT Vernon Martin of Savannah, GA, was 25 years old, and leaves 
behind a wife and three children and family in Georgia and New York. He 
joined the Army 6 years ago and had served in Iraq before being shipped 
to Afghanistan. His wife said that he hoped to work with kids someday--
and that Vernon was the best thing that ever happened to her and their 
children.

SPC Stephan Mace of Lovettsville, VA, was 21 years old, and is 
survived by his family in West Virginia and Virginia. His mother said 
that he loved sports, wildlife, and the outdoors, and that he always 
had a smile on his face. He learned about patriotism from his 
grandfather, who served in the CIA during the Vietnam war, and had a 
strong love of his country and the military. Stephan's youngest brother 
just graduated from boot camp at Fort Sill--he wants to join the Army 
like his brother.

SGT Joshua Kirk--originally of Bonners Ferry, ID--was 30 years old. 
He leaves behind his wife and 2-year-old daughter in Colorado and 
mother in Idaho.

SGT Joshua Hardt of Applegate, California, was 24 years old, and was 
an outgoing and athletic young man--so talented at high school football 
that his helmet was retired. When Joshua was stationed at Fort Carson, 
he and his wife moved to Colorado together. Joshua leaves behind his 
wife and immediate family in California.



SGT Justin Gallegos of Tucson, AZ, was 27 years old. His friends 
called him ''a man of excitement, courage, leadership, and kindness,'' 
and a strong man, a go-getter. He leaves behind family and friends in 
Tucson.

There is so much more to say about each one of these soldiers--and 
about each of the men and women who have given their lives in the 
service of our country. Now is a time to honor their memories and pay 
tribute to them for their tremendous sacrifice and dedication to our 
Nation. We will not forget you.