---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `6662c13d0aa84b3a9c7075aa142902a5`
`Mr. CORNYN — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I have in my hand a list of the 
countries from which individuals who have been detained at the border 
have originated. In 2009, 2 people from Afghanistan were apprehended on 
the southern border; 10 from Iran, a state sponsor of international 
terrorism, as we know; 10 have come from Iraq; 19 from Pakistan; 12 
from Somalia; and 3 from Yemen. Out of a total of 45,000 other-than-
Mexican citizen immigrants apprehended at the border, these are just 
some examples of why our porous border represents a national security 
threat in the global war on terror.

There is also another reminder in the news recently where two F-16s 
had been dispatched to intercept an ultralight aircraft flying across 
the border into Arizona. Some 200 ultralight aircraft have been 
detected in 2009 alone. These ultralight aircraft do not require


a license to fly. They typically fly so low to avoid any radar 
detection. It is estimated by the Department of Homeland Security that 
some 600 of them have flown into the United States, primarily 
transporting huge loads of illegal drugs, of course, being sold on 
America's streets to our children, among others.

From these two facts--the fact that we have other than Mexican 
citizens who simply want to come to work using the porous border, both 
Mexico's porous southern border and our southern porous border, and to 
come into the United States for unknown purposes, perhaps to do us 
harm--it is obvious our current border security measures are inadequate 
to deal with this new phenomenon of ultralight aircraft transporting 
drugs into the United States and perhaps transporting back to Mexico 
the bulk cash that is generated from these drug sales, further funding 
illegal drug activity and the cartels that are causing so much mayhem 
on our southern border.

The problem we have with our broken immigration system is that it is 
simply not perceived as credible by the American people. Until we deal 
with this broken border, we are not going to be able to deal with other 
aspects of our broken immigration system, and I would support an effort 
to do that. But it seems to be that our colleagues on the other side 
too often seem to view border security as leverage or a bargaining chip 
they are not willing to give up unless they get something else for it. 
But it is, in fact, the Federal Government's responsibility to deal 
with this situation, as the President himself has acknowledged in his 
recent announcement to send 1,200 additional National Guard to the 
border. I will tell you that it is a welcome gesture, but it is no more 
than that--a gesture. These 1,200 National Guard on a 2,000-mile 
border--you can imagine how many gaps in the effort of border security 
will still be left. That is why I support the McCain amendment and the 
Kyl amendment to provide additional National Guard on a temporary 
basis.

Our National Guard is already severely stressed because of the 
conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq, our all-volunteer military forces. 
What we need to do is provide a permanent solution, not a temporary 
solution, and that means more Border Patrol, more ATF, DEA----