---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `666a25bcd6399252b05f4db58a72c286`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Conyers, may I pay tribute to you? It 
gives me such a privilege to be able to come to this floor with you as 
the chairperson of the House Judiciary Committee, along with the 
ranking member, who is a friend and colleague from Texas. But it is a 
special honor, and it humbles many of us, because a lot of us were not 
here for the debate on the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voter 
Rights Act of 1965. Many Americans think that that bill only pertains 
and helps people of color, but really what it does is it restores that 
legislation, the value and the preciousness of the right to vote for 
all Americans. I am gratified that Chairman Conyers, who has a history 
with restoring the rights of Americans to vote, now finds himself on 
the floor in the doorway of history to be able to reaffirm the 
Constitution.

And I heard my good friend, and I am glad that you will hear from my 
colleague from Texas, Congressman Al Green, who spent a few days on the 
bench and I think would recognize a Constitution when he would see it. 
But I think this is important, because if the American people are 
listening, there is some suggestion, what kind of irreverent actions 
are occurring on this floor? Why are we ignoring the Constitution? And 
I take great umbrage with that. I am sensitive to that. My very fabric 
of my existence is embedded in the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendment. I 
want the Constitution to be cherished, and I want it to be right.

So let me just recount for you why we can move from one section to 
the next, and it relates to the constitutionality of what we are doing. 
And I would only hope that my friends would not be rejecting this bill 
because, in fact, it is the District of Columbia. And let me remind 
America that Utah is given an opportunity for its citizens to be 
represented.

But in 1820, the Supreme Court held that Congress could impose 
Federal taxes on the District, and it was related to the provision in 
here that says


representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several 
States. So we tax them based upon language in the Constitution that 
they equal the States.

Then in 1889, the Supreme Court found that the constitutional 
prohibition against State laws that interfere with commerce applies to 
States and the District of Columbia, again equating the District of 
Columbia to States.

And then in 1934, the Supreme Court found that Congress could treat 
the District of Columbia as a State.

So in the Constitution it says that: The House of Representatives 
shall be composed of Members chosen every second year by the people of 
several States.

But it also says that this Congress has jurisdiction in clause 17 
under section 8 over the District of Columbia, and that is what we are 
doing here today. We are correcting a wrong, an ill. We are correcting 
a disease. We are equating this city to the rights of Iraqis, who are 
now able to vote for all of those they want to vote for, albeit it is 
in a troubled situation.

And so I would simply commend my colleagues to this, and to suggest 
that there was something wrong in the rule for not asking for an 
expedited Supreme Court review, my friends, the Supreme Court will be 
able to deliberate on this particular legislation in due time and be 
able to render a decision and expedited request warrants or suggests 
there should be a crisis. There was not an expedited request in the 
election of 2000, and the Supreme Court decided it in 4 or 5 days. For 
me, that was an emergency.