---
---

# None
## `6674906e1cf8e00c06aacac171d83dd8`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts, 
Senator Kennedy, and I thank the Chair.

First, let me make a comment about the process here. On the other 
side of the aisle we have heard people stand up and try to use every 
procedural obstacle they can to kill the bill. They want to kill the 
bill. What this Chamber ought to be about is trying to find solutions 
to those huge problems that face our country, whatever those problems 
may be, including the issue of immigration.

They have said this process is somehow unfair. Well, when I look at 
how much time this Chamber has spent dealing with the issue of 
immigration, I think there has been ample time for people to talk about 
and debate this issue over the last 2 years. Since 9/11--since 9/11--
the Senate has had 36 hearings on the issue of immigration--36 
hearings. Since 9/11, there have been 6 days of committee action with 
respect to immigration. Since then, there have been 59 committee 
amendments on immigration. Since then, there have been 21 days of 
Senate debate--21 days of Senate debate on immigration, and 92 Senate 
floor amendments--92 Senate floor amendments.

So for those who want to use procedure to kill this bill, they are 
wrong in making the case that they have not been heard. There has been 
ample time and opportunity to hear their arguments, and that has gone 
on time and time again. It is time we in the Senate get down to 
business and fix the problem of immigration for our country.

Secondly, this is a good bill. It may not be a perfect bill, but we 
can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. This bill toughens 
border security. It does it by making sure that the $4.4 billion is 
there for border security, 370 miles of fencing, 300 miles of vehicle 
barriers, 20,000 Border Patrol agents, and it goes on. It doubles 
employer sanctions to make sure we can enforce our laws here in our 
country through a variety of different means, and it also makes sure 
that we develop a realistic and tough solution to the 12 million 
undocumented workers who are here in America. Those who are part of a 
''round them up and deport them'' crowd are being unrealistic because 
of the costs involved and the difficulty in ultimately fixing the 
problem we have. So we have come up with the right kind of solution 
that punishes them, fines them, puts them to the back of the line, and 
allows them to come out of the shadows of this society and into the 
sunlight.

Finally, we can't forget the human values at stake in this debate on 
immigration. In this picture we see Army SPC Alex Jimenez. He was 
deployed for a second tour in Iraq. He has been missing in Iraq since 
May 12. We have found some other of his personal belongings. But as he 
is in Iraq missing in action, his wife was being questioned


by ICE in our country, in America, because her immigration status was 
undocumented. Now, is that the American way? Is that the American way, 
to have one of our soldiers missing in action in Iraq, with his wife 
concerned about her immigration status here in the United States of 
America?

What this demonstrates to me is we have a system of chaos and 
disorder here in America. We need to fix the problem. This Chamber can 
fix the problem. I hope we will stand behind the solution we are 
bringing to the floor today.

I yield the floor.