---
---

# None
## `6676195134b315a70b515b5d08e86d4a`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 18 June 2009`

---

 Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I rise to recognize that 146 
years ago today, West Virginia became the 35th State to join the Union. 
The only State to have seceded from a Confederate State, West 
Virginia's birthday shines as an anniversary which commemorates the 
spirit, perseverance, optimism, and hard work of its people.

West Virginia is unique in countless ways; and her history is just 
the beginning. For almost 200 years, West Virginians have played a 
significant role in the development and advancement of our nation. From 
the Battle of Philippi in Barbour County, which was the first organized 
land battle of the Civil War, to John Brown's historic raid on the 
Arsenal in Harpers Ferry, we recognize the role our State has played in 
the making of America's history.

The only State to lie entirely within the borders of Appalachia, we 
remain incredibly diverse; our geography, population, and heritage are 
what have lead to our identity as the ''Wild and Wonderful'' State. 
From the renowned Greenbrier Hotel and Resort in White Sulphur Springs, 
to the New River Gorge in Fayetteville, which houses the longest steel-
arch bridge in the United States, it is no wonder that we draw tourists 
here from all over the globe.

But it is not the many historical sites or beautiful landscapes that 
capture the fortitude of West Virginia, but rather, her people--people 
who continue to inspire with pride and honor, and overcome challenges 
with a resolve like no other.

Early last month, flash flooding devastated families throughout 
southern West Virginia, damaging at least 1,500 homes with the worst 
flooding the area has seen for quite some time. The humanitarian 
response within the State has been profoundly moving; with people 
traveling hours to donate their time and energy to assist their fellow 
West Virginians, and some 300 National Guard troops posted in the 
area--proving that goodwill is alive and well in West Virginia. Seeing 
this outpouring, I was reminded of serious flooding in our State when I 
was Governor. I opened National Guard armories to house displaced 
families but none showed up--because their neighbors had taken them in. 
That is a shining example of our Mountaineer spirit.

In addition to serving the people of our State, the West Virginia 
National Guard is committed to global security, with 38 active units 
serving around the world, including in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Our 
State motto, ''Mountaineers are always free,'' can be found resonating 
not only in all corners of the Mountain State but across the globe. And 
it is a motto that West Virginians have stood up for time and again--as 
our State's veterans are among the bravest, most selfless, and most 
devoted in the entire Nation.

West Virginians have the amazing ability to make sure our culture--
which we are so proud of--is also part of our future. Ours is a State 
wrapped in age-old traditions, but also a State with a readiness to 
adapt to its younger generations; a veritable melting pot of both old 
and new world. The Ramp Eating Capitol of the World is found in 
Richwood, where international crowds gathered in April for the annual 
Ramp Eating Contest to delight in this West Virginia favorite. And 
artists across our State are finding more innovative ways to market our 
cultural heritage, from Blenko Glass and amazing woodwork, to folk-art, 
quilts and Appalachian music.

Our schools, colleges and universities have inspired some of the best 
and brightest young leaders. West Virginia University and Marshall 
University have produced some of the greatest minds in some of the 
toughest fields worldwide, and have played an integral role in 
supporting the communities they inhabit. The Promise Scholarship, which 
pays instate collegiate tuition fees for those high school graduates 
with qualifying academic records, has helped thousands of students 
afford college since its inception. Thanks to this measure, admission 
to institutions of higher education in West Virginia has steadily 
increased, drawing students from across the Nation to study subjects 
such as biometrics, forensics, and defense.

Native West Virginians often joke that telephone calls placed to God 
are local, as our State is ''almost'' heaven. We love and are so proud 
of our awe-inspiring scenery and our towering mountains, and we can't 
wait to show them off to anyone who visits. And what those visitors 
also find when they come to our beautiful State is a population well-
versed in humility and good-nature. It is indeed the people who pay the 
greatest tribute to our Mountain State, and it is my honor and 
privilege today to wish you on their behalf, the happiest of birthdays, 
West Virginia.
