---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `6684341ed6008bc7eec4de92ef1fa30a`
`Mr. WARNER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, during the course of the afternoon, a 
group of Republican Senators have been meeting, including our final 
meeting with our distinguished Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, and 
our assistant Republican leader, Senator Lott. We now have a letter 
signed by seven Senators: myself, Senator Collins, Senator Smith, 
Senator Voinovich, Senator Snowe, Senator Hagel, and Senator Coleman. 
The letter is addressed


to our two Republican leaders and to the distinguished majority leader, 
Senator Reid, and the assistant majority leader, Senator Durbin.

I would like to now read the text of the letter to place it into the 
Record:




 Dear Leaders: The war in Iraq is the most pressing issue of 


 our time. It urgently deserves the attention of the full 


 Senate and a full debate on the Senate floor without delay.



 We respectfully advise you, our leaders, that we intend to 


 take S. Con. Res. 7 and offer it, where possible, under the 


 Standing Rules of the Senate, to bills coming before the 


 Senate.



 On January 10, 2007, the President stated, with respect to 


 his Iraq strategy, ''if Members have improvements that can be 


 made, we will make them. If circumstances change, we will 


 adjust.'' In a conscientious, respectful way, we offered our 


 resolution consistent with the President's statement.



 We strongly believe the Senate should be allowed to work 


 its will on our resolution as well as on the concepts brought 


 forward by other Senators. Monday's procedural vote should 


 not be interpreted as any lessening of our resolve to go 


 forward advocating the concepts of S. Con. Res. 7.



 We will explore all of our options under the Senate 


 procedures and practices to ensure a full and open debate on 


 the Senate floor. The current stalemate is unacceptable to us 


 and to the people of this country.


Mr. President, for reference purposes, a copy of S. Con. Res. 7 is 
printed in the Record of Monday, February 5, 2007 at page 51556.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.