# ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `668a2931a278fee0f2be7f8d2cbcb243`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. I last would like to thank those who helped us get to 
this day, including those who are no longer with us. My friend, Justin 
Dart, who was so instrumental in helping us get the ADA passed. We are 
fortunate that his wife Yoshiko continues to carry on his legacy, day 
after day, week after week, year after year. Ed Roberts, the father of 
the Independent Living movement, whose work and vision live on.

And all the disability advocates and people with disabilities who 
have been so dedicated to the goals of the ADA, without whose hard work 
and dedicated efforts today would not have been possible--people such 
as Jim Ward and his family, who dedicated almost 2 years of their lives 
traveling on a bus around the country to every State, showing people 
about the importance of restoring the protections of ADA. Bob Kafka of 
ADAPT, who was so instrumental in passage of the ADA, and who has 
dedicated his life to fulfilling the goals of the ADA.

I wish to say a special thank-you to Jennifer Mathis of the Bazelon 
Center for her practical and practiced advice; Sandy Finucane of the 
Epilepsy Foundation; of course to Andy Imparato of the American 
Association of People With Disabilities for always being there in that 
leadership position--for his level-headed leadership, for bringing 
different groups together, and sometimes that is like herding cats to 
get all of us together. Andy did a great job in making sure we were 
always there and making sure we had our conferences and negotiations 
and keeping us all headed in the same direction. So to Andy Imparato I 
give my highest thanks and my deepest thanks for all of his 
helpfulness.

Thanks to Nanzy Zirkin of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights; 
and to Professor Chai Feldblum of the Georgetown Law Center for 
creative and innovative thinking, for always being willing to testify 
before our committee.

Thanks to Randy Johnson and Mike Eastman of the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce; to Mike Peterson of the H.R. Policy Association; to Jeri 
Gillespie of the National Association of Manufacturers; and to Mike 
Aitken of the Society of Human Resource Management.

Thanks to our key staff members: Tom Jipping and Chris Campbell of 
Senator Hatch's staff--great to work with--and Lee Perselay, Beth 
Stein, and Pam Smith of my own staff. Again, they have worked 
tirelessly on this day after day.

I wish to thank the House committee staff, Sharon Lewis and Heather 
Sawyer, and Leader Hoyer's staff, Keith Abouchar and Michelle 
Stockwell, as well as a wish for them to make quick work of passing 
this bill when it gets over to the House.

Of course, I also thank the staff of the HELP Committee, the 
chairman's staff, Michael Myers, Connie Garner, and Charlotte Burrows, 
and Brian Hayes with Ranking Member Enzi.

I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have supported 
this bill in overwhelming numbers and made it possible to pass the bill 
and hopefully get it signed into law and advance the original intent of 
the original Americans with Disabilities Act.

You know, there may not be a lot of people here on the floor of the 
Senate today, but I can tell you, though, throughout the country there 
are millions of Americans with disabilities who know what we are doing 
here. They have been told. They know what we have done over the last 
couple or 3 years to overturn those Supreme Court decisions. They are 
waiting anxiously for this bill to be passed, for the House to pass it, 
and for President Bush to sign it into law so that once again they can 
go out with full knowledge that they are covered by this civil rights 
bill, that they can go out and seek employment, that they can travel, 
that they can seek the accommodations that will make them fully 
functioning members of our society and knowing that they are covered by 
the law. So there are millions of Americans with disabilities and their 
families all over this country today who I know are expressing thanks 
to all the people who have been involved in getting this done. Again, 
so many are not here with us today. They know what we are doing, and 
they are anxiously waiting for this to pass and to get it to the 
President, and hopefully we will get that done--hopefully by next week.

The last thing was--I thanked a lot of people, but I would be remiss 
if I did not thank the one person who more than any other set my feet 
on this course many years ago, who taught me a lot about being 
disabled, and who taught me a lot about discrimination against people 
with disabilities. And, of course, I speak of my brother, Frank.

He was here when we passed the original ADA, but he has since passed 
on. But it was my brother who first said to me many years ago when he 
was sent to the Iowa School for the Deaf--they called it the Iowa 
School for the Deaf and Dumb--he said, ''I may be deaf, but I am not 
dumb.'' It was also my brother who one time said to me that the only 
thing deaf people cannot do is hear. He wanted to do a lot of things in 
his life, but because of prejudices, because of discrimination, he was 
held back and discriminated against. I saw it time after time after 
time. He was able to persevere and carve out a life of independence and 
dignity for himself, but I often thought, why did he have to do that? I 
mean, why did it require an extraordinary effort on his part just to be 
a contributing member of our society, just to enjoy a lot of things we 
take for granted?

So I thought so much about that. I thought, you know, if I ever got 
in a position to do anything about it, I was going to do something. 
Well, as fortune would have it, I was elected to the House and then 
later elected to the


Senate and found myself as chairman of the Disability Policy 
Subcommittee under the tutelage of Senator Kennedy. We were able to get 
the first ADA act passed.

I have to tell you a story here, just talking about discrimination. I 
was sworn into the Senate in January of 1985. I had my brother, Frank; 
he along with my whole family was here sitting up there in the gallery 
right back here. I had provided for an interpreter to interpret for my 
brother as he was watching the proceedings here on the floor of the 
Senate. Well, then a policeman came out. Actually, one of my brothers 
said: The policemen are up there and asked the interpreter to leave 
because she could not be there. I went up to the gallery. I am about to 
get sworn into the Senate.

I went up to find out what was going on.

The officer said: We cannot let people up in the gallery stand up and 
do this interpreting.

I said: Why not?

He said: It is against the rules.

What rules?

Well, it is against the rules.

Well, I was furious. So I came down on the floor, and in 1985, you 
might remember the Senate majority leader was Senator Bob Dole. So I 
went right to Dole and I said: Senator Dole, here is my problem. I got 
my brother up there, and they won't let an interpreter interpret.

He said: Really? Well, I will take care of that.

And he took care of it. He took care of it. So we got an interpreter. 
Of course, now we have closed captioning and all kinds of things now 
for Senate activities. But, again, it is just that attitude people 
have. This was in 1985. That would not happen today. Of course, we have 
access for people who have mobility disabilities to come in, and we 
have made the Capitol accessible for people with all kinds of 
disabilities.

But I relate that story as a way of again thanking my brother, Frank, 
for setting my feet on this path so many years ago. For me, it has been 
a labor of love, not without its frustrations, not without saying--one 
day at the Supreme Court, with Bob Dole by my side, listening to the 
Supreme Court hand down one of these decisions, I said: What could they 
possibly be thinking? We went out and talked to the press after, 
Senator Dole and I did. So it has had its frustrations.

We are not to the promised land yet with 60 percent unemployment 
among people with disabilities. We have a long way to go. But this, the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, is the civil rights statute that says 
to people: You cannot discriminate. Just as we passed the civil rights 
bills that said: You cannot discriminate on the basis of race or sex or 
national origin or religion, now you cannot discriminate on the basis 
of disability either, plus you have to take some other steps; we have 
to have reasonable accommodations. So this is the civil rights statute 
that emancipates and frees people with disabilities so they can be 
fully contributing members of our society.

I close my remarks by thanking the President for her indulgence, the 
indulgence of other Senators for permitting me to speak for so long. As 
I said, this, for me, for all of my adult life, is a cause to which I 
have committed myself, much of my staff, much of our time and effort. I 
am grateful to the leadership of the Senate, both on the Republican and 
Democratic side, and again to my great friend and partner Senator Hatch 
for making it possible for us to bring up this bill today and get it 
passed unanimously. Unanimously. That is even better than what we did 
with the ADA. We only had six votes against it in 1990. This is 
unanimous. I think it sends a clear signal that whether you are 
Republican or Democratic, it does not make any difference--it does not 
make any difference, we are going to stand behind people with 
disabilities. We are going to make sure the ADA takes its rightful 
place once again as the umbrella civil rights statute for all Americans 
with disabilities.

I thank all of my colleagues. I look forward to the passage of this 
bill in the House. I look forward to the President hopefully signing it 
as early as next week.

























 August 21, 2008
















 Exhibit 1




 Re: The ADA Amendments Act of 2008


 Hon. Tom Harkin,


 U.S. Senate,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Senator Harkin: The undersigned groups, representing a 


 broad range of interests, write in support of the ADA 


 Amendments Act of 2008 (S. 3406). This bill introduced on 


 July 31, 2008, had 64 cosponsors as of August 1, with 55 of 


 those joining as original cosponsors.



 S. 3406, the ADA Amendments Act, would revise the ADA, in a 


 manner designed to work for both people with disabilities and 


 for entities governed under the law. The bill is a result of 


 sustained efforts between Senators from both sides of the 


 aisle and intensive and thoughtful talks between 


 representatives of the disability community and entities 


 governed by the law. For that reason, we believe that S. 3406 


 strikes a delicate balance between the needs of individuals 


 with disabilities and the realities experienced by entities 


 including employers and public accommodations, which are 


 covered under the law.



 We urge your support in making enactment of S. 3406, the 


 ADA Amendments Act, a reality as soon as Congress returns to 


 work in September. We stand ready to work with you towards 


 that end.





 Sincerely,




 ABC Business Services, Illinois; Abilities in Motion, 





 Pennsylvania; ADA Watch/National Coalition for 





 Disability Rights; ADA Help, Inc., Florida; Air Force 





 Association; Air Force Sergeants Association; Air Force 





 Women Officers; Associated Alliance of Disability 





 Advocates Center for Independent Living, North 





 Carolina; Alpha-1 Association; Alpha-1 Foundation; ALS 





 Association; Alzheimer's Association; American 





 Association for Affirmative Action; American 





 Association for Respiratory Care; American Academy of 





 Nursing; American Association of Diabetes Educators; 





 American Association of People with Disabilities 





 (AAPD); American Association of University Women; 





 American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association; 





 American Bakers Association; American Cancer Society 





 Cancer Action Network; American Civil Liberties Union 





 (ACLU); American Composites Manufacturers Association; 





 American Council of the Blind; American Diabetes 





 Association; American Federation of Government 





 Employees--Veterans Council.




 American Federation of Labor--Congress of Industrial 





 Unions (AFL-CIO); I American Federation of State, 





 County & Municipal Employees (AFSCME); American 





 Federation of Teachers (AFT); American Foundation for 





 the Blind; American Foundry Society; American GI Forum; 





 American Islamic Congress; American Jewish Committee; 





 American Kidney Fund; American Liver Foundation; 


 American Lung Association; American Medical Rehabilitation 


 Providers Association; American Mental Health Counselors 


 Association; American Physical Therapy Association; 


 American Psychological Association; American Society of 


 Employers; AMVETS; ANCOR; Anixter Center, Illinois; Anti-


 Defamation League; APEERS (Alternative Peer Edu/Enrichment 


 Recovery Society), West Virginia; APSE: The Network on 


 Employment; Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee; The Arc of 


 Tucson, Arizona; The Arc of the United States.




 The Arc of Utah; Arthritis Foundation; ARISE, New York; 





 Asian American Justice Center; Associated Builders and 





 Contractors, Inc.; Association of Jewish Family & 





 Children's Agencies; Association of Programs for Rural 





 Independent Living (APRIL); Association of University 





 Centers on Disabilities (AUCD); Asthma and Allergy 





 Foundation of America; Autism Society of America; The 





 Autistic Self-Advocacy Network; AZ Bridge to 





 Independent Living; Bazelon Center for Mental Health 





 Law; BH Electronics, Inc.; Bimba Manufacturing; B'nai 





 B'rith International; Brain Injury Association of 





 America; Breast Cancer Network of Strength; Business 





 and Institutional Furniture; Manufacturers Association; 





 Capital Associated Industries, Inc.; Care4Dystonia, 





 Inc.; Central Conference of American Rabbis; Center for 





 Women Policy Studies; Children and Adults with 





 AttentionDeficit/Hyperactivity Disorder; Christopher 





 and Dana Reeve Foundation.




 The Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) in the United 





 States and Canada; CIGNA Corporation; Coastal Health 





 District, Georgia; Coleman Global Telecommunications, 





 LLC; Community Action Partnership; Community Health 





 Charities of America; Community Resources for 





 Independent Living, California; Control Technology, 





 Inc.; COPD Foundation; Council of Parent Attorneys and 





 Advocates; Council of State Administrators of 





 Vocational Rehabilitation (CSAVR); Crohn's and Colitis 





 Foundation of America; Disabled American Veterans; 





 Disability Policy Consortium, Inc.; Disability Rights 





 Wisconsin (WI P&A); DTE Energy Company; Easter Seals; 





 Eastman Chemical; Ellwood Group Inc.; Enlisted 





 Association of the National Guard of the United States; 





 Epilepsy Foundation; Evangelical Lutheran Church in 





 America; Freedom Resource Center for Independent 





 Living, Minnesota; Freedom Resource Center for 





 Independent Living, North Dakota; Friends Committee on 





 National Legislation;







 Friends of the National Institute of Dental, and 





 Craniofacial Research.




 Georgia Voice That Count; Granite State Independent 





 Living; Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, Inc.; 





 Hearing Loss Association of America; Hearing Loss 





 Association of America, Manhattan Chapter; Hearing Loss 





 Association of America, Mid Hudson Chapter; Hearing 





 Loss Association of America, North Shore Chapter of 





 Long Island; Hearing Loss Association of America, 





 Queens at Lexington; Hearing Loss Association of 





 America, Western New York Chapter; Heat Transfer 





 Equipment Company; Higher Education Consortium for 





 Special Education; Hindu American Foundation; HR Policy 





 Association; Human Rights Campaign; Huntington's 


 Disease Society of America; Hydrocephalus Association; 


 Idaho State Independent Living Council; Illinois 


 Manufacturers' Association; International Association of 


 Official Human Rights Agencies; International Franchise 


 Association; International Paper Company; Iraq & 


 Afghanistan Veterans of America; Islamic Society of North 


 America; Japanese American Citizens League; Jewish Council 


 for Public Affairs.




 Jewish Reconstructionist Federation; J.T. Fennell Co.; 





 Koller-Craft Plastic Products; Lakeside Equipment 





 Corporation; The LAM Foundation; Lambda Legal; Lawyers' 





 Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; Leadership 





 Conference on Civil Rights (LCCR); Learning 





 Disabilities Association of America (LDA); The Leukemia 





 & Lymphoma Society; Life, Inc., Georgia; Liz Thurber 





 Slipcovers; Lupus Foundation of America; The Management 





 Association of Illinois; Manufacturer & Business 





 Association (Erie, PA); March of Dimes; Mental Health 





 America; Michigan Alliance of State Employees with 





 Disabilities (Michigan ASED); Michigan Chapter of 





 Paralyzed Veterans; Michigan Rehabilitation 





 Association; Military Officers Association of America; 





 Molded Fiber Glass Companies; Monadnock Paper Mills, 





 Inc.; Motorola; Mullinix Packages, Inc.




 Muslim Public Affairs Council; Myasthenia Gravis 





 Foundation of America; NAACP Legal Defense & 





 Educational Fund, Inc.; National Advocacy Center of the 





 Sisters of the Good Shepard; National Alliance on 





 Mental Illness (NAMI); National Alopecia Areata 





 Foundation; National Association for the Advancement of 





 Colored People (NAACP). National Association for Black 





 Veterans; National Association for Employment of People 





 who are Blind (NAEPB); National Association for 





 Uniformed Services; National Association of Councils on 





 Developmental Disabilities; National Association of 





 County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability 





 Directors; National Association of Governors' 





 Committees on People with Disabilities (NAGC); National 





 Association of Human Rights Workers; National 





 Association of Manufacturers; National Association of 





 the Physically Handicapped (Manistee County Chapter); 





 National Association of Social Workers; National 





 Association of State Directors of Special Education; 





 National Association of State Head Injury 





 Administrators; National Association of the Deaf; 





 National Center for Learning Disabilities (NCLD); 





 National Congress of Black Women, Inc.; National 





 Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare; National 





 Council of Churches in the USA.




 National Council of Jewish Women; National Council of La 





 Raza (NCLR); National Council on Independent Living 





 (NCIL); National Disability Rights Network (NDRN); 





 National Down Syndrome Congress; National Down Syndrome 





 Society; National Education Association (NEA); National 





 Employment Lawyers Association; National Fair Housing 





 Alliance; National Family Caregivers Association; 





 National Federation of Filipino American Associations 





 (NaFFAA); The National Foundation for Ectodermal 





 Dysplasias; National Health Council; National Health 





 Law Program; National Industries for the Blind (NIB); 





 National Kidney Foundation; National Legal Aid and 


 Defender Association; National Marfan Foundation; National 


 Multiple Sclerosis Society; National MS Society, Hawaii 


 Chapter; National Organization for Women; National 


 Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS); National 


 Psoriasis Foundation; National Women's Law Center; Naval 


 Reserve Association; NCEP Brain Injury Rehabilitation 


 Program, Nevada.




 NETWORK: A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby; 





 Nevadans for Equal Access, Inc.; New Jersey Protection 





 and Advocacy; NISH; Non-Commissioned Officers 





 Association; Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and 





 Employers Association; Northwestern Mutual; Ohio 





 Disability Action Coalition; Oregon Family Support 





 Network; Organization of Chinese Americans; 





 Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation; Our Children Left 





 Behind; The Paget Foundation; Paralyzed Veterans of 





 America; Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy; People 





 Escaping Poverty Project, Minnesota; People First of 





 Nevada; Portland General Electric; PPG Industries; 





 Precision Metalforming Association; Presbyterian Church 





 (USA), Washington Office; Prevent Blindness America; 





 Reserve Enlisted Association; RESOLVE: The National 





 Infertility Association.




 RTC Paratransit Evaluation Services, Nevada; Roaring 





 Spring Blank Book Co.; Ryder System, Inc.; SEIU--





 Service Employees International Union; Self-Advocacy 





 Association of New York State, Inc.; Services for 





 Independent Living, Missouri; Sikh American Legal 





 Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF); Sjogren's Syndrome 





 Foundation; Society for Human Resource Management; 





 Southeast Kansas Independent Living Resource Center, 





 Inc. (SKIL); Southern Champion Tray LP; Spina Bifida 





 Association; State of Nevada TBI Advisory Council; 





 Stuller, Inc.; The Taylor-Winfield Corporation; Teacher 





 Education Division of the Council for Exceptional 





 Children; Texas Association of the Deaf; Textile Rental 





 Services Association of America; Ultra Tech Machinery 





 Inc.; United Cerebral Palsy; United Cerebral Palsy of 





 Central Ohio; United Church of Christ, Justice and 





 Witness Ministries; United Food and Commercial Workers 





 International Union; United Methodist Church, General 





 Board of Church and Society.




 Union for Reform Judaism; Unitarian Universalist 





 Association of Congregations; United Jewish 





 Communities; United Spinal Association; Uniweld 





 Products Inc.; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; U.S. 





 Conference of Catholic Bishops; U.S. Psychiatric 





 Association; U.S. Psychiatric Rehabilitation 





 Association; US TOO International; Vanamatic Company; 





 Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States; Veterans 





 of Modern Warfare; Vietnam Veterans of America; West 





 Suburban Access News Association; Wisconsin 





 Manufacturers & Commerce; Women of Reform Judaism; The 





 Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring; World Institute on 





 Disability.
