---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `669a135598d463ae0392da47f4d5e07f`
`Mr. HARE — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. HARE. Mr. Speaker, the American people have paid a tremendous 
price for our 5-year occupation of Iraq. Over 3,100 U.S. lives have 
been lost and more than 23,000 wounded, and nearly half a trillion 
taxpayer dollars have been spent. In my own congressional district, 
nine servicemembers have given their lives to the conflict in Iraq.

I am committed to bringing our troops home safely and as soon as 
possible. The legislation before us today holds the Iraqi government 
accountable by imposing strict benchmarks for success. If the President 
cannot show that the Iraqis have met these standards by July 1, 2007, a 
troop withdrawal will begin immediately and must be completed within 
180 days.

These measures not only provide the support our troops need and 
deserve, but they also force this President to think twice before 
asking our brave military men and women to serve a third or fourth tour 
in Iraq, and requires and provides the resources our troops need when 
they come home.



But this bill also honors our veterans by investing billions of 
additional dollars for their health care. And, for the first time since 
this war began, Congress is not giving the President a blank check.

Mr. Speaker, I believe we can bring a reasonable, timely end to the 
war in Iraq, and if this bill does that, we will also protect our 
troops.

I urge my colleagues to cast their important vote for this bill.