---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `66a60677a6f3567b5afa25d4cd124fce`
`Mr. HUNTER — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for yielding.

I speak to you today, Madam Speaker, not just as a United States 
Congressman but as a United States marine. That's what my ballot title 
says


in San Diego. It reads: ''U.S. Representative/Marine.''

I've served in Iraq twice. I've served in Afghanistan once. I was 
part of the 1st Marine Division. I, for one, don't appreciate being 
lectured to, especially from a gentleman like the one from Florida who 
just spoke, about how I'm brain-injured, about how I might have PTSD, 
about how I'm less of a person because I've served overseas.

This is an ill-conceived resolution. It is a resolution that is 
hurtful to our troops on the ground who are fighting now, and it is a 
resolution that is hurtful to their families. If we had passed a 
similar resolution about Iraq, we wouldn't have been victorious in Iraq 
now. We wouldn't have less than 1,000 marines in Iraq now. They have 
all pulled out. Why did they pull out? Because we've won. Iraq is no 
longer a threat.

I've had friends give their lives for this great Nation in both Iraq 
and Afghanistan. A vote for this resolution is sending a message to 
their families that their sacrifices and willingness to stand in the 
gap against the forces of tyranny and destruction and radical Islam 
were false errands.

This is the wrong message to send. Our message should be one of 
support and encouragement. As congressional Representatives, we should 
be standing side by side with our troops in the field, not abandoning 
our cause when our military needs us the most. If we were to pull out 
of Afghanistan, we would be inviting those terrorists and al Qaeda to 
attack us here again on American soil. We don't need another 9/11.

This resolution could well be named ''the retreat and abandonment of 
our military resolution.'' I don't believe the purpose of this 
resolution is to protect our men and women serving in harm's way. The 
point of this resolution, I think, would be to make America weaker.

I'll tell you why I believe this: Unlike any other Member of 
Congress, I have served both in Iraq and Afghanistan. Unfortunately, 
not any person who is in favor of this resolution has ever come and 
talked to me. The gentleman from Florida never came to me and asked me 
what I thought about it.

This isn't about the military. This is about a political ideology to 
make America weak and to lose our strength as a great Nation.

I would appreciate it if maybe I could be listened to next time. If 
we are going to work in a bipartisan fashion and if this resolution is 
truly for the men and women of the military, I've been here for 15 
months, and I've never talked to anybody about it.

We need to make sure that we support our troops and their families 
and that we not allow al Qaeda to become stronger by passing this 
resolution.

Once again, I've raised my right hand like every other Member of 
Congress here to support and defend the U.S. Constitution, but I also 
did that as a United States marine in one of the first officer 
candidate classes after 9/11. I graduated in March 2002. I deployed in 
2003 to Iraq, in 2004 to the battle of Fallujah, and in 2007 to 
Afghanistan.

My wife and three kids have lived at Camp Pendleton. They've lived on 
the base. I know what families in the military live like. I know what 
marines on the ground are going through right now.

I know what victory costs. I know what victory takes. What it doesn't 
take is a misrepresenting resolution that is going to hurt our military 
when it needs us the most.

Did I enjoy going overseas? Did I enjoy leaving my three small kids 
and family behind? Did I enjoy leaving steak and all the great comforts 
of this Nation behind? No.

It was worth it because I know, in my heart, that what we are doing 
in Afghanistan is going to make my children not have to go over and 
fight the same Islamofascists that we are over there fighting now. I 
know that we are going to have a safer country because of me, because 
of people like me, and because of people who are over there serving 
now. Because they are over there, fighting, my kids aren't going to 
have to.

So was it fun going to war? No. Was it worth it? Yes.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this resolution.