# HEALTH CARE
## `66a70b6d402536e08314e5e8840fc6c0`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 14 June 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I thank my colleague from Ohio very much, 
and I am delighted to be able to join her, and as well my chairwoman of 
the Congressional Black Caucus and other Members who I know have a 
great interest in this area of reminding the American people of the 
great strides that we have made in the passing of this outstanding new 
attitude for health care in America. It is long overdue, and it was an 
enormous struggle.

I can remember that weekend of March 2010 and the week that led up to 
it and the days that we stayed over on Saturday to gather our resources 
and to continue to work and to push, working and ensuring that the 
Senate would bring the bill over to the House so on that Sunday, we 
could cast a vote for what has to be a monumental change in American 
life and will go down as a monumental move in American history.

Just a few minutes ago, I had the privilege of listening to our 
Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary Vilsack, and he reminded us of how 
diverse America is. Rural America, for example, with all of its needs 
and all of its specialness--of course, just on the floor of the House, 
we stood in silence to acknowledge the loss of lives in rural Arkansas 
in a terrible flooding. And then he expressed the inequity in terms of 
poverty in some of our rural communities and the need for investment in 
that community. And I would venture to say that alongside of that 
investment, this health care bill, which as our chairwoman just said, 
it is not respective of region or what party you're in or who 
represents your district; you will have access to health care. That 
means that many of the rural Americans, some of whom scratch their 
survival out of the earth, some of whom are still tenant farmers, some 
may have small family farms, and many of them have sacrificed to invest 
in those farms and have probably ignored the need for health care 
because of the cost. Now we have that opportunity to ensure that those 
Americans, hardworking Americans who put bread on our table, have the 
ability to provide for their family.

The Secretary made mention of the fact of the First Lady's commitment 
to, in essence, stamping out obesity, particularly in our children. 
This health care bill provides for preventative measures, preventative 
care, and a focus on nutrition and an emphasis on helping children, 
something long overdue. And it compliments the First Lady's effort and 
the Secretary of Agriculture's acknowledging that we must have healthy 
foods, for example, in our school cafeterias to make healthy children. 
But at the same time, it is important to note that that child who may 
be obese as we speak should have access to some form of health care.


Now, with the passage of this health care bill, that child will have 
that opportunity to have a better life, a healthier life, to have a 
nutrition plan--we don't like to call plans for children diets, but a 
good healthy nutrition plan that can be governed by their family 
practitioner now or their pediatrician, to which they will have access, 
either through the National Exchange or through health care that now 
this family farm or their family can purchase.

Just a week or so ago, during Memorial Day week, I had the privilege 
of announcing a $1 million grant that was to allow an inner city 
hospital--the only African American hospital in the State of Texas, and 
one of very few in the Nation--to receive a grant to servicemembers and 
their families, active duty servicemembers and their families for PTSD, 
post-traumatic stress disorder. We know that is a prominent and 
prevalent condition that many of our soldiers are coming back from Iraq 
and Afghanistan and have been impacted by that.

But what about mental health and the need for mental health care 
across America that people who have had mental health concerns have 
literally suffered because we never had parity in our health care 
insurance coverage? It has never been required federally until 
recently. The legislation, of course, shepherded by the late Senator 
Ted Kennedy, and our friend and colleague, his son, Patrick Kennedy. 
But for so many years, we did not have mental parity; insurance 
companies could ignore it. Just think if you would ignore the 
servicemen and their families who are impacted by post-traumatic stress 
disorder.

Well, many Americans feel isolated with mental health concerns and 
not being able to access good care. This health care bill turns a 
corner on mental health care, and I want to say to the American public 
that physical illness has no position to be raised up over a mental 
health condition. There should be no stigma, and you should have access 
to as good a care for a physical ailment, a broken arm, an upset 
stomach, diabetes, kidney disease, terrible diseases, of course, but 
you should equally have access to mental health care. Well, this health 
care bill allows that to happen, and I think that that is a step 
forward for the American people.

It's good to note that families who have raised children who are now 
entering the work world or looking for work and coming out of college, 
used to be an enormous burden of, how do I care for my child when they 
have aged out of my insurance? Well, now we have the opportunity for 
them to remain on the insurance until 26. But let me give an 
admonition--and I think this is going to be important for the Congress 
to do. In the legislation, there are several oversight provisions in 
the bill--in fact, our own Congressional Black Caucus, working with 
Congresswoman Edwards and some others, were very insistent on making 
sure that the raising of the cost did not inappropriately or unfairly 
burden middle class, upper middle class Americans, just by the nature 
of who it falls on.

But the other aspect of it is, the rumor is that if insurance 
companies are required to keep children on until they're 26, that ugly 
word of ''increased cost'' is going to rise. What I would say is that 
we need to pay attention to the actuarial tables and the database that 
suggest how many times a 26-year-old or under utilizes health care and 
not let insurance companies just willy-nilly on their own regard, on 
their own basis make the determination, well, they're giving me 
something to do, I'm going to raise the cost, because that's what 
people are afraid of. We have to say to the American public, we're 
going to be your watchdog in the United States Congress and ensure that 
that doesn't happen.

Let me also take note of the federally qualified health care clinic. 
I'm excited about that. I debated this some years before when we were 
talking about trying to put more funding into the legislation to 
increase the number of federally qualified health clinics even before 
this health care bill because for a long time, these clinics were not 
even known about. But the idea to be able to walk out your front door 
and walk down your block and go to a health care facility that is not 
an emergency room will make an enormous difference on the healthiness 
of Americans, preventative care.

Right now I am, in my community, assessing different locations in my 
congressional district that a federally qualified health clinic would 
be suitable; the population, the partnership, 501(C)(3)s, and 
petitioners who would


want that to be in their neighborhood. I'm excited about it. And I'm 
excited about the Martin Luther King Center. That is a health clinic 
that I helped fund so many years ago when their doors were about to 
close. They are not only open today, but they have sprung two more 
Federally qualified clinics in order to be able to serve the public. 
This is a good investment.

As was indicated earlier, our small businesses will finally be able 
to spell the word relief, r-e-l-i-e-f. They will be able to say, I will 
be able to not only pay for the owners, but my employees will be able 
to get insurance, and that is a great mechanism. And we should not let 
anyone, in essence, dump on our parade. We should not let anyone 
miscalculate or mischaracterize, if you will, how much of an impact the 
small business tax exemption will be for those small businesses to 
allow them to be able to provide health insurance for their employees.



Small businesses are the backbone of America. They are probably the 
largest employers of the American economy. They want to provide 
insurance for those mothers and fathers who work for them every day, 
who are committed and dedicated--sometimes they are mothers and fathers 
with family businesses--and now they will be able to do so, and I 
believe that is very important.

The doughnut hole was the most horrific vote that was taken here in 
the United States Congress some years ago, which was for Medicare part 
D. We lasted on the floor of the House until 6 o'clock because our 
friends on the other side of the aisle could not get a vote until they 
squeezed it out of some of our colleagues. It was horrific. For those 
who don't understand it, it means that you pay for your prescription 
drugs, which are going through the roof, until you, as a senior, fall 
in the hole because you've gotten a catastrophic illness, and they will 
wind up paying for you. What an atrocity. We're going to close that 
hole in the next 2 years.

As well, right now, seniors should be receiving $250 checks in their 
hands. We recognize the undermining of your health care because of 
Medicare part D. First of all, it was unrealistically expensive, and 
certainly, it was a plan that we Democrats have indicated was a wrong-
headed decision. Obviously, we have been proven right. Part of our 
deficit, which was spoken so loudly about by the other side of the 
aisle, was caused by Medicare part D, and the large majority of our 
party, our caucus, voted against it. Really, it was a wrong-headed 
direction to take.

Here is another negative that the naysayers would say: well, you can 
hardly get into doctors' offices today. How are you going to get into 
their offices now? They're standing in line. I'm afraid that I'm not 
going to be able to see a doctor.

They were scaring seniors with that kind of information. Well, I 
think that when people are inclined to serve, there is a great deal of 
love and affection for the medical profession. Yet one of the reasons 
we don't have the numbers is that we have not been able to give people 
opportunities. It is very expensive training, so we will be engaged in 
providing resources to train nurses, nurse practitioners, and 
physicians. We will actually have resources to give young people who 
want to go into that profession.

I spoke at the High School for Health Professions in my district. 
They have a diverse student body, but many of them are not going into 
the health profession. Yet many are, and more would if they had the 
resources to do so. So we are excited about that.

As I focus on closing on some of these points, let me quickly bring 
something in that you might not think is related to the health care 
bill, but it is. The BP oil spill is plaguing the gulf coast. More 
importantly, there is human devastation, if you will. There is the 
devastation of not working in the shrimping, fishing and oyster 
industries. There are some energy industry workers who are now not 
working as well. All of those individuals were probably living off 
their salaries or off the revenue that they brought in day to day and 
month to month. I would imagine that some of those individuals did not 
have health insurance. They might have even been paying a fee for 
service because they made choices of putting money into businesses as 
opposed to into health care. Well, now we have an opportunity for these 
individuals, if they are at risk, to either go into a high-risk pool or 
to prospectively be able to go into a health exchange to be able to get 
the most cost-effective health insurance that they might be able to 
get.

With that in mind, I would like to indict, if you will, those States 
for refusing to get into the health exchange program, like my State, 
which has the highest number of uninsured, as evidenced by Dr. Oz, who 
came to Houston, but also as evidenced by the data that says that Texas 
needs opportunities for people to be insured. So I would hope that we 
would have the kind of energy and excitement around this idea of the 
health exchange so that States would have to engage in it because the 
people would rise up and would say that they wanted it.

Of course, under this bill, hospitals which have been facing 
increasing costs with no compensation now will have the opportunity to 
be paid for uncompensated care. We hope those numbers will go down now 
because, obviously, if they go down, it will mean more people will have 
gotten their own insurance; but just in case, these hospitals will have 
that.

I want to close on these last two points which I think are unique to 
the Congressional Black Caucus. One is to express great applause to the 
CBC Health Care Task Force with Dr. Donna Christensen and to the Tri-
Caucus health effort, because out of that effort came the very 
important language on disparities or on the continuing work on 
disparities that we see amongst our minority population, such as with 
regard to diabetes, kidney failure, heart failure, and such as with 
regard to devastating breast cancer. These are elements that are 
clearly as a result of disparities that were not addressed, and I think 
we will see more opportunities for clinicals where minorities will be 
used so we will be able to find causes and will begin to find cures for 
some of these devastating diseases in the minority community.

Lastly, our work is yet unfinished. I worked very hard on the issue 
of physician-owned hospitals. Many of us thought that the passage of 
the bill was worthy of our looking down the road and of our making sure 
that we would cure that problem. It is a serious problem because these 
hospitals were stigmatized as hospitals that were all for-profit and 
not for service. I know for a fact that the hospitals that are in the 
State of Texas which hire or which have at least 40,000-plus employees 
are serving their constituents with OB/GYN and with full service care. 
One of the hospitals in my district was the only hospital that had a 
wing dedicated to H1N1 when it was rampant here in the United States.

I am looking forward to the leaders of these hospitals having the 
opportunity to come back to Washington to sit down with our leadership 
and to talk about making sure that these hospitals are not 
discriminated against as it relates to Medicare reimbursement. Some 
language allows that to happen in the bill, but it is a very peculiar 
formula that may not match all of the needs of the constituents who 
need to be taken care of by these hospitals.


So I thank the distinguished gentlelady from Ohio for her constant 
leadership. She has a great medical community in Cleveland, a community 
that certainly was engaged in this process of putting together this 
very, very strong health care reform bill, historic in its own efforts; 
and I thank her for her leadership.

My final words are: it is never easy to make hard decisions. We said 
that as we debated and as we compared this to the 1964 Civil Rights Act 
and to the 1965 Voting Rights Act. There were many in their home 
districts who threatened them for taking that vote. Where would America 
be today if we had not taken the strides to break down the shackles of 
discrimination to allow all Americans to vote? I hope and I pray and I 
believe that we will have the same opportunity to look back on history 
in 2010 and will be able to say how we have changed the lives of 
Americans and how we have saved the lives of Americans.

With that, I yield back to the gentlelady, and I thank her again for 
her leadership.

