---
---

# None
## `66a82e861751d9495424b73f5651046c`
`Mr. JONES — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, on July 16 of 2009, I spoke on the House 
floor to


express my thanks to the United States Marine Corps for their help in 
exonerating the late Lieutenant Colonel John A. Brow and the late Major 
Brooks S. Gruber, who was a resident of Jacksonville, North Carolina. 
On April 8, 2000, these men were the Marine pilots of the MV-22 Osprey 
that crashed in Marana, Arizona. The mishap occurred during a training 
mission as part of a test phase to determine the aircraft's suitability 
for the Marine Corps. Seventeen other Marines were killed in the crash.

From that day until today, I've worked with many aviation experts in 
the Corps and outside the Corps who helped me reach the conclusion that 
these pilots were not at fault for the crash. Over the past 9 years, 
many times, both on TV and in the print media, inaccurate reports have 
spread misinformation by faulting the pilots and calling the crash as 
pilot error. That's why it's so important to set the record straight.

So in 2009, I asked the Marine Corps to include in the official 
military personnel files of Lieutenant Colonel Brow and Major Gruber a 
memo which exonerates them from any responsibility for the mishap. The 
memo includes 17 facts regarding the crash which were developed based 
on my review of official investigations and public records as well as 
extensive discussions with aviation experts.

The evidence shows that the fatal factor in the crash was the 
aircraft's lack of a vortex ring state warning system and the pilots' 
lack of critical training regarding the extreme dangers of VRS onset in 
the Osprey.

Mr. Speaker, Lieutenant Colonel Brow and Major Gruber and their 
families are dishonored by the assertions that the air crew were at 
fault for this fatal crash. That's why I am grateful that the Marine 
Corps has accepted the relevance of these facts, and on February 20 of 
2009 they included my memo in the personnel files of these two Marines.

To finally bring this tragedy to a conclusion and to remove the 
stigma that has been unfairly attached to these two pilots, I have 
written the Navy to ask that they do the same thing as the Marine Corps 
did in doing the right thing by including this memo in the official 
safety investigation report of this mishap.

Mr. Speaker, I am entering into the record my letter to Rear Admiral 
A.J. Johnson, dated June 11 of 2009, which includes my request and the 
17 facts about the crash.

As of this afternoon, I am very disappointed to say that I still have 
not received a response to this letter. Again, Mr. Speaker, the letter 
was dated June 11 of 2009. My request to the Navy is simple and the 
facts have not been disputed.

We have just over a week until the House adjourns for the August work 
period. I will have to consider pursuing other options if the Navy 
fails to approve my request. If necessary, I will ask that the crash 
investigation be reopened, and I will take legislative action to clear 
the names of these two pilots.

Mr. Speaker, I sincerely hope that the Navy will follow the example 
of the Marine Corps and help properly honor the sacrifice of these 
pilots who bravely gave their lives in service of this country.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, as I do frequently, I will ask God to 
please bless our men and women in uniform in Afghanistan and Iraq. I 
will ask God to bless the families of our men and women in uniform. I 
will ask God in His loving arms to hold the families who have given a 
child dying for freedom in Afghanistan or Iraq. And, Mr. Speaker, as I 
do in closing, three times I will ask God, please God, please God, 
please God, continue to bless America.



















Congress of the United States,




















 House of Representatives,



















Washington, DC, June 11, 2009.


 Rear Admiral Arthur J. Johnson,


 Commander, Naval Safety Center,


 Norfolk, VA.



 Dear Rear Admiral Johnson: Thank you for your response to 


 my letter of April 21, 2009. Notwithstanding your regulations 


 regarding the purpose of the Naval Aviation Mishap Safety 


 investigations, I am convinced that the Memorandum of the 


 Record (Memorandum) must be included in the AMB report and 


 JAGMAN investigation as a matter of public record.



 Over the last several years, numerous articles and stories 


 referencing the April 8, 2000 crash of the V-22 Osprey have 


 incorrectly identified Lieutenant Colonel Brow and Major 


 Gruber as the cause of the accident and have brought 


 unmerited mental hardship on their families. I outlined two 


 of these incidents in my previous letter. As a reminder, the 


 press release issued by the Marine Corps attributed the 


 accident to the pilot's ''extremely rapid rate of descent.'' 


 Statements such as this and the incomplete nature of the AMB 


 report and JAGMAN investigation have formed the basis for the 


 public's perception of the role of the pilots in this 


 unfortunate accident and must be supplemented with clarifying 


 language.



 For example, the JAGMAN stated that the aircraft found 


 itself in vortex ring state (VRS) condition with no apparent 


 warning to the aircrew. It was not until after the accident 


 that Naval Air Systems Command called for a new flight 


 limitation, pilot procedures, and a cockpit warning system 


 for VRS. Clearly, the record must reflect this reality.



 Your response stated that safety investigations ''are 


 conducted to determine root causes and identify corrective 


 actions, not to assign blame or document accountability.'' In 


 the case of the Osprey accident, the process of determining 


 root causes and identifying corrective actions led to 


 assigning blame to the pilot and co-pilot by outside 


 organizations because the role of VRS has not been given its 


 proper emphasis. If investigations undertaken after 


 completion of the accident report place the root cause of the 


 accident on other causes, there is reason to acknowledge that 


 and include such a finding in the AMB report and JAGMAN 


 investigation.



 There were many subsequent investigations into the safety 


 of the Osprey and the dangers of VRS. Therefore, the process 


 of investigating this accident is not ''closed to outside 


 influences.'' Insights gained after the completion of an 


 accident report can appropriately be appended to an official 


 safety or investigative report.



 Everyone can appreciate the desire to close an official 


 investigation. However, subsequent developments clearly 


 demonstrate that the accident report was incomplete. There is 


 a legitimate basis for correcting what was determined in 


 order to promote public justice and remove the stigma 


 attached to the pilot and co-pilot.



 In discussions with experts within and outside of the 


 military, additions to closed investigations happen 


 frequently. If you do not agree to place the Memorandum in 


 the AMB report and JAGMAN investigation, I request that you 


 specifically identify whether any of the 17 facts contained 


 in the Memorandum are inaccurate. Inclusion of the Memorandum 


 in the Official Military Personnel Files of these brave 


 Marines is insufficient.



 Thank you for your service to our nation. I look forward to 


 your response.





 Sincerely,

























Walter B. Jones,


 Member of Congress.