---
---

# SUPPORTING THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN FOR IRAQ
## `66b501441a3e601e69e0affe17261e08`
`Ms. FOXX — 11 January 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Last night, the President addressed the Nation about the 
war in Iraq. No one is happy that we are at war, but we must remember 
that we were attacked by the terrorists; that the war in Iraq is 
critical to the global war on terror, and we must continue to fight and 
defend against the terrorists there as much as at home.

We must maintain our efforts to provide security and stability for 
the Iraqi government and its people until they are able to do so 
themselves. We cannot walk away or we will face increased bloodshed at 
home and abroad.

I applaud the President for recognizing the need for a new direction 
in the Iraq war in order to achieve this and presenting tangible 
alternatives to the problems we currently face there.

I support making sure that the Iraqis take the lead and act 
aggressively and swiftly against any violence. Prime Minister Maliki 
has issued a commitment to meet these challenges, and the President 
must hold him accountable to this pledge. It is my hope the proposals 
put forth will lead to success in Iraq.

Our troops deserve unwavering support, and this new direction the 
President has implemented must show progress. Now is the time to unite 
as Americans and not as partisan politicians.

I look forward to the day when a free and democratic Iraqi government 
and its people can defend themselves and be a model for others in the 
Middle East.
