---
---

# UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
## `66bae6720846f618fa645039b90392e8`
`Ms. STABENOW — 22 June 2010`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I thank Senator Whitehouse very much for 
his passion, his leadership.

Just to emphasize what the Senator was talking about on the floor in 
terms of where we have come from, I remember being in the House of 
Representatives in 1997, I believe, when we voted to balance the budget 
for the first time in 30 years under President Clinton. It was tough. 
We had to make tough decisions, but we did that, and we were on a 
trajectory so that by the year 2000--when I was elected to the Senate 
in 2001 and came into the Budget Committee--the big debate was what to 
do with the biggest surplus in the history of the country. We saw that 
big surplus, during the 8 years of President Bush, go red with red ink, 
down, down, down, down, so much so that when President Obama came in, 
the job loss was at about 750,000 jobs a month. We were losing 750,000 
jobs a month. So we went to work and we focused on people in the middle 
class, on innovation and investing in businesses and creating 
opportunities and so on, and these numbers now, on jobs per month, have 
gone from a negative now up to a positive.

The challenge is--we are not done yet--do not stop what we have been 
doing. This jobs bill on the floor is to get us to a point where those 
numbers keep going up and up and up, so everybody who wants to work can 
work. We have turned this around in terms of job loss. The numbers are 
going up. But it is not enough. We are not there yet, and too many 
people are caught in the middle. In fact, even though the numbers are 
better and we are moving in the right direction, we still have five 
people out of work for every one job opening.

In a moment, I am going to ask for unanimous consent. I will let my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle know that I will do that in 
about 5 minutes, to give them a heads-up. But in the meantime, I want 
to read a few letters and then turn things over to another colleague 
from Oregon who cares passionately about this.

I want to share with you what have been literally thousands of e-
mails and phone calls we have been getting from people in Michigan. I 
go home every weekend, and I am constantly talking to people who find 
themselves in very tough situations--people who have never been out of 
a job before in their lives, never, and now they are in their fifties 
and trying to figure out what they are going to do, and they find 
themselves in a situation where they are having to depend upon 
unemployment benefits, which is the last thing they have ever wanted.

Judith from Taylor:




 Both my husband and I have been unemployed for over a year 


 now. We have been trying desperately to find work and haven't 


 even gotten call backs for jobs we have applied for. It has 


 been frightening and discouraging but we keep trying.



 Because of our situation, we have been forced to sell our 


 home and we will be closing this month, at a considerable 


 loss!


That is the other piece of this. It is not just about a job. The next 
thing is you lose your house, and then the ripple effect goes from 
there.




 The bank we have our equity with has refused to settle and 


 has told us they reserve the right to come after us for the 


 balance. We will be having to break into our retirement funds 


 again with penalty. On top of all this, our youngest son, 


 Nathaniel, is a combat medic with the 101st Airborne and 


 will be one of the 30,000 that are being deployed to 


 Afghanistan. Needless to say, my husband and I are on 


 overload!! Please help the unemployed workers in Michigan 


 by extending the emergency funds. PLEASE don't leave so 


 many people literally out in the cold.


That is what is happening. That is what is happening right now by 
these efforts to block, to say no. We have come to the floor multiple 
times on individual bills to extend unemployment, plus the two times 
now we have voted to stop filibusters on the jobs bill. All we get from 
the other side is no, no, no. As my friend from Rhode Island said, when 
we get to the estate tax, it will be yes, yes, yes. And it will not 
matter where the funds come from, if they add to the deficit--oh, no, 
not for the few hundred people in our country who are the wealthiest.

When somebody is out of work, that is something different. When 
somebody is out of work, we have a set of rules that say: No, this is 
not an emergency. We have always said it is an emergency, with 
emergency funding. This is not an emergency? Well, I tell you what, 
when 15 million people are out of work, I would consider that an 
emergency. That is as much of an emergency as a flood, a hurricane, 
anything else we have seen in this country. Tens of millions of people 
out of work is an economic emergency and deserves emergency status here 
in this body.



Let me share one other story before asking unanimous consent. Michele 
from Suttons Bay:




 I am a 50-year-old journeyman carpentry foreman who was 


 laid off by a small construction company in December 2008 


 after 10-plus years with them. I have been looking for a 


 full-time job ever since. I went through the state's 


 retraining program last summer and am now a BPI certified 


 energy efficiency auditor. But I can't afford to buy the 


 equipment to start my own business. And no companies are 


 hiring energy efficiency auditors right now. I have been 


 looking for any kind of work that allows us to pay the 


 mortgage and our other very basic bills.



 My wife has a full-time job in retail. We have two sons--


 one is 16, and the other is 12. We have been surviving with 


 the aid of my unemployment [insurance]. I have already gone 


 through the state unemployment benefits, and I am now in the 


 second period of [the] federal . . . program.



 Please don't forget about us.


Well, that is what this is about this evening. That is what the 
legislation is about that we are focused on. That is what all of our 
efforts are focused on--jobs, creating good-paying jobs, partnering 
with business, manufacturers, small businesses, creating the atmosphere 
for private sector jobs, and remembering the people who, through no 
fault of their own, cannot find work today.











 Unanimous Consent Request--S. 3520


So, Mr. President, on behalf of the close to 1 million people right 
now who have lost their jobs and are now losing their unemployment 
benefits, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the 
immediate consideration of S. 3520, the Unemployment Extension Act of 
2010; that the bill be read a third time and passed, and the motion to 
reconsider be laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate; 
and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the Record.