---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `66c2a31887e07523d4ec7a3e7913b960`
`Mr. HILL — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. HILL. Madam Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Thank you, Madam Chairman, for allowing me to present this simple 
amendment to the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act.

Just yesterday, The New York Times reported that since January 2005, 
there have been more than 200 shootings by U.S. contractors in Iraq 
where the contractors fired the first shot.

This type of action on behalf of these contractors is wholly 
unacceptable. However, our government did not have the option to 
prosecute all of the bad actors, until now. I applaud the gentleman 
from North Carolina for introducing this bill to correct this inequity.

The bill before us would provide a mechanism to enforce complaints 
regarding all contractor and contractor personnel misconduct through 
newly created FBI Theater Investigative Units. My amendment is a simple 
one that would enhance the bill that would require the Director of the 
FBI to submit annual reports to Congress outlining the success of these 
Theater Investigative Units.

Specifically, the reports would include the number of reports 
received by the Theater Investigative Units relating to criminal 
misconduct by contractors or contract personnel; the number of reports 
received by the Theater Investigative Units relating to fatalities 
caused by the use of force by contractors or contract personnel; number 
three, the number of cases referred to the Attorney General; and, last, 
any statutory changes necessary for the Director to carry out the 
duties required by this act. Progress reports are necessary to ensure 
that these units are being used efficiently and appropriately.

Thank you again for the opportunity to present my amendment. I urge 
all of my colleagues to support my amendment and the underlying bill.

Again, I would reiterate that the author of the bill, the gentleman 
from North Carolina, has specifically seen the need for this kind of a 
bill. My amendment, I think, enhances his bill dramatically.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.