---
---

# MARKING THE END OF THE 4TH YEAR OF THE OCCUPATION OF IRAQ
## `66df7e27ffaae10d3f3f9a863e21b1ef`
`Mr. PAYNE — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. PAYNE. Let me begin by thanking the gentleman from New York for 
this Special Order and bringing to the American people the very 
important issue that stands before us. And I would like to commend the 
Out of Iraq Caucus, but primarily the three women from California, 
Congresswoman Woolsey, Congresswoman Lee, and Congresswoman Waters, who 
have kept this particular issue alive, have continued to work with us 
to shape a policy or keep the conscience of America focused on this 
situation, a situation that we gave preemptive strike authority to the 
President of United States, which all of us opposed, when they said 
there were weapons of mass destruction; and when none were found, said, 
well, it was regime change was the final one.


But today, we mark the fourth anniversary of the occupation in Iraq. 
Ironically, it was almost 4 years ago on May 1, 2003, that President 
Bush deemed the operation in Iraq as ''mission accomplished,'' 
affirming an end to the major combat in Iraq. As you may recall, he 
flew in a military plane on an aircraft carrier with a big sign and a 
brilliant smile on his face, ''Mission Accomplished.''

By that time, approximately 175 Americans had lost their lives in 
combat. Too many, but 175. Yet 3,197 lives later, American lives later, 
the war continues; 3,197 more from the pronouncement of ''mission 
accomplished.'' Included in this number are 50 fatalities from my home 
State of New Jersey.

This weekend, thousands of protesters took to the streets to demand 
an end to the war in Iraq. As an early and staunch opponent to this 
war, I have watched every single prediction made by this 
administration. They have boldly said what they predicted, and every 
time the prediction was wrong: from the duration of the war, wrong; the 
reception we would receive, wrong; the costs, wrong; the number of 
casualties, wrong; the existence of weapons of mass destruction, wrong. 
This administration has proven itself wrong, wrong, wrong. The 
countless number of Americans and Iraqis who have lost their lives is 
sad.

The administration should listen to the Baker-Hamilton Commission, 
which has offered a stinging assessment of virtually every aspect of 
the U.S. venture in Iraq and calls for a reshaping of the American 
presence and a new Middle East democracy initiative to prevent the 
country from slipping into anarchy.

There is a great sense of sadness among those of us who foresaw over 
4 years ago the tragedy that is now unfolding in Iraq. The war that 
many assumed would be swift and certain now continues to rage, but I 
urge my fellow colleagues to take this day and all of the days forward 
to push for a change, beginning with an orderly withdrawal of American 
forces from Iraq. This approach will send a message to Iraqis that they 
must take more responsibility for their own security and would reduce 
the strain on our military forces. For that, we will not need a surge 
to the war to continue and continue surge after surge.

I thank you very much for the time.