---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `66e3604df2857a1958107b81a5d81e01`
`Mr. PRYOR — 3 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Georgia for his 
kind remarks. Of course, everybody in the Senate knows what a friend to 
the men and women in uniform Senator Chambliss has been since he has 
been in the Senate. I am sure that also relates back to his House days. 
He has really been a fabulous leader for our soldiers, and it is an 
honor for me to ask him to join me in the Wounded Warrior Act.

Last Friday, I had the chance to go to Walter Reed and see three 
Arkansans who were injured in various ways in Iraq. It is always a 
sobering experience to go see our soldiers whom we are so proud of. We 
are proud of the people who put on the uniform and put their lives in 
jeopardy for the principles of this country. And we have other 
facilities, not just Walter Reed. I know that is the one that gets the 
most publicity nationally. Obviously, every State or region has a lot 
of facilities. In Little Rock, there is the John McClellan Veterans 
Hospital, which I visited not too long ago, and we have at least a 
couple of other very good facilities in our State. They offer, 
generally speaking, great care. We know that sometimes people fall 
through the cracks, but we are very proud of our VA presence in the 
State of Arkansas.

I must say that in my office in Little Rock--and the one here, for 
that matter--we have people on staff who deal and work with soldiers 
virtually on a daily basis--people who are in the VA system who, for 
some reason, have run into some bureaucratic roadblock or a file gets 
lost or a record gets lost or some box doesn't get checked or whatever 
the case may be. We, more or less, like many colleagues here, have 
full-time staff who do that on virtually a full-time basis. We are 
honored to help the citizens of our State in any way we can, but we 
also would like to say that we can help the VA system run better and 
provide better health care with less bureaucracy.

Arkansas has had about 40 soldiers killed in Iraq. It has been a very 
hard circumstance for our State to go through. It impacts every 
community in the State and almost every family in the State. In 
addition to those 40, which obviously are going to get more notice and 
publicity and discussion, as they should, there are 369 Arkansans who 
have been injured in Iraq. Those numbers track fairly well what the 
national numbers are.

Across this Nation, there have been 11,215 soldiers, at last count, 
who have been wounded in Iraq so severely that they have not been able 
to return to duty. So it is critical that we have legislation such as 
the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act. It will require case managers for 
outpatients to handle no more than 17 cases. They will have to review 
each case weekly. It creates a system of patient advocates within our 
health care system. It increases training for health care 
professionals, medical case managers, and patient advocates, with an 
emphasis on identifying and treating post-traumatic stress disorder and 
traumatic brain injuries. It establishes a toll-free hotline for 
patients and families to report problems with medical facilities or 
patient care. It creates an independent advocate to counsel 
servicemembers appearing before medical evaluation boards. We think all 
of those are healthy, positive, and constructive reforms. We think the 
time has come for this to happen.

Senator Chambliss, a few moments ago, mentioned that the House passed 
this legislation 426 to 0. They did that late last month. It is the 
Senate's turn to weigh in and be on record for helping our wounded 
warriors.

The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act allows them to focus on healing 
and not be frustrated by redtape. It improves the access and quality of 
care our veterans receive. It puts an advocate on their side. We know 
that with any large organization, there will be


some bureaucracy and files will be lost and information gets misplaced. 
We understand that. But, hopefully, what this will do is streamline the 
process and make the system work a lot better for those who have been 
willing to make the sacrifice for this country.

Mr. President, I think this is important legislation because it does 
good things, but it is also symbolic legislation. It shows our members 
of the military that we are willing--their Government and the people of 
this country--to stand behind them during and after their Active-Duty 
service.

I ask that my colleagues give this legislation their strong 
consideration. The House passed it overwhelmingly. I hope we will have 
broad-based, bipartisan support in this body. It is an honor for me to 
offer it with my lead cosponsor, Senator Chambliss of Georgia.

I yield the floor.