---
---

# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `66f3f98f551ea670a687c5b2fb352a20`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to pick up on some of 
the comments that our friend and colleague, the gentleman from 
Mississippi, was addressing when he was talking about some of the 
information in the testimony that we heard today from both General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker.

I have the testimony from General Petraeus here in my hand. Mr. 
Speaker, I thought I would touch on a couple of the points that he 
made. He says that the progress our forces have achieved with the Iraqi 
counterparts has been substantial. He says, I see improvements in the 
security environment. The level of security incidents has decreased 
significantly since the start of the surge of offensive operations in 
mid-June. Civilian deaths have declined considerably. He says locals 
have increasingly supported our efforts. While he says al Qaeda 
certainly is not defeated, it is off balance and we are pursuing its 
leaders and operators aggressively.

This report is not all rosy. General Petraeus made the point several 
times during the over 6 hours of testimony that we had today that he 
doesn't want to look at this from a rosy standpoint or a pessimistic 
standpoint or an optimistic standpoint, but from a realistic 
standpoint; and I believe that this great leader, this great general, 
this man of great integrity and competence and capability did just that 
for us today.

One of the things that came up repeatedly during the hearing today 
was a reference to another report and another hearing that we on the 
Armed Services Committee heard about last week. General James Jones, a 
former commandant of the Marine Corps, the former Supreme Allied 
Commander Europe, was the head of a commission, a very distinguished 
commission, I might add, one of the most experienced I have ever seen, 
that had military officers and senior noncommissioned officers and 
experienced law enforcement personnel go over to Iraq with the charge 
to evaluate the Iraqi security forces.



Repeatedly today, and sometimes last week, we heard our colleagues 
saying, well, General Jones came with a very pessimistic report, and he 
had great concerns that things aren't going well. And one of our 
colleagues actually asked the question, General Petraeus, how do you 
square, how do you reconcile, if you will, these differences in 
reports.

And I remember thinking, Mr. Speaker, when I was in that Armed 
Services Committee hearing and listening to General Jones and his 
exceptionally well-qualified colleagues, that the hearing that we were 
experiencing was not at all like the news reports, perhaps like the ads 
we saw earlier today, but was not at all like the news reports we had 
seen before the testimony in the Armed Services Committee.

And just as an example, Mr. Speaker, I wanted to quote just a few 
things that General Jones and some of his colleagues said during that 
hearing.

He said, our first conclusion is that the Iraqi security forces as a 
whole cannot yet defend the territorial integrity of Iraq. This is not 
necessarily an alarming conclusion, he said. They're able to do more in 
terms of combating the internal security threats to Iraq, and that's 
positive. He said, we've noted improvement in the internal security 
missions such as denying the safe haven to terrorists, and this 
progress is likely to continue in the months ahead. He says, the Iraqi 
security forces can bring greater security to the provinces in the next 
12 to 18 months, assuming a continuing rate of progress. He said, the 
impact of the surge has had a tactical success for both Iraqi and 
coalition forces in the Baghdad region.

That doesn't sound like a pessimistic report or out of step with what 
General Petraeus said today. It's what we have known for some time, and 
I'm sure that my colleagues on their trips to Iraq have had the same 
experiences and reports that I have, and that is, that the Iraqi Army 
has been making steady progress but the police forces are in some 
disarray and need of major improvements.

In fact, General Jones and his commission recommended that the 
national police force, a relatively small group of 25,000, be disbanded 
and distributed to other forces and that the much larger Iraqi security 
police be strengthened. Again, not at all out of sync with what we 
heard today.

And in fact, because I had heard in previous trips to Iraq that the 
Iraqi Army was doing well and the Iraqi police was not doing well, I 
said to General Jones, well, this seems very consistent with the 
message that we have heard for some time. So I'm not surprised to hear 
you say that, and you probably weren't surprised to find that yourself.

And I thought this was amazing. He said, and I will check my notes 
here to make sure that I've got this right, he says, I was pleasantly 
surprised. I'd been going to Iraq off and on since 2003 in my NATO hat, 
and again, he was the commander of NATO, but I think I did not expect 
to see the will that I saw in the Iraqi Armed Forces to take the fight 
to the enemy. I did not expect to see the length and breadth of the 
institutions that are functioning that you need to support an emerging 
army, the training bases, the recruiting, the recruit training, NCO 
schools, counterintelligence schools, training corpsmen. All of those 
things exist. We know that because we saw them.



This was a very highly experienced group of four-star and three-star 
generals, sergeants major, police chiefs that went, and this was their 
assessment when they came back. And again, this seems to me very 
consistent with General Petraeus' report today that said, well, things 
are still tough over there, but the surge is working and we're making 
progress. I know my colleague wants to talk about some of those 
recommendations in a bit, but I just want to go to one more.