---
---

# TRIBUTE TO ROBERT MARCUS
## `66f6f916ac1c620d633f40588af8f8fd`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, June 22 will be a bittersweet day for 
me and for all of Team Schakowsky. That is the day that Robert Marcus, 
Legislative Assistant, will be leaving our office. After a summer in 
Israel, Robert will attend graduate school at the Fletcher School of 
International Affairs at Tufts University, where we know he will make 
an outstanding contribution.

In his more than 4 years on my staff, Robert has been an invaluable 
member of the team, serving as the point person for foreign affairs, in 
particular U.S.-Israel relations, the war in Iraq, Haiti, Darfur, and 
Colombia. He has been in charge of veterans affairs and has played a 
major role in shining a bright light on and drafting legislation 
addressing the growing role of private military contractors.

Robert's influence has extended far beyond Capitol Hill and well 
beyond the borders of the United States. In 2005, Robert worked with an 
Illinois synagogue and its Rabbi, Bruce Elder, to bring a Torah to its 
former home in the small Czech Republic town of Lostice. It was one of 
1,500 Torahs that had been confiscated by the Nazis during World War 
II. Robert made the arrangements for the visit and joined members of 
the Congregation Hakafa when the Torah was opened and read at the 
synagogue, which is now a community center. Though no Jews remain in 
Lostice, the people had protected the building and came out to welcome 
the visitors with songs sung in Hebrew. Dignitaries from across the 
Czech Republic participated and it became a highly publicized story 
with a powerful message of remembrance and tolerance that will long be 
remembered. Robert Marcus made it happen.

Robert Marcus has been addressing the problem of deforestation in 
Haiti in a very practical way. Haiti is almost completely deforested, 
with only one or two percent of its original forest cover remaining. 
Working with Haitian-American leaders as well as an organization led by 
Wyclef Jean called Yele Haiti, Robert brought another important 
organization to the table to help with a new Haitian environmental 
initiative that combines tree planting with alternative energy. The 
Jewish National Fund, at Robert's initiative, is now providing 
technical expertise from their extensive and successful experience with 
tree planting in Israel.

Robert will be missed not only for the exceptional work he has done, 
but for his incredible kindness, (sometimes quirky) sense of humor, his 
contagious friendliness, and, of course, his rugged good looks.

If you ''Google'' Robert Marcus, you will find over 14 million 
separate entries. True, not all of them are about OUR Robert Marcus, 
the real Robert Marcus, (particularly the one that reads ''Robert 
Marcus: Real Threat or Just Another Stupid Clam?''), but we know he 
will make a huge mark in the world. We just hope he will always 
remember his days with Team Schakowsky. I know I will never forget him. 
I say, ''Thank you, Robert Marcus. I love you very much.''
