---
---

# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `67225d2f166b7c8fae3ea5e98cc80421`
`Mr. LATHAM — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this funding package, 
and to tell my colleagues that there is much in this measure that 
should be supported. I also want to say that we should not be put in 
the position of scrambling to complete a continuing resolution to keep 
the government from shutting down. This is no way to run a railroad.

Nevertheless, I want to say that I am pleased that we finally have a 
disaster funding title. My constituents will be appreciative. While 
this disaster money is a few months late, the citizens of Iowa will be 
pleased to know that funding assistance will finally get to them--
hopefully, by mid-October--about 4 or 5 months after the floods came.

I do want to say that I am pleased that we have included in this 
disaster portion of the package, over $100 million in FEMA Community 
Development Loans. These funds are very much needed by FEMA as they 
have said in the past so I was pleased that they were included as I had 
asked. These are monies that


can go to local governments to help offset losses in local utilities, 
for example.

I have heard some complaints about the dispersal rates for funding 
assistance from our earlier disaster measure. In some instances, those 
complaints are justified but we all know bureaucracies are slow. 
However, one of the reasons that some of the funding did not go forth 
is that there was no money to send.

As most of you know, I and my colleagues on both sides pushed for a 
disaster relief measure to be completed before we left for the August 
recess because I knew that the first relief title passed on the Iraq 
Supplemental this summer would not go very far. I also knew that if we 
did not pass another flood disaster measure before we left, it would be 
four or five months before my fellow Iowans and others in the Midwest 
would see any significant relief assistance.

Unfortunately, the majority leadership refused to address the needs 
of Iowa and other Midwestern flood states before the recess. In turn, 
that meant that no funds would be forthcoming until fall. That was the 
reason I pushed so hard to get a supplemental before the August recess.

Had we passed that supplemental disaster measure before August, and 
it would have been easy to do, funds would have already been put to use 
by now, and the recovery efforts would now be further along.

All of that being said, we do need to pass this package today because 
we have put ourselves in the position where we have squandered our 
time. I urge members to vote for the measure.