---
---

# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `673941acd809a5c8dca0158652049cde`
`Mr. SHERMAN — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. SHERMAN. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

I remember well the debate on this floor in 2002 about whether to 
give the President the power he sought to take military action, if 
necessary, against Saddam Hussein. But before that resolution even came 
to this floor, we considered it in the International Relations 
Committee. There, we were told that the administration would invade 
Iraq only if the inspectors were not allowed to do their job. In fact, 
Secretary Powell told us that before the whole committee. Then he told 
me that privately.

Now, I did not completely trust the administration. So in committee I 
offered a resolution that would allow the use of force only if the 
inspectors were not allowed to do their job. A majority of Democrats in 
the committee voted for that resolution. The Republicans pretty much 
all voted against it; and it was defeated.

Then we all came to this floor, and Mr. Spratt of South Carolina put 
forward a resolution that would allow the President to use military 
force, but only under certain circumstances, such as force being 
authorized by the United Nations. I voted for Mr. Spratt's resolution. 
Unfortunately, it was defeated.

And, finally, the supporters of the President were able to say that 
there was only one last resolution before us: either we gave the power 
to the President that he sought, but that he promised to use only if 
the inspectors were expelled or prevented from doing their job, or we 
left ourselves in a position where Saddam was free to expel the 
inspectors and to go all out with his weapons of mass destruction 
program.

At that point, I voted for an overly broad resolution, a resolution 
that gave the President more power than he claimed he would use, or 
gave him power to act under circumstances all under when he said that 
he would act only under a limited number of circumstances. That of 
course is not what happened.

The President took that power, made little or no attempt to ensure 
the inspectors were allowed to do their job, dismissed them, in effect 
pulled them out of Iraq, and invaded at an early opportunity. 
Obviously, if I knew then how the President would use the power granted 
by this Congress, I never would have voted to give him that power.

Not only did he invade even though the inspectors were then able to 
do their job and, as it turned out, they were right, there were no 
weapons of mass destruction--but then, in secret briefings on this 
floor, we had been told (and this has been reported in press, I am not 
revealing anything), that the plan was to invade Iraq from the north 
and from the south, so as to take control of the country quickly. What 
happened was that Turkey at the last minute declared that our troops 
couldn't go through Turkey, and our best division was sitting there in 
the middle of the Mediterranean.

So we had a plan. The plan had been previewed to those of us in 
Congress. The plan involved our best division. (I will just say one of 
our best divisions; I don't want to cast anything but total glory on 
all our divisions.) But one of our best divisions was left sitting in 
the Mediterranean. Now, you would think if you had a plan and you 
couldn't execute the plan, you would go draft a new plan. Instead, they 
just took the northern half of the plan and threw it away and 
implemented the southern half of the plan. Needless to say, we did not 
take immediate control of Baghdad. Needless to say, there was chaos. 
And the rest is history.

But there are a host of other mistakes made by the Bush 
administration. They were detailed by the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
Skelton). They included an inadequate number of troops at the 
beginning; disbanding the Iraqi Army when the Saudis, who have some 
understanding of the area, had advised us to do the exact opposite; not 
guarding the arms depots; and a host of other problems.

Now we are being asked to authorize a surge. An escalation is the 
real word. And we are told that this is critical because Iraq is the 
central front in the war on terrorism. Well, is that really true?

We are told that Iraq could become a place where terrorists could 
meet and plot. Today they are meeting and plotting in North Waziristan, 
in much of Afghanistan, in much of Somalia, pretty much anywhere they 
want in Iran and in Syria and Sudan. They have plenty of places to meet 
and plot. How many Americans are supposed to die on the theory that 
denying the terrorists one place to meet will prevent them from meeting 
in all the places they are meeting today?

Then we are told that there will be a humanitarian debacle in Iraq. 
And, again, the prognosis for Iraq is not particularly good, but it is 
by no means clear that we have not done all we can be expected to do to 
help the people of Iraq avoid a civil war and achieve unity. And at 
some point it may be necessary to say that Iraq's decisions need to be 
made by the Iraqis.

Keep in mind that during Saddam's tenure, year in and year out, he 
killed far more people than have been killed in the time since we 
invaded. We have bestowed upon the Iraqi people not just the pain and 
suffering that they have now, but also freedom from a Saddam Hussein 
who in prior decades had killed not the thousands we see being killed 
now but hundreds of thousands and millions. Our moral responsibility to 
the Iraqi people was to do what was reasonable to help them reestablish 
order. I think we have met much of our moral responsibility. We can do 
more by providing economic and other aid. And we should keep in mind 
that Iraq is just one of many places in the world suffering great 
humanitarian crises.

Finally, we are told that we are going to empower and overjoy the 
terrorists if they see us leave Iraq or see us fail to surge into Iraq. 
Keep in mind, the smarter terrorists are thrilled to have us pinned 
down there, and to have us bled dry there.

But, finally, even if all these things being put forward by the 
administration are true, even if withdrawal from Iraq or failure to 
surge into Iraq gives terrorists a place to gather, sets the stage for 
humanitarian crisis, and overjoys the terrorists, there is no evidence 
that we are now doing anything but delaying the inevitable by surging 
over the next few months, or escalating over the next few months. So 
since we are by no means winning or prevailing, surging is just doing 
more of the same.

The President has asked us to compare the Global War on Radical Islam 
with the Cold War, and I think it is an apt comparison. Iraq has some 
real similarities to Vietnam. And the one thing we all remember about 
Vietnam is being told that if we didn't prevail in Vietnam, the 
communists would be on the beaches in Santa Monica. What did we finally 
do? We withdrew from Vietnam, and doing so was a critical step in 
winning the Cold War just 15 years later.

I would say that we should pick our own battlefields, we should learn 
from the Vietnam mistake, and we should recognize that the way to beat 
radical Islam may be to recognize that Iraq is not the central front 
and that we have to do a lot of things in a lot of places in the world, 
and cannot allow ourselves to be utterly fixated on Iraq.

