# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `674a04462be2e9a70e7c835f4a69ad18`
`Mr. BUNNING — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Madan President, I rise today to discuss the S.J. Res. 9 
dealing with troop withdrawals from Iraq.

While this nonbinding resolution is different from the resolution we 
debated last month, its purpose is still the same. It will micromanage 
the war and send a detrimental message to both our troops and our 
enemies.

That is why I voted against cloture on the motion to proceed to the 
resolution and why I will vote no on its final passage. I believe that 
we must give the President's new strategy for Iraq a chance to work 
before we begin criticizing it.

At this time, we ought to be sending a clear message of support for 
our troops and for ensuring that they have the necessary supplies and 
resources to carry out their mission. Unfortunately, we cannot seem to 
see beyond our political differences to do this and instead want to 
attack the President's Iraq plan no matter what the consequences of our 
actions would be.

Jut a few weeks ago on January 26, the Senate unanimously--
unanimously--confirmed GEN David Petraeus to be commander of the 
multinational forces in Iraq. General Petraeus supports the President's 
new strategy in Iraq and has embarked on a mission that both the 
President and the Senate selected him to do.

I would like to point out to my colleagues the irony, as well as the 
inconsistency, in the choice this resolution is presenting to this 
body. With the newest Iraq resolution, we are once again being asked to 
disapprove of the very mission we unanimously confirmed General 
Petraeus to execute. This resolution asks Senators and not General 
Petraeus to direct the activites in Iraq. But Congress is not the 
commander in chief, and we should not be dictating military strategy.

The resolution sets a specific date for the beginning of the 
withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. This withdrawal would occur even if 
there is progress on the ground in Iraq or our allies believe our 
presence is still necessary. This resolution allows politics to be the 
deciding factor of how we manage a war.

Passage of this resolution would show to the world that our will can 
easily be stripped by terrorists if they just wait it out.

If General Petraeus, who is a friend of mine, comes back to Congress 
and tells us that the President's new strategy is not working, then I 
am prepared to change our course. But we need to give it a chance to 
work.

We have already begun to see some successes based on recent events 
and reports from General Petraeus. Sectarian killings have been lower 
in Baghdad over the past several weeks than in the previous months. 
There is less sectarian displacement in Baghdad neighborhoods allowing 
families to return home and Sunni insurgent leaders have renewed talks 
with top U.S. officials about political accommodation.

I realize these successes are small and it is too early to tell 
whether they will lead to significant changes in the future, but we now 
have proof that this strategy could work if given the chance.

We have also begun to see a positive response from the Iraqi people. 
Just 2 weeks ago, the Iraqi council approved the foundation of a 
hydrocarbon bill which is a oil revenue-sharing measure with the Iraqi 
people and the provinces of Iraq. The legislation is soon going to the 
assembly. For the first time in the history of their country, the 
people of Iraq are on the doorstep of having equity in oil 
distribution.

Despite these successes and unanimously confirming our new commander 
in Iraq, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would like to 
declare failure. They would like to tie General Petraeus's hands in a 
way that would make achieving his mission impossible. I do not believe 
that pulling the rug out from underneath our top commander in Iraq is a 
plan for success. Rather, I believe that we should focus the current 
debate on what we can do to support General Petraeus and the brave 
young men and women in Iraq to accomplish this critical mission. I will 
continue to do whatever I can to ensure that our troops and mission 
succeeds.

Failure in Iraq is not an option. It would not only jeopardize our 
own national security but that of the region as a whole.

When this motion to micromanage the war in Iraq comes to vote, I urge 
my colleagues to oppose it. Remember, we have only one commander in 
chief, not 535 generals who make war plans from the floor of the 
Congress.