---
---

# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--
## `6756f06dda073c4a0b1aef1afa5f53f3`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 15 July 2008`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Thank you, Mr. President.
















High Gas Prices


Mr. President, I wanted to come to the floor to speak, actually, on a 
different subject, and I am very sorry that the wires got crossed about 
the debate that is on the floor because I know it is very important to 
try to pass this bill we are speaking about before we leave this week. 
But there is another issue that is very important to our constituents 
as well. That is the issue of high gas prices in America.

I know there are many people who are concerned on this Senate floor 
about our foreign policy and about contributions to foreign countries. 
I most certainly put myself in that category. But, in my view, there is 
nothing more important than energy policy right now in the United 
States--the prices people are paying at the pump--and the debate that 
is going on on this floor, in committees, and behind the scenes on 
energy. I most certainly had a great deal of conversation with my 
constituents when I was home over this past weekend.

In fact, in the time I have been back, I have spoken with Democrats 
and Republicans who have expressed very similar concerns, that the 
question most asked, the topic of most interest, is not about foreign 
aid, it is not even about the war in Iraq, although that is a very 
important point. The American people are interested and focused on 
energy prices: our consumers, our small businesses, our manufacturers, 
as well as our major industries, such as airlines and domestic 
manufacturing.

So I think it would be important for us to spend as much time as we 
can on the floor debating the issues that are


most important. I hope we can resolve the previous issue. Again, I 
apologize if I came to the floor too prematurely. But I do want to 
share a few thoughts about responding to some of the things that have 
been said by the Senator from New Jersey and the Senator from 
Washington State who spoke earlier this morning, and the Senator from 
New Mexico who was here an hour ago talking about the Republican 
proposals for energy.

I think while we fumble--and I do not think that is an inappropriate 
word at all because that is what is happening--as we fumble with not 
getting our energy price right in this country, the people are paying a 
premium at the pump. We have to stop fumbling this ball and try to make 
some strategic passes to move this ball down the field.

This is election-year politics at its worst. Our energy policy has 
fallen victim to a partisan stalemate. I hope we can, in the next 
couple of weeks, move forward together to a place that can immediately 
start reducing the price of gasoline. I think there are steps that can 
be taken to get quick results, and then most certainly steps that can 
be taken to reduce that price over time.

I believe also there are people of good will on both sides of the 
aisle, Republicans and Democrats, who realize we are in a place we have 
not been before in quite some time. That place is an economy that is in 
a very fragile circumstance right now based on extraordinarily historic 
high energy prices.

This economy was not built, this model was not built, to sustain 
these high prices. There is a European model--although the pain is 
significant in Europe--that can sustain it because they have some 
pressure point relief. They have mass transit. They have more 
sophisticated nuclear power. They have some other technologies that we 
have not. They can sustain something longer than we can. But we have to 
act.

I have been proud to be part, in the last few weeks, of a specific 
discussion that has five Democratic Members and five Republican 
Members--the Gang of 10. I have been part of these gangs before. I 
guess sometimes it is not good to be part of a gang, but in this case I 
think these are good gangs to belong to because these are gangs of 14 
and gangs of 10 who are trying to help the Senate find its way.

I do not profess to have every answer. I do not even have every 
question. But I do know something about energy policy as a member of 
the Energy Committee for 10 years. And I do know a lot about our 
domestic production and what we are doing and what we are not doing and 
what we should be doing more of because I happen to represent a State 
that does a tremendous amount of production.

It is time for action, not for studies; for action, not for talk. On 
the floor of the Senate, as we continue to debate energy policy, I hope 
we can do more production and more conservation.

I want to put up a chart that I think is very illustrative of our 
situation. I want to say unequivocally as a Democrat that I think in 
many instances the Democratic Party has been wrong on the issue of 
production. I also want to say that I think the Republican Party has 
been in many instances wrong in their lack of aggressiveness on 
conservation.

Again, I am not saying I have been right on every one of these 
issues. There are votes I would like to take differently. No one is 
perfect in this policy. But fundamentally Democrats have not supported 
enough domestic production, and fundamentally Republicans have not 
supported enough conservation and new fuels. It has gotten us into more 
than a jam; it has gotten us into a lot of pain and a lot of 
unnecessary suffering.

There is much that can be done to move us forward, which is why our 
group has come together--five Democrats and five Republicans--to try to 
move both parties to the center for some sensible center solutions.

But I want for a few minutes to start with the facts about where we 
are drilling offshore and where we are not because there are so many 
charts that are brought to this floor and they are little pieces of the 
country or they are one little section to try to sway people one way or 
another. So I thought I would bring the whole enchilada--the whole 
enchilada.

As shown on this map, this is it. This is Canada--all of it--and the 
United States of America--all 50 States. There is no fudging here. I 
hope the camera can get a big look at this entire map of Canada and the 
United States--all 50 States.

If you notice, the area in blue is all of the area of the 
congressionally mandated and--up until 1 o'clock yesterday--
Presidentially mandated moratoria. The entire coast of the United 
States of America: off limits to drilling, off limits to exploration, 
of what might actually be there.

So if anyone comes to this floor and says they know what is 
underneath these blue sections, I am going to stand here until they 
have to admit they don't, because they do not. No one can know. I don't 
know; the Energy Department doesn't know because there has never been 
an inventory conducted on one inch of this blue space, except for the 
purple right here. Even though some of us have been trying literally 
for decades to get an inventory, which has been put in the energy 
bills--as my colleagues know, every 10 years or so we manage to get 
one; it takes a lot of pain and suffering on the Senate floor to get 
any kind of energy bill, but every 10 years we are lucky enough to get 
one--there is an inventory provision in the bill, but it gets taken 
out, by Democrats primarily and some Republicans, who don't want to 
have an inventory because they don't even want to think about domestic 
drilling off their shores.

Then in the last energy bill we kept the inventory provision. 
However, I wish to announce on this Senate floor right now--and I am 
sorry I don't have the language, that the inventory was conducted--the 
inventory was conducted, but we would not allow the use of seismic 
equipment.

I will be finished in a minute. I see the leader here. I am going to 
wrap up in 30 seconds because I know he has an important announcement 
to make. It would be like saying to a doctor: Go find the cancer, but 
you can't do a biopsy and you can't have a microscope. You cannot 
search for oil and gas without using seismic methods. So the fact is--
and I am going to conclude, because I know the leader is here and I am 
going to wait until he finishes what he has to say for me to finish--
but no one in America would know what is here because we have never 
looked. I have other chapters to this speech, but I see the leader is 
here so I am going to stop.

I thank the Chair.










 Unanimous Consent Agreement--H.R. 6331
