---
---

# None
## `675afe3ed018bf3daf275b8195e8470d`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. I say to my friend, during the years you have mentioned, 
there have been democratically controlled Senates, Republican 
controlled Senates, but it doesn't matter who is controlling the 
Senate, we have always done these bills with simple majority votes.

For example, I can remember last year we had one vote, as I recall, 
on minimum wage because it required 60 votes to waive a budget point of 
order. So this new thing about 60 votes on everything is something that 
has been ginned up in the minds of people who want to avoid votes to 
change the course in Iraq.

That is what it is all about. The war is not going well. We all know 
that. We need to sit back and understand that it needs to change 
course. There is a column written today, I read it, op-ed about 
President Bush being stubborn. And he is. We all know that. That is not 
all together always a bad trait.

But, boy, I will tell you, he is sure showing his streak of 
stubbornness on this. He was unwilling to listen to anyone who 
disagreed with him, and there are a number of people who have been 
dumped from the administration as a result. Someone who suggested the 
war would cost $150 to $200 billion, Lindsey, he was gone quick.

We had one of our good generals who suggested we needed a lot more 
troops there. Out the door he went. We could go through a list of 
people who disagreed with the President who hit the road.

I would hope that on this issue, when so many people all across this 
country, on a bipartisan basis, agree that something needs to change in 
Iraq, my friends, the Republicans, recognize that they also have 
responsibility to the American people more so than the President.

Now, I would say this. My friend, Senator Lott, is still here. I am 
going to yield the floor and whoever grabs the floor can have it. I say 
to my friend, Senator Lott, who has always been a gentleman to me in 
the many areas we have worked together here: This was a time that I 
wanted a ''yes'' or ''no'' response. He is a real pro in here. He knows 
that he can get the floor again to explain whatever his position was. 
This was in the middle of my speech. That is why I followed the rules.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. McCaskill.) The Senator from Arizona.