---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `675d7ac0ebd82f72117e46dea1e8a756`
`Mr. BOND — 12 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I congratulate and thank Senator Murray for 
being such an agile partner and such an effective leader. We finished 
the bill in almost record time. For a bill of this complexity, I might 
even claim it is record time.

The legislation is very complex. You have seen that it is 
controversial and can even be very political, as we saw with the 
Mexican trucking issue.

As always, Senator Murray deserves a great deal of credit and 
accolades for her ability to balance the many tough and controversial 
issues that make up the legislation, and to do so with a smile and good 
humor despite circumstances that would have brought out a more 
difficult response from a lesser person.

We also thank her crack staff, including Peter Rogoff, Bill Simpson, 
Rachel Milberg, Meaghan McCarthy, and Teri Curtin. I also thank my 
staff for a great job: Jon Kamarck, Ellen Beares, and Matt McCardle. 
Each of them brought special contributions, as well as hard work, to 
the bill, spending many late nights and weekends to make sure the HUD 
fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill would reflect a balanced and 
bipartisan approach to the legislation that could be supported by 
Members on both sides of the aisle. We thank the overwhelming majority 
who voted for it. A special thanks goes to our Republican and 
Democratic floor staff for bringing their special expertise and making 
us all look the part of respectable, hard-charging legislators and 
untangling the knots that sometimes occur in the process.

As I did on Monday, I want to brag about our ability to include 
funding increases above the budget request for HUD's housing and 
community development programs. These are important programs to help 
build our communities and without which a number of persons--a 
significant number of persons--would be placed at risk of homelessness. 
That would have been a particular hardship on many seniors and persons 
with disabilities.

I also want to repeat my gratitude that we were able to include $75 
million in section 8 funds for the VA Affairs Supportive Housing 
Program. It is critical as service people continue to return from Iraq 
and face new realities


that can include the need for housing and other services. This program 
will become even more worthwhile as young, disabled service men and 
women make the difficult adjustment to civilian life.

As Members know, after 2 full days on this bill, with regard to FAA, 
this bill continues to support the beginning stage of the NextGen Air 
Transportation System. This bill also contains funds above the 
administration's request for flight inspection and certification 
personnel.

These funds are needed and will ensure the continued safety of the 
National Airspace System. I also want to note the additional funds for 
the Airport Improvement Program, which has been and remains an 
important bipartisan priority for this subcommittee.

In addition, the bill meets the guarantees of SAFETEA for highways 
and, and for the most part, transit. We include the revenue aligned 
budget authority, RABA, which was not included in the President's 
budget. In addition, we have included some $1 billion in obligation 
limitation as a starter account for the inspection of our aging bridges 
after those tragic deaths in Minnesota when the bridge collapsed.

Finally, as I noted previously, there are some issues that we will 
have to address before the bill can become law. For example, we include 
the revenue aligned budget authority which was not included in the 
President's budget. The bill also contains a $2.89 billion rescission 
of highway contract authority apportionments to the states, used as a 
budgetary offset. The bill also includes an additional $43,359,000 in 
Admin CA and another $172,243,000 in an unused transportation 
innovative financing infrastructure account, TIFIA, contract authority 
for a total offset of spending of $3.495 billion. HUD also includes a 
rescission of $1.1 billion.

Finally, I continue to be concerned over HUD's and OMB's failure to 
provide adequate funding for HUD's section 8 project-based housing 
program for fiscal year 2008. This is not an option but is a 
contractual obligation. Most important, this is a critical and 
important program that serves many of our most vulnerable citizens such 
as extremely low-income families, including seniors and persons with 
disabilities. HUD has been unable to fund fully or timely many of these 
contracts during fiscal year 2007, and I understand that this problem 
will only get worse in fiscal year 2008 with HUD facing a shortfall in 
its section 8 project-based account of $2 billion or more. I know this 
program enjoys wide support in this Congress and I would fully expect 
OMB to provide the necessary funds for the program through a budget 
amendment or as part of a continuing resolution or through emergency 
supplemental legislation.

And while I am pleased with much of the bill, especially needed 
spending in critical programs, I am concerned that we are on a 
collision course with the White House on the spending levels contained 
in this bill. I fear that both sides are going to have to make 
adjustments. I just hope that any adjustments do not result in the loss 
of any of the positive investments made we have made in this bill.

I will conclude by again thanking my colleague, Senator Murray, her 
staff, my staff, and the floor staff. Thanks for the help of everybody.