---
---

# THE ACCOUNTABILITY CONGRESS: THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `675f98541fffc4dd0884a701b68b1f76`
`Mr. KAGEN — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. I don't have to remind anyone here that if you don't have 
your health, you don't have anything. If you do serve in harm's way, if 
you are brave and honorable and serve, as many thousands and thousands 
have done. From my district in northeast Wisconsin, 20,034 brave 
Americans, men and women, served in both Iraq and Afghanistan. And when 
we passed the supplemental bill we voted to support our troops before, 
during, and, very importantly, after being in harm's way. We stood up 
to our responsibility. They covered our back. Now it is time we should 
cover theirs.

It is not just the veterans that need help. Our senior citizens, they 
can't afford their prescription drugs. I came to Congress because one 
time in three when I would write a prescription in my practice, my 
patients could not afford the medication. It wouldn't be on the list, 
their insurance company wouldn't cover it, and they went without. And 
today in America, people listening here tonight are asking this 
Congress, the 110th, to stand up to the drug companies and to the 
health insurance companies and get the job done.

I think if I stand back a little bit and give a bigger picture to 
what is going on in the 110th Congress, take a look at the class of 
2006, our class, which I consider America's hope, what is the 
difference between what we are doing and the previous Congress? We are 
listening to the people and we are speaking out on their behalf. They 
can't be here tonight, but their voice is being heard.

The other difference is judgment. I believe it was poor judgment that 
took us into Iraq. It was poor judgment in the administration that 
prevents our people from having affordable prescription drugs and 
affordable insurance. One of the biggest comedies here in America is 
the 47 million people who do not have any health insurance at all. And 
what they haven't figured out is they are paying for everybody's health 
costs because they get to pay the real bill, the top-dollar bill. They 
don't get a discount at all. So we have to change things in America and 
move where we can afford the prescription drugs, where we can afford to 
have insurance coverage for everyone.

But this 110th Congress, when you talk, Congressman Ellison, about 
security, we also passed a bill, H.R. 327, to help prevent suicide in 
veterans. Now, in my district that will help 64,000 veterans in 
northeast Wisconsin alone.

We also enacted the 9/11 Commission on Homeland Security 
recommendations, H.R. 1. That will help 245 police and fire departments 
throughout my district.

We also passed a bill, H.R. 4, that would require the Secretary of 
Health to negotiate for lower prices for our seniors for their 
prescription drugs. In my district alone, that helps 68,000 senior 
citizens, if only the Senate would put that language in and if only the 
HHS Secretary would be so kind as to use his buying group to negotiate 
for lower drugs.

I think you can look for positive movement from the 110th Congress. 
We are not afraid to back down from any interest that harms those that 
we serve.