---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `6764b4145a98b2603b0074c5b48395da`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I would like to comment on the kindness 
of the Senator from Oklahoma. I think that so often we forget the 
sacrifice that our American people have made so we could bring some 
stability to Afghanistan and to Iraq.

Now, 2 weeks ago I attended a service actually on the front steps of 
the Ohio Capitol Building where we commemorated the lives of 23 
individuals from the Lima Company that was extraordinarily hit in Iraq. 
Tears rolled out of my eyes and everyone else there as a mother of a 
man by the name of Hoffman talked about her son and the sacrifice that 
he made and why he made that sacrifice.

I think that too many Americans are not aware of the fact that we 
have lost over 4,000 people in Iraq and that 30,000 of them have 
returned, and half of them are going to be disabled. I think it 
underscores that we need to be very responsible in our future activity 
in Iraq so that the parents of those young men and women do not feel 
that their lives were lost in vain.

I am sure, Mr. President, you have mixed emotions, as I have, about 
where we should be going there. I heard Jim Dobbins today. Jim was at 
the State Department for many years. He was talking about our next 
moves in Iraq and how difficult it is because on one hand, we know that 
we have to move our troops out of there for the benefit of our 
volunteer Army. Because of the deployments, they are stretched, and 
they are not getting the re-ups that they need.

At the same time, we want to make sure we do not move too fast so we 
end up with a civil war there. So it is a dilemma. But the people who 
get lost in all of that are the folks who have lost their loved ones. 
And it grieves me that we have spent almost $650 billion on that war, 
and we have never asked the American people to participate.

The only ones who have participated are the families whose sons and 
daughters have come back in body bags, and that loss will be with them 
for the rest of their lives. So I think all of us ought to think about 
those families and pray for them and pray that those of us in 
responsible positions will be enlightened by the Holy Spirit to make 
the right decisions for them, their families, for our country, and for 
the world.
