---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `676a7d10f8fd523343c6efd6aceedd9a`
`Mr. PRYOR — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, Arkansas is grieving for a young hero, a 
courageous soldier who was serving in Iraq as a member of the 224th 
Maintenance Company. This team keeps our troops safe and their 
equipment and vehicles running. It is a mission paramount to our 
soldiers' success.

A member of the National Guard for almost 7 years, SPC James Clay of 
Mountain Home, AR, showed great commitment and patriotism throughout 
his assignment with the 2nd Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment, 39th 
Brigade Combat team. Of his service, MG William Wofford, adjutant 
general of the Arkansas National Guard recalls, ''He was called to 
serve, and he answered that call with valiant service. He was a true 
patriot and will not soon be forgotten.''

Specialist Clay's untimely death has brought me to the Senate floor 
today, but I want to take a minute to honor his life. He overcame major 
obstacles in his personal life, including the death of both his 
parents, yet he graduated from Cotter High School in 2002 where 
teachers describe him as outstanding, considerate, and spirited. 
Friends remember Specialist Clay as a role model who persevered with 
dignity and humanity. Everyone who knew this young hero recalled his 
great smile and his compassion for others. It is no surprise that he 
died fighting for the peace and security of others.

My prayers go out to Specialist Clay's family and friends, 
particularly his high school sweetheart and wife, Mellissa Clay. During 
his second Inaugural Address, Abraham Lincoln pledged, ''to care for 
him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his 
orphans.'' Mrs. Clay, we will never forget the sacrifice of your loved 
one, and we work to honor his memory, courage, and service to our great 
Nation.














 Corporal Adrian Robles
