---
---

# HONORING THE MILITARY SERVICE OF SERGEANT GLENN LATRONICO
## `6774c7b8f941425a06eb0ba533a76a51`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 29 July 2010`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Sergeant Glenn 
Latronico of Oak Lawn, Illinois, who is returning home after a fifth 
tour of duty in the Middle East as an Army Ranger.

U.S. military forces currently rely on the sacrifice and dedication 
of volunteer soldiers. The freedom every one of us enjoys today depends 
on the choice made by hundreds of thousands of men and women to risk 
their own lives for the sake of others through military service.

But even among our dedicated soldiers, the service of certain 
individuals can rise far above and beyond the call of duty. Sergeant 
Latronico began his service six years ago with basic training at the 
age of 18, and proceeded to undergo additional rigorous requirements to 
become an Army Ranger. After basic training, Army Rangers must take 
part in Advanced Individual Training and obtain a Military Occupational 
Specialty; complete Airborne Training; and attend the Ranger Assessment 
and Selection Program. Not every soldier chooses or is able to fulfill 
these additional requirements. Sergeant Latronico's completion of this 
training alone places him among the elite in our military forces.

With his training completed, Sergeant Latronico took part in five 
tours of duty--two in Iraq and three in Afghanistan. His steadfast 
service in the face of difficult conditions on the ground in these two 
countries exemplifies dedication, discipline, and unwavering resolve. I 
am proud to welcome such a committed soldier back home to my district. 
I ask you to join me in honoring his sacrifice, a reminder of the very 
best that our young servicemen and women can offer our great country.
