# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `67990f1e9774dc647375de5aa889e514`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding me 
this time.

I rise today in opposition to this amendment which would cut off all 
funding to study an expansion of the Pinon Canyon maneuver site. This 
amendment would stop the Army from


providing the soldiers with much-needed additional training space, an 
action which could have serious negative consequences for the Army and 
for the brave men and women serving our Nation.

By prohibiting these funds, the Army would not even be able to study 
the area and complete an environmental impact statement. The purpose of 
an EIS is to assess the environmental, economic and other impacts of a 
proposed action before a Federal action is even taken up.

Private property rights are deeply important to me. Any option to 
increase the size of the PCMS should be thoroughly studied, and if 
plans for the expansion were to go forward, it should occur to the 
greatest extent possible, if not completely through willing sellers.

The type of enemy we are now facing overseas is much different than 
during the Cold War. PCMS contains terrain much like areas such as Iraq 
and Afghanistan. We are fortunate as a country to have this training 
area, but the Army has outgrown it. It would be a shame to not even 
study the possibility of using an existing facility that could easily 
be transformed into a 22nd-century facility. During the Cold War, 
divisions consisting of approximately 20,000 soldiers fought in 
relatively small areas in Europe. Consequently, training could be 
conducted in areas of approximately 22,000 acres or 5 by 7 miles. 
Today, brigade-size formations of approximately 3,500 soldiers must now 
operate in and control areas of approximately 615,000 acres, or 31 by 
31 miles.

While Army units have gotten smaller, the battlefield has gotten 
larger. We owe our soldiers proper training for the conditions they 
will experience in other combat theaters. Not allowing the soldiers to 
train adequately puts them in harm's way.

The Army is simply asking for an opportunity to study an expansion. 
To deny them this opportunity would be to substitute political pressure 
for the considered judgment of our military commanders who are charged 
with training and protecting our troops.

It is unrealistic and irresponsible to think other public lands in 
Colorado or the West, such as roadless wilderness areas or national 
parks, could be used as a substitute. No critic of PCMS has come 
forward with a responsible and specific alternative. The longer 
distances involved would also make that difficult.

Over 200 soldiers from Fort Carson have died in Iraq and Afghanistan 
fighting terrorism. The soldiers and commanders at Fort Carson know 
what it takes to wage war in the 21st century, and they are serious 
about it. It would truly be a shame if they don't have the proper 
training facilities so that they can succeed. The Army should at least 
be given a chance to study the issue and present their findings.

I strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.