# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `6799c5f0186ec4ca637a5d6b25feb1cc`
`Mr. ELLISON — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, let me say in these final few moments 
tonight, I want to say there have been over 91 hearings on Iraq alone. 
But we have also had oversight hearings on Hurricane Katrina. Several 
of them, in fact. Subcommittee Chair Waters went down to New Orleans to 
get the real story from people who are living it.

On the Committee on Financial Services, we are going to be talking 
about predatory lending. Today we talked about executive pay and 
shining some light on that issue.

On the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee Chairman Nadler held a 
hearing on civil rights enforcement, what is the Attorney General's 
civil rights division doing in the area of civil rights enforcement.

I have participated in hearings on the increase in immigration fees 
and how those fees are going up in a precipitous manner and questions 
were asked and officials were made to answer.

So as I said before, this is a time of accountability. We are slowly 
trying to restore the public's faith in government. They have a right 
to believe that their government is honest, fair dealing, accountable 
and transparent. I couldn't have been prouder in the committee hearings 
I personally have been a part of on issues from the National Security 
Letters and the FBI executive pay, civil rights enforcement, 
immigration; there has been a whole range.

I think the story is not necessarily one thing like the Valerie Plame 
incident or Walter Reed or the U.S. Attorneys; but there is a 
prevailing, systematic reexamination of how government does business. I 
am proud to be associated with it.