# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `67ae07fc2127467e494dca1481ea8051`
`Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan — 24 February 2010`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I, too, come to pay homage 
to a giant--to our leader, our chairman, the epitome of a public 
servant. All of us feel like he was our best friend.

As the newest member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, I was 
in awe as I watched the chairman yield, educate, speak, and do what he 
did so that all of the members on our subcommittee, on both sides of 
the aisle, could participate in the process.

Chairman Murtha held 32 hearings before we even got to the 
appropriations bill last year. I was at every one of them. To watch him 
and to watch the prestige and the honor that he received as well as 
gave to those who came before our subcommittee was astounding. Chairman 
Murtha welcomed me into the group. It is a prestigious group. In my 32 
years of public service, there has been none like it.

I honor you, Jack Murtha, for your wisdom, your courage. It has 
already been said--and I akin myself to all of my colleagues who have 
come before me, but the redundancy needs to be said over and over 
again--that our country has lost a giant. This institution will never 
be the same. We will strive to carry the torch and passion of Jack 
Murtha, those of us on the committee, on the full committee, and in 
this Congress on both sides of the aisle.

We love you, Jack Murtha. I pledge to you, as I do my work here in 
the United States House of Representatives, it is because of you and 
others like you who showed me and helped me to become that defense 
protege, if you will, who will speak out, who will protect our men and 
women in uniform and our entire United States of America. So rest in 
peace, my great warrior.

To his family--to his children and grandchildren--know that you have 
a friend in all of us. We have adopted you into our family. Let us 
speak and serve and reach and grow and build a new United States of 
America as Jack Murtha has held us to do.

God bless you, Jack. We will never forget you.

Warrior. Statesman. Husband. Father. Legislator. Chairman John P. 
Murtha was the epitome of the best of what our nation's military and 
this Congress does. As one of the seven people in the history of our 
country selected to Chair the House Defense Appropriations 
Subcommittee, Chairman Murtha comes from a family with a long and 
stellar line of service to our country. Chairman Murtha's great-
grandfather served in the Civil War. His father and three uncles served 
in World War II. Chairman Murtha, along with his brothers, served in 
our nation's military during the Vietnam War. His sons served in the 
military as well. Of course, we all know that Chairman Murtha went in 
as an enlisted man in the United States Marine Corps, serving as a 
drill sergeant at Parris Island, South Carolina, the home to many of 
our Marines. In 1966, Chairman Murtha volunteered for active duty in 
the Marine Corps, joining his brothers in combat. Chairman Murtha 
earned two Purple Hearts, a Bronze Star and the Vietnamese Cross for 
Gallantry in Vietnam. Chairman Murtha served in the Marine Corps in the 
reserves, and retired as a Colonel.

Chairman Murtha, after active duty in Vietnam, became active in 
politics and was elected to Pennsylvania's House of Representatives. 
When Chairman Murtha was elected to Congress in 1974, he was the first 
Vietnam era veteran elected to Congress. Chairman Murtha was a 
dedicated and devoted servant to the people of Pennsylvania's 12th 
Congressional District. We all know Chairman Murtha.

What many people do not know is how Chairman Jack Murtha fought for 
pay raises for all members of America's military. How Chairman Murtha 
demanded accountability from all our Presidents on the number of 
contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan. What many people do not know is 
how Chairman Murtha took a young Member of Congress aside and taught 
her or him how to get things done. What many people do not know is that 
Chairman Murtha was feared, and also respected; Chairman Murtha was 
intimidating and also loved. There is a reason that just over my 
shoulder, on the House floor, a flag hangs in respect, love and 
admiration in the seat that Chairman Murtha called home for more than 
three decades.

Chairman Murtha's respect went far beyond the confines of the House 
Appropriations Committee on Defense. When our Nation's warriors go to 
fight for us, they deserve nothing but the best in return. That was 
Chairman Murtha's goal for the men and women of our Nation's military. 
Chairman Murtha, very simply, made things happen. You know what? Most 
of the things that Chairman Murtha made happen never made the pages of 
the newspaper. They were not in a sound bite on television or on radio. 
But each and every Member who walks these halls know that Congress is a 
lot emptier and things will not be done as quickly or as well since the 
loss of Chairman Murtha. I do not believe that it is an understatement 
when I say that the reason why our troops in Iraq are coming home today 
is because Chairman Murtha, warrior, statesman, and lover of his men 
and women in combat, said ''enough.''

Chairman Murtha knew defeat and victory. Chairman Murtha loved the 
institution of Congress, he loved his family, he loved his Marines, he 
loved his service members of our nation's military, and those 
individuals who volunteer to put themselves in harm's way to defend our 
Constitution. Chairman Murtha defended our Constitution as a Marine in 
combat in Vietnam. Chairman Murtha defended our Constitution as a 
Member of Congress. Chairman Murtha will continue to guide the spirits 
and souls of us all as we work to solve the problems of America. 
Because that is what Chairman Murtha did--solve problems.

Chairman John Patrick Murtha, rest in peace. To his wife and family, 
know that we will always honor and cherish his memory, and we thank you 
for sharing him with us for more than three decades. The heart of a 
lion that once roamed the halls of Congress is lost, and I will miss 
his kind heart, his vivacious spirit, and his intelligence forever.