# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `67ae32cb971f64e42d3835c091cf27e3`
`Mr. REYES — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I 
thank him for his leadership of the committee and for the inclusive 
process that he has utilized to come up with this budget resolution.

Madam Chair, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 85, and I urge my 
colleagues to vote for this budget because, at a time when Americans 
are looking for leadership, at a time when they are looking for this 
new administration to keep our country safe, this budget resolution 
provides the tools to do just that. It provides increased support for 
our national security, it increases the funding for the Department of 
Defense and for the veterans budget. It also funds above the 
administration's defense request.

These additions help this country meet its military goals, it 
supports the efforts to reform the acquisition program, it supports the 
efforts to improve facilities, it supports and sets out important steps 
to help our country care for our wounded, our ill, and our injured 
servicemembers.

The resolution matches the President's request for overseas 
operations. Having his separate request is important. It provides the 
transparency that has been missing in describing the real cost of the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

This funding is important as we sustain our efforts in Iraq with an 
eye towards responsibly reducing troop levels throughout the coming 2 
years. This funding is also important because it supports the 
administration's new Afghanistan strategy, and the intelligence 
community stands committed to supporting the new strategy using every 
means possible to attain success in Afghanistan.