---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `67b0e2e37f4ad36502ce45f09ca17fe2`
`Mr. McCAIN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, again, I would like to thank my old friend 
from Hawaii for his patience so that, as the Republican ranking member 
of the committee, I may make a statement about the bill itself and 
about the situation in Iraq. I thank him for his courtesy, and I will 
try not to take too long a period of time. So I thank my old friend 
from Hawaii.

Mr. President, we have reached another moment of importance this week 
in debating the fiscal year 2008 Defense authorization bill. We will 
help set the course of the Nation's security policy and influence our 
participation in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Much of the debate, 
as we all know, will be about Iraq, and before I discuss that and my 
recent visit, I would note that many provisions in this bill constitute 
a good defense policy and will strengthen the ability of our country to 
defend itself.

Under the leadership of my good friend from Michigan, the chairman of 
the committee, Senator Levin, I think we have crafted an excellent 
piece of legislation. I think a testament to his leadership is that the 
committee voted unanimously to report the bill, and it fully funds the 
President's $648 billion defense budget request. It provides necessary 
measures to try to bring under control waste, fraud, and abuse in 
defense procurement, and, frankly, it makes Members more accountable 
for their spending in the earmark process.


Again, I thank Senator Levin, the subcommittee chairs, and all the 
committee members for their work in bringing this issue to the floor.

Very briefly, we have authorized a 3.5-percent, across-the-board pay 
raise for all military personnel. We have increased Army and Marine end 
strength to 525,400 and 189,000, respectively. The committee also 
approved $2.7 billion for items on the Army Chief of Staff's unfunded 
requirement list, including $775 million for reactive armor and other 
Stryker requirements, $207 million for aviation survivability 
equipment, $102 million for combat training centers and funding for 
explosive ordnance disposal equipment, night vision devices, and 
machine guns.

The bill also authorizes $4.1 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected vehicles, known as MRAP vehicles, for all of the Services' 
known requirements.

The committee has come up with the money to support our troops, and I 
have no doubt the full Senate will follow step.

Money and policy statements are not all that is required at this 
moment in our national history. Courage is required--courage, not the 
great courage exhibited by the brave men and women fighting today in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, but a smaller measure: the courage necessary to 
put our country's interests before every personal or political 
consideration.

In this light, I would like to discuss America's involvement in Iraq, 
and finally I would like to make several points.

Final reinforcements needed to implement General Petraeus's 
counterinsurgency tactics arrived just several weeks ago. Last week I 
had the opportunity to visit with troops in theater. From what I saw 
and heard while there, I believe our military, in cooperation with the 
Iraqi security forces, is making progress in a number of areas. There 
are other areas where they are not. I would like to outline some of 
their efforts, not to argue that these areas have suddenly become 
safe--they have not; I want to emphasize the areas have not become 
safe--but to illustrate the progress our military has achieved under 
General Petraeus's new strategy.

Last year Anbar Province was believed to be lost to al-Qaida. On the 
map we see that U.S. and Iraqi troops cleaned out al-Qaida fighters 
from Ramadi and other areas of western Anbar. Tribal sheiks broke with 
the terrorists and joined the coalition side. It is a fact that some 16 
out of the 24 sheiks in the Sunni area of Anbar Province have now 
joined with U.S. forces in their commitment to destroy al-Qaida in 
Anbar Province.

Ramadi, months ago, was Iraq's most dangerous city. It is now one of 
its safest. At considerable political risk, I point out that I visited, 
with Senator Graham, downtown Ramadi where the shopping areas were 
open. I did not visit without protection or without security forces 
with me. But the fact is, a short time ago it was one of the most 
dangerous cities in all of Iraq. Attacks are down from 30 to 35 a day 
in February to zero on most days now.

In Fallujah, Iraqi police have established numerous stations and have 
divided the city into gated districts. The violence has declined and 
local intelligence tips have proliferated. Throughout Anbar Province, 
thousands of young men are signing up for the police and Army, and the 
locals are taking the fight to al-Qaida. All 18 major tribes in the 
province are now onboard with the security plan. A year from now, the 
Iraqi Army and police could have total control of security in Ramadi, 
allowing American forces to safely draw down.

South of Baghdad, operation Phantom Thunder is intended to stop 
insurgents present in the Baghdad belts from originating attacks in the 
capital itself. A brigade of the 10th Mountain Division, which I 
visited, is operating in Baghdad belts that have been havens for al-
Qaida. All soldiers in the brigade are living forward. That means they 
are in outposts away from the headquarters 24-7, living, working, and 
fighting alongside Iraqi military. Commanders report that the local 
sheiks


are increasingly siding with the coalition against al-Qaida.

Southeast of Baghdad, the military is targeting al-Qaida in safe 
havens they maintain along the Tigris River. In Baghdad itself, the 
military, in cooperation with Iraqi security forces, continues to 
establish joint security stations and deploy throughout the city. These 
efforts have produced some positive results. Sectarian violence has 
fallen. Since January, the total number of car bombings and suicide 
attacks declined. In May and June, the number of locals coming forward 
with intelligence tips has risen.

Make no mistake, violence in Baghdad remains at unacceptably high 
levels, suicide bombers and other threats pose formidable challenges, 
and other difficulties abound. Nevertheless, there appears to be 
overall movement in the right direction.

I have no doubt how difficult suicide bombers are to counter. Ask the 
Israelis. They literally had to seal their borders with Gaza and the 
West Bank because of the way people who are willing to sacrifice their 
own lives in order to take the lives of others are able to get through 
and do these horrendous acts that we are exposed to quite often on our 
television screens and in our newspapers in America.

In Diyala Province, Iraqi and American troops have surged and are 
fighting to deny al-Qaida sanctuary in the city of Baqubah. For the 
first time since the war began, Americans showed up in force and did 
not quickly withdraw from the area. In response, locals have formed a 
new alliance with the coalition to counter al-Qaida.

Why are some of these people now turning against al-Qaida? One reason 
is the extreme cruelty that is practiced by al-Qaida on a routine 
basis, which has caused many people to reject that kind of extreme 
violence and cruelty inflicted on the local people. Diyala, which was 
the center of Abu Mus' Ab al-Zarqawi's caliphate, finally has the 
chance to turn aside the forces of extremism.

I offer these observations not to present a rosy scenario of the 
challenges we continue to face in Iraq. As last weekend's horrific 
bombing indicates so graphically, the threats to Iraqi stability have 
not gone away, nor are they likely to go away in the near future when 
our brave men and women in Iraq will continue to face great challenges.

What I do believe is, while the mission to bring a degree of security 
to Iraq and to Baghdad and its environs in particular in order to 
establish the necessary preconditions for political and economic 
progress--while that mission is still in its early stages, the progress 
our military has made should encourage us. It is also clear the overall 
strategy that General Petraeus has put into place, a traditional 
counterinsurgency tactic that emphasizes protecting a population and 
which gets our troops off of the bases and into the areas they are 
trying to protect--that this strategy is the correct one.


Some of my colleagues argue that we should return troops to the 
forward operating bases and confine their activities to training and 
targeted counterterrorism operations. That is precisely what we did for 
3/1/2/ years, and the situation in Iraq got worse. Over 3/1/2/ years we 
had our troops from operating bases going out--search and destroy as we 
used to call it during the Vietnam war--and going back to their bases. 
That was a failed strategy from the beginning. I am surprised that any 
of my colleagues would advocate a return to the failed Rumsfeld-Casey 
strategy.

No one can be certain whether this new strategy, which remains in the 
early stages, can bring about greater stability. We can be sure, should 
the Senate seek to legislate an end to this strategy as it is just 
beginning, then we will fail for certain.

Now that the military effort in Iraq is showing some signs of 
progress, the space is opening for political progress. Yet rather than 
seizing the opportunity, the government of Prime Minister Maliki is not 
functioning as it must. I repeat, the government of Prime Minister 
Maliki is not functioning as it must. We see little evidence of 
reconciliation and little progress toward meeting the benchmarks laid 
out by the President. The Iraqi Government can function. The question 
is whether it will.

To encourage political progress, I believe we can find wisdom in 
several suggestions put forward recently by Henry Kissinger. 
Intensified negotiations by the Iraqi parties could limit violence, 
promote reconciliation, and put the political system on a more stable 
footing. We should promote dialog between the Iraqi Government and its 
Sunni Arab neighbors, specifically Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia, in 
order to build broader international acceptance for the Iraqi central 
government in exchange for that government meeting specific obligations 
with respect to the protection and political participation of the Sunni 
minority. We should begin a broader effort to establish a basis for aid 
and even peacekeeping efforts by the international community, keyed to 
political progress in Iraq.

Taking such steps, we must recognize that no lasting political 
settlement can grow out of the U.S. withdrawal. On the contrary, a 
withdrawal must grow out of a political solution, a solution made 
possible by the imposition of security by coalition and Iraqi forces.

Secretary Kissinger is correct when he says ''precipitate withdrawal 
would produce a disaster,'' one that ''would not end the war but shift 
it to other areas, like Lebanon or Jordan or Saudi Arabia,'' produce 
greater violence among Iraqi factions, and embolden radical Islamists 
around the world.




 The war between Iraqi factions would intensify. The 


 demonstration of American impotence would embolden radical 


 Islamism and further radicalize its disciples from Indonesia 


 and India to the suburbs of European capitals . . .



 What America and the world need is not unilateral 


 withdrawal but a vision by the Bush administration of a 


 sustainable political end to the conflict.


As I said before, withdrawals must grow out of a political solution, 
not the other way around.

The Shias and the Sunnis and the Kurds:




 They need the buttress of a diplomatic process that could 


 provide international support for carrying out any internal 


 agreements reached or to contain conflict if the internal 


 parties cannot agree and Iraq breaks up . . .



 The American goal should be an international agreement 


 regarding the international status of Iraq. It would test 


 whether Iraq's neighbors as well as some more distant 


 countries are prepared to translate general concepts into 


 converging policies. It would provide a legal and political 


 framework to resist violations. These are the meaningful 


 benchmarks against which to test American withdrawals.


He goes on to point out:




 Turkey has repeatedly emphasized it would resist a breakup 


 by force because of the radicalizing impact a Kurdish State 


 could have on Turkey's large Kurdish population. But this 


 would bring Turkey into unwanted conflict with the United 


 States and open a Pandora's box of other interventions.



 Saudi Arabia and Jordan dread Shiite domination of Iraq, 


 especially if the Baghdad regime threatens to become a 


 satellite of Iran. The various Gulf Sheikdoms, the largest of 


 which is Kuwait, find themselves in an even more threatened 


 position.



 Syria's attitudes are likely to be more ambivalent. Its 


 ties to Iran represent both a claim to status and a looming 


 vulnerability . . .



 Given a wise and determined American diplomacy, even Iran 


 may be brought to conclude that the risks of continued 


 turmoil outweigh the temptations before it.


He goes on to talk about a multilateral framework.




 A forum for diplomacy already exists in the foreign 


 ministers' conference that met recently at Sharm el-Sheikh, 


 Egypt. . . . It is in the United States' interests to turn 


 the conference into a working enterprise under strong, if 


 discrete, American leadership.


He goes on to say:




 Neither the international system nor American public 


 opinion will accept as a permanent arrangement, an American 


 enclave maintained exclusively by American military power in 


 so volatile a region.


I believe Secretary Kissinger is correct. I believe he is correct 
when he bases the premise that precipitate withdrawal would produce a 
disaster.

Many of my colleagues would like to believe that should any of the 
various amendments forcing withdrawal become law, it would mark the end 
of this long effort. They are wrong.

Should the Congress force a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it 
would mark a new beginning, the start of a new, more dangerous, more 
arduous effort to contain the forces unleashed by our disengagement. 
Our efforts in Iraq today are critical to the wider struggle against 
violent Islamic extremism. Already the terrorists are emboldened,


excited that America is talking not about winning in Iraq but is rather 
debating when we should lose.

Last week, Ayman al-Zawahiri, al-Qaida's deputy chief, said the 
United States is merely delaying our ''inevitable'' defeat in Iraq and 
that: ''The Mujahideen of Islam in Iraq of the caliphate and jihad are 
advancing with steady steps toward victory.''

If we leave Iraq prematurely, jihadists around the world will 
interpret the withdrawal as their great victory against our great 
power. The movement thrives in an atmosphere of perceived victory. We 
saw this in the surge of men and money flowing to al-Qaida following 
the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.

If they defeat the United States in Iraq, they will believe anything 
is possible, history is on their side, and they can bring their 
terrible rule to lands the world over.

Recall the plan laid out in a letter from Zawahiri to Abu Mus'ab al-
Zarqawi before his death. That plan is to take shape in four stages: 
Establish a caliphate in Iraq, extend the jihad wave to the secular 
countries neighboring Iraq, clash with Israel; none of which shall 
commence until the completion of stage one: Expel the Americans from 
Iraq. The terrorists are in this war to win it. The question is, Are 
we?

Withdrawing before there is a stable and legitimate Iraqi authority 
would turn Iraq into a failed state and a terrorist sanctuary in the 
heart of the Middle East. We have seen a failed state emerge after U.S. 
disengagement once before. It cost us terribly. In pre-9/11 
Afghanistan, terrorists found sanctuary to train and plan attacks with 
impunity. We know that today there are terrorists in Iraq who are 
planning attacks against Americans. I do not think we should make this 
mistake twice.

Brent Scowcroft, whom we also know was opposed to the invasion of 
Iraq in the first place, has said:




 The costs of staying are visible. The costs of getting out 


 are almost never discussed . . . If we get out before Iraq is 


 stable, the entire Middle East region might start to resemble 


 Iraq today. Getting out is not a solution.


One of my great heroes and role models and a person whom I have had 
the great honor of getting to know recently is Natan Sharansky, a man 
of inestimable courage and knowledge. He recently had a piece that ran 
Sunday in the Washington Post. The title of his piece is: ''Leave Iraq, 
Embrace for a Bigger Bloodbath.''

In his statement, he talks about:




 The truth is that in totalitarian regimes, there are no 


 human rights. Period. The media do not criticize the 


 government. Parliaments do not check executive power. Courts 


 do not uphold due process. And human rights groups do not 


 file reports.


He talks about the moral divide that separates societies in which 
people are slaves, from societies in which people are free.

''Some human rights groups undermine the very cause they claim to 
champion,'' he says.




 Consider one 2005 Amnesty International report on Iraq. It 


 notes that in the lawless climate of the first months after 


 Hussein's overthrow, reports of kidnappings, rapes and 


 killings of women and girls by criminal gangs rose. Iraqi 


 officers at a police station in Baghdad said in June 2003 


 that the number of reported rapes was ''substantially higher 


 than before the war.''



 The implication was that human rights may not really be 


 improving in post-Hussein Iraq. But the organization ignored 


 the possibility that reports of rape at police stations may 


 have increased for the simple reason that under Hussein it 


 was the regime--which includes the police--that was doing the 


 raping.


He goes on to say:




 A precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces could lead to a 


 bloodbath that would make the current carnage pale by 


 comparison.


I am quoting from Natan Sharansky.




 Without U.S. troops in place to quell some of the violence, 


 Iranian-backed Shiite militias would dramatically increase 


 their attacks on Sunnis; Sunni militias, backed by the Saudis 


 or others, would retaliate in kind, drawing more and more of 


 Iraq into a vicious cycle of violence. If Iraq descended into 


 full-blown civil war, the chaos could trigger similar clashes 


 throughout the region as Sunni-Shiite tensions spill across 


 Iraq's borders. The death toll and the displacement civilians 


 would climb exponentially.


He says:




 Perhaps the greatest irony of the political debate over 


 Iraq is that many of Bush's critics, who accused his 


 administration of going blindly to war without considering 


 what would happen once Hussein's regime was toppled, now 


 blindly support a policy of withdrawing from Iraq without 


 considering what might follow.



 In this respect, the debate over Iraq is beginning to look 


 a lot like the debate about the Vietnam War in the 1960s and 


 1970s. Then, too, the argument in the United States focused 


 primarily on whether U.S. forces should pull out. But many 


 who supported that withdrawal in the name of human rights did 


 not foresee the calamity that followed, which included 


 genocide in Cambodia, tens of thousands slaughtered in 


 Vietnam by the North Vietnamese and the tragedy of hundreds 


 of thousands of ''boat people.''


Mr. Sharansky lives in the neighborhood. Mr. Sharansky understands 
the meaning of the word ''freedom.'' Mr. Sharansky understands the 
meaning of the word ''sacrifice.''

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record the Kissinger and Sharansky articles.