---
---

# None
## `67be22261489a26e50124936b5a3a3bc`
`Ms. CASTOR — 12 December 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I urge approval of the National Defense 
Authorization Act, H.R. 1585, and this rule. This bipartisan bill 
improves military readiness and demonstrates our commitment to our 
brave men and women in uniform, including a 3.5 percent pay raise for 
these brave folks, a commitment to the National Guard and our Reserves, 
and an expansion and great improvement in the health care provided to 
wounded warriors who return from the battlefield. The bill also 
increases oversight and restores accountability over the waste and 
fraud that has occurred in the war in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, this bill will make America safer and stronger. I urge 
a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Hastings of Washington is 
as follows:



 Amendment to H. Res. 860 Offered by Mr. Hastings of Washington




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 3. The House disagrees to the Senate amendment to the 


 bill. H.R. 2642, making appropriations for military 


 construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 


 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and 


 for other purposes, and agrees to the conference requested by 


 the Senate thereon. The Speaker shall appoint conferees 


 immediately, but may declare a recess under clause 12(a) of 


 rule I for the purpose of consulting the Minority Leader 


 prior to such appointment. The motion to instruct conferees 


 otherwise in order pending the appointment of conferees 


 instead shall be in order only at a time designated by the 


 Speaker in the legislative schedule within two additional 


 legislative days after adoption of this resolution.