---
---

# JAMAL RASHARD ADDISON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `67cb9f5c5d5497ba1fe5770339aff243`
`Mr. SHAYS — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill 
designating the United States postal facility located at 3035 Stone 
Mountain Street in Lithonia, Georgia as the ''Jamaal RaShard Addison 
Post Office Building.'' A native of Georgia, Army Specialist Jamaal 
Addison was a ''quiet, yet driven young man with a very gentle 
spirit.'' An honor roll student and member of the Junior ROTC, Jamaal 
graduated from Lakeside High School in Tucker, Georgia, in 1998.

His love of video games fostered a passion for computers. Driven by 
his desire to start his own computer business, Jamaal saw the military 
as an opportunity to develop his expertise as a computer technician. 
Enrolling in the Army in 2000, Specialist Addison spent a year in Korea 
before he was sent to the Middle East as part of the 507th Maintenance 
Company in the first days of the Iraqi War.

On March 23, 2003, the 507th convoy was ambushed and, tragically, 
Jamaal Addison lost his life. A dedicated husband, father, brother, and 
son, Specialist Addison was the first Georgian to pay the ultimate 
sacrifice in Iraq. His determination and caring spirit lives on through 
the Jamaal Addison Motivational Foundation, an organization founded by 
his mother, Patricia Roberts, to provide young members of the community 
with the opportunity to experience ''wide options available to them to 
lead successful lives'' and to ''strive to achieve his or her highest 
potential.''

I urge the passage of this bill in honor of an ambitious, caring, and 
dedicated American who sacrificed his life while serving his country, a 
true American patriot.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.