# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `67dcc39301f9816f4089f6843f0daebd`
`Ms. LANDRIEU â€” 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Madam President, the underlying bill that Chairman


Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran have put together is really good work. 
As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am pleased to have 
worked on this bill. Senator Murray has provided some extraordinary 
leadership to add to this appropriations bill some resources to match 
the words that come out of this Capitol about securing our ports, 
securing our rail, and stepping up additional resources for our 
airports.

This underlying bill, the Homeland Security appropriations bill, 
reflects this goal and objective. For the most part, it meets it in a 
substantial way. But I would like to remind all of us here, my 
colleagues, though it is hard to remember or to put in perspective, but 
a few years ago, just over 5, we didn't have a Homeland Security 
appropriations bill. Until Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida established a 
network and put 19-plus men on planes that took out buildings in New 
York, a section of the Pentagon here in Washington, and crashed into a 
field in Pennsylvania, this department didn't even exist.

This department has been put together to try to help this country 
stand up against a great and growing threat--a great and growing 
threat. Unfortunately, according to the latest intelligence report--and 
I have the unclassified summary--this is not a diminishing threat. One 
would think that, after the money we have spent prosecuting the war, 
the diplomacy, and all the other things we are doing, this report would 
say that al-Qaida is weakened. But it doesn't say that. It says al-
Qaida is strengthening. Of course, we know that Osama bin Laden is 
still on the loose.

So I come to the floor to offer an amendment to the Homeland Security 
bill to try to refocus our attention on how this whole thing got 
started. It all got started by a guy named Osama bin Laden and the al-
Qaida network. My amendment says it should be the policy of the United 
States to refocus our efforts to find him, to destroy him, and to focus 
on the al-Qaida network wherever it is found.

There are pieces of it in Iraq, I am not going to debate that here. 
But there are pieces of al-Qaida that are still focused, according to 
this National Intelligence Estimate, right here in our homeland. So my 
amendment is substantive in the sense that it simply restates, or 
states for the first time but clearly, that it is the policy of the 
United States that the foremost objective of the global war on terror 
and protecting the homeland of the United States is to capture or kill 
Osama bin Laden and to destroy his network and other members of his 
network. I understand this is not just the work of one person. It adds 
$25 million to the Central Intelligence Agency for that purpose. I know 
there are other amounts of money that are being spent, and resources, 
some readily obtainable and some that are classified. But there are 
additional resources that need to be brought to bear on this and, most 
importantly, a focus to help us remember how we got here in the first 
place and what this Homeland Security bill should be doing, by 
protecting our Nation and keeping focus on al-Qaida. That is the 
essence of my amendment.


I thank the leader for allowing me to offer it tonight. Anytime the 
Senate feels we can vote on this in accordance with the schedule will 
be fine by me.