---
---

# None
## `67dcd5c12190811f078285a3fbfd5967`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 7 February 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Absolutely. And as we begin to wrap up, 
getting back to the lecture that you referred to earlier, Mr. Altmire, 
that we received from President Bush last week, the matter of 
transparency is incredibly important. This is a President who talked 
about how we need to make sure that we disclose earmarks, which we took 
the lead on when we became the majority and made sure that we put our 
names next to the earmarks that we get in the appropriations act, and 
we are the ones that made sure that there was full disclosure and 
adopted the ethics package that was the most comprehensive in American 
history.

And with this President's proposed budget this week, let's outline, 
and we are going to have some of these charts next week that are blown 
up so that people watching can see, but let's talk about what was left 
out of the budget, because he talked very nicely about transparency, 
and make sure that people really understand clearly what we are doing 
here. He left out of his budget any war costs, any costs for the war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan beyond the first half of this year. He also left 
out AMT reform beyond 2008. So all of the millions and millions of 
taxpayers that we helped avoid be subject to that AMT tax when we 
passed that legislation at the end of last year, there is no fix for 
them. And President Bush doesn't even count them as that going forward, 
which we know we are obviously going to have to do.

It is fake. It is just, again, bizarro world. We can just make stuff 
up in the budget and hope that people believe that it is true. This was 
a fairy tale document that he gave us on Monday. The good news is that 
the Congress actually writes the budget when push comes to shove.

Then in terms of any spending policy details beyond fiscal year 2009, 
there was nothing detailed in this President's budget. Let's just give 
you, as I wrap up and then turn it over to the two of you to bring us 
home, let's just go through last year. In fiscal year 2008, President 
Bush requested $193 billion, Mr. Murphy, for the war in Iraq. And in 
the fiscal year 2009 budget he just proposed to us on Monday, he asked 
for $70 billion. Good news. We are only going to spend $70 billion on 
the war in Iraq and Afghanistan this year.