# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `67dd4b1f68b8986a3688f19a43067158`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I agree with you, Mr. Altmire. Just the title 
''admiral'' speaks of such respect that we have for Representative 
Sestak. Those of us who did not have the privilege of serving in the 
military, as you can imagine, there are 435 of us on the floor, we look 
to each other for advice. We learn from each other.

I know I have spoken to you on a number of occasions to get your 
advice, to be an informed Member of Congress, and I do appreciate that 
because I think you not only have that lifetime of experience serving 
in the military, but as a leader, an admiral in the military, you have 
the high level of understanding of all the issues we are discussing 
right now. Of course, it is not the end-all, be-all, but it is a 
tremendous resource for all of us.

One of the committees that I serve on is Foreign Affairs, and that 
committee is responsible for working with the President and the State 
Department on our foreign policy, whether it is in the Western 
Hemisphere, Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, or in the Middle East or Russia 
or China.

Our country has been consumed with terrorism since we were attacked 
on our shores by Osama bin Laden. One of the biggest frustrations we 
have as Americans, the most powerful nation in the world with the 
highest level of information and intelligence and reach around the 
world, the fact that Osama bin Laden is still on the loose is beyond 
imagination. Every American should demand that that should have been 
and should continue to be a top priority.

I am pointing that out for a reason. That reason is, we took our eye 
off the ball when we got involved in this in the first place. That has 
been discussed and we understand that. But that doesn't mean that today 
we shouldn't still be focusing on where the real threat is. The threat 
relates to al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden and his henchmen. The threat 
relates to nuclear weapons. These are the significant challenges of our 
day. They are challenges as it relates to Russia and loose nuclear 
weapons. They are challenges as it relates to North Korea and 
containing North Korea.

There was an interesting story that Reuters produced. It talked about 
the estimated number of nuclear weapons that were likely to have been 
produced by North Korea during the last 6 years of the Bush 
administration. This is a rogue country by many discussions, by the 
United Nations and countries around the world, that has a nuclear 
weapon, possibly seven nuclear weapons that we know of, all within the 
last 6 years, which tells us once again that we took our eye off the 
ball of dealing with the true threats.

This is not a question of whether North Korea is going to shoot off 
an ICBM towards the United States. This is not a stable country and may 
provide that nuclear weapon to other groups, organizations, countries. 
That is a threat. That is where our focus should be. Iraq is a 
different situation.

We take a look at Iran and what we know about Iran at this moment. 
There are an estimated number of centrifuges in Iran, in their main 
nuclear facility producing reactor-grade uranium. There may be 1,300 of 
these spread out in Iran. Iran is a threat, in having a nuclear weapon, 
to Israel and to other countries in the Middle East, and for the same 
reason, to the United States.

This is a serious issue. This is where our foreign policy and 
military strength and the sharing of intelligence and confidence with 
other allies around the world, where we have always historically, 
American Presidents have always led, and we made sure that we had that 
authority. And it was in our country's best interests.

But today we find ourselves in a place because we are mired in Iraq 
where many countries around the world are not prepared to share that 
goal of nuclear containment. This is something that we need to focus 
on. This is another reason why we have to extricate ourselves in a 
responsible way from a war that is not achieving our national security 
interests, and refocus our attention on nuclear weapons that may be 
developed in Iran, and make sure that we are doing the right thing to 
protect the American people.