# WORLD REFUGEE DAY
## `67e52d441eaf4ee6b4e110bdf25ff9b1`
`Mr. LEVIN — 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to talk about 
World Refugee Day, which we recently recognized, and offer some 
observations on the millions of refugees around the world and our 
efforts to aid them.



Refugees find themselves in the immensely difficult position of being 
unable to return to their homeland, yet stuck without any place else to 
turn. They are often the targets of persecution due to their race, 
religion, political associations, or other traits that should be worthy 
of respect rather than a threat on one's life. The theme of this year's 
World Refugee Day is ''protection,'' with a particular focus on shining 
a bright light on the plight of refugees around the world, so that the 
world community takes action to ensure their safety.

While refugees deserving of our attention exist in many places around 
the world, one area of significant concern is the refugee situation in 
Iraq. The U.N. estimates that over 4 million Iraqis have been displaced 
by violence, with 1.5 million living in Syria and over 1 million in 
Jordan, Iran, Egypt, Lebanon, Yemen and Turkey. It is a staggering 
humanitarian crisis. As part of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2008, Congress adopted the Iraqi Refugee Crisis Act, 
which I sponsored along with a number of my colleagues. This 
legislation creates a process for Iraqis who have offered assistance to 
our forces in Iraq to apply directly to the United States for refugee 
status. It is clear that the United States has a special obligation to 
help this population. The largest community of Iraqi Christians in the 
world outside of Iraq is in Michigan, which makes this issue 
particularly significant for me and my constituents.

The stark reality is that Iraq is just one small part of the tragic 
refugee situation around the world. Thon Chol, who was one of the 
''Lost Boys of Sudan,'' is currently serving as an intern in my 
Washington, DC, office. He recently graduated with a master's degree in 
social work from Western Michigan University. His success is hard 
earned, but his story underscores the point that refugees deserve our 
attention as well as our aid and protection.

Thon was forced to flee his hometown at age 6. While attempting to 
reach Ethiopia he was one of thousands who faced dehydration, famine, 
and attacks from wild animals and Government soldiers alike. He lost 
most of his family, witnessing many deaths himself. He reached a 
refugee camp in 1987, was forced back to Sudan due to the civil war in 
Ethiopia in 1991, and then eventually traveled to live in a refugee 
camp in Kenya for 8 years before being one of less than 4,000 Lost Boys 
permitted to settle in the United States and moving to Grand Rapids, 
MI.

Many are now American citizens. Thon's remarkable educational 
achievements are in line with others who were in his situation; many 
have sought degrees beyond high school, ranging from community college 
to one student who is pursuing a master's degree at Yale University. 
Thon and others have committed themselves to returning to Sudan to 
teach democratic values and religious freedom.

There are many challenges even for those very few refugees who have 
been granted asylum or citizenship in welcoming countries, including 
cultural adjustments, difficulties in uniting separated families, 
obtaining work skills, and adapting to an unfamiliar climate. In 
Michigan, numerous volunteers, community organizations, churches, and 
businesses have come together to assist refugees who come to our state. 
On this World Refugee Day, I offer my praise and appreciation for the 
organizations and individuals--both those local to Michigan and those 
international in scope--who are committed to helping refugees find some 
stability and normalcy, and I urge my colleagues to consider what we 
can do to help the millions who are suffering right now. Individuals 
who wish to help can begin by visiting the U.N. Refugee Agency website 
at http://www.unhcr.org.
