# SUPPORTING THE MEDAL OF HONOR COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT OF 2009-
## `67fce170b0b1784f339466305b4f35dc`
`Mr. KIRK — 26 February 2009`

---


Mr. KIRK. Madam Speaker, I am proud to join my good friend 
Congressman Chris Carney as an original cosponsor of the Congressional 
Medal of Honor Commemorative Coin Act of 2009. This bipartisan 
legislation will assist the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation in 
raising the funds it needs to promote heroism and selflessness among 
our nation's youth--qualities which the Medal of Honor embodies.

First authorized by Congress in 1861, the Congressional Medal of 
Honor is our nation's highest award for valor in action against an 
enemy force. It is a symbol of how ordinary Americans can risk their 
lives and go above and beyond the call of duty in defense of our great 
nation.

Since its inception, fewer than 3,500 Medals of Honor have been 
awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces--approximately 
half during the Civil War. Today, there are only 111 living recipients. 
These select few exemplify the values of our great nation through their 
incredible acts of bravery and commitment to our country.

As the first U.S. Representative-reservist to be deployed to an 
imminent danger area since World War II, I know first hand the 
sacrifices and challenges our men and women in armed forces face. It 
was an honor to serve with uniformed Americans in Afghanistan and it is 
in their honor that I join Mr. Carney in introducing this legislation 
today.
