---
---

# None
## `6800124a50844afde9f3341a7a542e61`
`Mr. FILNER — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, this bill is named after Justin Bailey, who 
was a veteran of the Iraq War who died in a domiciliary facility of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs while receiving care for PTSD and a 
substance use disorder, a very tragic story but one that seems to be 
becoming all too familiar.

We have seen in recent weeks internal communications between members 
of the VA staff who we rely on to treat soldiers like Justin Bailey who 
seem to not take the symptoms of PTSD or suicide very seriously. They 
try to manipulate the data so we don't know all the facts. They try to 
get cheaper treatment if a diagnosis other than PTSD is made, and we 
are not serving our veterans when this occurs. We must not take lightly 
the commitment of servicemembers like Justin Bailey who choose to 
defend the country and freedoms that we enjoy.

We know the problems that veterans who have served in past wars face. 
We know about post-traumatic stress disorder. We know about the high 
reported incidence of substance abuse, and that it is what we call a 
common co-morbidity to mental health issues. And we, of course, 
unfortunately know about the high rate of homelessness. We know about 
these issues because we have seen entire generations of veterans tackle 
these problems, many without proper support from the VA and many who 
find themselves on the streets homeless or we see in statistics on 
suicide.

We must commit ourselves that whatever is necessary to prevent the 
newest generation of veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq will be done so 
they do not experience these same devastating issues.

There is growing concern about the reported effects of combat 
deployments on Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom 
servicemembers. The suicide rates are on the rise back to where they 
were in our Vietnam era.

We know the rate of post-traumatic stress disorder among these 
veterans has been estimated at about a third. I think if you include 
hidden symptoms of traumatic brain injury we're up to probably double 
that or more.

We know that the rate of homelessness amongst this group is growing. 
The same cycles that we saw with Vietnam are repeating themselves.

We cannot as a Congress, as a Nation allow this to happen again. We 
must reinforce our commitment to take care of those who have served. 
This is a cost of war. We're spending $1 billion, Madam Speaker, on the 
Iraq and Afghanistan Wars every two days, $1 billion every 2 days. 
Shouldn't our servicemembers get all the treatment they need? We have 
the money. It's a question of our will and our priorities.



So I urge you to support H.R. 5554. We would improve and expand the 
VA health care services available for veterans for substance use 
disorders, and require that all VA medical centers provide access to 
the full continuum of care for these disorders.

We also want to make sure that the Secretary reaches out to our OIF/
OEF veterans with substance abuse disorders, and make sure that the 
funding is in place for the full continuum of care no matter where a 
veteran lives.

We also ask for a complete report on the services furnished by the 
Department in the last fiscal year, and have a 2-year pilot program on 
providing assessment, education and treatment via the Internet to 
veterans with substance use disorders. And finally, we would require 
the VA to conduct a review and report on the residential mental health 
facilities within the system.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 5554. We will hear from 
Congressman Michaud from Maine, the chairman of our Health 
Subcommittee, who wrote this bill. And he will have a chance to really 
explain it better after we hear from our ranking member.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.