---
---

# None
## `68071d5b4a6693348fcd8e1356dd8f90`
`Mr. REID — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, my dear friend, the senior Senator from New 
Mexico, long time chair of the Budget Committee, long time chair of the 
Energy Committee--and I underline and underscore ''my friend''--said a 
few minutes ago this bill was bad because President Bush doesn't want 
certain provisions in it, bad because President Bush doesn't want them.

We are the Congress of the United States. We can like things even 
though the President may not like them. That is our responsibility 
constitutionally. It is time for this Senate to vote as a third and 
equal branch of Government and do the right thing for one of the most 
pressing problems facing America and the world today--energy. ''Bad 
because the President doesn't want them.'' That is a direct quote.

Without going into all the details, the fact that the President made 
the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of the country by 
having Iraq invaded doesn't mean it is good.

The fact that the President vetoed children's health insurance, 
giving insurance to 10 million children instead of the 4.5 million 
children, if we are fortunate enough to extend the bill, doesn't make 
it good because the President doesn't like it.

Global warming, the President doesn't believe it exists and has 
refused to even acknowledge the words until a few days ago. Does that 
make it right? No, it doesn't.

The President believes in certain interrogation techniques involving 
torture. Does that make them right? No.

We, as a Congress, have to stand up and do what we think is right.