---
---

# None
## `6815185c01635531a3151b355ab06b26`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 18 June 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, Mr. Altmire.

And I am going to maybe abbreviate my view on what happened last week 
and just call it what it is: hypocrisy.

Where were our good friend on the other side of the aisle when they 
controlled this process for 12 years? And I am not going to spend a lot 
of time on the process because that is all they have because if they 
allow the debate to turn to the substance of the legislation, the 
substance of the appropriations bills that we are moving forward and 
will pass off this floor, with the vast majority of them supporting it 
because they have to, because when they admit that the substance of the 
legislation that we are putting forward in the Homeland Security bill, 
in the military construction bill, in the other bills that will be 
coming forward to this floor, they have to admit that not only are they 
good bills but they go much further and do a much better job of 
providing for the needs of this country than they ever did.

On the floor last week, I took an opportunity to spend a few minutes 
debating the process with them. One of the things that I had an 
opportunity to engage in debate on was where was their outrage on the 
other side when they controlled this process? Where were the reformers, 
leaping to their feet, urging and pounding on their leadership to adopt 
transparency and to adopt a process in which they could have the 
maximum amount of input into earmark reform?

The answer is it was nonexistent because they didn't care about it. 
It didn't matter to them. They were very happy fat and happy to take 
all the earmarks they could get, bring them home, tied up with their 
lobbyists and their friends and their culture of corruption, all 
twisted up and intertwined, and that is what their process was like. 
And our process is clear and transparent and participatory and 
inclusive, and they can't stand it. So what they have to do is they 
have to try to muck up the perception of what we are doing here because 
if they acknowledge what is really going on, not only have we adopted a 
more inclusive, more transparent process when it comes to earmark 
reform, but the substance of our legislation they have to support 
because they know that we are going much further than they did.

I want to go beyond process, though, to President Bush's veto threat 
of the Homeland Security appropriations bill. He actually has 
threatened to veto this bill, which is just absolutely astonishing. And 
one of the things that I


have heard him articulate, Mr. Meek and Mr. Altmire, is that if the 
Congress proposes to spend $1 over what he proposed in his 
administration's budget that he would veto any of that legislation. And 
that includes the Homeland Security bill, which provides for the 
homeland security needs for our border protection, for our first 
responders, for the 9/11 Commission recommendations that we passed in 
the first bill out of this Chamber during our 100-hour push for the Six 
in 06 agenda, and the President is actually proposing to veto a bill 
that would ensure that we spend more money on protecting our homeland 
domestically.

You know, you can argue process and earmarks and reform and all that. 
But at the end of the day, that is the stark contrast that people of 
this country have to choose from. When they go to the polls next 
November and when they evaluate how they think a Democratic Congress is 
doing versus how a Republican Congress did, at the end of the day, we 
are passing a Homeland Security appropriations bill that will really 
provide for the domestic homeland security needs, as opposed to 
continuing to twist us up and mire us in the war in Iraq with an 
endless, open-ended commitment that never proposes to get us out of 
there.

On top of that, we have a President who has been critical of a 
military construction bill that will provide for the largest single 
increase in veterans' health care in history. I mean this is how 
backwards their priorities are. Under the Republican control, their 
goal was to help lobbyists, was to make sure that they brought home as 
many earmarks that were pushed by lobbyists as they could. And, 
instead, what we are doing here is we have transparency, where people 
will know, anyone can know, who is sponsoring an earmark, where any 
Member can offer an amendment to strike an earmark, where any Member 
can offer to sponsor an earmark. Members will be able to participate in 
the conference process, which you would think that that would be a 
normal thing, but it wasn't normal under the Republicans because you 
couldn't even participate as the minority in the conference process.



But at the end of the day, all of that has been a deliberate 
distraction because they can't argue with the content of our 
appropriations bills because they are much stronger and go much further 
and do more for the country than they did. They don't win that debate. 
They don't win a head-to-head, toe-to-toe debate on the substance, so 
they have to try to distract people with the process. And that is what 
I am hopeful that we can get into in this 30-Something hour and future 
special order hours that we participate in, because what we need to 
make sure we focus on is the substance of our legislation, because they 
would like nothing better than to twist us up in debate on process.

Mr. Meek.