---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `6820a24c17f3f93103a9ff88140eeee5`
`Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam Chairman, I rise today to commend 
Chairman Ike Skelton and the staff of the Armed Services Committee for 
working to strengthen the National Guard. Support of the men and women 
who so bravely serve our Nation as citizen-soldiers is critical to our 
nation's security.



Inclusion of several National Guard provisions in H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, sends a 
powerful message to our first military responders around the nation 
that we recognize their numerous contributions, many of which extend 
far beyond war fighting. As chairman of the Committee on Homeland 
Security, I am heartened that this legislation provides resources to 
the Guard's needs here at home for missions relevant to homeland 
security and sustainability in our States.

Over the last 5 years, the Guard has nobly accepted and completed 
missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere abroad. True to form, 
Guardsmen and women from almost every State have sacrificed a great 
deal, including in some instances their lives, to stay true to the 
motto of ''always ready, always there.''

Provisions in this legislation will provide $1 billion to address the 
strain on Guard and Reserve units in the States who are facing critical 
equipment shortages. For the first time, we will ensure that State 
Guard units are prepared for homeland security missions such as 
disaster response. Equally important is language in this bill that will 
encourage integration between the National Guard Bureau and other 
Defense components, such as Northern Command, who share responsibility 
for protecting the homeland.

In short, this legislation incorporates key recommendations from the 
Commission on the National Guard and Reserve. It takes us a step closer 
toward closing the gap between Guard units categorized as ready and 
Guard units resourced to be ready.