# None
## `6820da7592ee9f74d7fd032dea0132ab`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, the primary objective of the bipartisan 
resolution my colleagues and I are introducing today is to convince a 
bipartisan majority of Senators to oppose deeper military involvement 
in Iraq by the United States and to get the Iraqis to reach a political 
settlement among themselves as the only way to end the violence in 
Iraq.

The resolution would send a clear message that Congress does not 
support the plan to increase the number of U.S. troops in Iraq because 
it is based on the false premise that there is a


military solution to the violence and instability in Iraq, when what is 
needed is a political solution among the Iraqi leaders and factions.

Iraq's own Prime Minister Maliki acknowledged recently that ''The 
crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation 
and bloodletting of innocents are the politicians.''

The resolution states that it is not in the national security 
interests of the United States to deepen our military involvement in 
Iraq by increasing the number of U.S. troops.

The resolution calls for the transition of our military mission in 
Iraq to a more limited one of training, counterterrorism, and 
protecting the territorial integrity of Iraq. It also calls for greater 
engagement of other countries in the region in the stabilization and 
reconstruction of Iraq.

Last week the President said that he had made clear to Iraq's leaders 
that America's commitment is not open-ended. I welcome these words. But 
the reality behind the President's new rhetoric is that the open-ended 
commitment continues--more American military men and women would be 
sent into the chaos of Iraq's sectarian violence without condition or 
limitation.

President Bush also indicated that the Iraqi government needs 
''breathing space'' to make political progress. The opposite is true. 
The Iraqi leaders don't need breathing space--they must feel real 
pressure to reach a political settlement. Increasing our military 
presence in Iraq takes more pressure off. The Iraq Study Group put it 
this way last month: ''An open-ended commitment of American forces 
would not provide the Iraqi government the incentive it needs to take 
the political actions that give Iraq its best chance of quelling 
sectarian violence.''

President Bush also said that the Iraqis have set benchmarks for 
themselves. But look at the track record of the Iraqi government in 
meeting some of its past benchmarks and promises: Iraqi President 
Talibani said in August 2006 that Iraqi forces would ''take over 
security in all Iraqi provinces by the end of 2006.'' That pledge has 
not been kept. Prime Minister Maliki said last June that he would 
disband the militias and illegal armed groups as part of his national 
reconciliation plan, and in October he set the timetable for disbanding 
the militias as the end of 2006. That commitment has not been kept. The 
Iraqi Constitutional Review Commission was to present its 
recommendations for changes in the Constitution to the Council of 
Representatives within four months of the formation of the Government 
last May. The Commission has yet to formulate any recommendations. 
Prime Minister Maliki put forward a series of reconciliation milestones 
to be completed by the end of 2006 or early 2007, including approval of 
the Provincial Election Law, the Petroleum Law, a new De-Baathification 
Law, and the Militia Law. Not one of these laws has been enacted. The 
Iraqi army pledged six battalions in support of American and Coalition 
efforts during Operation Forward Together last summer. In fact, Iraqis 
provided only two battalions.

This is not a track record that inspires confidence in Iraqi pledges 
and commitments.

The President said that ''America will hold the Iraqi government to 
the benchmarks it has announced.'' How did the President say we are 
going to do that? What will the consequences be if the Iraqis continue 
to fail to meet these benchmarks, particularly since some of them have 
been established and missed in the past? The President said ''If the 
Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose 
the support of the American people . . . '' That is an empty threat 
given the fact that the Iraqi Government has already lost the support 
of the American people, and it hasn't affected their behavior. The 
President's most recent plan, like previous ones, includes no mechanism 
to hold the Iraqis to their commitments.

Just two months ago General Abizaid testified before our Committee 
against increasing the number of U.S. troops in Iraq. He told us: ''I 
met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the corps 
commander, General Dempsey. We all talked together. And I said, in your 
professional opinion, if we were to bring in more American troops now, 
does it add considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And 
they all said no. And the reason is, because we want the Iraqis to do 
more. It's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us do this work. I believe 
that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from 
taking more responsibility for their own future.''

Deepening our involvement in Iraq would be a mistake. Deepening our 
involvement in Iraq on the assumption that the Iraqis will meet future 
benchmarks and commitments given their track record would compound the 
mistake.

For America to supply more troops while the Iraqi leaders simply 
supply more promises is not a recipe for success in Iraq. Telling the 
Iraqis that we will increase our troops to give them yet more breathing 
space will only postpone the day when Iraqis take their future into 
their own hands and decide whether they want to continue to fight a 
civil war or make peace among themselves.

This resolution does not limit any future course of action that 
Congress may decide to take. What it would do is send a powerful 
message to the President and the Iraqis that Congress does not support 
an escalation of our military presence in Iraq.
