---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `68326ec16775ca62e94241449121f6cf`
`Mr. RADANOVICH — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. RADANOVICH. Madam Speaker, I thank you for the time to debate the 
very important issue of the war in Iraq. The resolution we are debating 
today is technically non-binding--however, we must not discount the 
influence of the words of this body. I am here today to reiterate to 
the American people that the war in Iraq, as a part of the larger 
Global War on Terror, is absolutely vital to the security of our great 
nation as well as the rest of the free world.

It is true, we were led into this war with poor intelligence; yet 
intelligence that every major fact-finding and data-gathering agency in 
the world believed to be true. Nevertheless, spreading freedom to the 
Muslim world is our best long-term strategy in the Global War on 
Terror.

Four years after the invasion of Iraq, our brave military men and 
women are still actively engaged in combat, and their actions have not 
gone without great achievement--the Iraqi people participated in their 
first true democratic election, they have established a representative 
government, elected a parliament and written an Iraqi constitution. 
These great accomplishments should not be brushed off as mere side 
notes, because to do so would diminish the achievements of the Iraqi 
people and the tremendous courage of our soldiers; some of whom have 
bravely given their lives for the chance an Iraqi citizen would be able 
to vote and live free from fear.

The establishment of a democracy in the Middle East is fundamental to 
winning the Global War on Terror. The United States is in our 231st 
year of a democratic government, and as I am sure many of my colleagues 
will agree--we haven't exactly perfected it yet. The Iraqi people are 
barely in their second year of a democratic government. The Iraqi 
government needs time to grow their citizens' confidence in the 
institution of democracy and become a stabilizing force in the region. 
We must help them achieve this.

We are fighting an enemy who does not believe in democracy, freedom, 
or the inherent value of human life. These radical Islamic terrorists 
see a democratic Iraqi government as a direct threat to the mayhem and 
havoc they seek to impose on the free world. To retreat from Iraq--to 
wave a white flag in submission to these terrorists, would only worsen 
the instability we now see in the region, and embolden terrorists 
around the world.

When the United Sates ridded Iraq of Saddam Hussein, we committed 
ourselves to assisting the new Iraqi government become self-
sustainable. The President has consulted his commanders in Iraq, who 
have heard from the soldiers on the ground. The result of these hours 
of consultation has led the President to ask for an increase in troops 
so we may finish the job we set out to do. I ask my colleagues to trust 
the military commanders, and allow our courageous military do their 
job. I ask my colleagues to not support this resolution.