---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `683fe1ba880637ec1ed30b93c0038ba9`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the 
Homeland Security appropriations bill now on the floor. As a member of 
the Senate Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Homeland 
Security, I am proud of the bill we crafted. This bill will provide our 
country with more of the resources it needs to protect our communities 
and secure our residents.

Homeland security is particularly important to my home State. New 
Jersey lost 700 people on 9/11 families torn apart and lives ended 
without ever seeing loved ones again.

And New Jersey is ripe with targets for terrorists, from our ports to 
our chemical plants. In fact, the FBI has stated that the most 
dangerous 2 miles in America for terrorism lie within the stretch of 
land from Port Newark to Newark Liberty International Airport.

The level of funding for the Department of Homeland Security directly 
affects the safety of residents in my State.

That is why I'm glad that this legislation would invest $37.6 billion 
into making our homeland safer and more secure.

This figure is $2.2 billion more than what President Bush asked for. 
And because of that, the President is threatening to veto the bill. 
This is astonishing and it is wrong--$2.2 billion is less money than we 
spend in 1 week in Iraq.

The Senate must stand up, pass this legislation, and begin to turn a 
corner to provide more money to effectively defend our homeland.

In addition to more money for border security, this bill provides 
critical funding for first responders, including $560 million for 
firefighter equipment grants, $525 million for the State Homeland 
Security Grant Program--which is $275 million above the President's 
request--and $375 million for law enforcement and terrorism prevention 
grants.

This bill also doubles port and rail security grants in the Bush 
proposal to $400 million.

The Port of New Jersey and New York is largest port on the east 
coast--and the second-busiest container port in the country. Our ports 
in south Jersey are part of the Delaware River port system, which is 
the busiest crude oil tanker port in the country. Through these ports, 
many goods and materials transit to store shelves, gas pumps and 
factory assembly lines in the towns and cities in the interior of our 
country. In short, our ports are essential to our economy.

And in 2006, Amtrak had record ridership of 25 million. Ridership is 
already up in 2007 by 5 percent. On an average weekday, nearly a 
million New Jerseyans rely on our transit systems to get to work, 
including trains, buses, and light rail lines.

This funding for port and rail security is vital for our State.

In 2006, the President--with great fanfare--signed a port security 
which authorized $400 million for port security grants this year. But 
then he failed to fund it.

The Senate is prepared to follow through on the promise of this vital 
funding.

I am also proud that we are working to protect our homeland--and our 
economy--from terrorists who set their sights on hazardous cargoes at 
sea.

Senators Inouye, Stevens and I introduced legislation earlier this 
year to better protect maritime vessels carrying hazardous chemicals 
and petrochemicals. I am pleased that the committee has agreed with my 
request to include funding for maritime hazardous cargo protection--
including liquefied natural gas--in this Homeland Security bill.

I am further pleased that the committee acknowledged in the Report 
for this bill the need to expand the laboratory space at the 
Transportation Security Lab, TSL, in Pomona, NJ, in order to 
accommodate the Department's explosives detection equipment 
certification program. This program certifies all explosives detection 
equipment used by the Transportation Security Administration, and 
provides certifications to equipment vendors. It is clear that this 
facility must be expanded to safely accommodate this important program.

Finally, I am glad the Senate is once again going on record to 
support my provision to protect the rights of states to pass chemical 
security laws that are stronger than Federal regulations.

DHS recently put rules into effect for the Federal regulation of 
chemical plant security. But in doing so, the agency wants to preempt 
states from enacting stronger chemical security laws. This is the wrong 
approach.

The language in the Homeland Security funding bill before us wisely 
preserves the right of states to adopt chemical security measures 
stronger than Federal regulations. This language is supported by the 
chairs of the 9/11 Commission, the National Governors Association, and 
the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Simply put: preempting State laws would make the people of my State 
and other States less safe.

The language in this bill will allow States to go beyond the Federal 
regulations as long as there is no actual conflict with the federal 
regulations. This


means that unless it is impossible to comply with both State law and 
Federal law, the State law is not preempted.

Between the increases in funding for first responders, port, rail and 
maritime security, and the protection of States rights to pass chemical 
security laws that are stronger than Federal regulations, this is the 
right bill at the right time.

I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation and I urge the 
President to sign it into law.