---
---

# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `68584232ccd4fa001ad8eca995fd44da`
`Mr. McKEON — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this resolution and I am 
pleased to join my colleagues on the Foreign Affairs and the Armed 
Services Committees who are opposed to this ill-timed and ill-conceived 
measure. I am disappointed that the House Democratic leadership would 
allow this resolution to come to the floor for a vote at this time.

In April 2009, the President released his strategy for Afghanistan 
and Pakistan and began to make the case to the American people that 
security and stability in the region are vital to the U.S. national 
security interests. I support this strategy.

In Pakistan, instability and violence have reached new highs with the 
insurgency moving eastward toward the capital of Islamabad and bombings 
and suicide attacks on the rise. This fight not only affects the people 
of Pakistan but our security, too. Moreover, Pakistan is an essential 
partner to the United States, both in the near and the long term, and 
we must remain committed to building trust between our two nations.



It remains in our national interest to defeat al Qaeda and its 
extremist allies and to ensure they will have no safe havens from which 
to attack the American people. In Pakistan, the government and people 
are increasingly seeing the insurgency operating from the tribal border 
areas as the most existential threat to their country.

Despite Pakistan's increased military operations, the scale, nature, 
and frequency of violence in Pakistan makes it a nation more 
appropriately comparable to a combat zone, such as that found in 
Afghanistan, and it should be treated as such rather than as a central 
European country seeking foreign military financing.

That is why our military partnership with Pakistan is essential. 
There are approximately 230 U.S. military personnel in Pakistan--all 
assigned to the Office of the Defense Representative to Pakistan. This 
small contingent is in Pakistan at the invitation of the Government of 
Pakistan to support security assistance programs and training to deepen 
our cooperative relationship with Pakistan.

Let me be clear. This is not a combat mission but a train and equip 
role for the U.S. trainers in Pakistan. These trainers were selected 
based on the requirements established by the Government of Pakistan. 
These programs are key to Pakistan's counterinsurgency operations--
training which Pakistan needs to defeat al Qaeda and Taliban forces 
operating within their borders.

Representative Kucinich's resolution, if enacted into law, would 
mandate the withdrawal of all U.S. troops from Pakistan by the end of 
2010. Why consider this resolution now? Why second-guess the Commander 
in Chief and his commanders without giving the military a chance to 
implement the strategy?

Finally, Mr. Speaker, I want to send a clear message to our military 
men and women:

This Congress believes in you. We support you, and we honor your 
dedication.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no.''