---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `6863531a0fa205072d21f063a0a4ebec`
`Mr. BISHOP of Utah — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, we all know that to maintain air 
superiority, which we have had since the Korean War, requires two 
elements: one is the technological ability, which we know the F-22 
provides, but the other is the numerical superiority that we have to 
have, which is why, when this program was originally started, it was 
supposed to be 750 planes.

Even as late as last year, the military was telling us 381 maintains 
the status quo and 243 is the absolute minimum, a number still 
maintained by Air Combat Command, by the Air National Guard, by 30 of 
the military studies over the last 15 years. Even the Chief of Staff 
admitted the 243 is what they needed.

The only person that said 187 is the Secretary of Defense. There is 
no study to verify that number. That number is a political number, not 
a military number.

As we go into the future where the Russians are building a new 
generation fighter with 200 to 300 extra planes to sell to countries 
like Iran and Venezuela, when we then couple that by cutting 250 legacy 
planes already in the Air Force and stopping the F-22 and having an F-
35 which will not be available under the best of circumstances until 
2014, maybe even 2016 as we are talking about it, what we are doing is 
putting ourselves in danger 10 and 15 years out of being on the wrong 
side of history. We cannot do that.

This amendment mirrors what the House voted on the Defense 
authorization bill by putting back procurement money for 12 F-22s and 
adding $100 million for military personnel to help the anticipated 
shortfall in the upgrade in what we are doing in Afghanistan.

This is the right thing to do. This is what the military needs. We 
should not simply make a political decision, because I hate to say this 
in this crass of a way, but when we can authorize $5 billion for groups 
like ACORN but $2 billion to keep 18,000 jobs going and provide planes 
for another year that this country needs, we have something to do to 
look at our priorities. The $2 billion is for the defense of this 
country into the future. The military needs this plane.