# IN HONOR OF THE HOMECOMING OF LANCE CORPORAL MATHEW LIBERTO OF  FLEMINGTON, NEW JERSEY
## `686e4b5cfe49a929772fa6fcc2200c90`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 27 July 2007`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I rise today to share in 
the celebration of LCpl Mathew Liberto's homecoming. Mat serves 
honorably with the 3rd Battalion, 14th Marines, 4th Marine Division out 
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He has just returned from a deployment 
to Al-Qaim and a forward-operating base near Waleed on the Syrian 
border.

Today, his employer, New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance Company (NJM) 
is officially welcoming Mat home with all the pomp and circumstance 
deserved by a great American hero. He will be honored for his service 
along with his fellow employee, Joseph Bethea of Morrisville, 
Pennsylvania, a National Guard Flight Operations Sergeant with the 
150th General Support Aviation Battalion of the 42nd Infantry Division. 
Joe also recently returned from deployment to Iraq.

I commend these gentlemen for their commitment to the ideals of 
freedom and liberty and to the sacrifices they have made that make it 
possible for those ideals to exist in our lives today. I also commend 
New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance Company, which is today treating 
these men to a hero's welcome. Not only did the employees of NJM take 
the time to correspond regularly with their deployed colleagues, they 
also sent them and their units care packages. This compassion and 
community is the strength of our national fabric, and it is an honor to 
share their story for posterity.
