---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6877f1cc3f072ff1bedf51d624b4a344`
`Mr. HAGEL — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Madam President, this amendment that Senator Levin and I 
offer this afternoon, joined by my distinguished colleagues, Senators 
Webb, Snowe, and Harry Reid, says the following: A unit of the Army, 
including the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve, may not be 
deployed or continued or extended on deployment for more than 12 
consecutive months, and a unit of the Marine Corps, including the 
Marine Corps Reserve, may not be deployed or continued or extended on 
deployment for more than 7 consecutive months.

We recognize that some flexibility is required, therefore this 
amendment includes an exemption for forces needed to maintain 
continuity of mission and situational awareness between rotations.

We all recognize we are in a war, and we understand that 
extraordinary circumstances will arise which may require an extended 
deployment. To that end, this amendment also provides the President of 
the United States with the authority to waive the provision in times of 
national emergency.

To be clear, this amendment complements but is different from the 
Webb-Hagel amendment that we voted on this morning which sought to 
ensure that our troops have a minimum time at home between deployments. 
The war in Iraq has pushed the U.S. Army to the breaking point. When we 
deploy our military, we have an obligation to ensure that our troops 
are rested, ready, prepared, fully trained, and fully equipped. Today's 
Armed Forces are being deployed repeatedly for increasing periods of 
time. This is quickly wearing down the troops and their families, 
impacting the mental and physical health of our troops.

Further, these deployments are affecting the recruiting and retention 
rates of the military. For example, the Army reached only a little over 
80 percent of its recruiting goal for June. This is the second month in 
a row that the Army has failed to recruit the number of new soldiers 
needed to fill the ranks. And this is with large cash bonus incentives. 
Over $1 billion in cash bonus incentives were offered and given last 
year.

Earlier this year, Secretary of Defense Gates declared the intent of 
the Department of Defense to deploy soldiers for not more than 12 
months, and marines for not more than 7 months at a time. But in April, 
Secretary Gates announced that all Army units would deploy for 15 
months because there were not enough rested forces available for 
redeployment.

He said:




 Without this action, we would have had to deploy 5 Army 


 active duty brigades sooner than the 12-month-at-home goal. I 


 believe it is fair to all soldiers that all share the burden 


 equally.


Let me give an example of an extended, out-of-control deployment that 
recently hit my home State of Nebraska. Last month, 250 members of the 
Nebraska Army National Guard from the First Squadron, 167th Cavalry, 
and First Squadron, 134th Long Range Surveillance Detachment, returned 
to Nebraska from an 18-month deployment to Iraq. Yes, not 12 months, 
not 15 months--18 months, 18 months in Iraq, away from their families, 
their children, and their jobs.

Let me remind you again, this is a National Guard unit. That doesn't 
even include the 4 months of pre- and postmobilization training 
stateside.

Yesterday's Miami Herald reported the story of an Army reservist--not 
a member, again, of the regular Army. This reservist had been ordered 
to report to Iraq for his fifth deployment since we had been there.

During a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on June 27, retired 
GEN John Batiste, who commanded the Army's 1st Infantry Division in 
Iraq, testified that, in his words:




 Active-duty companies preparing for deployment to Iraq 


 within the next 6 months at less than 50 percent strength, 


 are commanded by young, inexperienced lieutenants [--young 


 NCOs--] and these units are lacking the equipment they need 


 for training.


General Batiste's testimony before the House 2 weeks ago is not the 
first testimony to direct our attention to this reality, this fact. A 
June 24 article in the New York Times cited the concern of anonymous 
administration officials, Bush administration officials, who were 
quoted. ''The reality, the [Bush administration] officials said, ''is 
that starting around April [of next year] the military will simply run 
out of troops to maintain the current effort.''

The Bush administration officials continue in this New York Times 
story by saying, ''By then,'' April of next year, the President ''would 
either have to withdraw roughly one brigade a month or extend the tours 
of troops now in Iraq and shorten their time back home before 
redeployment.''

This is on top of the already established policy of 15 months for the 
Army, in some cases, as we know from my example of the Nebraska 
National Guard unit, 18 months.


On June 23, the Washington Post quoted former Army Chief of Staff 
General Gordon Sullivan when he said:




 There isn't much more land power available for use in Iraq 


 or Afghanistan. We are now ''all in.''


Another U.S. military strategist was quoted in the same article as 
saying:




 I do not believe we've ever had enough troops to do all the 


 tasks we should be doing in Iraq.


In February, General Peter Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, reported to Congress that there is now, in his words--this is a 
quote--''significant risk that our military will not be able to respond 
to an emerging crisis in another part of the world.''

The Army continues to increase its reliance on men and women from the 
Navy and Air Force to fill Army vacancies in theater because we do not 
have enough soldiers. In April, at a hearing, the Department of Defense 
Task Force on Mental Health found that the military is putting already 
strained troops at greater risk of mental health problems because of 
repeated deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Mental Health Advisory Team-IV assessment replaced in May found 
that soldiers who deployed longer than 6 months or had deployed 
multiple times were far more likely to screen positive for mental 
health issues and that deployment length was directly linked to morale 
problems in the Army.

I wish to also note two other recent statements about what is going 
on


within our force structure. This comes from an April edition of the 
Army Times.




 The military is so short of equipment that it will take 


 years after the war in Iraq ends to bring it up to authorized 


 levels.


That was what the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Peter Pace, 
told a House subcommittee.

Of course, I think if we review the front page of most newspapers in 
America this morning, we are once again reminded what is going on in 
Iraq. I have heard in some of the debate on this issue the arguments 
against these amendments, the amendment that Senator Webb and I and 
others offered this morning, as a number of my colleagues are offering 
this afternoon that shows this is unconscionable, that somehow we have 
never done this before.

Well, I think we have laid to rest, or I hope we have, the issue of 
the constitutionality of the Congress of the United States being part 
of setting war policy. I would remind those who have some confliction 
about this or misunderstanding, that they read article I of the 
Constitution. It is rather clear what the constitutional powers of the 
Congress of the United States are.

If it is not our responsibility to deal with these great issues of 
our time--and I might remind all of us once again it is the Congress of 
the United States the Founders of this Nation entrusted with the sacred 
responsibility of declaring war. The administration or a President does 
not have that constitutional authority. It goes beyond that.

But I would also say we have never had a war fought in this country 
by American troops that has been an all-volunteer Army, an all-
volunteer Army and force structure. So in Vietnam, where some of us 
served, we did not have a manpower problem. We did not have a manpower 
problem because we had a draft.

Now, we can go back to a draft. But we have to face the reality of 
what we are doing to the finest military the world has ever known--the 
best led, best educated, best equipped, most disciplined, and most 
focused, most selfless force structure the world has ever known--
professional.

So when I hear: Well, we have never done this before, obviously 
Congress did get involved in Korea and all wars. But we have never 
fought two wars with an all-voluntary Army. So obviously we have 
limitations on force structure.

The answer is not to continue to push and force the force structure 
to the breaking point--which we are doing now. And every general will 
tell you the same thing and every senior NCO will tell you the same 
thing, that is what we are doing. We are destroying the finest force 
structure the world has ever known, which took us, incidentally, 30 
years to build because of what we did to it after Vietnam.

In addition to that, we have been asking a very few individuals to 
bear all the burden and make all the sacrifices to sustain a war in 
Iraq that is now in its fifth year, longer than the entire duration of 
World War II. We have a mismatch with capability and manpower and 
mission. We have forces in 140 nations all over the world, but yet we 
have the smallest standing force since World War II.

Something is wrong here. What do we do? Well, we keep going back to 
the soldiers and the marines: Well, you can do another 3 months, can't 
you, or 4 months or 5 months? You can do two or three deployments, 
can't you? You are a volunteer. You are a professional.

It will not work. I think we are seeing very clear evidence of that.

Who does look out for the rifleman? Who cares about the man and the 
woman at the bottom who are always the ones who have to do the fighting 
and dying? This is not an abstraction. This not an abstraction to them. 
We need to address this. We need to address it clearly.

Well, for these reasons and others, I am hopeful that our colleagues 
will take a serious look at this serious amendment because I think it 
does address some of our issues, not all of our issues. It is not 
intended to address all of our issues.

But we are in a situation where things are not getting better, things 
are getting worse. If we expect these men and women whom we ask to make 
all the sacrifices for all of us, then we owe them at least some 
responsible policy, policy worthy of them and policy worthy of their 
sacrifice. That is what this amendment addresses.

I am grateful for my distinguished colleague and the dear friend, old 
friend, the junior Senator from Virginia's leadership; certainly the 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee and others who are cosponsors. 
I might note this is a bipartisan amendment.

I yield the floor.