---
---

# COMMEMORATING SEPTEMBER 11
## `687b1aece23c4089346e29441df533d5`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise to address H. Res. 1610 a 
resolution to express remembrance of the victims of, and sorrow for, 
the devastating effects the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had 
on our Nation. I mourn in remembrance of innocent lives lost. And I 
mourn in recognition that our response to the attacks has only led to 
more suffering, countless innocent lives lost abroad and an 
increasingly divided Nation here at home.

This resolution expresses that the House of Representatives ''will 
continue to defend the people of the United States and to identify, 
intercept, and defeat terrorists, including providing the Armed Forces, 
intelligence agencies, the diplomatic service, and the law enforcement 
and homeland security communities with the resources and support 
necessary to effectively accomplish this mission.'' But the actions of 
the U.S. that have been taken in the name of achieving this mission 
have not brought us ''mission accomplished.''

As Pentagon and administration officials continue to tout the 
supposed end of the war in Iraq, there is no mention of the continued 
systematic use of the 9/11 attacks to justify sending our armed forces 
to invade and occupy a country that did not attack us. Almost 8 years 
later, over 4,200 U.S. soldiers and 1 million Iraqi civilians have been 
killed.

How can we claim to remember the victims of 9/11 in good faith after 
we stood silent as billions of dollars were poured into a war based on 
lies? Congress continued its support of the war despite overwhelming 
evidence that the leaders or people of Iraq had nothing to do with 9/
11. In the shadow of the policies pursued under the so-called ''War on 
Terror,'' our country remains more divided, more fearful and less 
trustful than ever. Perhaps even more troubling and more detrimental to 
our national security is the long-term damage our policies have had on 
our image in the international community. And in July of this year, the 
House of Representatives failed the victims of 9/11 yet again when it 
rejected legislation to provide health care for the first responders 
who rescued survivors of the attacks and who endure daily reminders of 
the attacks in the form of their failing health.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan (now the longest war in U.S. 
history) serve as a daily reminder of the destructive path we have 
taken. We continue to dedicate billions of dollars to prop up a 
hopelessly corrupt and morally bankrupt central government in 
Afghanistan as the people of that country suffer with little education, 
access to clean water, health care and the ability to live a normal 
life. Here at home, our increasingly polarized communities bear the 
brunt of our missteps through record high unemployment rates, a 
continuing foreclosure crisis and crumbling infrastructure.

How long can the policies we continue to pursue be justified in the 
name of the victims of 9/11? I oppose the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and the PATRIOT Act because I believe in the transformative power of 
truth and reconciliation. Almost ten years after 9/11, it is past time 
to pursue a new path forward. Our country is in peril, but our resolve 
to progress in a positive direction must not be. We do not need to 
export democracy around the world to keep our country safe; we need to 
demonstrate that America is a place where democracy is safe.