---
---

# None
## `6884afb6f4823c10c20bc61057865f4b`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, some of my colleagues probably are wondering why at 20 
minutes to 1 we are still in the House Chamber debating this issue. I 
think all of us understand that there is a difference over the amount 
of money being appropriated in this bill and what is being allocated to 
all of the appropriation bills.

If we go back and review the bidding on the spending levels over the 
course of this year, we spent an additional $6 billion in the CR back 
in February. We spent an additional $17 billion over and above the 
President's request for the supplemental spending bill for Iraq, 
Katrina, and a whole host of other issues that many Members did not 
support.

When we look at the appropriation bills for the fiscal year 2008 
beginning in October, we see that we are going to spend an additional 
$20 billion. So if you add those numbers up, you can see that we are 
spending tens of billions of dollars, well above what the President 
requested for not only this current fiscal year, but the next fiscal 
year.

If that isn't bad enough, let's also remember that this Congress in 
this first 5 months has already authorized some $105 billion of new 
spending in their proposals that have been brought to this floor and 
passed. So for many of us, at some point we have to say, enough is 
enough when it comes to spending.

The second issue involves the transparency and accountability with 
regard to earmarks. Last year I went through hell and high water to put 
into effect an earmark reform proposal that dealt with appropriation 
bills, that dealt with authorization bills and dealt with tax bills. It 
required full disclosure, it required names to be attached, and it 
allowed Members of this House, both on the floor of this House with an 
appropriation bill or authorization bill or tax bill, or a conference 
report with regard to an appropriation bill, tax bill or authorization 
bill, to move under a point of order or to strike that amount of money.

There are 435 of us in this Chamber who are well-equipped to deal 
with bringing the accountability into this process that all of us want. 
The Democrat majority in January, when they adopted their rules, gutted 
the earmark reform proposal that we put into effect last year, while at 
the same time saying that they were making it stronger.

The fact is, Members do not have access to these earmarks in these 
bills. We have all heard the stories tonight about what the chairman 
expects to do after we pass the appropriation bills, with these slush 
funds included in them, secret slush funds, which will later be 
allocated based on the decision of one person, one of the 535 of us. It 
is not right, and the gentleman from Wisconsin knows it is not right.

Now, the gentleman from Wisconsin says we haven't had time to do 
this. I can tell the gentleman from Wisconsin over the last 3/1/2/ 
months we have, as he has often said, posed for holy pictures over the 
fight over funding our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the 
world. We had plenty of time to look at those earmarks, but we didn't 
do it because we were busy posing for holy pictures.

I can tell the gentleman that to bring a bill forward with no 
earmarks in it with a promise that we will all see them later is not 
good enough. I think the Members on our side of the aisle want real 
disclosure, want real transparency, and I think what the American 
people want most is real accountability.

Now, let me get to the last issue. For 6 years the gentleman from 
Wisconsin had the 10 o'clock rule. When we were doing appropriation 
bills, the majority on our side was not allowed to work after 10 
o'clock.

Now, I happen to agree with the gentleman from Wisconsin, because I 
think working after 10 o'clock is not in the best interests of our 
Nation. For the nine out of 10 times that we have tried to work after 
10 o'clock at night, my colleague from Wisconsin refused to operate 
after 10 o'clock and threatened all of us that if we worked after 10 
o'clock, we would have all of these procedural motions, motions to 
rise, and we would not be here.

Now, I told the gentleman, I agree with the gentleman from Wisconsin. 
I go to bed at 10 o'clock. I don't think good work happens after 10 
o'clock at night. So what I told the majority earlier today is that we 
weren't going to work after 10 o'clock at night because we were going 
to impose the Obey rule on the institution.