---
---

# HONORING THE LAKE HIGHLANDS EXCHANGE CLUB AND LAKE HIGHLANDS MILITARY  MOMS
## `6886fb26fa24d06b988c1174464cddbd`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 25 February 2008`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Madam Speaker, today I would like to recognize the 
Lake Highlands Exchange Club and Lake Highlands Military Moms for their 
dedication in honoring the men and women in uniform who defend our 
Nation.

Recently, the Lake Highlands Exchange Club and the Lake Highlands 
Military Moms joined together to ensure that our service men and women 
are receiving the local recognition they deserve for their heroic 
efforts. The members of the Lake Highlands Exchange Club and Lake 
Highlands Military Moms created posters, similar to the posters for 
athletes, cheerleaders, and band members in area high schools, 
featuring photographs of 54 military men and women from Lake Highlands' 
community in training or serving our Nation in uniform. With already 
250 posters on display in Lake Highlands area schools, churches, 
libraries, and businesses, the Exchange Club is trying to fulfill the 
high demand by printing additional copies.

I would like to specifically recognize two individuals that had a key 
role in this project: Bill Duhman, for designing the posters, and 
Rhonda Russell, the Exchange Club's publicity director and founder of 
Lake Highlands Military Moms. In 2005, Ms. Russell began collecting the 
names of military mothers and formed the support group known as 
Military Moms. Today, Military Moms meets once a month to exchange 
stories, updates and photographs of their children overseas. Ms. 
Russell's son, Lee Russell, returned from service in Iraq in 2005 and 
is currently working in military intelligence.

America owes our service men and women a huge debt of gratitude. It 
is through their sacrifice and patriotism that we have the security, 
prosperity and freedom that we enjoy today.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of the Fifth District of Texas, I am honored 
to be able to recognize the Lake Highlands Exchange Club and Lake 
Highlands Military Moms for their continued efforts in honoring the 
brave Americans that have gone into harm's way so that we could enjoy 
the blessings of liberty and prosperity. As President Calvin Coolidge 
once said, ''the nation which forgets its defenders will itself be 
forgotten,'' and these groups are working hard to ensure that America's 
service men and women receive the honor and recognition they deserve.
