# MARISOL HEREDIA POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `688768c2f970428c3382f1983f561a3c`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I am pleased to join my colleagues from the State of 
California in the consideration of H.R. 4185, which names the postal 
facility in El Monte after Specialist Marisol Heredia, a distinguished 
and heroic American servicewoman.

H.R. 4185, which was introduced by Representative Solis of California 
on November 11, 2007, was considered by and reported from the Oversight 
Committee on March 13, 2008, by a voice vote. The measure has the 
support of the California delegation, and provides us with yet another 
opportunity to pay tribute to a member of our country's Armed Services.

Specialist Marisol Heredia was only 19 years old when, on September 
7, 2007, she died at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio as a 
result of complications suffered from a noncombat-related injury she 
received on July 18 in Baghdad, Iraq. Specialist Heredia was assigned 
to the 15th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Texas.

Described as a strong-willed and perceptive young woman, Specialist 
Heredia held the rank of Specialist 4, and had served for months in 
war-torn Iraq before being badly burned on July 18 while refilling a 
generator. Although this special young lady was only 19 years old when 
she lost her life, her service and faithful commitment to preserving 
the liberties and freedoms for which our Nation is built upon are sure 
to live on forever.

And so, Mr. Speaker, let us remember and pay tribute to the ultimate 
sacrifice made by Specialist Marisol Heredia and pass this measure at 
hand.

I urge passage and reserve the balance of my time.