---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6887290a8b1e0260dcb7ab166c1d6b65`
`Mr. TAYLOR — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. TAYLOR. I thank the gentleman from Missouri, the chairman.

Madam Speaker, one of the things we ought to do in a democracy is 
when the other guy has a good idea, no matter what political party he's 
in, is to say that's a good idea. I would remind the gentleman that it 
was the Bush administration that classified the number of jammers in 
Iraq under a failed policy by Donald Rumsfeld that basically didn't 
want the moms and dads of Americans to know how few we had. It was this 
Congress that insisted that we have a jammer on every vehicle in Iraq 
to keep the improvised explosive devices from being remotely detonated. 
So, of course, I don't want those funds cut because I, along with 
others, worked to put those funds in the bill.

Along that same policy of ''war by wishful thinking'' from the 
Rumsfeld crowd was that we didn't need mine-resistant vehicles over 
there. The Bush administration only asked for 4,000. We were going to 
build over 15,000 because this Congress realized the importance of 
them, and that there are kids in Walter Reed today who would still have 
their limbs if we had built them sooner. There are kids in Mississippi 
graveyards who would still be alive if we had built them sooner. So of 
course we want those funds in the bill.

I fully support the gentleman's efforts. We have a lot of very good 
things in this bill, and it deserves to be funded, and the troops in 
Iraq need to know that we are going to fund the jammers they need to 
save their lives both over there and here because one of the problems 
with having too few jammers is that our troops in the United States 
that are training to go to Iraq still aren't seeing a jammer until they 
get to theater. And this is the device that is going to save their 
lives. This is the device that is going to save their limbs. And they 
need to be training with those things here in America so that the first 
time they don't see this device that's going to save their life is when 
they are traveling from Kuwait into Iraq. That is the situation that 
still exists today that we are trying to fix.

The Bush administration asked for too few of these. Congress, in an 
earmark, said no, we are going to build them because they are going to 
save lives. The Bush administration asked for too few mine-resistant, 
ambush-protected vehicles. Congress, in an earmark, said no, we are 
going to build them because it is going to keep kids from losing their 
legs, and it is going to keep kids from losing their lives. So of 
course I am going to support this bill, I am going to support the 
gentleman's efforts, and I thank the chairman for putting together what 
I think is an excellent Armed Services defense authorization bill that 
is going to lead to fewer deaths in Iraq, fewer deaths in Afghanistan, 
and a stronger, and hopefully in the future, more peaceful world.