---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `68880b2492f283fba275479b4afd1abc`
`Mr. HAYES — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. HAYES. I thank the gentleman from California, my friend, Ranking 
Member Duncan Hunter.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise to vigorously oppose and to speak against 
the resolution at hand; a resolution that is being watched by friend 
and foe alike; a resolution that I feel will serve to embolden those 
who promote and use violence in Iraq, and across the world for that 
matter; a resolution that sends a message to our troops at home and 
deployed that we are not supporting the mission that we are conducting.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know of a single Member in this Chamber who is 
satisfied with the existing situation in Iraq. In fact, with the 
escalating violence and an increase in terrorist activity, we shouldn't 
be satisfied with the situation in Afghanistan either. But Iraq has 
become intensely political, and that is unfortunate. Make no mistake 
about it, this is the beginning of defunding our military and our 
national security.

Mr. Speaker, in this age when the Internet and global newscast are an 
integral part of warfare and propaganda, it is naive to think that the 
resolution is not being watched and its outcome won't be used to 
further embolden the resolve of those who use indiscriminate violence 
to advance their radical agenda.

When you recruit homicide bombers, they need to feel that their 
ultimate sacrifice is meaningful, and I fear this resolution will be 
used as an additional recruiting tool to show that our resolve is 
wavering in the face of their acts.

In some instances, Members have made no secret of their desire to 
defund the military. Mr. Speaker, it wasn't that long ago that our 
Nation faced another global war for freedom, it was a different type of 
war, but a war that was won because we held firm. There were a lot of 
people who said we couldn't win; they said that pragmatism dictated we 
would compromise our values and our beliefs. President Ronald Reagan 
told our Nation that we needed to hold firm because ultimately our 
values and beliefs would prevail in cold war then, and ''hot war'' now.

President Reagan said, ''The ultimate determinant in the struggle now 
going on for the world will not be bombs and rockets but a test of 
wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve, the values we hold, the 
beliefs we cherish and the ideals to which we are dedicated.'' This 
quote was in context of the cold war, but it is applicable today in our 
present hot war against terrorists. This resolution shows a lack of 
will to win. This resolution hurts our troops and it helps our enemies.

Mr. Speaker, similar to debates from years ago during the cold war, I 
have heard speakers on the other side say, all we need is a strategy 
based on diplomacy. Mr. Speaker, I am all for peace and for diplomacy 
and for cooperation and for working things out, but al Qaeda is not, 
suicide bombers are not, terrorist executioners are not. That is 
reality, and our foreign policy has to be based on reality.

Terrorists thrive on poverty, despair, violence and fear. And the 
bottom line is they cannot afford for freedom and justice to succeed. 
Conversely, we cannot afford to allow freedom and justice to fail. That 
is reality, and one-sided diplomacy is not a strategy. Where is the 
other side's strategy for victory? There is none in this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I have concerns with the situation in Iraq. No one wants 
to see the Iraqis stabilize the security of their nation more than I 
do. The reality is we have troops over there in harm's way. Troops from 
the 82nd Airborne, stationed at Fort Bragg in my district, are part of 
this surge deployment.

Mr. Speaker, they are watching. I have received their e-mails letting 
me know in no uncertain terms that they are paying attention to what we 
are doing today. One soldier wrote to me using this quote from the 
ancient Athenians, which he thought was appropriate to this debate. 
This soldier said, ''I will not disgrace the soldier's arms nor abandon 
the comrade who stands at my side, but whether alone or with many, I 
will fight to defend things sacred and profane. I will hand down my 
country not lessened, but larger and better than I have received it.''

As my colleague from South Carolina quoted a soldier in his district 
yesterday, he said, ''This is my war.'' That is a soldier's attitude 
and should be our attitude. It is our war against brutal, ruthless 
terrorists.

I will not support a resolution that tells our soldiers that the 
United


States Congress is not supporting what they are doing.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that everyone pray for our troops, for their 
safety and for their victory. May God continue to bless America and the 
magnificent men and women in uniform who protect her.