---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `688a894684b55b236ddc3844cc085643`
`Mr. CORNYN — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I rise to make a few brief remarks on this 
nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 
which serves the residents of Mississippi, Louisiana, and my State of 
Texas.

Judge Leslie Southwick has served for almost 12 years on the 
Mississippi Court of Appeals where he has participated in thousands of 
cases in almost every area of State civil and criminal law. He is, by 
all accounts--notwithstanding some of the attacks by interest groups 
that we have heard recounted here today--a respected member of that 
court and an honorable and decent man. Notably, he took a leave from 
the bench to volunteer to serve his Nation in Iraq. I ask: What kind of 
man would give up a cushy job on the Mississippi Court of Appeals to 
put his life on the line in Iraq?

The American Bar Association has unanimously found Judge Southwick 
''well qualified'' to serve on the Fifth Circuit, which is the highest 
rating the American Bar Association gives. It is important to point out 
that the American Bar Association investigates the background of these 
nominees, talks to litigants who appeared before them, talks to other 
judges and leaders of the legal community, and they have concluded that 
instead of the comments we have heard today attacking the integrity of 
this public servant, that he deserves the highest rating of the 
American Bar Association.

For whatever reason, this honorable public servant has been dragged 
through the mud in this confirmation proceeding and, in my opinion, has 
been slandered by some of his critics. Judge Southwick has been called 
an ''arch-reactionary,'' a ''neoconfederate,'' ''hostile to civil 
rights,'' everything but the word ''racist,'' although that has been 
implied time and time again.

Judge Southwick's nomination was opposed by 9 of the 10 Democrats on 
the Senate Judiciary Committee. But, to her credit, Mrs. Feinstein, the 
Senator from California, declined to be strong-armed by the interest 
groups who are whipping up manufactured hysteria when it comes to 
opposing


this nominee. Announcing that she found ''zero evidence to support the 
charges against Judge Southwick,'' Senator Feinstein joined the nine 
Republicans on the committee to advance the nomination to the Senate 
floor.

What was never answered in the Judiciary Committee's debate over this 
nomination is why the same panel had, just a year earlier, unanimously 
approved him for a seat on the Federal District Court bench. I posed 
this question to my colleagues during the Judiciary Committee debate:




 If there is a concern out there that Judge Southwick is not 


 qualified because of some perceived racial problem, why in 


 the world would that opposition deem him acceptable to be a 


 Federal District Court judge?



 Think about that a second. The discretion afforded a 


 District Court judge is so much greater than that on the 


 court of appeals--from the start of a trial, through voir 


 dire and juror strikes, through evidentiary rulings, and jury 


 instructions. I trust that my colleagues would never vote for 


 someone with a perceived race problem for life tenure in a 


 role with such enormous discretion. We all know that there 


 was no objection at the time he came before the committee for 


 a Federal District bench because, the fact is, the 


 allegations against him had been manufactured since that 


 time.


There is no legitimate concern about Judge Southwick's character or 
record. This is just the latest incarnation of the dangerous game being 
played with the reputations and lives of honorable public servants.

The Republican leader put it this way:




 When do we stop for the sake of the institution, for the 


 sake of the country, and for the sake of the party that may 


 not currently occupy the White House? When do we stop?


The Washington Post's editorial page, along with the respected legal 
affairs columnist Stuart Taylor, both lamented the treatment afforded 
Judge Southwick who has yet to be confirmed by the Senate but hopefully 
will be today. Stuart Taylor's column is appropriately titled 
''Shortsighted on Judges.'' He writes:




 The long-term cost to the country is that bit by bit, 


 almost imperceptibly, more and more of the people who would 


 make the best judges--liberal and conservative alike--are 


 less and less willing to put themselves through the ever-


 longer, ever-more-harrowing gauntlet that the confirmation 


 process has become.


The attacks on Judge Southwick, unfortunately, have come to typify 
the kinds of vicious, gratuitous, personal attacks that are occurring 
with greater frequency against judicial nominees.

I wonder if there is a Member of this body who doesn't think we need 
to improve the tone and rhetoric of the judicial confirmation process. 
When good men and women decline the opportunity to serve on the Federal 
bench out of disdain for this unnecessarily hostile process, the 
administration of justice in this Nation can only be the worst for it.

I urge my colleagues to send a strong message today with this vote 
that these unwarranted, baseless attacks on Leslie Southwick are 
beneath the dignity of the Senate. At some point in time we have to 
stop it, and I can think of no better time than now with this 
outstanding public servant.