---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `688b25eadfb01299e65ff247a1373d33`
`Mr. WEBB — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Madam President, I have been on the Senate floor on a 
number of occasions to discuss the amendment which I am introducing 
today. I introduced it on March 5 as S. 759, which is a bill to 
prohibit the use of funds for military operations in Iran without the 
consent of the Congress. I am offering this legislation today as an 
amendment to the fiscal 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill, with the support of the chairman of the Appropriations Committee.

This bill has received a good bit of discussion and also a good bit 
of correspondence from various citizens groups that have gone to 
Members' offices. I will not take a great deal of time in terms of 
going through a lot of the debate about it. I would like to say at the 
outset that I have taken great care in the preparation of this 
amendment to ensure that it will not in any way prevent our military 
forces from carrying out their tactical responsibilities in places such 
as Iraq and in other areas that are on the coastlines and border lines 
of Iran. But I would like to emphasis that, in my view, this amendment 
is essential to revitalizing the constitutional health of our 
governmental process.

The purpose of this legislation is to restore a proper balance 
between the executive and legislative branches when it comes to the 
commencement of war. Any general attack on Iran would be, beyond cavil, 
a commencement of a new war in a region that is already enduring two 
costly and debilitating wars. If this action is to be taken, it should 
be done only with the full and considered consent of the Congress.

At the same time, the legislation allows American forces to directly 
respond to attacks or possible attacks which might be initiated from 
Iran, as well as those which might be begun elsewhere and then carry 
over into Iranian territory.

Specifically, the amendment requires that the President seek 
congressional authorization prior to commencing any broad military 
action in Iran, and it allows the following exceptions: first, military 
operations or activities that would directly repel an attack launched 
from within the territory of Iran; second, those activities that would 
directly thwart an imminent attack that would be launched from Iran; 
third, military operations or activities that would be in hot pursuit 
of forces engaged outside the territory of Iran who thereafter would 
enter Iran; and finally, those intelligence-collection activities that 
have been properly noticed to the appropriate committees of Congress.

The major function of the amendment again is to restore the 
constitutional balance. No administration should have the power to 
commence unproved military activities against Iran or any other nation 
without the approval of the Congress, but the issue of the day is Iran.

I am offering this amendment partly due to my concern over President 
Bush's signing statement which accompanied the 2002 congressional 
resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq. That amendment, if you 
read it carefully, indicates that this administration believes it 
possesses the broadest imaginable authority to commence military action 
without the consent of the Congress. It should not be left unanswered 
by this body.

This amendment will not take any military operations off the table, 
any options off the table. It will not tie the hands of this 
administration if our military forces are actually attacked from 
Iranian soil or territorial waters or by forces that retreat into 
Iranian territory.

This is responsible legislation. I urge my colleagues to support it.

I yield the floor.