---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `688c9e3e70c074a56e419ca12c624e34`
`Mr. BROWN — 20 December 2009`

---


Mr. BROWN. I did not see that quote, but I watched what happened here 
2 nights ago when we were trying to pass the Defense appropriations 
bill to make sure our troops were funded in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
stateside and in Europe and everywhere else--Korea, everywhere. The 
Republicans wanted to kill that even though it would mean no funding, 
it would mean military layoffs, it would mean we wouldn't be able to 
get the things and supplies we need for the troops, because they said: 
We want to kill health care reform. I don't understand the 
desperation--except maybe I do because everything about this debate is 
protecting the insurance companies. I guess that is more important to 
them than anything else. So I will be interested too. I appreciate the 
assistant majority leader's


comments on why Senator Coburn said that.

Let me close with one last letter.

Valerie from Cuyahoga County, which is in northeast Ohio:




 I thank the Lord that my husband has a job with health 


 benefits. If he didn't have it, I would be knee deep in 


 medical bills. I know how important insurance is. I could 


 never imagine not being able to go to the doctor. I have had 


 many surgeries and had my fair share of doctors' visits. 


 Could you imagine yourself without medical insurance or not 


 being able to go to the doctor?


She says:




 I bet most Senators and Congressmen never had to worry 


 about that. But many Americans have that worry and it is a 


 scary, scary feeling. The time is now to pass health reform.


I know my colleagues have good health insurance. Of course they do. 
That is a good thing. But I also know many of my colleagues don't spend 
much time talking to people who don't.

Most people in our--if you are a Congressman or a Senator making 
$170,000 a year, most people you see and socialize with probably are 
pretty upscale, probably have insurance. Most of us don't spend nearly 
enough time--I know the Presiding Officer does this in Duluth and 
Rochester and all over Minnesota. I know the Senator from Colorado, who 
worked on a lot of these issues with me in the House, when he goes to 
Boulder and when he goes home to Denver, he talks to people who don't 
have insurance.

I just wish more of my colleagues who oppose this bill would meet 
some of the 390 people in my State or in their States who lose their 
insurance every day. I wish they would talk to a woman who has breast 
cancer without insurance, knowing she is more likely to die. I wish 
they would talk to some of those people whose family members die 
because they don't have insurance. Because most of us dress like this 
and most of us hang around with people who dress like this and 
generally we have good insurance, I think we are a little out of touch. 
I hope we can pass this bill, go back home, and meet some of these 
people for whom this is going to matter because I think it will make a 
difference in how we all look at this.

I thank the Presiding Officer, and I yield the floor.