---
---

# None
## `689331fc723ac3285428feb69beb7c75`
`Mr. RANGEL — 5 October 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize soldiers who are 
fighting and dying in the war, but are not American Citizens and to 
enter into the record an article from the September 18, 2007, edition 
of the New York Times entitled, ''Becoming an American Citizen, the 
Hardest Way'' by Clyde Haberman.

Everyday there are men and women who are not yet American citizens 
fighting on the battle fields in Iraq and Afghanistan. Words alone are 
not enough to express my gratitude and sincere thanks to American and 
soon-to-be American soldiers, who made the ultimate sacrifice by 
putting their lives on the line everyday. Volunteering to serve in the 
armed forces is a brave and noble act and there are so many soldiers 
who do so in part due to the opportunity presented by the accelerated 
naturalization process available to those who enter military service. 
To date, there have been 103 posthumous grants of American citizenship 
to non-citizen war soldiers.

The sacrifice made by non-citizens who have and are currently 
enlisting in the armed services demonstrates the value of American 
citizenship. Their sacrifice and commitment is honorable and should 
never be forgotten. Our great country, despite some of the challenges 
we face, continues to be the place in the entire world where people 
from all over the world are inspired by democracy, justice, freedom of 
religion, peace, and an opportunity to pursue happiness. This explains 
the motivation for non-citizens to enlist in the military and put their 
lives on the line in hopes of achieving their American dream.

I'm grateful that I had an opportunity to assist with the granting of 
American citizenship to Corporal Alcantara of the United States Army, 
one of my constituents, who lost his life in Iraq. I grieve at the loss 
of the life of a young man with such a great promise and I again extend 
my heartfelt sympathy to his family and many friends in our community.








 [From the New York Times, Sept. 18, 2007]







 Becoming an American Citizen, the Hardest Way














(By Clyde Haberman)




 On an August day when some Iraqi's homemade bomb tore 


 through him, Cpl. Juan Mariel Alcantara became an American. 


 He never got to appreciate the honor.



 A little-discussed detail of this war is that some of those 


 fighting in it as soldiers of the United States are not 


 American citizens. Over all, about 21,000 noncitizens are 


 serving in this country's armed forces, the Defense 


 Department says.



 Until death claimed him on Aug. 6, one of them was Corporal 


 Alcantara of the United States Army.



 He did not live long enough to acquire a richly textured 


 biography. He was born in the Dominican Republic, reared in 


 Washington Heights. He was 22 when the bomb--an improvised 


 explosive device, in military-speak--ended his life and the 


 lives of three fellow soldiers from the Second Infantry 


 Division while they searched a house in Baquba, north of 


 Baghdad.



 At 22, Corporal Alcantara was old enough to have talked 


 about going to college and maybe becoming a New York police 


 officer, old enough to have a fiancee, old enough to have 


 fathered a baby girl he never saw, Jaylani, 6 weeks old when 


 he was killed. He was old enough, too, to have sought 


 American citizenship.



 Every year, thousands of noncitizen soldiers do that, 


 through an accelerated naturalization process offered to 


 those who put themselves in harm's way so that the rest of us 


 can go about our lives untouched by war. And every year, some 


 of those soldiers become citizens only after they have 


 literally been wrapped in the flag.



 No other war has produced anywhere near as many posthumous 


 citizens as this one, according to the United States 


 Citizenship and Immigration Services. Corporal Alcantara is 


 the latest, No. 103. He is the 12th from New York, an honor 


 roll that reflects today's city: 10 men and 2 women born in 


 the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Guyana, Belize, Trinidad and 


 Tobago, Myanmar and Nigeria



 The Americanization of Juan Alcantara came at his family's 


 request. Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan helped 


 shepherd the application through the bureaucracy in a matter 


 of days. Officially, the corporal was declared an American 


 from the day he died.



 There was a formal ceremony yesterday in the colonnaded 


 Great Hall of City College of New York. Corporal Alcantara's 


 relatives accepted his certificate of posthumous citizenship. 


 They sat somberly in a front row: his mother, his two sisters 


 and his fiancee, Sayonara Lopez, who fed Jaylani from a 


 bottle.



 Like scores of others filling the rows behind them, they 


 carried small American flags. Yesterday was Citizenship Day 


 across the country, a celebratory day for newly minted 


 Americans. In the vaulted majesty of the Great Hall, used on 


 occasion for such ceremonies, 242 people from 51 countries 


 took the oath of citizenship. They were men and women like 


 Lance Whitely, 32, formerly of Jamaica, now of the Bronx. 


 ''It's everybody's dream to become an American citizen,'' he 


 said before the ceremony began.



 The new citizens listened to speeches on America's grandeur 


 and watched a large-screen video of President Bush offering 


 congratulations.



 Mr. Rangel, a critic of the Iraq war, left politics at the 


 door. He spoke of a country that is hardly perfect but is 


 ever working to make itself better. Once a combat soldier 


 himself, part of the same Second Infantry Division during the 


 Korean War, he talked about Corporal Alcantara's sacrifice 


 and America's debt to him.



 Throughout, the Alcantara family sat disconsolately. They 


 applauded with the others and recited the Pledge of 


 Allegiance and waved their little flags. But their hearts 


 were elsewhere.



 Maria Alcantara, the soldier's mother, is clearly a woman 


 of stricken soul. She holds Mr. Bush responsible for her 


 son's death. Corporal Alcantara's Iraq duty was supposed to 


 have ended on June 28, a day before his daughter was born. 


 But his tour was extended as part of the president's troop 


 ''surge.''



 ''If my son had been allowed to return, he would be 


 alive,'' Ms. Alcantara said in Spanish, ''and he''--meaning 


 the president--''is guilty.''



 ''My happiness, my everything, is gone,'' she said.



 The mother, who is not an American citizen, also spoke of 


 being grateful for her son's naturalization. Still, gratitude 


 does not bring peace of mind, said one of her daughters, 


 Fredelinda Pena. ''It's not a happy moment,'' Ms. Pena said.



 Unlike others on this day of celebration, the family wiped 


 away tears. When the president's image appeared on the 


 screen, Ms. Alcantara kept her head down. She could not bring 


 herself to look at the man who she felt was the reason her 


 son did not come home.
