# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `68970ea704282e614486c926d7933335`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I strongly support the nomination of Judge 
Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
His confirmation is compelling for two reasons. Judge Southwick should 
be confirmed because of his merits, and Judge Southwick should be 
confirmed because of the traditions of this body.

Judge Southwick's merits are obvious. He is a good man and a good 
judge. Leslie Southwick has long been active serving his community, his 
church and his country. He is a man of character and integrity.

Our colleagues from Arizona, South Carolina, and Virginia, Senators 
McCain, Graham, and Warner, have spoken forcefully and eloquently from 
their perspective as veterans about Judge Southwick's military service. 
He volunteered for service in Iraq when he was old enough to have 
children serving in Iraq. He did not have to do that, he offered to do 
that. It seems to me that we want men and women on the Federal bench 
who have this selfless commitment to serving others.

Leslie Southwick is also a good judge. What could be more directly 
relevant to a Federal appeals court nomination than 12 years of State 
appeals court service? During that time, he participated in more than 
7,000 cases and wrote nearly 1,000 opinions.

Earlier this year, the Congressional Black Caucus said that, in 
deciding whether to confirm Judge Southwick, we should consider how 
often his majority and concurring opinions were reversed on appeal. I 
do think that is a legitimate factor to consider. I thought I would 
find an unusually high number, that he has been repeatedly rebuked, 
rebuffed, and reversed, that Mississippi Supreme Court had to routinely 
put him in his judicial place. I found just the opposite. Only 21 of 
Judge Southwick's majority or concurring opinions were reversed or even 
criticized by the Mississippi Supreme Court. That is less than 2 
percent. I am indeed impressed by that low figure because it shows that 
Judge Southwick's work as a judge stands up under scrutiny. If that is 
an appropriate standard for evaluating his nomination, we should 
confirm him immediately.

Judge Southwick's critics suggest that he is supposedly out of the 
mainstream. That is the phrase liberals invented 20 years ago to attack 
judicial nominees who they predict will not rule a certain way on 
certain issues. This is a completely illegitimate standard for 
evaluating judicial nominees and is based on a tally of winners and 
losers, as if judges are supposed to decide winners and losers by 
looking at the parties rather than at the law and the facts. Perhaps my 
liberal friends could publish a confirmation rate card, telling us how 
often judges are supposed to rule for one party or another in certain 
categories of cases. But the case against Judge Southwick is even more 
ridiculous than that. The case against Judge Southwick's nomination 
rests on just two, of the 7,000 cases in which he participated. It 
rests on two opinions, just two, that he did not even write. No one has 
argued that those cases were wrongly decided. No one has argued that 
the court ignored the law. No one is making that argument because no 
one can. In fact, the Washington Post editorialized that Judge 
Southwick should be confirmed and said that while they might not like 
the results in these two cases, they could not argue with what the Post 
admitted was a ''legitimate interpretation of the law.''


I ask my colleagues a very important, perhaps the most important, 
question: Are judges supposed to be legally correct or politically 
correct? Are judges supposed to decide cases based on legitimate 
interpretation of the law or based on which side wins or loses? Are 
judges supposed to apply the law or ignore the law? That question of 
what judges are supposed to do lies at the heart of every conflict over 
a judicial nominee, including the one before us today.

The case against Judge Southwick is that, in just two cases with 
opinions he did not write, the court was legally correct instead of 
being politically correct. The case against Judge Southwick is that, in 
just two cases, the court did not ignore the law. What


kind of crazy, topsy-turvy argument is this, that Judge Southwick 
should not be confirmed because as a state court judge he stuck to the 
law? I think that exposing the real argument against him is enough to 
show that there is no real argument against him at all. I thought we 
wanted judges on the Federal bench who would rule based on the law, who 
would be committed to equal justice for every litigant coming before 
them.

When it comes to evaluating Judge Southwick's record, whom should we 
believe--partisan and ideological critics here in Washington or lawyers 
and judges who have worked with Judge Southwick for many years? That is 
not even a close call. Everyone who actually knows him, everyone who 
has actually worked with him, says that Judge Leslie Southwick is fair, 
decent, hard-working, and committed to equal justice under law. You 
would have to twist and contort his record into something else entirely 
to conclude otherwise.

The American Bar Association also looked at Judge Southwick's fitness 
for the Federal bench. They evaluated his qualifications and record not 
once but twice, last year when he was nominated to the U.S. District 
Court and again this year after his nomination to the U.S. Court of 
Appeals. I must be candid with my colleagues regarding the ABA's two 
ratings of Judge Southwick. In the interest of full disclosure, I must 
be honest that the ABA's two ratings of Judge Southwick are not the 
same and, quite frankly, I think this must be considered when we vote. 
The ABA's rating for Judge Southwick's current appeals court nomination 
is higher than their rating for his district court nomination. The ABA 
says that it looks specifically at a nominee's compassion, freedom from 
bias, openmindedness and commitment to equal justice under law. The 
ABA's highest ''well qualified'' rating means Judge Southwick receives 
the highest marks for these qualities. I thought we wanted judges on 
the Federal bench who are compassionate, free from bias, openminded, 
and committed to equal justice under law. Judge Southwick's critics 
have offered nothing, absolutely nothing, to rebut this conclusion. 
Nothing at all.

I think the record, the evidence, and the facts are clear. Judge 
Southwick is a good man and a good judge, and, based on his merits, he 
should be confirmed.

Judge Southwick should also be confirmed because of the traditions of 
this body. Traditionally, the Senate has respected the separation of 
powers when it comes to the President's appointment authority. Under 
the Constitution, the President has the primary appointment authority. 
We check that authority, but we may not hijack it. We may not use our 
role of advise and consent to undermine the President's authority to 
appoint judges. That is why, as I have argued on this floor many times, 
it is wrong to use the filibuster to defeat judicial nominees who have 
majority support, who would be confirmed if only we could vote up or 
down. That is why I have never voted against cloture on a judicial 
nomination. That is why I argued against filibusters of even President 
Clinton's most controversial judicial nominees. And believe me, the 
case against some of those nominees was far greater, far more 
substantial, by orders of magnitude, than the nonexistent case against 
Judge Southwick.

Traditionally, the Senate has not rejected judicial nominees based on 
such thin, trumped-up arguments. We have not rejected nominees who 
received the ABA's unanimous highest rating. In fact, I remember when 
this body confirmed judicial nominees of the previous President whom 
the ABA said were not qualified at all. We have not rejected judicial 
nominees who received such uniform praise from those who know them and 
worked with them. We have not rejected judicial nominees for refusing 
to ignore the law.

Traditionally, the Senate has respected the views of home-state 
Senators. Our colleagues from Mississippi, Senators Cochran and Lott, 
are respected and senior members of this body. They strongly support 
Judge Southwick, and we should respect their views. Such home-state 
support was an important factor in moving even the most controversial 
Clinton judicial nominees to this floor and onto the Federal bench.

So I say to my colleagues that Judge Southwick's merits and our 
traditions mean that he should be confirmed. Judge Southwick is a good 
man and a good judge. Our traditions respect the separation of powers, 
respect the obvious merits of nominees, and respect the views of home-
state Senators. I urge my colleagues not to veer from that path, but to 
support this fine nominee and keep the confirmation process from 
slipping further into the political mire.

I urge my colleague to vote for cloture and to vote for confirmation.