---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `68b155952f8ab33bc4c8bf965715d55b`
`Mr. ROGERS of Alabama — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker, in accordance with the 
Republican Conference standards regarding Member initiatives, I am 
submitting the following information regarding the earmark I received 
as part of the H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: AP, Air Force.

Legal Name of Entity: Alliant Techsystems, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5050 Lincoln Drive, Edina, MN, 55436.

Description of Request: This earmark provides $7,200,000 for RC-26B 
Modernization. The RC-26B performs critical intelligence, surveillance 
and reconnaissance (ISR) missions in support of national disaster 
response by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and 
Border Protection (CBP), Air National Guard, and in direct support of 
Special Operations Forces. The Air National Guard (ANG) operates a 
fleet of eleven RC-26B aircraft that provide support to individual 
states for disaster relief and counter-drug missions. The RC-26B 
platform provided excellent, real-time imagery during the 2007 extended 
fire season and in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. As the 
demands for the RC-26Bs proven utility increased, non-availability of 
the platform have prevented ANG crews from performing their domestic 
assigned missions. Special Operations Command funded the modification 
of five RC-26B aircraft--to provide ISR missions in support of deployed 
operations. With five RC-26B aircraft deployed in support of missions 
outside of the continental United States, an availability vacuum at the 
state level has occurred. The remaining six RC-26B aircraft (from 
Mississippi, Arizona, Florida, Texas, West Virginia and New York) are 
not sufficient to support the disaster relief and counter-narcotics 
missions of both the ANG and DHS/CBP. Without additional FY 2009 
funding to upgrade the RC-26B aircraft, the ability of the ANG to 
respond to future DOD ISR, DHS/CBP, counter-narcotics and disaster 
relief missions will be impaired, even as the demands for this low 
density asset increases. The Air National Guard in Montgomery, AL will 
benefit from this funding.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Army.

Legal Name of Entity: Auburn University.

Address of Requesting Entity: 202 Samford Hall, Auburn, AL 36849.

Description of Request: This earmark provides $2,800,000 for 
Logistical Fuel Processors for Army Development Program. This funding 
will be used for TARDEC/NAC (i.e., U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research 
Development and Engineering Center/National Automotive Center) to 
complete research and development of a hydrocarbon catalytic reforming 
and cleaning system/methodology capable of taking high sulfur 
containing logistic fuels such as JP-8 and converting them on demand 
into high purity hydrogen for use in fuel cell powered APU's (auxiliary 
power units) and ground-based military vehicles. The funding will be 
retained by OSD and TARDEC/NAC for administrative and technical support 
functions and will be used by Auburn University to complete R&D 
activities. The funds going to Auburn University subcontracting 
expenses are anticipated for R&D and technical support provided by the 
Anniston Army Depot, IntraMicron Inc. (of Auburn, Alabama), and at 
least one other technology provider. All subcontracts from Auburn 
University will be approved by the DOD technical program manager and 
the respective contracting officers at the DOD and Auburn University. 
This request is in direct support of the U.S. Army Tank Automotive 
Research Development and Engineering Center's program on Fuel Cell 
Development for Military Vehicles as conducted by their National 
Automotive Center. The technical program is in support of national 
defense and is being conducted by Auburn University, an entity of the 
State of Alabama. No cost-sharing is required or is being provided.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Army.

Legal Name of Entity: Electric Fuel Battery Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 354 Industry Drive, Auburn, AL 36832.

Description of Request: This earmark provides $1,600,000 for Novel 
Zinc Air Power Sources for Military Applications. Funding will be used 
for further enhancements to and improvements in the core Zinc-Air 
battery technology, such as shelf life, power and temperature range, as 
well as furthering the development of our body-worn energy delivery 
system (Integrated Power System, or IPS) which reduces Warfighter 
battery carry weight by up to 80 percent and significantly simplifies 
outfitting and field re-supply. For example, using the IPS, a deployed 
Warfighter will save $7000 per year just in his reduction in 
consumption of AA batteries in the field. Finalizing of current form 
factors currently in development, coupled with further development of 
new form factors as field research dictates will result in more 
Warfighters having access to the intrinsic safety of Zinc-Air 
batteries, which cannot combust or explode even when penetrated by hot 
projectiles. This benefit is especially vital as the move toward more 
and more body-worn gear, powered by body-worn batteries, gains traction 
in our defense forces. This funding will improve cell reliability, and 
form factor for Land Warrior/Future Force Warrior. It will also enable 
energy system field testing. The Ranger Regiment (in Iraq and 
Afghanistan) and PEO Soldier are testing our technology as their power 
solution.


Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Air Force.

Legal Name of Entity: THY Enterprises, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 440 Hillabee St., Alexander City, AL 
35010 USA.

Description of Request: This earmark provides $2,000,000 for Next 
Generation Tactical Environmental Clothing for Air Force Special 
Operations Command (AFSOC). Funding will be used to continue research 
and development of the Next Generation of Tactical Environmental 
Clothing (NGTEC) being conducted with the AFSOC. Funding will be used 
for research and development of a lighter, quieter, waterproof 
material, for engineering and manufacturing, laboratory analysis, field 
assessment, and for risk and plan management. AFSOC Special Tactics 
Teams and Combat Controllers operate in environments where the extreme 
effects of physical exertion over difficult terrain result in 
hypothermia and other related conditions that degrade mission 
effectiveness. Current clothing articles provided to our combat airmen 
do not offer the best protection or prevention of these debilitating 
conditions. Recent developments in fibers research indicates that 
better materials can be made available for use in under and outer 
garments to greatly reduce the effects of moisture on the body. These 
capabilities, which now include a thermally efficient wicking concept, 
combined with water-proof and tear resistant fibers should produce a 
garment with superior


protective characteristics. This technology is at hand, and THY's early 
prototypes have been field tested and found to resolve several of the 
shortcomings highlighted by troops from cold weather training exercises 
in Montana, and from the current combat theaters of operation.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Air Force.

Legal Name of Entity: Davidson Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 530 Discovery Drive, Huntsville, 
Alabama 35806

Description of Request: The earmark provides for $1,600,000. The 
funding is for the continued development and accreditation of Space 
Control Test Capabilities to support the Air Force's requirement to 
integrate offensive and defensive space control elements into a single 
System-of-Systems counterspace system approach; specifically, to 
address the optimization of C/2/ processes and resources, and to 
develop a cost assessment tool for the government to test space control 
systems in a simulated environment before costly hardware development 
begins. Space Control Test Capabilities supports the Air Force Space 
Control mission areas and mission support as outlined in the Air 
Force's ''Strategic Master Plan for FY 2006 and beyond'', the ''Joint 
Doctrine for Space Operations (JP 3-14)'', and the ''Counterspace 
Operations (JP 2-2.1)''. The SCTC software suite allows the warfighters 
the capability to develop net-centric System-of-Systems architecture-
based C/2/ models.

Warfighters also have the ability to model Friend or Foe C/2/ 
structures yielding the analysis of vulnerabilities and/or strengths. 
Based on funding of $2,000,000, the spending plan would have been as 
follows, and will be adjusted to meet the final amount mentioned above. 
Engineering Salaries (including Software Engineering, Systems 
Engineering, Design, Requirements and Documentation, Test Engineering, 
and Configuration Management): 1,780,000; Software Licensing (Goes 
toward software accreditation process): $10,000; Travel to Colorado 
Springs, AF Space Command: $10,000; Government Pass-through Costs: 
$200,000.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama)

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 890 Explorer Boulevard, Huntsville, AL 
35806.

Description of Request: The earmark provides for $1,200,000 which 
provides the digital modeling and simulation infrastructure for systems 
to defend high priority assets from attack by missiles (cruise and 
tactical). The funding will be used for salaries of engineers and 
analysts working on the project. The future Integrated Air and Missile 
Defense system will provide a lethal net-ready force with an increased 
span of control and a smaller deployment footprint. The smaller 
footprint will make sustainment in the field less expensive. The use of 
networked battle command and improved capabilities for situational 
awareness and soldier training will dramatically increase overall 
system effectiveness, survivability and force protection.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Torch Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4035 Chris Dr. Suite C, Huntsville, AL 
35802.

Description of Request: The earmark is for $800,000 for Army Aviation 
Weapon Technology. This funding provides for transferring armed US Navy 
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) weapons interoperability technology to 
both unmanned and manned Army aviation. The resources will (1) 
transition technology from the Navy to the Army, and (2) establish a 
means for certifying the resulting interoperability that would be 
available for the industry base. It is leveraging technology shown to 
be feasible though a Navy Unmanned Aircraft Systems Small Business 
Innovative Research Program and transitions the technology to the Army. 
Analysis conducted by the Army has shown that the benefit from this 
investment will be a more interoperable approach to weapons integration 
which is expected to (1) provide as much as 50 percent in cost 
avoidance for future integration costs for weapons onto manned and 
unmanned aircraft, and (2) provide a means to provide accredited tools 
to the weapon and platform originating equipment manufacturers 
increasing probability for on time an on cost delivery of their 
products for use with Army Aviation. No matching funds are anticipated 
from the Army, however, this investment in the FY09 budget sets Army 
Aviation up for future cost avoidance of the anticipated weapon 
integration requirements of the Joint Air to Ground Missile (JAGM) and 
the Aviation Multipurpose Missile System (AMPM).


Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (Alabama).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Frontier Technology, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 75 Aero Camino Suite A, Goleta, CA 
93117.

Description of Request: The earmark is for $1,600,000. The funding 
will be used for Army Aviation Weapon Technology the Enhanced Military 
Vehicle Maintenance System Demonstration Project with Anniston Army 
Depot and Auburn University. This project identifies difficult to 
detect failure modes that must be serviced while the vehicle is 
undergoing maintenance. It models vehicle conditions to ensure that the 
vehicle is restored to an optimum state of operation prior to return to 
service. This cost effective technology can be modified for various 
military vehicles to detect problems not typically reported using 
threshold or trend systems. It can detect problems before they happen, 
preventing breakdowns in battlefield environments. The system will 
successfully verify that vehicles repaired at the Depot have been 
restored to an optimum state of operation prior to redeployment. The 
Enhanced Military Vehicle Maintenance System provides the cutting edge, 
cost effective technology that can help ensure more rapid and reliable 
deployment of critical military vehicles during this period when our 
equipment is under extreme and extended use.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers of Alabama.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Center for Domestic Preparedness 
(Federal Training Facility).

Address of Requesting Entity: Anniston, Alabama.

Description of Request: The earmark is for $62.5 million. The Center 
for Domestic Preparedness is located in Anniston, Alabama. It is a key 
training Federal facility operated by the Department of Homeland 
Security. It is the only weapons of mass destruction (WMD) training 
facility that provides hands-on training to civilian emergency 
responders which includes live chemical agents. The Center is a leading 
member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. For Fiscal 
Year 2008, Congress provided $62.5 million for the Center for Domestic 
Preparedness. In addition, the 9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act 
of 2007, which the President signed into law on August 3, 2007, 
included language that authorized increases in funding for the Center 
over a period of four years. (Sec. 1204, P.L. 110-53). The House 
Appropriations Committee bill recommended a funding level consistent 
with the president's budget. The Senate Appropriations Committee 
recommended last year's funding level of $62.5 million. This bill 
contains the Senate amount.
