---
---

# SERGEANT HENRY YBARRA III POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `68bd3c76942ef4e73b5a0bc84de59d33`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 5 February 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a 
great American and war hero of our country by naming the Post Office at 
3903 South Congress Avenue in Austin, Texas in his honor. Born and 
raised in South Austin, Army SGT Henry Ybarra III was the first soldier 
from the capitol of my home state--Austin, Texas--to be killed in Iraq. 
Sergeant Ybarra graduated from Johnson High School and attended San 
Jose Catholic Church. He is survived by his wife, Lilian, and their 
three children, Alyssa, 16, Gabreielle, 14, and Henry Ybarra IV, 4.

Army SGT Henry Ybarra III died when he was just 32 years of age on 
September 11, 2003 in Balad, Iraq. Ironically it was when his father 
was observing a moment of silence for the September 11th victims that 
he received a phone call with the grave news that his own son was dead. 
Readiness, quick thinking, leadership and dedication are some of the 
traits that America's leaders possess today and traits that Sergeant 
Ybarra displayed the day that he was killed. Army SGT Henry Ybarra III 
died under combat conditions when the tire on a 10-ton military cargo 
truck exploded as he tried to change it. Dedication and excellent 
service to his country was not new to Army SGT Henry Ybarra and during 
his military career he earned the Army Achievement Medal, Good Conduct 
Medal, National Defense Medal, Armed Forces Service Medal, National 
Defense Medal, NCO Professional Development Ribbon, Overseas Service 
Ribbon and Basic Marksmanship Badge.

As Americans will never forget the attack on our Nation on September 
11, 2001, so we must never forget those who are fighting the war in 
Iraq and serving our country. Sergeant Ybarra's memory must live on. He 
is an example of the thousands of dedicated soldiers who have 
selflessly given their lives to protect the


freedoms of America and aid those in need. By honoring him, we honor 
the soldiers before him and the soldiers that are currently deployed in 
Iraq. Too many times we hear about the ugliness this war brings and as 
the death toll rises and we continue to stay in Iraq, we must not 
forget the names and faces of the fallen. I thank Rep. Doggett and urge 
my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 577, to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3903 South 
Congress Avenue in Austin, TX, as the ''Sergeant Henry Ybarra III Post 
Office Building.'' We must put a face and a name to honor the fallen in 
Iraq so that his memory will never be forgotten. Help me to honor one 
of our Nation's finest and bravest by commemorating Sergeant Ybarra and 
naming a post office in Austin, Texas after him.