# SUPPORTING DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT WEEK
## `68c7edffb8159e4c41daa71935466fae`
`Mr. KIND â€” 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and colleague from 
California for yielding me this time and for his support of H. Res. 
1644.

Mr. Speaker, as the author of the Veterans History Project, I rise in 
strong support of this resolution before us this evening. The Veterans 
History Project, however, isn't new. It's been in existence for 10 
years. We celebrated its 10-year anniversary just this year.

Simply put, it's the last task of a grateful Nation to our veterans 
to ask them to help us preserve an important part of American history--
what it was like for them to serve our Nation during times of conflict 
and times of peace. And since the creation of the Veterans History 
Project, we have close to 80,000 veterans' stories that have been 
recorded, collected, and are now being archived in probably the best 
place in the entire world where it can and should be archived--out of 
our own Library of Congress here in Washington, D.C.

The genesis of the Veterans History Project occurred over a Father's 
Day weekend back home in my city of La Crosse, Wisconsin. I was sitting 
around the picnic table with my father, who is a Korea generation 
veteran, Elroy, and his brother, my uncle, Don Kind, who was with a 
bomber crew in the Pacific during the Second World War, and they 
started sharing with me their experience in serving our Nation. And I 
told them to wait. Since my two little boys were toddlers at the time 
and couldn't understand or wouldn't understand what they were saying, I 
ran into the house, grabbed the family video camera, set it up on the 
picnic table, and then asked them to continue talking about their 
experience serving our Nation. And I got to thinking, given the advent 
of modern technology today, how accessible it is for most families, 
most people, we should be doing this nationwide, and that was the basis 
of the Veterans History Project.

Today, it is the largest oral history collection in the United 
States, and I believe it's the world's largest oral history collection. 
I want to commend the leadership of the Library of Congress, under 
Colonel Bob Patrick, who heads up the Veterans History Project and his 
25-person staff there, but also especially our own Librarian of 
Congress, Dr. Jim Billington, for his leadership on this as well.

What I've discovered throughout the years in conducting many of the 
interviews myself and reading many of the transcripts of the Veterans 
History Project is a common theme that runs through most of the 
stories. First, most of the veterans don't feel they did anything 
special. They were only doing their duty. They were answering the call 
to service. And secondly, one of the great motivators in having them do 
that, especially at times of conflict, was not letting their colleagues 
down serving next to them. And yet these are ordinary Americans from 
all walks of life, from every corner of America who went on to do 
extraordinary things, and each of them had a role to play at times of 
conflict, at times of peace.

Sometimes it's difficult asking our veterans to come forward and 
share their stories because they don't feel like they have much to 
contribute or anything significant, but each of them do in their own 
way.

And I also want to thank the tremendous support and contribution of 
so many organizations and entities around the country that have been 
helping to get the word out that this Veterans History Project, in 
fact, exists, from the VFW and American Legion halls through the 
Nation, AARP has been a major sponsor of this legislation, to countless 
social and community organizations in all of our towns and communities. 
And that has been one of the great challenges, because the clock is 
ticking and time is of the essence.

We are losing close to 1,700 veterans a day, mainly of the World War 
II and Korea generation who are passing away. And if we don't go and 
talk to them and record their stories, they take with them an important 
part of American history--their service to our Nation. And that's why 
the Library of Congress, again, has been working furiously to try to 
get the word out about the existence of this project, and they have 
done a commendable job in doing it.

That's why I think this resolution is necessary to have Congress 
consider designating a week for the Veterans History Project which 
would help us get information out to even more people. And it's as 
simple as a person just approaching their own family member, friend, 
neighbor, loved one in their life and asking them to share their story 
and then setting up that family video camera across the kitchen table 
and letting them go. It could be a 10-minute interview; it could be 2 
hours, depending on how much the veteran wants to share. And that's 
what makes these stories so remarkable.

I had an at-risk high school back in La Crosse, Wisconsin, who has 
taken the lead for a number of years of those students that are 
actually going out making contact and interviewing these veterans. Many 
of these kids are at risk of dropping out. They're not the greatest 
performers in school, and yet this is a project that has caused the 
history to come alive in their own lives. They have to do a little bit 
of research, some background on the veterans and the time period in 
which they're going to conduct the interview, and then it gives them a 
chance to connect with the veterans in their own community. It's been a 
great bridge between the older and younger generation.

And I asked one of the students who got done interviewing a veteran, 
who participated in it, what he thought of it. And he said, you know, 
I've never been a great student. I don't like doing a lot of reading. 
History bores me to death. But by doing this project, I felt as if I 
was doing my own small contribution to preserving American history.

That's what this is about. It's about preserving these stories so 
future generations never forget. And if I had a nickel every time a 
family member or acquaintance or some stranger walked up to me said, 
Gee, I wish I had talked to my father or mother or grandfather or 
grandmother before they had passed away, I would probably be the 
richest person in the whole world right now. There is a lot of regret 
out there. But it doesn't have to be that way with the help and 
cooperation of so many people throughout the Nation.

I've been especially pleased with the strong bipartisan support that 
this and previous Congresses have shown toward the Veterans History 
Project, but there's still so much work that needs to be done, 
especially now with so many of our veterans returning home from 
conflicts overseas, whether it's Iraq, Afghanistan or wherever our 
troops are serving us throughout the globe.

So I would encourage my colleagues to support this resolution, to 
support the Veterans History Project overall, help get the word out. 
And for those who are looking for more information about what this is 
and how they can participate, they can go to the Library of Congress 
Web site, loc.gov, and read and download the information, or they can 
contact any one of our congressional or Senate offices or get in touch 
with a veterans service organization right in their own community who 
would have this information readily available.



In 10 years, there are close to 80,000 stories.



And one final note, I also want to thank and commend the National 
Court Reporters Association. My wife, who happens to be a court 
reporter, very early on in the creation of this project approached them 
to see if they could volunteer their time in transcribing a lot of 
these video interviews so there is a written record of it, too. Many of 
them throughout the Nation have stepped up and have donated countless 
volunteer hours in transcribing these videotapes, so there is a written 
record.

The library now is creating books and documentaries based on these 
interviews. Historians have a place to go and receive original 
historical research for books and articles that they are writing. It 
has really turned into a treasure trove of information, and again an 
important part of American history, what it was like for our veterans 
to serve our Nation during times of peace and also during times of war.

I encourage my colleagues to support the resolution. I want to thank 
Chairman Filner for his support of the resolution, and the gentleman 
from Tennessee, and encourage its passage.