---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE TREMENDOUS SERVICE THAT MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES HAVE  GIVEN TO THE NATION
## `68caea56752fda86b8edf119e4a1a6c2`
`Mr. HIGGINS — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. HIGGINS. I want to thank the sponsor of this bill, Mr. Welch, 
from Vermont.

Madam Speaker, I'm proud to be an original cosponsor of House 
Resolution 1020. Thanks to advances in modern technology, many American 
soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan have lived through events that 
would have previously cost them their lives. Of the 1.6 million 
servicemembers that have been deployed in Operation Enduring Freedom, 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom since September, 2001, more than 30,000 have 
been wounded in battle.

The numbers are staggering, but we are here today to acknowledge that 
these wounded warriors are not just statistics; they are men and women 
from across the country who have faced unique situations and struggles, 
and they have individual stories to tell.

Last summer I had the honor to meet a young man from my district who 
was injured in a roadside bomb explosion in Iraq that killed three 
other soldiers riding in the same HUMVEE. He suffered extensive 
injuries, including a broken back and elbow, and underwent two 
surgeries at a hospital in Germany before being transferred to Walter 
Reed Army Medical Center.

Quick reaction by the medics meant that instead of being paralyzed, 
he can now walk again, but only after extensive surgeries and painful 
rehabilitation. This young man is actually a lucky one. He was able to 
recover with the help of a caring family and a supportive wife. There 
are many others that are not as fortunate, and it is our responsibility 
to provide them with the best physical and emotional support possible.

Over the last year, Congress has taken many steps to enhance the 
quality of care of our veterans, including passing the largest increase 
in veterans' health funding in history, but there is still more to be 
done.

With this legislation, we do a simple but necessary thing; we take a 
moment to thank the men and women of the Armed Services who have been 
wounded in the line of duty and for their service and their sacrifice.

I urge my colleagues to support passage of House Resolution 1020.

