---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `68defdba2ab76bb7f9328c825cf40825`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I rise as a supporter of the Webb 
amendment. I want to compliment the Senator from Virginia for offering 
that amendment. Although he is a freshman Senator, he certainly is no 
stranger to war a combat veteran, a warrior's warrior, and he


is fully aware of the stresses the men and our military are facing 
along with their families.

I support the Webb amendment, and I support it for several reasons. 
One, I want to talk about the surge. I called it an escalation. The 
escalation was to send more troops to give the Iraqis more time to come 
up with a political solution.

Well, I wish to salute our troops. For those who are on the ground, 
the basic number, for those who were part of the escalation, we want to 
support them for doing their duty, and doing their duty so well. I 
think by every account, regardless of how one feels about the war, one 
is very proud of the men and women who are part of our military, who 
have been on the ground, and have been on the job. They have done their 
part. And that is what the two reports we got last week are, that if 
you send in more people, the violence will temporarily come down. But 
what happens when you do not keep that level? Well, that is a point of 
discussion.

Let's go back to why they went. They went this summer, in blazing 
heat, with blazing guns, to give the Iraqis more time. And what did the 
Iraqis do while our guys and gals were out there in 100-pound armor, 
trying to avoid IEDs? The Iraqis took a vacation. More time. More time. 
More time. What is wrong with this picture? So what did more time get 
us? It got us nowhere. With their 2-month break, they still did not go 
anywhere near a political solution. Now we are told we have got to keep 
this up, and we could be there indefinitely because of what? The Iraqis 
need more time.

Well, I think we are out of time. I think we are genuinely out of 
time. This is why I support the Webb amendment, because I think we need 
a different direction. I think we need a different direction in Iraq to 
do what we can to contain the violence and also to move ahead with a 
political solution. I am going to support the Webb amendment because I 
am never going to vote to cut off money. I will vote to protect our 
troops, and the best way is at least to give them more time while we 
are giving the Iraqis more time.

How about giving our troops more time to be at home? I am really hot 
about this. One hundred six degrees in July, they took a break; 110 
degrees in Baghdad, our troops are there, they took a break--they, the 
Iraqis, took a break.

I am also going to be supporting the Biden amendment, because if the 
Iraqis will not come up with a political solution, now with the so-
called soft position, it is time to go to the international community 
and see if there needs to a hard solution.

I am beginning to explore and believe that perhaps Iraq needs to be 
partitioned. Part of our solution, though, is while the Iraqis want 
more time, I want more time for our troops. I want more time for our 
troops to be at home. That is why I am supporting this brilliant 
amendment by Senator Jim Webb, for our men and our women in the 
military.

We know what his amendment says is that they have to be at home for 
at least as long as the length of their last deployment. So if they 
were there for 15 months, they should be home for 15 months. Then, for 
the National Guard and for the Reserves, no one would be redeployed 
within 3 years of their previous deployment.

Why is that important? It is not only important for the Guard and the 
Reservists, but as the Presiding Officer knows, when a National Guards 
person goes to meet their duty, their employer in many instances is 
required to keep that job open, or they at least have that as a 
commitment of honor.

That used to be 6 months. Now it is 15 months, and home again, back 
again, while the Iraqis want more time. Our employers are wondering how 
they can keep those jobs open because they don't want to turn their 
backs on the military.

We have to get real here. A $20,000 bonus for a quick fix, quickly 
trained military doesn't cut it. Jim Webb is really onto something. Our 
military is overstretched. Our troops are exhausted. Their families are 
living with tremendous stress. Every day they wonder what is happening. 
Every day a family that hears a news report about another attack 
wonders if their loved one was in it. Every time they are at home and 
they hear: CNN, breaking, 4 U.S. military killed, 10 killed, 4 killed, 
they first listen; is it in the zone where my husband or my wife or my 
son or daughter is? Then when they hear that, they think: Is it the 
Army or the Marines? They want to know because what they are doing is 
wondering how close to home it is.

Then they hear that news. For some, it is unbearable news. But all of 
the news is unbearable for the families at home. We are crushing the 
very spirit these families have to keep them going. It is not that they 
went once; it is that they go again. And no sooner do they come back 
and say: Hello, honey, I think your name is Mary Beth, than they have 
to go back out again. What are we doing to our families?

I want more time for the troops. I want to give them more time the 
way the Iraqi politicians want more time. When we think about our 
troops, we know what they are laboring under. You have heard me say it 
before. I check the temperature every day in Baghdad. Yesterday, it was 
102 degrees. For us, it was 73, a beautiful day. What a day to be out 
on the bay. I know a lot of our National Guard already deployed would 
love to be there. I think about our troops, carrying 100 pounds of 
armor in brutal heat, being shot at, being attacked by IEDs, while we 
have a policy that is going to give the Iraqis more time, while they 
are there doing their duty. Let's talk about these families.

In World War II, the military would say: If the Army wanted you to 
have a wife, we would have issued you one. It was primarily a single 
military. That is not true today. For our families, the stress of 
maintaining a family during all of this while a spouse is at war is an 
enormous stress. Not only are they facing traumatic stress, but so is 
the spouse at home. They are trying to protect their children. They are 
trying to shield their children. The children wonder: How is daddy 
doing; how is mommy doing? The children learn e-mail. They e-mail mom. 
They e-mail dad. I know how they communicate. Mom and dad will 
communicate by e-mail. The little guys and gals will often read the 
first paragraph, but the last two paragraphs are spouse-to-spouse 
talking about what is going on. The tension, the fear, the anxiety and, 
I might add, the financial stress as well is amazing. We are talking 
about 19-year-olds, 21-year-olds. We are talking about people with two 
and three children. But we have to give the Iraqis more time.

Well, we are out of time. I know my time is up on the floor, but I 
will tell you, I am going to vote for this Webb amendment because I am 
going to give our troops more time. I am going to vote to give our 
troops more time at home.

I yield the floor.