# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `68e93c7af1d0d9e521478e342153fe75`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of SSG 
Michael Elledge of Fort Carson, CO. On March 17, a bomb exploded near 
the humvee Sergeant Elledge was driving, killing him and SPC 
Christopher C. Simpson, of Hampton, VA. Sergeant Elledge was assigned 
to C Company, 1st Battalion, 68th Armored Regiment, 4th Infantry 
Division, out of Fort Carson, CO. He was 41 years old.

Those who knew Mike Elledge describe him as a man committed to his 
family, faith, and duty to his country. He first donned a uniform after 
graduating from high school in Michigan in 1985. He served 4 years with 
the Marines. After discharging, he became a licensed aircraft mechanic 
and moved to Indiana, where he took a job with United Airlines. For 14 
years he worked for United, lived in Brownsburg, and raised three 
children--Christopher, Caleb, and Cassidy--with his wife Carleen.

But Mike's life changed after the attacks of September 11, 2001. We 
cannot forget that the tragedies of that day were not confined to New 
York, Washington, and Pennsylvania. The ripples quickly spread to all 
corners of the country as people learned of friends and family members 
who were hurt or killed and as the economic impacts hit home with job 
losses and dislocations.

Mike was among the tens of thousands of Americans who lost their job 
in the wake of the September 11 attacks. United Airlines, struggling to 
recover after the disaster, closed the doors on its Brownsburg 
facility, leaving Mike without a job.

We each have our own way of confronting adversity in our lives. For 
Michael Elledge, the terror and tragedy of September 11 was a call to 
service--a call to reenlist. So, at age 38, Sergeant Elledge joined the 
Army. In 2005, he deployed to Iraq for a 1-year rotation. Last 
December, he and the Third Brigade Combat Team out of Fort Carson 
deployed again, this time for a projected 15-month tour.

Sergeant Elledge carried his deeply rooted faith into battle with 
him. His friends say he was passionately committed to helping Iraqis 
build a country where they could enjoy freedom and security. For this, 
Sergeant Elledge embodied the best of a soldier--he was devoted to his 
duty with the knowledge that his service could make others' lives 
better.

This is the type of citizen that Americans have celebrated for 
generations. President Theodore Roosevelt, in a speech at the Sorbonne 
in Paris in 1910, praised the values that Sergeant Elledge embodied and 
claimed that it is the ''man in the arena'' who makes history.

''It is not the critic who counts,'' said President Roosevelt, ''not 
the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer 
of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who 
is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and 
blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and 
again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but 
who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, 
the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the 
best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the 
worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his 
place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know 
victory nor defeat.''

Mr. President, Sergeant Elledge knew what a difference he could make 
and was not afraid to make it. He was the ''man in the arena'' for whom 
President Roosevelt had such high praise.

No words or ceremony, of course, can properly honor the life and loss 
of a soldier like Sergeant Elledge, but we wish to console his friends 
and family and remember his contributions. That is why scores of 
firefighters lined the overpasses of Sacramento, CA, to honor his 
return; that is why flags are flying in his hometown of Placerville, 
MI; and that is why the bugles will sound at Fort Carson in Colorado 
Springs.

To Sergeant Elledge's wife, Carleen, his sons, Christopher and Caleb, 
his daughter, Cassidy, his parents, Marion and Christopher, and to all 
his friends and family, our thoughts and prayers are with you. No words 
can lessen the pain and grief that you feel, but I hope that in time 
your sorrow will be salved by the knowledge that Mike served his 
country with honor and that we are all grateful for his courage, his 
sacrifice, and his heroism. He will never be forgotten.












 Staff Sergeant David D. Julian
