# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `68ee2ade45df0b4266f03972e240a243`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. I thank the Chair.

I rise today to speak about the budget and the debate we are having 
in the Senate about the budget. Quite frankly, if you asked me to give 
a scenario that would best explain what a politician thinks about life 
and politics, I would say: Let them write a budget. When you give a 
political leader the opportunity to sit down and spend money coming 
from the taxpayer, it tells you a lot about their priorities, it tells 
you a lot about how they view the role of Government. And I am here to 
say that this budget is not good news for the American taxpayer.

Today marks the anniversary of the President's first 100 days, and I 
think the biggest accomplishment in the first 100 is a budget that is 
transformational in terms of how it transforms the country in a way 
that I don't think is healthy.

The one thing we have had going for us as Americans, from one 
generation to the next, is the hope and belief that the ones to 
follow--our kids and grandkids--would have a chance to do better; that 
we would do what is right and what is necessary on our watch so they 
would have a chance to do better. If this budget passes, you are going 
to have a hard time looking the next generation of Americans in the eye 
and saying: You are going to have a chance to do better than people 
alive here today.

What this budget does is it doubles the national debt. President 
Obama's proposal, a 10-year budget--I will give him credit for making 
it a 10-year window--triples the national debt. This budget creates 
more debt for America in the first 100 days of the Obama administration 
than every President since George Washington combined. We have spent, 
in the first 100 days, $12 billion a day. We are running up the deficit 
and the debt at an alarming rate, and we are growing the size of the 
Government in a way that future generations are going to have to pay 
for.

The question for the country, if this budget passes, is this: Are we 
creating a government that is sustainable by the next generation? Can 
the next generation, with this budget in place, have a chance of doing 
better than we have? I don't think so. I really don't. And I never 
thought I would hear myself say that.

As we look down the road, we see how the budget explodes the national 
debt and the deficit--67 percent of the debt held by the public as a 
percentage of GDP. That is what happens under the Obama budget in 2014. 
This is a 5-year budget, and we have ignored some of the things we know 
we are going to do to make the numbers look better because the 
President's budget was so large and so unnerving in terms of long-term 
indebtedness.

The worst that Bush did--and we did not do a good job on our watch as 
Republicans--was to have a $500 billion deficit.

The best this budget does, 10 years from now, is about $600 billion, 
and we sustain trillion-dollar deficits for several years. But the 
percentage of publicly held debt relative to GDP, gross domestic 
product, is going to be 67 percent down the road. That is Third World 
nation status.

The budget is a 5-year budget. The numbers look better, but we have 
not done anything to fix the doctor reimbursement problem, the last 2 
years of the AMT fix are not included, and we are expanding the Make 
Work Pay tax credit. What we have done is mask the real cost of what we 
know is going to be there after 5 years.

The budget that was proposed by the President triples the national 
debt and increases taxes by $1 trillion on people who make over 
$250,000 a year. That may sound good because I don't make $250,00 a 
year. Maybe 2 or 3 years of my entire life I have. I am the first 
person in my family to go to college. My dad and mom owned a liquor 
store. We had a middle-class lifestyle at best, but we were happy. I 
never looked across the street at the person who owned the big business 
in town and had the nice house as my enemy. They are not.

In a recession and a global economy that is on its knees, if we start 
raising taxes on American business people, they are going to look to 
take their business somewhere else. To go from 35 percent to 39.5 
percent on people who earn over $250,000 is in theory more money for 
the Government, but it is less money for the people who have taken a 
huge risk to create a business. The day we start punishing people and 
rewarding the Government for the risks they take is the day America 
gets off track.

Raising the capital gains rates, as this budget does, from 15 to 20 
percent, will make it less likely that people will engage in 
entrepreneurial activity. But one thing John Kennedy understood is, low 
tax rates generate business activities that actually generate more 
money for the Government. So what we are doing is raising taxes, and we 
are playing class warfare.

The defense spending in President Obama's budget over a 10-year 
period went to 3 percent of gross domestic product. It is about 4.5 or 
4.6 percent now. That would put us on the low end, in the Nation's 
history, for defense spending. So liberals raise taxes, and they cut 
defense at a time when I think we can't afford to do either.

The world, to me, in the next 10 years is not going to be safer 
unless we act. Iran and North Korea are pursuing nuclear programs that 
could jeopardize our lives as we know it. The one thing I can tell you 
about Iraq and Afghanistan, we made plenty of mistakes, but we have the 
best trained, best equipped military in the world, and that really does 
matter. We are going to win in Iraq if we continue the course we are 
on, and we are going to turn Afghanistan around, but it is going to 
take blood and treasure.

The one thing I am not looking for from an American perspective is a 
fair fight. When we go to war--and sometimes that is required to 
protect the national interest--we need to go to win, and we need to 
overwhelm the enemy. We need to have technology they do not. We need to 
have more troops than they do. We need to have equipment that can 
destroy their equipment without destroying our people. That requires 
investment. The whole world is reducing their defense budgets.

Our NATO allies spend less on defense combined than we do. Like it or 
not, we are the arsenal of democracy, and now is not the time to reduce 
the arsenal and to be cheap on defense and grow the domestic side of 
Government. We need butter and we need guns, but let me tell you right 
now we need a lot of guns in the world we are about to inherit in the 
next 10 years.

Finally, the increase in domestic spending puts the country on an


unsustainable path, and the next generation is going to have to pay for 
this big government. To pay for it we are going to have to raise their 
taxes. To make it all work we are cutting defense.

There is a better way. Let's keep taxes competitive and as low as 
possible, realizing we have a government to run. Let's spend wisely. 
Let's reform health care so the Government doesn't become the one group 
in the country that decides what doctor we can see and what the doctor 
makes and what kind of treatment we get.

This climate change issue is real, in my opinion. I think manmade 
emissions, CO2 emissions, are heating up the planet. In the 
President's budget he was going to put a $646 billion cap-and-trade tax 
on industry and American consumers--$3,100 per family--at a time when 
we could ill afford it. That was taken out of the budget. That is good 
news. But what I am trying to say to my Democratic colleagues is, this 
is your Government now. You run this place. The problems in the past, 
the mistakes made by Republicans are real. You don't fix those mistakes 
by spending more money than we did. You don't fix the problems that 
America faces for the next generation by growing the Government at a 
pace and a level you can't pay for down the road unless you have to 
give up some of your hopes and dreams.

There is a role for Government. There is a role for us in health 
care. There is a role for us to play in the economy of our times: to 
help business and to be a safety net for those who have lost their 
jobs. But we are about to pass a budget that will increase the national 
debt, double what we have today. There will be a day in 2014 when we 
will spend more money paying the interest on the national debt than the 
entire Defense Department budget. That is not healthy for this country.

We have done nothing to reform Medicare or Social Security. We are 
talking about $1 trillion more in spending on health care when we spend 
more than any nation in the world.

We are going to pass this budget. It is my hope the American people 
will weigh in. The stimulus package was $787 billion of spending--a lot 
of growth in Government and very few jobs created. You need to speak 
out. You need to get involved. You need to tell us all, Republicans and 
Democrats: I expect you to collect taxes from me. I expect you to offer 
services to me and my family. But I do not expect you to make it so 
that my children and my grandchildren cannot have the life I have had. 
I expect you to do what I am doing, tighten your belt and set 
priorities.

This is your Government at the end of the day. It is fashionable and 
appropriate to criticize political leadership. But in a democracy, when 
you look in the mirror, that is ''we the people.'' So for America to 
change it is going to require Americans to demand it from both of us, 
Republicans and Democrats. I believe in you. Your Government is 
dysfunctional. It will be made better if you want it to be. There are 
people here listening. Speak out before it is too late.