---
---

# HONORING MARINE CORPORAL BRADLEY J. WALKER
## `68ef8b58a38671769a4ea38084be0ca5`
`Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. DAVID DAVIS of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring to 
the attention of the House of Representatives the story of Marine 
Corporal Bradley J. Walker of White Pine, Tennessee.

Corporal Walker, a proud American and proud Marine, was injured when 
his Humvee vehicle was hit by an improvised explosive device in 
Haditha, Iraq in November of 2006. As a result of his injuries, 
Corporal Walker had both legs amputated at the knees. Since that time, 
Corporal Walker has been an inspiration to all of us as he has taken to 
his recuperation with the same drive and determination that was the 
hallmark of his service with the Marine Corps.

As has always been the case, the community of White Pine rallied to 
the cause of Walker's family in the true ''Volunteer State'' spirit by 
transforming their home to meet Corporal Walker's new needs as well as 
honoring him


with a parade and a declaration of ''Brad Walker Day.''

Corporal Walker has been an inspiration to many others as well. 
Recently, I had a discussion with Bert Caswell, a member of the Capitol 
Guide Service. Bert had met Brad at Walter Reed Medical Center and was 
truly moved by his story. That inspiration led Bert to write a poem 
that honors Corporal Walker. I enjoyed having the opportunity to read 
this poem and wanted to share this with the House of Representatives:
















Walking Tall












 (By Albert Carey Caswell)



 There's a calm before the storm . . .


 Upon, battlefields of honor in hearts as worn . . .


 All in souls of honor, as into the darkness their hearts of 





 courage move on . . . where magnificence is born . . .



 And when that battle is done . . .


 Fine Men and Women of honor lie face down, living but their 





 last most brilliant suns!


 And then there are those ones, left behind with new battles 





 begun . . . without arms and legs our sons . . .


 As somehow their heart's must get up and walk again . . .


 All in their pain and heartache, as their most splendid souls 





 must somehow begin . . .


 Telling them to get up and walk, as these inner voices of 





 faith and courage so much has taught in the end!



 Taught us all about the walk, the walk of life . . .


 All in the kinds of battles we so chose to fight, all in 





 these our darkest days of night . . .


 All between dark and light, life and death . . . good and 





 evil . . . as comes this battle, this their fine fight 





 . . .



 Is but their walk so burning bright . . .


 Is but their walk of life, which brings such light . . . to 





 everyone there so in sight . . .


 Are all those steps they take, watching them . . . as all of 





 our hearts so begin to break, all on this night . . .



 And now upon this day, so seen . . .


 Is but a fine United States Marine, Corporal Bradley J. 





 Walker of Tennessee . . .


 Who went off to war, who gave up his two fine legs all for 





 our country tis of thee . . .



 While, there in the face of death . . .


 As he looked down to see no legs left, when he began his most 





 heroic quest . . .


 But, cheating death . . . as he began to walk . . . step by 





 step . . . as his faith our world would bless . . .



 As Brad, stands even taller on this day . . .


 All in what his heart has now so conveyed, all in those new 





 steps he has so made . . .


 For Marines can do, and a heart of courage full can so teach 





 so much too . . . all in courage's way!



 All in our walk o life . . .


 Will we walk tall, and with our souls so burn bright? Doing 





 what is right!


 As comes this night, Walking Tall . . . Corporal Bradley 





 Walker this valiant knight . . .



 Brad, The Toast of Tennessee . . .


 One damn fine United States Marine . . .


 And if I ever have a son, I but hope and pray he'd be like 





 this one . . . Walking Tall like Bradley!




 In honor of Corporal Bradley J. Walker, D Co., 4th Combat 


 Engineer Battalion of White Pine Tennessee.


Madam Speaker, this is a fitting tribute to a fine young man who has 
sacrificed so much for his country, and I hope that the House will join 
me in honoring Corporal Walker for his service and thanking Bert 
Caswell for his tribute to this young man's service and sacrifice.
