# None
## `68f620db31b91e7fe7f3d2660b6a14a5`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the 30-Something 
Working Group which the Speaker is a member of and I know will join us 
down here for an hour in the future, we hope to be joined later this 
evening by one of the senior members of the 30-Something Working Group, 
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek).

We come down to the House floor as some of the younger Members of the 
Democratic Caucus, and we try to do it every week to really focus in on 
how the issues affecting this Congress are specifically challenging 
younger families in this country. How the neglect of the past 12 years 
trying to be remedied by the new Democratic majority here are affecting 
those families that are just starting out, those issues maybe can be 
best talked about and best addressed by those of us who are the younger 
members of the House represented by the 30-Something Working Group.

We thank the Speaker for constituting the working group and allowing 
us to come down and share our thoughts.

It is remarkable as a first-term Member, Mr. Speaker, to see the 
transition of views and transformation of priorities and issues that 
you hear about as a first-term Member, going out and holding office 
hours as I do at supermarkets throughout my district, holding town hall 
meetings every week or 2 weeks throughout the district.

I remember back in February of 2007 when I held my first big, large 
town hall. It was a nerve-racking occasion as a first-term Member of 
Congress, and I remember thinking there was only one subject to hold 
that town hall meeting on, and that was the war in Iraq, dominating the 
conversation as it seemed to here on the floor of the House and in the 
halls of the United States Congress.

The President had proposed his new strategy to introduce 35,000 to 
40,000 new troops into Iraq, clearly working against the will of the 
majority of the American people who had said all across this Nation in 
November 2006 that they wanted a new direction in Iraq.

And now fast forward a year later to town halls that I am holding, as 
well as other members of the 30-Something Working Group and Members on 
both sides of the aisle, and you hear a very different tune.

People are still talking about Iraq. The situation hasn't gotten any 
better, and you can make the very plausible argument that things have 
gotten worse in Iraq over the last year. Even as the surge has moved 
forward, the political willingness of the Iraqis to take control of 
their own country has moved backwards.

But what we are hearing very clearly from the mouths of our 
constituents in town hall meetings and office hours across this Nation 
is that there is economic trouble. There is trepidation on behalf of 
families throughout this country as to the economic future that they 
face as families and that our communities face going forward.



And it's real. The numbers are getting worse. The amount of homes 
facing foreclosures, the number of workers being laid off, even those 
people who have jobs finding that the salary increases they thought 
were coming are being postponed, the amount of overtime hours that they 
used to rely on, cut back, many more part time workers, more temporary 
workers.

I don't know, Mr. Speaker, whether we're in a recession or not. I'm 
not an economist. But I know that people are facing real trouble back 
in Connecticut, as they are throughout the rest of this country.

And I don't think it takes a rocket scientist on this floor or 
anywhere else in the country to figure out how we got here. You know, 
this isn't just about the jobs that are being lost. This isn't just 
about the themes are being foreclosed upon. This is about the fact that 
thousands of families, millions of families around this country and in 
the Fifth District of Connecticut have no more room in their budget to 
take any more hits.

Energy costs going up at a pace that families and seniors can't 
sustain; health care costs going up to the point where businesses 
celebrate when they hear that their premiums are only going to increase 
by 10 percent in a given year. You add that all together with an 
economic slowdown, and you put millions of families at risk throughout 
this country.

And it should be no surprise that we've gotten to the place that we 
are today because for 12 years, while our friends on the other side of 
the aisle controlled this House, while President Bush staked his claim 
to the White House, we have had absolute neglect when it comes to 
energy policy.

So the families throughout this country today are hurting, while oil 
companies are making record profits, record profits; not just for the 
oil industry, but for any company in the history of capitalism in this 
country, record profits for the oil companies, while we have


families hurting, paying more at the pump, paying more to heat their 
homes.

Health care policy is the same story. I mean, how long has it been 
that this Congress has been listening to the cries, to the pleas of 
families and businesses throughout this Nation to do something about 
the rising cost of health care?

And for 12 years of this Republican Congress, for 8 years now, almost 
8 years of this Bush presidency, no relief on health care costs. While 
yet, at the same time, those that are making profits off the health 
care system, the insurance companies, the drug companies, continue to 
make enormous profits. Salaries for the CEOs of these companies spiral 
to new heights.

So people are doing pretty well when it comes to energy prices, 
people are doing pretty well when it comes to health care prices. It's 
just not consumers. It's just not our neighbors and our friends and our 
relatives. It's that lucky few who got to run the oil company, who got 
to run the drug company, who got to run the insurance company.

And we're trying to change things. But we're finding that it isn't 
easy without partners. It isn't easy without a Republican minority who 
actually wants to actually do something to change our economy. It's not 
so easy without a President who wants to come to the table and help us 
with health care policy.

And so we are in difficult economic times today. But we need a 
Congress working together. We need a President who's willing to come to 
the table.

Mr. Speaker, the facts speak for themselves here. On January 22, 
2001, when the President was sworn into office, the price of a gallon 
of gasoline was about $1.47. Today, 7 years later that price stands at 
$3.53. In Connecticut you might be lucky today to find a gallon of 
gasoline at $3.53. I think when I filled up my car this weekend, if I 
remember, it was up around the $3.70 mark.


This is what you get, this is what you get when you give away $16 
billion of tax breaks to the oil companies. This is what you get when 
you refuse to make any investments in the types of alternative 
renewable energy sources that could wean this country off of gasoline. 
And this is what you get when, year after year after year, you 
perpetuate a foreign policy that destabilizes international oil markets 
in the Middle East and elsewhere.

It's no secret, it's no surprise that we're standing where we are 
today. This Democratic majority has inherited an utterly bankrupt 
national energy policy, and it is leading to the trouble that we have 
seen in American families today.

And the same thing goes for health care policy, Mr. Speaker. Again, I 
find it painfully humorous that 10 percent increases in premiums are to 
be celebrated around this country in our business community. And what 
it has led to is too many businesses who want to do the right thing, 
who want to give health care to their employees, cutting them off, or 
forcing more of the cost on those employees; putting yet another 
economic burden on families all around this country.

This economic slowdown, once again, is not just about the subprime 
crisis. It's also about energy prices, it's also about health care 
costs. And for 12 years of this Congress, for 7 years of this 
presidency, no action on health care.

With one minor exception, right? You remember the 2003 Medicare 
Modernization Act. Well, it did a couple of things. First, it foisted a 
Medicare prescription drug benefit seniors, which drove millions of 
seniors around this country through the roof trying to figure out, 
amongst 40 or 60 or 80 different plans, which one they should sign up 
for; drove them through the roof even more once they got to the end of 
the year and realized that their coverage was going to run out on them 
when they entered that dreaded donut hole; and all the while, made 
another nice health profit for the insurance companies and drug 
companies that were in the room writing the bill with the Republican 
majority at the time.

That was our approach to health care, was to give a little bit to 
people in an utterly confusing and cruel program, which gives a lot to 
the folks that didn't need any more. That's pretty much the sum total 
of health care reform in this Congress before the Democrats took 
control.

And as we've tried to extend out health care, we have been met with 
almost uniform resistance from the Republicans and from the President, 
most significantly in our effort to try to extend health care to poor 
kids. Four million kids we could have covered with the health care 
State insurance bill that we tried to pass. We came, you know, 
depending on anybody's estimates, about six votes short here in the 
House of Representatives, to overturn the President's repeated vetoes.

That kind of health care coverage, reaching out and extending to a 
lot of working families out there. Remember, you're talking about /3/
4/, maybe more of the 46 million uninsured out there are members of 
families in which you have a full-time worker. People are playing by 
the rules. They're doing everything we ask them to do, trying to make 
do in a tough economy, and yet they don't have any health care 
insurance. And that children's health care insurance bill that we tried 
to pass here as Democrats, and couldn't get cooperation from our 
friends across the aisle, that would have extended out benefits to four 
million more kids and, more importantly, four million more families, 
families that are doing everything we ask, playing by the rules, trying 
to survive and simply can't get health care to their kids.

Now, we know that they do get health care to their kids, because if 
their child is sick, they might postpone getting them to the doctor, 
but compassionate parents all across this country will end up bringing 
their child down to the emergency room, will end up finding a doctor 
that will treat them. But they pay for all of that out of their pocket.

More bankruptcies in this country are caused by health care costs 
than any other cause that you can dream up. And so this economic 
slowdown is exacerbated by the increasing amount of health care costs 
that are pushed and burdened on families across this country.

Doing something about health care is doing something about the 
economy, just like doing something about energy prices is also about 
doing something for this economy.

But the other thing that I'm finding out, Mr. Speaker, as I'm walking 
around talking to constituents in the northwest section of Connecticut, 
is that the gig is up on the Republican and the President's ability to 
separate the war from the economy, because people are figuring out that 
they are totally linked together.

The fact that we are spending $339 million a day, let me say that 
again, $339 million a day on this war is taking food right out of the 
mouths of families here in this country, taking jobs effectively right 
out of the hands of American families.

Why is that? Imagine what we could have done if we could have taken 
the nearly $1 trillion that we have spent on this war over the past 5 
years, and invested it in growing new economies in this country, 
invested it in building new worker training programs so that 
individuals being phased out of old economy jobs could be transitioned 
into new economy jobs.

What if we took that money that we've been spending, $330 million a 
day, and put that into new tax incentives for small businesses to grow 
their operations?

All of the things that we could have done with that money could have 
prevented the economic slowdown that we face today. They are absolutely 
linked together, the spending on this war, and the economic slowdown 
that we see today.

And part of this whole puzzle, and now you're getting into sort of 
high-minded economics that a non economist like me probably shouldn't 
be talking about. But we know also that the dollar is falling fast 
across this world, and is jeopardizing even further the soundness of 
our economy as our dollar gets weaker and weaker and weaker.


And part of that equation is the fact that every dollar of this war, 
virtually every dollar for this war has been borrowed from foreign 
countries, countries that we're trying to sit across the table from and 
negotiate better trade deals, trying to negotiate on foreign policy. We 
can't do that on a fair and level playing field because we owe them


money; not just a little bit of money, but billions upon billions of 
dollars that we owe foreign countries. Because for this war, we haven't 
paid for it ourselves. We put it on somebody else's tab, our kids' tab, 
our grandkids' tab. And for now that money is being held, those 
promissory notes are being held by foreign governments, further 
undermining the American economy.

So the chickens are coming home to roost here on energy policy, on 
health care policy and on the policy of the war that has sucked money 
out of this country that could have gone to sustain our economy.

Well, we can do things about it. We can do things about it. We can 
make strides, we can take steps to strengthen our economy, once again.

I want to talk for just a brief moment, Mr. Speaker, about one small 
bill that we passed today that'll start to get us on the road to fiscal 
and economic sanity once again.

Regardless of what you think about this war, we have spent wildly and 
out of control. Now, I'm talking about the $340 million that we spend 
every day in Iraq.

Now, I think that had we not gone into Iraq in the first place, had 
we not stepped foot into this quagmire, we could have spent all of that 
money here at home to educate our own kids, to build our own schools, 
to retain our own workers.

But even if we had gone into Iraq, if we had just been paying more 
attention, as a Congress, as to how money was being spent, we could 
have had a lot more money to do those things that is now being wasted 
on the battlefield of Iraq and the battlefield of Afghanistan.

One of the ways in which we are wasting money was that we were making 
and still are, Mr. Speaker, making people rich off of this war. War 
profiteering is what it's called, people making their fortunes off of 
the misery of others. That's happening right here and now in the war in 
Iraq and the war in Afghanistan.

In the Government Oversight Committee that I sit on as a freshman 
member, we had one of the most egregious examples of this practice, 
Blackwater Security before us back in the fall. The CEO of Blackwater 
Security who's got a billion dollar contract to basically do the work 
that the U.S. military should be doing in Iraq, Blackwater is basically 
a paramilitary citizen army setting up camp in Iraq.

They got a huge contract with the United States Government. 90 
percent of Blackwater's profits, excuse me. 90 percent of Blackwater's 
revenue comes from U.S. taxpayers. I mean, they are, essentially, a 
quasi-government agency. 90 percent of their money comes from the U.S. 
taxpayers.

So I asked what I thought was a commonsense question at this hearing. 
I asked Eric Prince, the CEO of Blackwater, I said, listen. You know 
what? I think it'd be useful for us to know as a Congress, and for the 
American public to know how much profit you make, how much salary do 
you take as a quasi-public government employee?

Mr. Prince said to us, very clearly, it's none of your business. I'm 
a private company. It seemed outrageous to me. It seemed outrageous to 
many of my colleagues on the committee.

We pay your salary. We pay 90 percent of all the money that your 
company takes in, and you're not going to tell us whether you make $1 
million?

Well, he did tell us that; he did tell us that he made over $1 
million, but he wouldn't tell us how much more.



$2 million? $3 million? $10 million? $20 million?

So I put in a bill, a really simple bill that passed on the floor of 
the House of Representatives today that said for those private 
companies that are out there making 80 percent or more of their money 
from the Federal Government, that have $25 million or more in 
contracts, you need to tell the American public how much you are taking 
out in profit. Tell us how much your most highly compensated officials 
make. Put some sunlight on how much profit you are making off of this 
war. Seems like a commonsense measure. In fact, it passed unanimously 
on the House floor this afternoon.

But it says something about how important the change was that was 
made in control of this House that it took 5 years of this war for that 
commonsense, simple bill to make it to the House floor, because when it 
got here, it resulted in a unanimous vote. But it took Democrats taking 
control of the House in order for these types of bills, cracking down 
on war profiteering, to even find the light of day here.

And so, yes, so many of us believe that part of bringing us out of 
this economic mess, this downturn, this recession, whatever you want to 
call it, is getting us out of this mess that we have gotten ourselves 
into in Iraq, turning that money around and spending it right here in 
the United States of America. But until we do that, one of the most 
important things we can do for our economy is to make sure that to the 
extent that we are spending money in Iraq that we're spending it 
wisely, the right way.

That's part of our responsibility as a Congress. At least when I grew 
up reading the Constitution, learning about the three branches of 
government, I was told that the House of Representatives was supposed 
to be a place that oversaw the executive branch, that made sure that 
the money of the people that they represented was being spent in the 
right way. Well, that didn't happen here for a long time.

That oversight role that the Congress was supposed to have on the 
war, on the policies of the President, kind of vanished for about 7 
years. Conveniently, they were there for the years in which there was a 
Republican Congress and a Democratic President; a record number of 
subpoenas were flying out of this place when there was a Democratic 
President. But when there was a Republican Congress and a Republican 
President, it wasn't happening so much. I would like to think it was a 
coincidence, but it probably wasn't.

Now we've got oversight again. And a reasonable amount of oversight. 
Not overreaching. Not politicizing, not grandstanding. The right amount 
of oversight. And we passed a bill that was part of that process today.

I couldn't be more pleased, tickled, frankly, to be joined on the 
House floor by one of the originators of the 30-Something Working 
Group, Representative Meek.