---
---

# None
## `68fa5c63c4e8695ad31f9524f2439fdb`
`Ms. FOXX — 8 May 2008`

---


Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, on May 10, we commemorate the 85th Jubilee 
of the late Azerbaijani President Heydar Aliyev. Heydar Aliyev was a 
strong leader at a critical time. When political strife and economic 
uncertainty engulfed the region, he emerged in 1993 as President of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan.

He steered his country through regional power struggles and global 
changes. He negotiated a cease-fire in the war with Armenia. He 
deepened Azerbaijan's relationship with the United States, Turkey, 
Israel, as well as countries in Western Europe. He also cultivated the 
nation's relations with multilateral organizations such as the United 
Nations, NATO, the Council of Europe, and the OSCE. He oversaw economic 
reforms that opened the door for foreign investment.

In September 1994, the ''Contract of the Century'' was signed between 
American and Western companies and Azerbaijan. The Contract was 
designed to allow Azerbaijan to develop its energy resources in order 
to diversify Western energy supplies. The two early oil pipelines were 
from Azerbaijan through Russia to the port of Novorossiysk on the Black 
Sea and from Azerbaijan through Georgia to Supsa. But his real dream 
was the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which, despite strong opposition, 
was supported by both the Clinton and Bush Administrations, and is now 
pumping one million barrels of oil a day.

President Heydar Aliyev always valued his country's relations with 
the United States. The United States was one of the first countries to 
recognize Azerbaijan's independence. His goal was to elevate relations 
to a strategic level, and we can say that he has been successful.

After we experienced the worst terrorist attack on United States soil 
on September 11, President Heydar Aliyev was one of the first in the 
world to offer the unconditional support of his country in the fight 
against terrorism. Soon after, Azerbaijan had troops in Afghanistan and 
was the first country with a predominantly Muslim population to send 
troops to Iraq.

President Aliyev was instrumental in shaping Azerbaijan's Western-
leaning policies and relationship building practices. Azerbaijan joined 
NATO's Partnership for Peace Program in 1994. It is also a 2001 charter 
member of the GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development 
which works to promote democratic values, ensure stable development, 
enhance international and regional security, and step up European 
integration. Azerbaijan has consistently integrated into the Euro-
Atlantic security architecture, further deepening U.S.-Azerbaijani 
military to military cooperation.

Following his passing in 2003, Azerbaijan has continued its course 
first established by President Heydar Aliyev toward the greater 
democratic and economic development. Due to his efforts and the will 
and character of the people of Azerbaijan, there is no doubt about the 
viability of this nation or about its capability as an effective leader 
in the region.

The United States looks forward to furthering its partnership with 
Azerbaijan in the region and on global issues of mutual concern.
