# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `6903f1c50fde7de53c7bad4980ec5fb0`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the choice for the Congress is whether or 
not we retreat from a policy that appears to be working by adopting 
this amendment which would redeploy troops in a fashion very 
inconsistent with what we are doing on the ground. What we are doing 
now is a long overdue change in strategy. We have more forces than we 
have ever had before, and they are very much needed.


The one thing I can say without any doubt is the old strategy, before 
the surge, was not producing the results we were hoping for in terms of 
security and political reconciliation. After about the third trip to 
Baghdad, it was obvious to me the game plan we had in place after the 
fall of Baghdad was not working. I was told time and time again, we 
have enough troops, the insurgency is in its last throes, and there are 
a few dead-enders. Well, that was the furthest thing from the truth.

The truth is the security environment in Iraq got completely out of 
hand, al-Qaida flourished under the old strategy, they were able to 
thrive in parts of Anbar, and it was evolving into complete chaos. 
Thank God we had the ability and the willingness as a nation, through 
our Commander in Chief and through this Congress, to appoint a new 
general with a new idea. The idea that he is employing now is long 
overdue. More troops have provided better security, and they have been 
able to accomplish this by partnering with the Iraqi Army in a new way.

The old strategy, which we are trying to go back to with this 
amendment, had us in a training role. We were living behind walls, 
training during the day, and pretty much disengaged from the fight. We 
are now out from behind those walls, living with the Iraqi troops in 
joint security stations all over Baghdad and all over the country. We 
are living, eating, training, and fighting with the Iraqi Army. And 
General Jones tells us they are getting better.

Anbar Province is dramatically different. Six months ago, it was 
reported by the Marine Corps to have been lost to the enemy called al-
Qaida. Well, a couple of things happened that are indeed good news. No. 
1, the people who lived in Anbar, who had a taste of al-Qaida life, 
decided they did not want to live that way. Why? Well, what happened in 
Anbar Province when al-Qaida was in charge? Awful, terrible, vicious 
things that really cannot even be talked about on the floor of the 
Senate. They imposed a way of life on the Anbar Sunnis that did not 
meet the test of human decency, and the people living in Anbar rejected 
al-Qaida because they overplayed their hand.

The difference between us and our enemy in Iraq, al-Qaida, is pretty 
obvious. This organization that is tied to bin Laden, but also has 
Iraqi members, they are the type of people if you don't do what they 
say, they will take the family out into the street, take a 5-year-old 
child in the presence of the parents, cover the child in gasoline, and 
set the child on fire. That is our enemy. That is the enemy of 
everybody


who loves freedom and human decency. That happened in Anbar, and things 
like that happened time and time again.

The agenda that al-Qaida has for the world is a very dark view of the 
world, particularly for women. And, thank God, it has been rejected by 
those in Anbar. The surge gave the ability to those living in Anbar to 
make a choice they never had before. The additional military support 
provided by the surge came along at a magic moment in time when the 
people in Anbar were ready to take on al-Qaida. This additional combat 
capacity cannot be underestimated in terms of how it has changed Iraq. 
It certainly liberated Anbar from the clutches of al-Qaida. And the 
fact that Sunni Arabs are willing to turn on al-Qaida and join 
coalition forces is good news for the world.

This amendment would basically undo many of the successes we have had 
in terms of adding more combat power. Things are getting better around 
Baghdad. There is still a lot of fighting. Al-Qaida has not been 
completely vanquished, but they are certainly diminished. Iran is 
playing hard in Iraq right now. They understand what is going on on the 
floor of the Senate.

Why are the Iranians trying to kill American forces? What is the goal 
of the Iranian regime when it comes to Iraq? I think the goal is to 
drive us out. Does Iran want a completely chaotic Iraq? No. Does Iran 
want a representative government in Iraq? Absolutely not, because the 
biggest threat to this Iranian theocracy would be a representative 
government on their border where Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds would live 
together and elect their own leaders. The biggest threat to Syria, this 
dictatorship in Syria, would be a representative democracy on their 
border.

So if you are waiting on Iran and Syria to come in and help us form a 
moderate way of doing business, where people can elect their leaders 
and accept each other's differences and live together with tolerance, 
you can forget it because it is a threat to the dictatorships and the 
theocracies that exist.

I think it is in our national security interests to allow General 
Petraeus to continue a strategy that is bringing about better security 
than we have ever seen before. Now is not the time to pull back. Now is 
the time to recommit American forces, and the political, military, and 
economic power to finish the job that has been started.

I think the idea that the war in Iraq is a civil war just misses the 
boat. The truth is, there are many things going on in Iraq. Some of 
them are local to Iraq, but many of them have international 
implications and longstanding national security consequences for this 
country. Why did the Iranian President say he stood ready to fill any 
vacuum created in Iraq? Because he would like to expand his power. The 
question for us is, is it in our national security interest to allow a 
vacuum to be created?

Now, my good friend, Senator Levin, has a view that the more troops 
we have in Iraq, the longer we stay there with large numbers, the less 
likely the politicians in Baghdad will reconcile their differences 
through the political process. I have a totally opposite view. I 
understand what he is saying, but there is no evidence that less troops 
will provide quicker reconciliation. The Iraqis are dying three to one 
compared to our deaths and our injuries. The sacrifices of this country 
are enormous, but do not forget the Iraqi people are fighting and dying 
against extremist forces, and they are not indifferent to their fate.

The political reconciliation necessary to occur to bring this war to 
a successful conclusion has not occurred in Baghdad, but it is 
occurring at the local level. So, in my opinion, it is just a matter of 
time before the local reconciliation we see in Anbar and other places 
in Iraq comes to Baghdad. And the best pressure to put on any 
politician in any place in the world where people vote to elect their 
politicians is for all people to speak up and put pressure on their 
elected officials--not for Senator Graham or Senator Levin or Senator 
Clinton or Senator McCain to tell the Maliki government what to do, but 
their own people telling them what to do.


After being there eight times, the people in Iraq I meet are more war 
weary than ever. They are coming together more at the local level than 
at any other time. Better security is emboldening the Iraqi people to 
make the hard decisions that will eventually reconcile their country. 
The idea of terminating this operation now, putting a deadline or a 
timeline to withdraw will undercut everything we have achieved. The 
politicians will change their attitude. Instead of looking at how to 
reconcile their country, they will be looking at how to protect their 
families when the Americans leave.

So I am not for an unending, unlimited commitment of 160,000 troops. 
I am for keeping an American military presence in Iraq that helps my 
country--helps our country. We need to look at every decision we make 
in Iraq now and in the future from the viewpoint of, does it enhance 
our national security? Is it better to have 160,000 American forces in 
Iraq now to stabilize a dysfunctional government or is it better to 
bring them home, knowing the most likely result will be a failed state?

A dysfunctional government exists in Iraq and here in Washington. But 
there is a big difference between a dysfunctional government and a 
failed state. A dysfunctional government is one that keeps trying but 
fails to do the hard things. A failed state is a place where no one 
tries anymore. They go back to the corners of their own country and the 
regional players begin to take sides and you have absolute chaos. Iran 
is the biggest winner of a failed state because they will dominate the 
southern part of Iraq.

Another problem of a failed state is that the Kurds will likely go to 
war with Turkey over an independent movement in the north. If the 
Sunnis think they are going to win in Iraq and have the good old days 
of Saddam come back by using force, they are crazy and they are naive. 
If the Shias think they are going to create a theocracy in Iraq, like 
Iran, and no one will say anything about it, they misunderstand the 
region.

I am convinced all three groups are better off working together than 
trying to work apart. I know this: We are better off if they do that. 
If they break apart and this country becomes a failed state, 160,000 
troops for a limited period of time will not be what our country will 
be faced with in terms of choices. We will have a large American 
military presence in the Mideast, containing a variety of conflicts 
that do not exist today because the problems in Iraq will spill over in 
the region.

I believe that is a likely consequence. That is a reasonable 
consequence of a failed state. I cannot promise that they will go from 
a dysfunctional government to a stable government, a secure government, 
one that is an ally on the war on terror with us that would reject al-
Qaida and contain Iran. But I believe this: the best shot to bring that 
about is to continue the mission and the surge as planned out by 
General Petraeus, to continue the strategy that we have now that has 
shown results we have never known before. If we pull back now, it will 
undo all the accomplishments that have come from a lot of sacrifice, a 
lot of blood, and a lot of treasure.

At the end of the day, the Iraqi political leadership has to embrace 
the hard decisions necessary to pull their country together. They are 
more likely to do that when they are less worried about their families 
being killed as they reach across the aisle.

It is hard to reach across the aisle here. The Presiding Officer and 
I have worked on immigration. We know how hard it is. We will keep 
coming back and bringing up hard issues such as Social Security and 
immigration until we find a solution. But imagine reaching across the 
aisle in Iraq where the consequence would be that your family is 
murdered.

The better security we can bring about in terms of Iraq for the 
judges, the politicians, and the population as a whole, the more likely 
they are to do the hard things. And I do believe they are ready to do 
the hard things because they have had a hard life. The Iraqi people are 
not perfect. I don't think we realized how hard it was to have lived in 
that country under Saddam Hussein. The fear that if your daughter 
walked down the street, she might catch the eye of one of Saddam's 
sons; the way they have had to live under Saddam Hussein is 
unimaginable, and the chaos that they have experienced from al-Qaida 
coming there, throwing bombs at different mosques and bringing up old


wounds has been very difficult to deal with. But they keep trying. When 
one police officer is killed, someone else takes their place. When an 
army person is killed, someone else joins the army. When a judge is 
assassinated, somebody else comes forward to be a judge.

They are trying. And I do believe, if we will continue the strategy 
employed by General Petraeus, even though political reconciliation is 
lagging behind security, it will not be much longer until the 
politicians in Baghdad embrace the hard decisions necessary to bring 
reconciliation to their country. And I believe that for a couple of 
reasons. No. 1, their people want it; and, No. 2, they have the 
opportunity now, through better security, to bring it about.

So to my good friend, Senator Levin, I understand exactly his 
concern. It is a judgment call. I think when you are dealing with 
extremists, when you are dealing with the Iranian President, the last 
thing in the world you do is to show weakness. You make sure they 
understand, al-Qaida and Iran, and any other extremist group, that 
America is going to do what is necessary to defend her vital interests 
and that we are going to stand with forces in moderation.

My biggest fear, if we begin to withdraw now and redeploy to the old 
mission, is that all of those who have risked their lives to help us 
will surely meet the fate of that 5-year-old boy. And that is not in 
our national interest. That is not the right thing to do. We will come 
home. But as Senator McCain says, we need to come home with honor. 
Equally important, we need to come home with a more secure America.

I think we are on the road to bringing about withdrawal with honor 
and a more secure America by having a more stable Iraq. The worst thing 
to do now is to go back to a strategy that has failed when the one that 
we have in place is beginning to work.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.