---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 626, FEDERAL EMPLOYEES PAID  PARENTAL LEAVE ACT OF 2009
## `690945d1d554eb306a78f24d85e294dc`
`Mr. WOLF — 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. WOLF. I think this will be better for Mr. Issa too so I don't get 
into his time, so I thank the chairman for letting me do this. And I 
thank you.

I rise in support of the bill, and I just wanted to give you some 
reasons. One, I supported the bill in the last session.

Two, our military today currently gets 6 weeks of parental pay leave. 
And the first person killed in Afghanistan was from my district, a 
civilian along side of the military, and so for the FBI, the CIA, the 
DIA, the DEA, the ATF they deserve basically the same thing.

Secondly, I was the ranking member on Children, Youth and Family 
years ago. And Dr. Brazelton, the leading child pediatrician, came in 
and pointed at the initial moment of birth--and I have five children 
and 13 grandchildren and soon to have two more--at the initial moment 
of birth, when the mother breathes on the baby, the bonding process 
begins. It begins. Those early days, weeks are absolutely positively 
critical. And so, for me, on a family issue, and a family value issue, 
I think that's really important.

The last thing is I just want to remind my colleagues that one of the 
leading people in this Congress, one of my heroes, two of the people 
that I looked up to more than anybody, one, Congressman Henry Hyde and 
former Congressman Dan Coats, who later went on to be a Senator, both 
supported parental leave.

Let me read to you what Henry Hyde said. The words of Henry Hyde, 
during the debate on family leave, and it was not paid family leave, so 
there was a difference just as important. He reminded us that ''the 
family supplies the moral glue that holds society together, and it is a 
central institution that stands between us and social disintegration.''

And so, one, the military gets 6 weeks. Two, that bonding process is 
when the baby comes out, you want the mother to be there. It is 
critically important. And, thirdly, one of the giants from the 
beginning of this Hall that ever served, Congressman Henry Hyde, led 
the effort and made the most passionate case on why family leave should 
have been passed years ago.

And with that I rise in support of the bill and thank the gentleman 
for yielding me time.