# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `690ebff72cec8e0a0381ce8961aba859`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 22 February 2010`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I stand before you today with a somber 
task. I extend my most sincere gratitude to fallen soldier, CAPT Daniel 
Whitten, and his family. Captain Whitten was a decorated officer who 
served valiantly with Company C, 1st Battalion, 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division out 
of Fort Bragg, NC, before he was killed by an improvised explosive 
device in the Zabul province, Afghanistan, on February 2, 2010.

When people described CAPT Daniel Whitten, comments such as, ''always 
doing the right thing,'' ''stood by his values,'' ''true to his family 
and himself,'' ''trusted his character'' were common responses. It is a 
true testament to the character of Captain Whitten that those who knew 
him held him in such high regard.

Captain Whitten is a graduate of Johnston High School, class of 1999, 
and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, class of 2004. He was a 
very motivated individual, always striving to be the best he could be. 
The men who served under him had only good things to say about him. 
People who knew him said that he was the exact type of person they 
would want defending this country.

My deepest sympathies go out to Captain Whitten's wife Starr, his 
mother Jill, his father Dan, and his sister CAPT Sarah Whitten who is 
currently serving her country in Afghanistan. It is men like CAPT 
Daniel Whitten who guarantee our Nation's security and our people's 
liberty. We all owe Captain Whitten and his family our profound 
gratitude for their tremendous sacrifice. I ask that they be in your 
thoughts and prayers, as they are in mine.
