# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `6920c2b1cee91d9e3f5515c23f7caa70`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I thank the Chair.

Madam President, America has reached a critical crossroad in the war 
in Iraq. More than 4 years ago, this Senate voted to authorize the use 
of force against Saddam Hussein, a tyrant who slaughtered his own 
people, attacked his neighbors, and threatened our security.

Thanks to the courageous service of the men and women of the American 
military, that evil regime was overthrown and in its place came hopes 
for a democracy in the heart of the Middle East, hopes for a victory in 
the war for the hearts and minds of the Muslim world.

As of today, sadly, as we all know, those hopes have not been 
realized. Because of the ruthless conduct of our enemies in Iraq, as 
well as our own failures, we instead today find ourselves on a knife's 
edge in Iraq.

Now a new course has been chosen. A new commander is in place in 
Iraq, confirmed unanimously by this Senate. A new Secretary of Defense 
is in place at the Pentagon, also confirmed overwhelmingly by the 
Senate. And a new strategy has begun to be put into action on the 
ground in Iraq by American troops.

It is altogether proper that we debate our policy in Iraq. It should 
be a debate that is as serious as the situation in Iraq and that 
reflects the powers the Constitution gives to Congress in matters of 
war.

But that, sadly, is not the debate that the Warner-Levin resolution 
invites us to have. I am going to speak strongly against this 
resolution because I feel strongly about it. I do so with the greatest 
respect for my colleagues who have offered it. But I believe its 
passage would compromise America's security, and I will say so within 
the clearest terms I can muster.

The resolution before us, its sponsors concede, will not stop the new 
strategy from going forward on the ground in Iraq. In fact, as we speak 
in the Senate, thousands of American troops are already there in 
Baghdad, with thousands more moving into position to carry out their 
Commander's orders. This resolution does nothing to alter those facts.

Instead, its sponsors say it will send a message of rebuke from this 
Senate to the President of the United States, from one end of 
Pennsylvania Avenue to the other. But the President has made clear he 
will not be deterred in carrying out what he sees as his duties and 
responsibilities as Commander in Chief.

And there is a world well beyond Pennsylvania Avenue that is also 
watching and listening to what we do. What we say is being heard in 
Baghdad by Iraqi political leaders, by moderates trying to decide 
whether we Americans will stand with them over the long term.



What we say is being heard by our men and women in uniform who 
naturally will be interested in knowing whether we support the plan 
they have been asked to carry out at risk to their own lives.

What we say in the Senate will be heard by the leaders of the 
thuggish regimes in Iran and Syria and by al-Qaida terrorists eager for 
evidence that America's will is breaking.

And what we say in the Senate will be heard across America by our 
constituents who are wondering if their Congress is capable of serious 
action, not hollow posturing.

This resolution is not about Congress taking responsibility. It is 
the opposite. This is a resolution of irresolution.

For the Senate to take up a symbolic vote of no confidence on the eve 
of a decisive battle is unprecedented. But it is not inconsequential. 
It is an act which I fear will discourage our troops, hearten our 
enemies, and showcase our disunity. And that is why I will vote against 
the motion for cloture.

My colleagues, if you believe that General Petraeus and his new 
strategy have a reasonable chance of success in Iraq, then you should 
resolve to support him and his troops through the difficult days ahead 
and oppose this resolution.

On the other hand, if you believe this new strategy is flawed or that 
our cause is hopeless in Iraq, then you should put aside this 
resolution--nonbinding--and you should vote to stop what is happening 
in Iraq, vote to cut off the funds, vote for a binding time line for 
American withdrawal.

If that is where your convictions lie, then have the courage of your 
convictions to accept the consequences of your convictions. That would 
be a resolution.

This nonbinding resolution before us, by contrast, is an accumulation 
of ambiguities and inconsistencies. It is at once for the war but also 
against the war. It pledges its support to the troops in the field but 
then washes its hands of what they have been commanded to do. It urges 
more troops be sent for Anbar Province but not for Baghdad.

My colleagues, we cannot have it both ways. We cannot vote full 
confidence in General Petraeus but no confidence in the strategy he 
says he needs for success.

We cannot say our troops have our full support but disavow their 
mission on the eve of battle. This is what happens when you try to wage 
war by committee. And that is why the Constitution gave the authority 
of Commander in Chief to one person, the President.

Cynics may say this kind of irresolution happens all the time in 
Congress. In this case, however, they would be wrong. If it passed, 
this resolution would be unique in American legislative history.

I asked the Library of Congress this question last week and was told 
that never before, when American soldiers have been in harm's way, 
fighting and dying in a conflict Congress had voted to authorize, has 
Congress turned around and passed a nonbinding resolution such as this 
one, disapproving of a particular battlefield strategy.

I ask each of my colleagues to stop for a moment and consider the 
precedent that passage of this resolution would establish. Even during 
Vietnam, even after the Tet Offensive, even after the invasion of 
Cambodia, Congress did not take up a nonbinding resolution such as this 
one.

Past Congresses certainly debated wars. They argued heatedly about 
them. And they sometimes clashed directly with the executive branch, 
with the President, over their execution. But in so doing, they 
accepted the consequences of their convictions

This resolution does no such thing. It is simply an expression of 
opinion. It does not pretend to have any substantive effect on policy 
on the ground in Iraq. But again, I ask my colleagues, what will this 
resolution say to our soldiers? What will it say to our allies? What 
will it say to our enemies?

We heard from General Petraeus during his confirmation hearing that 
war is a battle of wills. Our enemies believe they are winning in Iraq 
today. They believe they can outlast us, that sooner or later we will 
tire of this grinding conflict and go home and leave the field in that 
country open for them. That is the lesson Osama bin Laden has told us, 
in his writings and statements, he took from our retreats from Lebanon 
and Somalia in the 1980s and 1990s. It is a belief at the core of the 
insurgency in Iraq and at the core of the fanatical goals of radical 
Islam worldwide.

I fear this resolution before the Senate, by codifying our disunity, 
by disavowing the mission our troops are about to undertake, will 
confirm our enemies' beliefs that America has grown impatient and 
unable to fight the long fight to victory. This resolution also sends a 
terrible message to our allies. Of course, I agree that we must hold 
the Iraqi Government to account. That is exactly what the resolution 
Senator McCain and I and others have offered would do. But I ask you, 
imagine for a moment that you are a Sunni or Shia politician in Baghdad 
who wants the violence to end, and ask yourself how the Warner-Levin 
resolution would affect your thinking, your calculations of risk, your 
willingness to stand against the forces of extremism. Will the 
resolution empower you or will it undermine you? Will it make you feel 
safer or will it make you feel you should hedge your bets, or go over 
to the extremists, or leave Iraq?

Finally, what is the message this resolution sends to our soldiers? I 
know that every Member of the Senate supports our troops but actions 
have consequences, often unintended.

I ask unanimous consent that I be given an additional moment to 
finish my statement. That would come from Senator McConnell's time.