---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `692474f122719177495e25c1fb53527a`
`Mr. BROWN — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I begin by thanking Chairman Baucus for his 
terrific work on perhaps the most important domestic legislation this 
year, and that is the Children's Health Insurance Program. I thank the 
Senator from Pennsylvania also, the Presiding Officer tonight, for his 
terrific work leading our freshman class on this issue. We know how 
important it is to the people, whether it is Montana, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Georgia, or any of the States represented here tonight.

The children's health insurance bill meets the most basic need of 
American families. Nothing should stand in the way of this bill moving 
forward. Children too often suffer and some die because they do not 
have access to health care. In a nation as wealthy as ours, that is not 
just irresponsible, it is immoral.

Today we have the opportunity to do the right thing for American 
families, for parents, for children. Without health insurance for their 
children, parents too often face impossible choices--go to the doctor 
when their child is sick or pay the grocery bill or the electric bill 
or the rent. These are the choices that families are forced to make--
cruel choices.

In 1996, when Congress created the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, with a Democratic President and a Republican Congress, there 
were nearly 11 million uninsured children in the United States. In 
Ohio, my State, there were roughly 305,000 uninsured children. Today, 
thanks in large part to the Children's Health Insurance Program, those 
numbers have been reduced substantially--fewer than 9 million 
nationwide and roughly 236,000 in Ohio.

The Children's Health Insurance Program is directly responsible for 
covering 6.6 million children across the country and more than 200,000 
children in Ohio in Athens, in Ashtabula, in Warren and West Lake, in 
Marion and Maple Heights. That is good, but it is not good enough. Mr. 
President, 150,000 low-income children, most of whom have working 
parents, in Ohio, do not have health insurance. This bill does the 
right thing on mental health, requiring parity between mental and 
physical health benefits.

I would like to share a story I heard yesterday that should remind us 
of the importance of this provision. In 1990, Kitty Burgitt's husband 
died suddenly, leaving her to care for her 5-year-old daughter and 2-
year-old son as a single mother in Canton, OH, a city in the northeast 
part of my State. Her Social Security survivor benefits were considered 
too much to qualify for Medicaid. Six years later, Congress created the 
Children's Health Insurance Program. Kitty immediately enrolled her 
children in that program.

Given the initial strict income eligibility provisions of the 
program, Kitty was forced to turn down raises and refuse the additional 
hours at work that she wanted to work to keep her children enrolled, to 
keep them insured.

When her daughter was in the eighth grade, she started experiencing 
mental health problems. Then her daughter became suicidal. The 
Children's Health Insurance Program covered her treatment, which then 
was extensive. Imagine what it would have been like for Kitty if she 
had no way to help her daughter. No parent should ever feel that 
helpless. No parent should ever be forced to watch powerlessly as her 
child, or his child, suffers.


Thankfully, because of the Children's Health Insurance Program, 
Kitty's daughter did receive the treatment she needed. Today her 
daughter is healthy and happy. As Kitty herself wrote recently:




 Today my daughter is 22, happily married with a beautiful 


 daughter of her own--


Kitty's granddaughter--



 and has a good job as a restaurant manager.


If we do our job this week and pass this bill, we will hear more 
success stories such as this one in the future.

Some of my colleagues raise concern over this bill's income 
eligibility levels. I believe it is important, however, for each State, 
with its own unique set of circumstances, to have the flexibility to 
offer coverage to those it deems in need. The State makes that 
determination.

In my State of Ohio, for instance, Governor Strickland and the State 
legislature have taken it upon themselves to raise the eligibility 
limit for the Children's Health Insurance Program to 300 percent of 
poverty level. That 300 percent is not living in the lap of luxury. It 
means a parent still cannot afford health insurance in a job where they 
are 300 percent of poverty without some help from the Children's Health 
Insurance Program.

This means little boys, such as Marco Rodriguez, will finally have 
health insurance. Marco lives in Marion, 20 to 30 miles from where I 
grew up. He is 9/1/2/


years old. His father died last year. His mother works full time. This 
is Marco's mother. But her job does not offer health insurance. She 
cannot afford private coverage. Her income is just over 200 percent of 
poverty, roughly $24,000 a year. She works hard, is raising her child, 
she is widowed, and she makes $24,000 a year. Of course she cannot 
afford health insurance on that income. It is not enough to pay for 
food, rent, and clothing--barely--and private health insurance.

So Marco, like all too many children, has been going without health 
insurance. What if something happens? One major medical emergency for 
Marco could mean financial catastrophe for his mother, his family--for 
both of them.

If we do our job this week, Ohio will be able to cover Marco come 
January 2008.

Others have voiced concern over the cost of this reauthorization. It 
was a bipartisan initiative 10 years ago, with a Democratic President 
and a Republican Congress and an overwhelming number of Democrats, 
myself included, in the House of Representatives and Senate voting for 
it. We all agree this program has been a success.

The investment we made in 1996 has proven to be a wise one. And still 
too many of my friends on the other side of the aisle hesitate. They 
hesitate about our Nation's children. They say: We like the program, 
but it is too expensive or, We have other priorities. But this is about 
priorities. And the questions are pretty simple.

Should Congress provide for billionaire tax breaks or health 
insurance for our children? Should we provide for billions, literally 
billions in no-bid contracts in Iraq or health insurance for our 
children? Should we provide for Medicare privatization and oil company 
subsidies or health insurance for our children?

It is time for Congress to get its priorities straight. We should 
pass the Children's Health Insurance Program.

I yield the floor.