---
---

# HONORING SERGEANT BRYAN J. TUTTEN
## `6925866df21d05e4c987b29a2926b20f`
`Mr. MICA — 15 January 2008`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
Sergeant Bryan J. Tutten, 33, who died Christmas Day, December 25, 2007 
while serving our nation in Iraq during his second tour of duty.

Prior to joining the Army, Sgt. Tutten, born in St. Augustine, 
Florida, graduated from St. Augustine High School and attended St. 
Johns River Community College. He was also a member of Holy Greek 
Orthodox Church in St. Augustine.

We should all remember Sgt. Tutten's courage and his ultimate 
sacrifice for our nation. The freedom and liberty we enjoy and peace in 
the world for others for which he fought are part of the great legacy 
that Sgt. Tutten leaves behind. He was laid to rest at San Lorenzo 
Cemetery in St. Augustine, Florida on January 4, 2008.

After the devastating events of September 11, 2001, Sgt. Tutten 
enrolled in the Army. His family remembers him as an avid sportsman who 
loved to fish and cook, and how he enjoyed the time he had playing with 
his daughter, Catherine. He was assigned to the 82nd Airborne Division 
based in Fort Bragg, North Carolina which was deployed to Iraq.

With the passing of Sgt. Tutten, America has lost an outstanding 
citizen and a shining example of service to our nation. He will be 
remembered as a patriotic American, a pillar of our community and a 
compassionate husband and a loving father.

To his wife Constandina, his daughter Catherine, his son Gareth, his 
mother Ms. Sylvia Smallwood and his loving family and friends, we offer 
our deepest sympathy.

Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to recognize Sgt. Bryan J. Tutten's 
contributions and to ask all Members of the U.S. House of 
Representatives of the 110th Congress to join me in recognizing his 
service in our nation's Armed Forces and remembering a great American 
hero.
