---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF MARTIN SAVIDGE
## `692711a40e7cd233d88e03ee4d2645dc`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Martin Savidge for 
his 27 years of service to the American public, through his role as a 
news anchor and national correspondent for many prominent news 
networks.

Martin, who is currently a correspondent with NBC News, does regular 
reporting for NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams, the Today Show, and 
MSNBC. Prior to NBC, Martin was a news anchor and a national 
correspondent for CNN, based at the network's world headquarters in 
Atlanta.

Martin graduated from Rocky River High School and earned a bachelor's 
degree in journalism from Ohio University. He began his broadcast 
career as an anchor and reporter for WCIA-TV in Champaign, IL in 1980. 
He then moved on to work as the prime-time anchor for WMBD-TV in 
Peoria, IL Martin also worked as a reporter for the Associated Press, 
as well as a special projects reporter and anchor for WJW-TV in 
Cleveland.

Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, Martin reported 
from New York City's Ground Zero on the search and rescue mission and 
the ongoing recovery efforts. In 2003, Martin delivered on-the-ground 
coverage of the crises in Iraq as one of CNN's embedded journalists. 
Martin most recently served as NBC's primary correspondent in New 
Orleans,


covering Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath along the Gulf Coast.

Martin has been honored with some of broadcast journalism's most 
prestigious awards, including two Headliner Awards, two Edward R. 
Murrow Awards, a Peabody Award, a DuPont Award and an Emmy. In October 
2002, the National Journalism Education Association named Martin its 
Media Person of the Year for his support of scholastic journalism.

Madam Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honoring Martin 
Savidge for his dedication to informing the public about important 
national and world issues, and his commitment to educating future 
journalists.
