# None
## `6932b5bd1c7b55295256c3ec078629a3`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 3 June 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, I thank the distinguished Senator 
from Connecticut for his kind words and, more importantly, for his 
leadership.

Madam President, for the first time the Senate is embarked on a full 
debate on one of the most pressing issues facing America and the world 
today; that is, reducing the carbon pollution that causes global 
warming.

This legislation, admirably and painstakingly pieced together by 
Senators Warner and Lieberman and by our chairman, Senator Boxer, takes 
a historic step to confront the crisis before us.

As we speak, unchecked greenhouse gas emissions are causing the most 
significant and rapid climate and ecosystem shifts living memory has 
ever witnessed, affecting our oceans, our rivers, our lakes, our 
plants, our crops, and our wildlife. They affect our economy. They 
affect our very national security.

The evidence of global warming can be found in every State in the 
country. My home State of Rhode Island, the Ocean State, is perhaps the 
smallest, but it is no exception. Over the past 20 years, the annual 
mean winter temperature in our beautiful Narragansett Bay has increased 
by about 4 degrees Fahrenheit. Now, the difference between, say, 63 and 
67 degrees may not feel like much to someone plunging into the clear 
waters of Narragansett Bay, but for the populations of fish and 
shellfish that make Narragansett Bay their home, that feed Rhode Island 
families, and fuel Rhode Island's proud fishing tradition, it is an 
ecosystem shift. It displaces cold water species, and it threatens the 
fragile and rich diversity of marine life in our precious Narragansett 
Bay.


So far, the consequences of global warming have been relatively mild. 
But there are worse things to come--in the world and in the waters 
around us. We are forewarned by overwhelming and undeniable scientific 
evidence.

Let me speak briefly about the science underpinning the evidence of 
global warming. We are fortunate to have an enormous body of scientific 
data measuring the warming of the Earth, the rising of the seas, the 
shift in weather patterns, and the effects on all the Earth's 
creatures. This data comes from all corners of the world and from the 
full spectrum of scientific thinking, most recently, indeed, from a 
report by the Bush administration's own Department of Agriculture. The 
scientists essentially all draw the same ultimate conclusion: Global 
warming is happening, it is manmade, and it is getting worse.

Let me talk for a minute about some of the very foundations of the 
science we will be discussing.

As shown on this chart, this is a very simple scientific device: the 
bell curve, the standard normal distribution. It basically is the 
standard analytical device for almost all the observations in which 
science works. In this dimension, one measures the danger of what could 
happen. In this dimension, one measures the likelihood that will 
happen.

What you find in the bell curve is that there is a strong agreement, 
a strong, solid foundation of observed agreement around a level of 
danger that has a very high likelihood of taking place. It is this 
area, as shown on this chart--this key area--where the likelihood is 
the greatest that we face the dangers that have been described on this 
floor so eloquently by Chairman Boxer and Senator Kerry and others of 
the global warming that the Earth is undergoing.

Now, you will, during the course of this debate, hear about other 
points of view. I am confident of that. Most of them lurk down here, as 
shown on this chart, in the area where the likelihood is the least, but 
the danger is the least. That is the key. But this is really fringe 
science. The body of science on global warming, like the body of 
science on almost any other topic, follows a curve in which the vast 
majority of the observations, the vast majority of the scientific 
conclusions follow an allocation, a curve like this.

What the people who are fond of pointing out these low-danger but 
low-likelihood opinions usually forget to tell you is that there is 
this side of the curve. This side of the curve may also be unlikely, 
but it is very significant to us as a species because here the danger 
is even greater than what the vast bulk of the science we are relying 
on here in this discussion today would indicate. These are very 
significantly dangerous scenarios for our species.

What we have found as time has gone on and as the scientific 
observations have kept coming in is that we think it is here, as shown 
on this chart, but when the observations come in, they tend to be here, 
as shown over here on this chart. We are always running ahead of the 
science when the observations come in. Science is not telling us: Take 
it easy, don't worry. Science is telling us that the more information 
we get, the more dangerous it appears to be.

It is a simple, traditional, normal distribution curve. The 
discussion that supports the changes we are making here is taking place 
where the weight of the science is. If people try to take you off that 
and show you this end of it, beware because there is just as great a 
likelihood that this other end of the danger spectrum will occur.

Another aspect of the science here is the so-called trend line. Now, 
this is just an example. It is not any statistics at all; it is just 
dots we put together to show a variety of data over time and how a 
trend line flows through it. It is calculated through a very 
established scientific process.



There is a book that was written several years ago called ''How to 
Lie with Statistics.'' A trend line provides a lot of opportunity to 
mislead people with statistics. In this debate, unfortunately, that 
happens a fair amount.


I will give an example of that in a second. But basically, each of 
these, as data points come in over time--and in this case the 
temperature of various places on the Earth is measured--scientists are 
able to draw a trendline that essentially any reputable scientist, 
almost any reputable mathematician, can draw through those points, and 
then you base your conclusions on the trendline. That is standard, 
grade A, basic 101 science.

Now, let's look at how that works in terms of global warming. Here 
are temperature changes plotted over years 1978 through 2003. Here is a 
trendline that has been plotted through all of these orange data 
points. It clearly indicates the warming of the Earth. This is the type 
of information on which reasonable and prudent people across this 
country--in businesses, in homes--base their decisions all the time. It 
is the type of decisionmaking our military relies on, our intelligence 
communities rely on, our scientists rely on, our corporate leaders rely 
on. It is not anything special or magic. The trendline is very clear 
about what is happening.

Now, in the green box I have highlighted a section of the data 
because what I have seen is a number of reports that have focused on 
only this little piece of information. If you pull this little piece of 
information out--this was an El Nino year, so temperatures were 
unusually high. If you pull this little bit of data out, you can draw a 
very different trendline through this. It would probably look something 
like that. There have been people who have said: Well, that shows that 
in 1998 global warming stopped--because they took this tiny little 
segment of the overall data and tried to focus only on that.

So it is very important in this debate, when you see some of the 
information that has been brought out, to understand that books such as 
''How To Lie With Statistics,'' their principles are still alive and 
well, and unfortunately, data such as this has even seeped into 
discussion in the Senate.

For many years, global warming denial thrived on an industry of sham 
science bought and paid for by special interests. Those days are 
diminishing. Even the most vocal global warming deniers have 
increasingly fallen silent because the science is speaking to us now 
with an unequivocal voice. We can reduce the carbon pollution that is 
causing global warming, and time is of the essence. The bill before us 
takes a badly needed step toward the new green economy that beckons 
America with the promise of new technologies, new products and, most 
importantly, new jobs that will drive our American economy for decades 
to come.

This country has never before shied away from the next great 
challenge or the next big idea. Classic American know-how has always 
led the world into new frontiers of scientific and technological 
discovery. The cold hand of the past always has reached out to impede 
progress, and we see it clawing on this floor today. But America is 
called by the future, not by the past.

We have heard discussion today on whether there are costs if we act 
to address the carbon pollution that is causing global warming. What 
are the costs if we do not act? If we do not act, we will continue to 
send our hard-earned dollars overseas to buy oil from nations that do 
not care for us. The economic implications of our crippling dependence 
on foreign oil are evident to every American every time they pull up to 
the gas pump. The challenge to our national security grows increasingly 
clear with every day our troops spend mired in the war in Iraq. If 
President Bush had tackled this problem 7 years ago after he was 
elected, we would not have the gas prices we see today. We would not 
have the weakened oil economy we live in today. We are paying at the 
pump because President Bush was AWOL when the future called.

If we do not act, we will not only keep paying at the pump for our 
continued addiction to foreign oil, but we will fall behind the rest of 
the world in developing and exploiting the green jobs and technologies 
of the future. If we do not act, we will witness increasing destruction 
of our natural landscape, disappearing coastlines back East, fire-swept 
prairies out West, a tornado-ravaged heartland, our hurricane-battered 
gulf coast. Hunters will see game species change their patterns and 
migrate away. Trout fish will find rivers too warm. If we do not act, 
we will allow the extinction of cherished creatures who share God's 
Earth with us, from the struggling polar bears of Greenland to Rhode 
Island's own little piping plover.

If we do not act, we will become the first and only generation of 
Americans--the first and only generation of Americans--to leave the 
world to our children in worse condition than the one that was handed 
to us. We should not make ourselves that first and only generation. We 
should not break the faith with our children and grandchildren.

I look forward as much as anybody in this room to a spirited debate 
that will give all Members of this body the opportunity to share their 
ideas and concerns. But when the debate is done, we must not shirk our 
duty. This has to be a legitimate debate. This can't be just about 
scoring political points. There is a true problem before us. We have it 
within our care, within our control, within our power to do something 
to get this right. I look forward very much to this debate. I hope my 
colleagues are all joining in it in good faith. I hope we will rely on 
real science and real arguments and not on talking points from 
industries that haven't gotten it yet.

But when you see indications such as this, that people are willing to 
take one little segment of the data out of context as much as that, I 
think people who are watching this can see if that is what people are 
doing, there is cause for concern about how serious they are about 
solving this problem.

Madam President, I thank you very much and I yield the floor.