---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `69486101140d35a779748f284d48b03e`
`Ms. WATSON — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. WATSON. Mr. Speaker, we have had some fierce debates here in the 
Congress about our occupation of Iraq. Many Republicans insist that 
redeploying our troops from Iraq will lead to failure there. My 
Democratic colleagues and I see it much differently. We see clearly 
that our continued occupation is a debacle that prevents Iraqis taking 
control of their own nation and destiny.

But what Democrats and Republicans can agree on is that Iraq is not 
America's only national security concern. America faces several potent 
strategic challenges: al Qaeda. Afghanistan. Iran. North Korea. If we 
continue to exhaust our military in Iraq, we risk being at a 
disadvantage facing these other dangerous threats.

This bill ensures that our troops get the rest, recuperation and 
retraining they need to be most effective. If we fail to provide our 
troops with the time they need to rest, refit, and retrain at home, we 
are putting them at a disadvantage when they return to theater.

Furthermore, the common sense provisions in this bill mean that we 
are paying attention to another group that has borne the brunt of this 
war: our soldiers' families. It has been said that there are two ways 
to break the military: you can break the soldier, or you can break the 
family. Our troops agreed to accept a certain level of hardship when 
they enlisted. The least we can do in return is make sure that we have 
their back, and are giving them the time they need to recuperate.

The strength of our armed forces comes from the strength of our men 
and women in uniform. If we fail to pass this bill, we risk weakening 
American national security. We face a host of threats beyond Iraq. Pass 
this bill to keep America strong and prepared.