---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1286, WASHINGTON-ROCHAMBEAU  REVOLUTIONARY ROUTE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL DESIGNATION ACT
## `694b90c7173522eda3338a3a5b5ebf30`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Madam Speaker, I would love to point out to the 
gentleman that there were a number of self-executing provisions put 
into bills while the current minority was in the majority in the 109th 
Congress. There were a total of 44 rules with self-executing 
provisions.

Let me read just a few examples of the self-executing rules that the 
Republicans did when they were in the majority just to show that this 
is not a unique practice:

H. Res. 75, the rule on H.R. 418, the REAL ID bill, self-executed 
major changes in the bill to gain votes on the bill and the rule.

H. Res. 151, the rule for an Iraq/Afghanistan/tsunami relief bill, 
self-executed the totally unrelated REAL ID bill to the supplemental 
after final passage.

H. Res. 248, a rule on the budget resolution conference report, self-
executed a new budget point of order against appropriations bills in 
order to get the conservative Republicans to vote for the conference 
report.

H. Res. 258, a rule on the conference report on the Iraq/Afghanistan/
tsunami emergency supplemental, contained a self-executing provision 
that authorized the Judiciary Committee to file a supplemental report 
on an extremely controversial report that had grossly mischaracterized 
votes taking place in the Judiciary Committee markup.

H. Res. 351, one rule, provided for separate consideration of four 
OSHA bills, each under a closed rule, and then self-executed language 
for two of the bills adopting the committee-reported substitutes. The 
rule also had a self-executing provision that combined all four bills 
into one text after passage of each bill separately.

H. Res. 365, a State Department authorization rule, self-executed an 
amendment that struck a section of the bill.

H. Res. 369, the PATRIOT Act reauthorization rule, made in order an 
entirely new substitute as base text.

H. Res. 387, a China trade rights enforcement rule, self-executed a 
new text that was considered under a closed rule.

Madam Speaker, I would suggest that my colleagues doth protest too 
much.

I would reserve the balance of my time.