---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `69635336aa98d30b1a3e7b1bc61860cc`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today to offer the 25x'25 
resolution as an amendment to H.R. 6, the Energy bill. I am proud to be 
joined in this endeavor by a broad bipartisan group of Senators. They 
include Senators Grassley, Harkin, Lugar, Obama, Hagel, Clinton, 
Feingold, Casey, Nelson of Nebraska, Brownback, Kohl, Kerry, Johnson, 
Tester, Cantwell, Thune, and Cochran, all of whom are sponsors of S. 
Con. Res. 3, which we introduced earlier this year.

Mr. President, 25x'25 is a critical vision for our energy future that 
will help reduce our dependence on foreign oil by building a new energy 
economy here at home. Our amendment establishes a national goal of 
producing 25 percent of America's energy from renewable sources, such 
as solar, wind, and biofuels, by 2025.

The 25x'25 vision is widely endorsed, it is bold, and it is fully 
attainable. If implemented, it will dramatically improve our energy 
security, our economy, and our ability to protect the environment and 
combat global warming. 25x'25 complements the steps we are taking on 
the bill before us today which reflects the good work of the Energy and 
Natural Resources Committee and the other committees that have 
contributed so greatly to this bill.

I am pleased that 17 of my colleagues in the Senate from both sides 
of the aisle are cosponsoring this resolution. In addition, the 25x'25 
vision has been endorsed by 22 current and former Governors and many 
State legislatures around the country.

The Big Three auto manufacturers--Ford, Chrysler, and General 
Motors--are all behind 25x'25. So are many agricultural organizations, 
environmental groups, scientists, and businesses, ranging from the 
Farmers' Union and the Farm Bureau to the Natural Resources Defense 
Council, and companies such as John Deere.

The breadth of support for the 25x'25 vision speaks to the 
extraordinary economic, environmental, and national security benefits 
that its achievement will yield. In all, nearly 400 organizations have 
embraced this vision and are working together on a plan to implement 
it.

The amendment I am introducing makes the 25x'25 vision a policy goal 
for our Nation. It sets a challenging but realistic target for our 
legislative and budgetary work on energy. Our amendment says the 
ingenuity and entrepreneurship of the American people should be the 
engine for a new, clean energy economy for the 21st century.

I urge every American to join with me and roughly 400 partner 
organizations that are part of 25x'25 to make this goal a reality. 
Results from a recent study conducted by the University of Tennessee 
show that reaching the 25x'25 goal is, indeed, achievable. The study 
also shows that 25x'25 would do the following: First, it would increase 
net farm income in America by $180 billion and, including multiplier 
effects, could result in $700 billion in economic activity annually for 
America. Secondly, it would create 5 million new jobs here at home by 
2025; and third, it would save as much as $15 billion in Government 
payments across America.

America's working people can and should be at the center of our 
energy revolution. Farmers and ranchers in my native San Luis Valley, 
in Sterling, CO, and elsewhere, are already leading the way. They are 
building biodiesel plants and ethanol refineries that help power cars, 
tractors, and trucks. They are building wind turbines in Prowers County 
and biomass generators in Jackson County, and they are searching for 
new technologies that will allow them to make even greater 
contributions to our energy supply. These Americans understand we 
cannot continue to import 60 percent of our oil


from foreign countries, many of which are hostile to the United States. 
If we aim to be strong and secure in this world, we must have this kind 
of bold vision. They know we will have to build a clean energy economy 
for America if we are to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.

A clean energy economy will take root in our farms and in our fields. 
It will help revitalize a rural America that has been forgotten for far 
too long. It will spur our engineers to new developments and designs, 
and it will help establish the United States as a world leader in clean 
energy technologies. It is time for Congress to take a more active role 
in our clean energy future. Establishing a national goal of 25x'25 is 
an important first step.

Americans understand we cannot continue to import 60 percent of our 
oil from foreign countries, many of which are hostile to the United 
States, if we aim to be strong and secure in the world. We must rid 
ourselves of this dependency and this addiction. They know we will have 
to build a clean energy economy if we are to reduce our dependence on 
foreign oil.

Today, with this amendment, we are articulating a common vision for 
our energy policy. It is a target that Governors, Senators, 
Representatives, State legislators, farmers, ranchers, business people, 
scientists, and automakers all wish to achieve. It is a target we can 
hit, particularly with the policies that are built into this bill.


I ask my Democratic and Republican colleagues to support this 
amendment and to join the millions of Americans who are already working 
toward the 25x'25 goal.

I want to make a comment about the imperative of the energy issue 
that is before the Senate today. When I look at the 21st century, I ask 
myself: What is it the people of my State, and what is it the people of 
America want me to do as their Senator, not only for our generation but 
for the next generation and generations to come? It seems to me the 
challenges of the 21st century are daunting challenges, major 
challenges, that face us. We can essentially put them into three, and 
they are all under an umbrella of security for this Nation and 
ultimately security for civilization.

The first of those challenges is foreign policy: How can we in 
America move forward and try to put Humpty Dumpty together again when 
we see so much violence in the Middle East and other places around the 
world? How can we make sure the dream and vision of the generation of 
World War II is something we preserve? How can we say to our children 
and to our grandchildren that the world we are leaving to them is a 
safer and more secure world? Certainly that generation of World War II 
believed they had accomplished that, that they were leaving a world 
which was a much safer and a much more secure world for the generations 
that would come after them. Indeed, we have been the beneficiaries of 
their sacrifices. Over half a million Americans gave their lives to 
preserve freedom around the world in World War II, including members of 
my family who gave their lives on the soils of Europe. They had a 
vision of a more secure world.

We have some major challenges in Iraq, as we witness the violence 
there, and when we see what is happening today in Lebanon where we are 
on the precipice of another civil war there, and when we see what is 
happening in Gaza and Israel where Hamas has now apparently taken over 
the Gaza Strip and the emergency that we see President Abbas has 
declared in the Gaza Strip.

We have to somehow figure out this very challenging task of how we 
put the world back together again. How do we secure the vision the 
people of America want us to have, which is that we create a safer and 
more secure world for ourselves and for those generations who will come 
behind us?

The second issue which, in my view, confronts America today and which 
is interrelated with some of the violence we see in the Middle East is 
energy. For far too long we have neglected this issue. I am proud of 
the fact that in 2005, this body came together in a bipartisan way and 
we opened a new chapter for energy in America. I am very proud of this 
bill today because it builds on that chapter that gets us to energy 
independence. We have to look at the failings of America under both 
Democratic and Republican administrations in the past. Jimmy Carter, 
Richard Nixon--Richard Nixon first--coined the term ''energy 
independence'' when OPEC was formed. President Jimmy Carter spoke to 
the Nation late one night back in the 1970s and said: We need to deal 
with energy with the same kind of moral imperative of war.

Yet what happened in the 1980s and the 1990s? The low cost of fuel 
essentially allowed America to go to sleep at the switch. The 
consequence has been that instead of importing 30 percent of our oil as 
we were in 1970, today we import 60 percent of our oil. The consequence 
is we have compromised the national security of the United States.

I have been on the border of Israel and Lebanon and looked down at 
the camps of Hamas and the daunting signs of Hezbollah where Hezbollah 
had captured at that time Israeli soldiers, and they were at that time 
daring Prime Minister Sharon to go into southern Lebanon.

What is it that creates that kind of condition? What is it that 
allows Hezbollah to have over 37,000 rockets in their armory? What is 
it that allows the funding and the creation of a militia of more than 
10,000 militant soldiers within the Hezbollah organization? It is the 
oil. It is the oil revenue that is going into some countries in the 
Middle East, including Iran, that is directly funding those interests 
who are fighting the interests of America across the world.

In fact, we have gotten to the position where those interests have 
become so powerful economically that now with the potential of Iran 
arming itself with nuclear capabilities, we should all be very 
concerned about the security not only of Israel but also of the Middle 
East and of our entire world.

What does Iran with nuclear armaments mean to the national security 
of our world? It is a fact that it is our energy dependence, the 
glutton nature of our energy dependence on oil from those countries 
that has compromised our national security.

So when we work on the energy issue of our country, we need to know 
we are working on an imperative of the 21st century. It is an 
imperative of the 21st century that we get ourselves rid of this 
addiction to foreign oil. That is why we see progressives and 
conservatives coming together, Democrats and Republicans coming 
together, to try to tackle this issue.

Much of what we have in this legislation before the Senate comes from 
the efforts of the energy futures coalition that coined the term ''set 
America free.'' ''Set America free.'' Our passage of this legislation, 
hopefully this next week, will be part of that achievement where we as 
Senators will stand and we will say we have taken another bold step in 
this agenda of setting America free.

A second issue that obviously confronts the people of America is 
health care. That is an issue for another day. That is an issue we will 
be dealing with as we look at health insurance for children and a whole 
host of other issues. But today and next week, we have an opportunity 
to deliver on one of the imperatives of the 21st century for the United 
States of America, and that imperative is that we move forward with 
courage and with boldness on the vision of energy independence.

Our amendment today on 20x'25 is a critical part of that agenda 
because it sets forth a vision that is an achievable one that will get 
us to make sure we are producing 25 percent of our energy from 
renewable resources by the year 2025.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.