---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `69799e696f99d7ea8fd38d5359fdcf98`
`Mr. STEARNS — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. STEARNS. I thank my distinguished colleague.

My colleagues, this debate is reminiscent of a debate we had 3 years 
ago, almost to the day, on February 14, 15, and 16.

You will remember, the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Kucinich), that the 
debate was that you tried to force us to pull out of Iraq before the 
job was done. I hope you remember that.

From the moment we got there, many of the folks wanted us to leave. 
Most remarkable is that these same folks wanted us to leave just before 
we stabilized Iraq. They were not in favor of the surge. Yet the surge 
worked. Now they want us to leave Afghanistan in 30 days without giving 
this new strategy a chance to succeed.

The President of the United States has indicated he wants to stay 
there for 18 months. Why won't his opponents just allow the President 
to have the opportunity to fulfill his own commitment which he has made 
publicly? Are they so up in arms that they would undermine the 
President, especially in light of the fact they were wrong in Iraq?

We have an opportunity to let General McChrystal apply the successes 
in Iraq to Afghanistan, which, I might add, are successes my friends on 
the other side of the aisle opposed, and to possibly win there and to 
possibly stabilize the country. We need to let the strategy work and 
achieve the successes like we had in Iraq.

It is ironic that Iraq recently held parliamentary elections. Without 
the success of the surge and the United States' presence for this short 
amount of time, Iraq would not have had these elections. Imagine what 
Iraq would look like if we had listened to the naysayers a few years 
ago.

Is it possible that this resolution means all the work and sacrifice 
that occurred would be for naught because these people today want to 
pull out within 30 days? They opposed our successful strategy in Iraq 
and oppose it in Afghanistan.

There is no logic in that they want to undercut their President and 
undercut the troops. They have provided no justification. While no 
proposal guarantees success, a precipitous withdrawal of U.S. support 
would guarantee failure.