# TAX RELIEF, UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REAUTHORIZATION, AND JOB CREATION  ACT OF 2010
## `697cc0c179c851635550535d4dd4706f`
`Mr. NEAL — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. NEAL. I thank the gentleman.

Madam Chair, I am standing in opposition to this proposal. When we 
debated the middle income tax cut a few weeks ago, I spoke in favor of 
a tax system that we might design for the future, a progressive system 
with substantial tax relief for working families, and, in our own 
Democratic caucus, suggested that the number $250,000 was too low; that 
if we raised that ceiling to $500,000, we could take care of every S 
corporation, we could take care of every small business person who at 
the end of the month uses their credit card. That was rejected. But I 
still thought that was a reasonable compromise.

Now, when my friend Mr. Camp spoke a couple of minutes ago, he 
delineated the clearest position of the two parties when he said he was 
upset that we were not paying for the extension of unemployment 
benefits.

For years they borrowed the money for Iraq, they borrowed the money 
for Afghanistan, and, I challenge anybody on the other side tonight to 
dispute this point, they borrowed the money for the Bush tax cuts as 
well. That is what we are discussing here.

Now, the reason that I stand in opposition to this proposal tonight--
because there are many good provisions in this bill, including 
alternative minimum tax, and I do wish the Build America Bonds program 
was in here--this represents a serious threat to the solvency of the 
Social Security system. We will never return that number down the road. 
And you mark my words tonight, what they will argue down the road is 
the Social Security system has been weakened, proving that you need 
private accounts. Their fingerprints will be all over it. They will 
suggest this proves the theory of the benefit of a private account.

So we borrowed the money for Iraq. And when I said to President Bush 
in 2001 in the Oval Office, ''Mr. President, modest tax cuts for middle 
income Americans,'' it was rejected. And that is why we are in the 
condition that we are in today financially.