---
---

# None
## `6986aad33c8308feac98a4cbbdc95b01`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 3 August 2010`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of the 
nomination of our Solicitor General, Elena Kagan, as Associate Justice 
of the Supreme Court of the United States.

The power the Constitution gives the Senate to advise and consent to 
Presidential nominations is a very important one but never more 
significant than when we are called upon to respond to a President's 
nomination of a Justice to the U.S. Supreme Court because this 
nomination is for a lifetime to the Court, from which there is no 
appeal. It is the final arbiter of justice in our system of justice, in 
our system of government. So these are important moments, when we are 
called upon to respond to a President's nomination to the Supreme 
Court.

I remember once, early on, after I came to the Senate, during a 
controversial nomination to the Supreme Court, and our late and truly 
great colleague, Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, said something I will 
never forget. He said that, normally, when we consider whether to 
advise and consent to a President's nomination to a Federal position, 
we give, understandably, the benefit of the doubt to the nominee, the 
person whom the President has nominated; when it comes to the Supreme 
Court--Senator Byrd said and counseled--the benefit of the doubt should 
go to the Supreme Court because of the lifetime tenure of Justices of 
the Supreme Court and their beyond-appeal role in our system of 
government.

I have that in mind by way of saying, beyond any doubt, I feel 
certain Elena Kagan, Solicitor General, will serve the cause of justice 
and our Nation very well as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme 
Court.


Those either in the galleries or watching the debate on C-SPAN may 
wonder, occasionally, when they hear us refer to the nominee as 
''general''--General Kagan. It reminds me of when I was privileged to 
be elected attorney general of Connecticut. I went to an orientation 
for new attorneys general and I walked in and somebody said, ''Hello, 
General.'' I turned around, thinking somebody was behind me. It was the 
first time I had been addressed that way. Solicitors General are 
referred to as ''general'' as well.

So establishing the standard as I have, I would say General Elena 
Kagan possesses impressive academic and professional qualifications, 
with her broad range of experiences as a clerk for a Supreme Court 
Justice, a lawyer in private practice, a legal and policy adviser to 
President Clinton, a law professor at the University of Chicago, and 
then at Harvard, where she ultimately became dean, and most recently as 
Solicitor General of the United States, which will enable her to serve 
our Nation and the cause of justice well if--and I hope when--she is 
confirmed as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.

General Kagan showed, on the day the President nominated her, that 
she understands the importance and unique importance of the Supreme 
Court. She said:




 The Court is an extraordinary institution in the work it 


 does and in the work it can do for the American people by 


 advancing the tenets of our Constitution, by upholding the 


 rule of law, and by enabling all Americans, regardless of 


 their background or their beliefs, to get a fair hearing and 


 an equal chance at justice.


General Kagan then continued by complimenting retiring Justice John 
Paul Stevens, whose seat she will fill if confirmed to this position, 
for the ''distinguished and exemplary role'' Justice Stevens has played 
on the Supreme Court for the last 35 years.

I wish to say that, in my opinion, the most significant thing about 
Justice Stevens' service has been his independence of mind, his single-
minded focus and commitment to the cause of justice because this is the 
branch of our government that must be beyond politics and even rigid 
ideology.

The Founders, in all their genius, when they put together the form of 
the American Government, coming from England as so many of them did, 
worried about the autocratic power of the King, wanted to create a 
democracy and yet wanted to make sure there were checks and balances. 
The Supreme Court was set up as one of the three branches of our 
government that was not accountable to the people; its accountability 
was solely to the Constitution. I think Justice Stevens, whether you 
agreed with every decision he wrote or not--and I agreed with some but 
not others--always demonstrated an ability to transcend politics and 
ideology and put the requirements of justice and the law, as he saw 
them, above all else.

I am confident General Kagan, as a Supreme Court Justice, will follow 
Justice Stevens' example. I predict today that, in the years ahead, if 
and when confirmed, Justice Kagan will surprise many people, including 
Senators who on this vote will vote for her and those who will vote 
against her. She will not be predictable. That is one of the best 
things I think we can say about a Supreme Court nominee. She will be 
judicial and independent-minded. She will serve the Constitution and 
the national interest, not any party or people or rigid ideology.

I must say I have been encouraged in this view by the way in which 
General Kagan has carried out her duties as Solicitor General of the 
United States. She has consistently demonstrated her commitment to 
upholding the Constitution, as well as her understanding of and respect 
for the appropriate roles of Congress, the executive branch, and the 
courts. She has not shied away from difficult cases or taking difficult 
positions when she has come to the conclusion that those positions were 
demanded by the Nation's needs and by the law's requirements.

I wish to cite one powerful example, to me, which I discussed with 
her when I met her on her rounds in the Senate; that is, her case 
before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in the 
case of Al Maqaleh v. Gates. It was a Federal district court judgment, 
where the court ruled it had jurisdiction to consider the habeas 
petitions of prisoners of war being held by the U.S. military at Bagram 
Air Force Base in Afghanistan. In other words, the court said that if 
we captured an enemy terrorist or soldier in Afghanistan and put them 
in the U.S. prison facility or detention facility at Bagram Air Force 
Base in Afghanistan, that individual could file a habeas petition 
before the Supreme Court of the United States in Washington to have his 
or her detention reviewed by our highest Court. To me it is an 
unbelievable decision and a harmful decision.


The Solicitor General typically represents our government only in 
cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. I asked General Kagan why she got 
involved in this case. She told me that she felt so strongly about how 
harmful the District Court decision would be to our Nation's ability to 
succeed in the wars against radical Islamist extremism we are involved 
in now that she made this case the exception in which she felt it 
appropriate and necessary for her as Solicitor General to argue on 
behalf of the United States in the Court of Appeals, not just in the 
U.S. Supreme Court.

I could not agree more with General Kagan's assessment of the 
importance of the case and wrongness of the District Court decision. I 
agree with her assessment of the merits of the case. I appreciate that 
she chose to get involved. And I was extremely pleased when the DC 
Court of Appeals agreed with the position argued by General Kagan and 
reversed the decision of the District Court. That, I think, tells us a


lot about the independence of mind and commitment to the higher 
national interests of General Elena Kagan.

In reviewing the respective backgrounds of Justice Stevens and 
General Kagan as his proposed replacement, I was pleased to see some 
similarities in their careers. I suppose it is true of many nominated 
to the Supreme Court. They both have impeccable academic credentials. 
They both clerked for Supreme Court Justices at the beginning of their 
legal careers. They both then served in private practice, followed by 
times in academia and then the government.

The important point I am making and what I believe would be a 
similarity between these two great Americans is that General Kagan, 
like the jurist she will be replacing, will be viewed at the end of her 
career as a Justice who put partisanship, politics, and ideology aside 
and put justice first.